Number four, just to get us in the right mindset and really to give the pr give God praise that He deserves. So please join me in a word of prayer Heavenly Father, I thank you for this day that you've given to us that set aside. I thank you that you don't treat us like Pharaoh treated the Israelites. But that instead you set us free and you give us time to be free today, to be neighborly, and to worship you. I pray, Lord, you'd work through this Sunday school and the material in it to help us to mature and to enter more and more into the good life. And I pray, Lord, that you'd be preparing our hearts already for worship of you after this. In Christ's name. Amen. Alright, let's stand and we're going to sing hymn number four, and Marilyn is going to help us, and Bill is going to really belt out his voice, it'll be great. Glory of God, I have creation, God's bow. The Lord of our salvation is everything for my story and brings on the Well to God all praise and morning what the woman might be called me with precious. I give his time for me, for God requires for loving, for death be given. For his life. All things are in the He is the first and wrong, where we stand there's the open stone, as we all. Quel To your weekly ground and control. Always proud, the word by God, yeah, always well, through God, and the case. And you can be seated. Thanks, Marlon. Appreciate it. All right, well good morning, everybody. Hope that woke you up a little bit. We are continuing in our book with as our guide, which is the Joel Beakey book, Parenting by God's Promises. This morning we're discussing chapters three and four. I'm pretty sure about that. That's what I prepared for, so I hope I got that right. And the way I'd like to proceed is just making a few points from the chapter itself. And then because you also have read the chapter, I have some questions for you that'll hopefully get us going and just thinking through the material. And uh and then hopefully that'll benefit you. So just as an overarching remark, as a By way of just thinking about when we're reading through the book, what is it that, if you were to think of Joel Beakey as a carpenter, what is it that he's building? And what part of the building are we in right now? You'll notice that what he's trying to do, if you were to look at chapter 4, for example, there's a whole new title page within the book. And it starts to talk about you as prophets, priests, and kings. It's a major shift in the focus of the book. You could think of it as hymns him working on a different part of the house actually as a carpenter. And this first part of the house that we're still discussing today is him really just laying the foundation of our parenting or our grandparenting or the the responsibility that we have to the to the children of the church, for example. Our responsibilities in evangelism and discipleship, the foundation of all of that, his argument is the covenant. And that if we were to turn to the covenant, there's much strength. and light that can come into our life. So this is the last set of chapters that's dealing explicitly with that. So what I'd like to do is I do want to I want to just start off with a couple questions and then I'll go into uh reviewing a couple points from the chapters and then I'll ask questions again. So the first question is is there anybody here that would like to share why they're convinced that the children of believers are covenant children. That is a position that some people do not hold. So I'm wondering why are you convinced that that is the case? Go for it. You? I'm considered to be a good thing. You're the one because we see Make sure you speak up nice and loud. Everyone is depending on you. We see the trajectory of the way the Lord worked in the Old Testament through Israel as a nation, which most certainly would have included children. And through families in more distinct case studies. And It seems to flow into the New Testament when we make a switch from the sign and seal of circumcision Alright. So if I'm following you, just to repeat for everybody, and and I don't know if we're online or not, I don't know. But the Uh if I'm understanding you, is when we look at how God enters into a covenant relationship with his people, he includes children in the covenant. You believe that that was not just an Old Testament phenomenon, but that God still continues to relate to his people like that today? In the past, that relationship was signed and sealed with circumcision, but today it continues on in baptism. And if I could also say I think that families are little tiny churches. Okay. Obviously we don't I'm not making an argument for let's just worship together and neglect. Right. You're making an argument to serve the sacraments at home? Yes. No, you're not. That was a joke. Yeah. You moved on in the conversation too quickly. Um And because I understand that how I believe that that is the reality our families also include children, why would our why would a church be like you all stand over there while us adults go about the real business. Okay. So you're so if I'm understanding correctly, you you see some kind of an anal some way in which God not only has worked and has his with his people throughout time, but you're you also see how he works with families and you see that God du um continues that kind of relationship with the church also that like one tells us something about how God works with the other. Is that right? Okay, very good. Neat. That's pretty cool. Yes? What she said. And um one of the things that R. C. Spool has said about that whole thing that the circumcision is that we now have a new and better covenant and it wouldn't make sense for God to since he included the children in the in the older covenant to not include them in the new covenant Yeah, and he makes that argument from Hebrews I forget the chapter. But right. Okay. So Natalie's saying that Um in reading RC Sprohl, she thinks he makes a good point in saying that in the book of Hebrews it says that now we have a better covenant. So for this better covenant to not include children would is incompatible with that statement. Alright, I've heard that too, and that that has a little bit of weight for me. Anybody else have anything that really just convinces you? I'm not asking you to convince everybody. I just wanted to know what convinces you that our children are covenant children. It's the foundation of the argument, so yes. Uh this promises to you and your household. Okay. I can't give you exact scripture reference for that, but yeah, but there are a lot of scriptures that are promises to the household. And that's a great observation. There are a number of authors who make that observation that God speaks his promises corporately and not just to an individual. So the one way to put that is to say that God is speaking promises to households. Alright. I've heard that as something that really helps people. Thank you Marilyn and Natalie and Sheryl. Anyone else have something that really nails it down for them to where you're willing with a clear conscience to say because you are a believer your children are covenant children Meaning they're in the membership of the covenant? Did you have another one? I do. Yep. And again, again, it's it's Paul's saying, um I think it's first Corinthians seven where he says he's talking about being unequal but unbeliever if you're unbelieving husband or wife can is willing to live with you Um one of his arguments is otherwise your children will not be holy, but it is your children are holy. Yeah. And that's the argument that we looked at last week, which was the uh 1 Corinthians chapter 7. Now we had uh there are different people that had different questions about 1 Corinthians 7, so let me just speak to that. That's one of the things I wanted to do today Let me speak to what we were looking at last week in terms of those circles. The only thing that Joel Vicke was trying to do was to give you different ways that people interpret 1 Corinthians 7. That's all he was trying to do. I had some people say express concern to me last Sunday saying Well, I believe that I've always been a Christian. I don't remember a time not being with the Lord. Uh so how is it that you Can say that infants aren't regenerated. That's not what I was saying. And Joel Beakey wasn't trying to say that either. So when we look, let's just back up for a moment and look at a couple different things All we're trying to say is that 1 Corinthians 7 says that the children of believers are holy. And we just want to ask the question, well, what does that mean? Well, there are different options or proposals that people have given. Some people would say, well, they're holy in the sense that they're regenerated Well, that could be true, but it's not necessarily true. Like for example, I'm not going to deny somebody's experience who says, I've always known the Lord When I look at the scriptures and John the Baptist leaps in Elizabeth's womb when she meets when he's in the presence of Christ and they're still just in the womb. There's something going on there where God is able to work within people at a very young age, even before they're making a profession of faith. We're not commenting on any of that. We're just saying That does that passage necessarily mean that every single person who is born to a believer is regenerated at birth? And we're not able to make that assertion because some people even just one argument is some people have an experience to where they come to know Christ. later than when they were infants, even though they grew up in a covenant household. So right? So that so that's where we're we're pointing out there. He's He makes all of these different arguments. He's saying the one that he thinks is the most accurate according to the scriptures is that they're holy in the sense of they've been set aside by God and placed within his covenant. Now you could have all kinds of questions like, well, what is their place within the covenant? Is it the same place as the professing believer? And and his answer to you would be, well not necessarily, and that's why I have a dotted line and I have a s a solid line in order to show you the distinction that we here at this church put forward by saying that there are non-communing members and there are communing members. Right? So we're working within the same structure That is based on the same interpretation of 1 Corinthians 7, that when he says that the children of believers are holy, it means that they are a part or members, the they are a kind of member in the covenant. So that is an argument that we use to say that these are covenant children. And a lot of people are convinced by that 1 Corinthians 7 1. Once they start to think about what does it mean to be holy. Alright, I'll do one last one. Is there anybody else here convinced that your cut your children are covenant children and there's an argument that convinced you And you haven't heard that argument yet. Okay. Those were Oh yeah, please. Oh right. You cannot give them all today. I know. One it was it was uh uh in the first church council where they were uh uh the old all the Jews that had converted were still arguing for circumcision. Yeah. And uh There was never an instance in that debate that they ever said children are not a part of the covenant. Yeah. Yeah, so in the in Acts chapter fifteen and the Jerusalem Council, when we look at different issues that have come up within the church, we don't see a debate over whether children should be included within the covenant. And we would expect that there would be one if they said they were not, because the entire redemptive historical history, uh the entire story of God at this point has included the children If they were going to be disincluded, you'd think that there would be a debate in Acts 15. Is that right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I I I I heard I uh read that one the other day. I thought that was persuasive also. That's interesting Okay, yes. Um going on to what the passage that Marilyn said and I wasn't in class last week um of the believing spouse makes the unbelieving spouse and children From the marriage, holy. Um if you'll allow me an argument from experience, but that is the experience is understood from what scripture Sure, go for it. I am very thankful for the strong Christian community that the Lord has placed me in. But what that also means is that I have very few opportunities to get to know well children outside, um, non-covenant children, I think you could say outside of the Christian community save our sweet neighbor Vanessa. And as we got to know her and see the tremendous grace the Lord had bestowed upon my children simply because he put them in a believing family was overwhelming time and time again. And it made me think of, Lord, I don't even know where to start by caring for Vanessa. Right. It seemed insurmountable the grace that he bestowed upon our children and and other covenant children. Now he his work is fantastic and he has worked mightily in Vanessa. Um but it's a testament to children in believing homes are given so much grace that we don't often speak Because it is so normal. We don't have anything to compare it to. We often lack a c something to compare. Yeah. I appreciate the experiential argument because Christ is in fact working. He's just not it's not just a philosophy on a page. Yeah. So of course we have experiential arguments. Excellent. Very good. Okay, well let's go ahead on then. I wanted to point out a couple things from the rest of the these chapters. Um We've gone over the argument for these are great. I'm glad you have those arguments in mind in terms of the foundation for them being uh children of the covenant. I wanted to point out that his argument is based on Acts chapter 2 verse 39 in that first chapter and he points out some different things like the subjects of the covenant which we just talked about the benefits of the covenant the responsibilities of the covenant. And then he moves on to hindering our children and then what I call resolutions. And I just want to review those things pretty quickly. Number one is that with c With the arguments that we just had here and uh the conviction that we have that our children are in fact members of the covenant, then there are benefits that come to them in that covenant So let's take a look together at 2 Timothy 3, 14 through 15. These are some other verses. I didn't think he covered these. There are so many that he how could he cover everything? But I wanted to point out an example to you of the benefits. The first, that there are privileges to the covenant children. There are privileges to the covenant children. Now, if you grew up as a covenant child and you're sitting here today, I really would encourage you as you're starting to hear about the privileges of the covenant, I'd really like you to think about how faithful God has been to you all this time before you could even speak. Just by placing you within a covenant family. Just meditate on how got how good God has been to you and whether you have been whether you have been admitted to the supper or you have not been admitted to the supper. I hope that encourages you just just to see the privileges that you've received. You are a privileged person uh because of God's grace. So 2 Timothy 3, 14 through 15. So take a look at this little snapshot of, and if you want you can use your holy imagination to imagine life at home. here for Timothy. So Paul writes to him and he says, but as for you, continue in what you have learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you learned it. And how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. What do you think is behind that statement that And from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings. What do you think that looked like from day to day? Just use uh a sanctified imagination there What are some of the privileges that Timothy would have experienced with his mother and his grandmother? Anything? What what what comes to mind? Yes, Christine. Good morning, Gia. Good morning. Um I think just the ability to apply scripture to various situations that come along with us today. Or to be able to think of stories from scripture as they come up, or tell them it's bedtime stories or um be able to see with a with a oral biblical lens sort of what goes on throughout this throughout life. Okay, so he ha he'd have these stories that are a part of his Yeah, okay, very good. And and he would have seen it apply these things apply to life and perhaps even been in a kind of um relationship with other people were trying to help him. Alright, very good. Anyone else? What about you know his mom and his grandmom worked with him. What do you think it looked like with the grandmother? Anybody have any good experiences with grandmothers and grandfathers helping you in the faith? I wonder if it looked like that. Anybody have any of those experiences? Yes, Sarah? Well my own grandmother, who was in the show, um, she volunteered a lot of her school So imagine that in some words. Timothy. Um, I'd also then say that I understand that Jewish children, especially boys, would memorize a lot of scripture. Yeah. Um so I imagine it's not a lot of script Yes. Yeah, and interestingly they began with Leviticus. Wow. And so we don't usually think of that as whenever I talk to people about that, they're like, I was reading, and then I got to Leviticus, then I stopped. But they start there and relish it. Yeah. Alright, great. Thank you so much for giving us that um I know your grandmother, so I had a lot of like pictures flashed in my head as to what that probably looked like. That's great. You're a blessed person. Anybody else have any experiences on how what they think that what do you think this looked like for Timothy in terms of his privilege? Yes? Well the grandmother thing I you know there's times where I but heads with my children and my mom who's such a faithful believer is able to speak into their lives without the conflict. They respect her and they trust her. Yeah. And they see her love for them. Yeah. So she's able to like skip that part and go straight to the That's great. Yeah I'm telling you what, the ministry of grandmoms and grandads, it's like it's its own thing. I had similar experiences growing up. I argued with my mother about everything. But my grandmother. And she I she she really helped me. I miss her a lot. All right, any other ones with just trying to get a little bit of a picture of what was going on with Timothy and why we would say that was privileged. Yes. I mean it's interesting in this particular context uh his dad or grandfather's uh mentioned maybe they had passed uh which would be a certain kind of friendship. Yeah. Maybe they were not as faithful, yeah. Which would be a different kind of hardship. But either way, just the example of their perseverance and and speaking into his life amidst um either the abandonment or death or not not spirit for whatever reason not spiritually present. Yeah. Um so just that example of him being able to see um people clinging to God um without that normal or what we would hope would be part of a covenantal help Yeah, that's excellent. And that reminds me of the story of Moses' parents that was present in the chapters, the hardships that they had to go through in order to live out. Faith to the covenant child. Alrighty, so you get a little bit of a picture there. If you were to go on in that same section, you'd see that Timothy was can was encouraged to stick with to continue with the scriptures that he'd always had as a covenant child, uh becoming um a mature godly man. That's that's the rest of the section that we hear all the time. Uh the um the next one I wanted you to take a look at was Psalms 78, 1 through 4, and I'll just read this one to you. Give ear, O my people, to my teaching. Incline your ears to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in a parable. I will utter dark sayings from of old, things that we have heard and known that our fathers have told us. We will not hide them from their children. But tell to the coming generation the glorious deeds of the Lord and his might and the wonders he has done. Now that Solomon's just saying that he's going to make sure that those covenant children, one of their privileges is that they're going to hear about the Lord. And about the glorious deeds that he has done. Can you think of any places in Scripture where that telling of those stories is specifically mentioned? There are a few places. Yes. Okay, that's true. You know, all of the scriptures. Yeah, the the Torah. Yeah, there'd be a retelling by way of the Torah. You see that also needing to rehabilitation with Nehemiah. Alright, very good. Anything else? There's a specific times where the parents were to sit the children down and to share the glorious deeds of the Lord. The Passover? Yeah, very good. Yeah, that's a great example. We see that with the Passover. And you can uh look those different things up. Okay, so that speaks again to their if you were to flesh this out and tell the story. you'd see that even with the the solemnist there's an ideal for the community where because they are covenant children they're receiving all kinds of privileges Because they, as it says in Romans chapter three, they had received the oracles of God. And we have two. Now, Paul makes that argument where we are the keepers of the treasure of the scriptures, since we are his people. Okay, so those are some of the privileges, or it speaks to the privileges of our covenant children. There are also the responsibilities. Besides benefits, there are responsibilities. The family and church have responsibilities to raise up covenant children in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. We already look at Psalm 128. Remember, Psalm 127 is focused on if unless the Lord builds the house, you labor in vain. Very true. That's just one side of the coin, though. When you get to 128, God also works through means Right? So what are the means that God will work through in order to work with covenant children? And one answer is you. You So that's and that's Psalm 128. Let's take a look at some others very quickly. Let's open to Proverbs 24, verse 27 And I want to look at this argument. This is going to go from Proverbs 24:27 to Proverbs 24:30 through 34. And I want you to just take a look at what's going on here. I've gone over this, I think, in an evening service, but we'll look at it again. Proverbs 24, verse 27. Prepare your outside work, make it fit for yourself in the field, and afterward build your house. Now, if we continue on in the proverb, we'll notice that he picks up with the building imagery again in verses 30 through 34. Here we have a picture where something has already been built, but but they're not taking care of it. I went by the field of the lazy man and by the vineyard of the man devoid of understanding. And there it was, all overgrown with thorns, its surface was covered with nettles, its stone wall was broken down. When I saw it, I considered it well. I looked on it and received instruction. A little sleep and a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest, so shall your poverty come like a prowler and your need like an armed man. So my argument to you is that we have present here in verse number 27 is that there is the preparation And the building of the home, you see in 27, prepare your work outside, make it fit for yourself in the field, and afterward build your house. Okay, and so he's there he's seeking to give you wisdom here on building something. What do we do in order to be able to construct something? There's a bunch of different wisdom on building things in the scriptures, and I think it's one of the main modes in which we're in the image of God because God Himself is presented as a builder of the cosmos. But God is not only not only builds things and we reflect his image, but he also maintains things, and we reflect his image in that way too. And you see that in 33 So if we were to take that general outlook of building and maintaining, then we could bring that over into the uh image for us and uh the responsibilities that we have to our covenant children. We're building them up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord and then we're also maintaining it to work because there's a kind of law of entropy or foolishness within the child's heart. or an instinctual drift where they don't want to stay with wise instruction. So you've got to keep you've got to keep at it. And it takes an a whole community and lots and lots of time and of course the sovereign grace of our Lord for all of those things to be done. So I give you that as an argument applied to our responsibilities to anything that we're building and that includes the lives of covenant children. And then lastly I'll just point out Ephesians 6. 4 For us. Ephesians 6. 4. And you fathers, do not provoke your children to wrath, but bring them up in the pidea or training. an admonition of the Lord. So you see there that there's a responsibility going on. And you could go back to Psalm 128 to get a little bit of a picture of what that looks like where you could look at at Timothy's life. If the Father is not present. And uh so those are some examples of the Lord, the Spirit teaching us that we have a responsibility. to the children he has given us to Stewart. I was really struck by the next two sections within Beakey's book on one hindering our children. So now this switches over into a different chapter. We're no longer focused on Acts chapter two verse thirty-nine. We're now moving over into a a passage on in Mark where the disciples were keeping little children from Jesus, but then Jesus said, don't keep the little children from me. Now, a lot of the times people get frustrated with using this verse in this context because people use it as an argument that infants should be baptized. Or that there should be household baptism would be the best way to put it. And then they look at the passage and they say, well, there's no baptism in the passage, so what in the world are you talking about? But the reason why people use this is because Jesus is, their argument is that Jesus treats them as members of the covenant. And if you're a member of the covenant, then you receive the signs and the seals in the covenant. And in the New Testament, the sign and the seal is baptism. Right. So so that's why they do that, whether you agree with that or not. That's really what's going on though with the argument. And so Joel Beakey switches into that and the disciples were hindering the children and he asks, like a good pastor would ask, what are other ways that we hinder people, particularly our covenant children? And I just want to reread that list to you. This would be a good list, and so too with the next list I give you, which I call resolutions, would be a great list to put on your refrigerator. And to just rehearse these and thinking about your you being in covenant with God and that these are God's children that He's given to you to steward. Whether you're a parent, grandparent, older sister, whatever it is. So hindering our children, here's the list. Number one, we hinder our children From going to Jesus when we ourselves don't go to Jesus. If we do not go to Jesus, how can we expect our children to do so? Children are super perceptive. They see right through you. You can say a you could try to fill the room with a bunch of words. But they know behind those words what the reality is. They can see it. The only time I've noticed children not seeing reality and any longer is when they want to distort reality like you're distorting it and so they'll accept your lies because they want to lie now too. Because they don't want really want to be with Christ. So they'll they'll take all the lies that you use and they'll use that as armor just like you're using it as armor So we want to be really careful that we ourselves go to Jesus so that we can set an actual example for them. Okay, number two. We hinder our children when we fail to foster Christ-centered conversation in the home. It is not enough just to talk about church affairs or to critique sermons. We must talk about Christ, his majestic glory, his love for sinners, his power to save, and his willingness to receive all who come to him. Christ is the hero of the household, and we should talk about him that way. And I think that's another good example that he gives. We hinder our children, number three, when we fail to live in integrity. This happens when our children hear what we say, but they do not see love for God and neighbors shining through our actions. Number four, we hinder our children when we fail to love Christ and His Church. Number five, we hinder our children when we fail to trust God and hold fast to His promises. Number six, we hinder our children when we show little interest in spiritual things, so that our Bibles lie untouched from Sunday to Sunday, and our religion is a matter of empty forms and rites, devoid of the power of true godliness. So my first response when I read that was, Lord, I'm a sinner, and I need your grace. I think I'm the worst of sinners. Because if you uh needed me to to check all of the ways that I would hinder my children, I would check all six of these. All right, but I also was refreshed because he he was able to put in front of my eyes uh places for me to be able to repent under God's grace. and to ask for his grace to make some differences here in these areas. So I hope that that was I hope that worked in you in those two ways also. And then lastly there were the resolutions of the covenant I'll get through these and then I have a few questions for us. So the resolutions of the covenant are, he lists these out, he numbers them in chapter 4. Number one is, resolution number one, be fully convinced that our children need Jesus and his salvation. That's a really big one. Uh I f for whatever reason, in my own experience, I will unintentionally adopt what I think are my children's biggest problems. And then I try to work on those problems. And oftentimes I'll adopt A problem that is actually a lesser problem than this main problem, which is that they need Jesus and his salvation. That's their main problem, and there's only one way for that problem to be solved When I'm in community in Saverna Park, the main problem that they tend to express in that community is not that people need Jesus and his salvation. The problems that they express are how are we going to meet certain criteria in order for our children to continue to be affluent Or something along those lines. And it's easy to adopt the goals of other people. So this really brought me back down to earth. It was great. Great to see. Yeah, that's the goal. Our children need to see above all that they need Jesus and his salvation. And I need to be fully convinced of that. Number two, realize that our children belong to the Lord. That was really powerful lesson from last week. These are the Lord's children. And he has given them to you to steward. Yeah, that's a big deal. All right. Number three, surrender our children to the Lord. Number four, speak to and live with our children in a Christ-centered way. That's resolution number four. One of the greatest ways I've seen f uh parents do that is that uh parents ask their children for forgiveness. I mean, you know, how many times do we sin against our children during the door of the day? I mean, there's a lot of times Uh I've been preaching through the Sermon on the Mount and we just got through that anger anger section. You know how many times I've been going to you know people about anger? Like, man Lord, please help me out here. So that's another resolution is speak to and live with our children in a Christ-centered way. I've noticed that that is very helpful if the parent is willing to admit their faults and their sins to their children and ask for forgiveness. and uh really seek repentance. Number five, strive to make a godly impression on our children with our lives Number six, show our children our reverence and joy toward God. Teach our children the whole counsel of God, both law and gospel. Offer our children Christ-centered views of current events. I thought that was a really interesting one. I mean you you can't do every current event. It seems like every second there's some f dumpster fire. But I thought that was a pretty good one. Offer our children Christ-centered views of current events. Lovingly warn our children about being outside of Christ. And number 10, the final resolution, become spiritual mentors for our grandchildren. That's a really good one. That's a really good one. Alrighty. That list right there, the same thing happened to me when I read it. Lord, I'm a sinner, please forgive me. I believe, please help my unbelief. That was my first stop because all of these things I'm I'm you know, these are ideals and I fall short of that. I think an important thing in um that I've experienced is a willingness to show what ch uh children what this actually looks like. I don't think that we should sh try to portray to our children that we're perfect I think it's really important for them to see that we're not, but that we're still seeking to live faithfully for the Lord. Because that's the realistic picture for the Christian life anyway. Right? So something to keep in mind. Okay. So let's go into a couple different questions then. Those were the resolutions. I have some application questions Okay, this is just a fun one. This is called an icebreaker, just to get you warmed up and Yeah, warm see what I'm saying? Ice and then warm get it? That was good, right? Yeah. That was good. So um those of you who laughed, thank you. I'm working on my dad jokes. Um okay so uh let's say that when you die you get a tombstone. And on that gravestone, something must be written about your parenting, or about your grandparenting, or about your parenting of covenant children within your congregation. What do you want the person who's going to write that, what do you want them to say? What are what is it that what are your what are you hoping will be written on that tombstone for you? Yes. She prayed. Oh, that's a good one. Alright. She prayed. Very good. Yes, Carol. She persevered. She persevered. All right. Yeah, that's a good one too. These are good ones. This is the kind that you'd see like in southern graveyards or churchyards they call them. Yeah. Yes, sure. Um this is not for myself but around St. Mary's Church in annapolis. There's a tombstone or a like the long flat one that says of the woman buried there. Something like she dispatched her duty of wife and mother faithfully Oh that she dispatched her duty of Wife and mother. Of wife and mother. Faithful before the Lord. Yeah, that's good. That's nice. Alright, anybody else? What would you what do you that was one, two, that was three women? What's that? Gentlemen? Do you want anything written on your tombstone with regard to covenant children? Anyone? Come on guys. We just sang a song that talked about God the Father's maternal attributes. Did you notice that? What do you got? Tell me. On your gymstone. Listen, if you don't tell me, I'm just gonna write what I want. What would you say? We need one guy at least as a representative. He did his best by the grace of God. Okay. He did his best by the grace of God. And you're thinking about that relative to covenant children? Yeah, okay. Very good. Because you're a granddad now, man. I know. Yeah. Got it. That's very good. I'm excited for you both. Grandparents. Alright, Rob kicked us off. I'll do one more. Any other Yeah. He raised his children to love Christ. All right. That's a good one. All right So um the reason why we you know we give that image is just it sh kind of shows what the end goal of all of life would be with with that domain. And may the Lord bring that to be. Okay, so just a couple other ones for us to think about. Did you all notice that where the chapter Um where Joel Beakey brought out the a practical example of uh Jacquebed and Amram. This is the moment where I find out if you read the book. Yeah? Okay. So can somebody for those who didn't get a chance to read it this week, can somebody tell us a little bit about who those people are? But uh Bill, why don't you go ahead and tell us? I didn't read it, so I just noticed it. Well I mean it's in the Bible. So right, yeah. The beginning of uh of uh Exodus where we see that Moses' parents fear the Lord. Yeah. So it's Moses' parents And he gives examples of how Moses' parents had to make commitments to the covenant child Moses. So here's my question to you. The chapter highlights Amram and Jacobed as models of parenting by faith. What specific actions did they take that demonstrated this? And how can we emulate them in our own families? So let's start with the first part. What actions did they take that emulated that they parented by faith? This is should be an easy one because you're just telling me a part of the story. Okay, they hid him from Pharaoh. Okay. Anything else? You can see this in Exodus. You can also see it in in Hebrews. Put 'em on a boat. Okay, put them on an arc? Right. A kind of arc. Yep, very good. Okay. Alright, so I think we have the story within our minds and then how is it that you could did anybody think of any ways in which you could emulate them? How are they models for you and how you want to work with covenant children? Yes. The first thing it says is that they saw you as a beautiful child. And I think that having our hearts go out to our children and asking their special I mean wanting to make every opportunity for them to develop that. Yes. Whatever we speak about is giving them Yeah. Yeah, that's great. I love that. That's a good beginning right there. That's nice. To pay attention to them with love. For them to grip our attention. Yeah, that's nice. Okay, very good. Any anything else where they become your model for parent for your contribution to covenant children? Anything else come to mind? Yes, Gary. Just giving him up and trusting his his well-being the world. Uh-huh. They had a pressing need that Philly made that. But I I know I struggle with the temptation. I just want to make things work out for for my kids. Yeah. And At a certain point in real life, you can't do it. You can't make them spiritually, you can't make their whole lives work out. Really trust it to God. Yeah, there really is no option but to parent by faith if you're gonna live with the grain of reality. And Gary's pointing out, if he didn't hear him, that he's come to the realization that though he wants so much for his children, the power that God has given to him is exceptionally limited. He's not able to give them salvation or change their hearts or really determine what their convictions and commitments are going to be. Um You can lead them to the water but not make them drink. And now they're you know, with John, I heard you're gonna be wrestling this year and um your dad won't even be able to lead you to the water because You'll be a wrestler and you can get out of his grip. So the control is just not there. So So thank you. That's a good that's a good point, is that we must parent by faith, which is really difficult. Yes. Um that reminded me of Hannah first Daniel. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. God gives to the child and then she gives them right back to the world. Yeah, that's great. Yeah, excellent. Thank you. That's good. You know it would be good uh it's a good study to go through and look at all of the women of the scriptures and what they're doing with their children. So a lot of important lessons there. Yes, Carol Yeah, um I wonder if you could nuance this a little bit for me. Um so Nuance? Yeah. Come on. So there are lots of parents in this congregation who came to Christ late in life to parent their children uh in the faith. There are lots of us who have Um had difficult situations. In the in the parenting? Well, in marriage, so when you talk about covenant children and parenting And you sit here with a ton of regrets? Then what? You know, we we have a a you're holding up a very much a gold standard. Yeah. And every one of us fails in every respect. Yep. Um And so can we talk about that and how we deal with that when we were here now? In a different season of life looking back and hearing that this is how we should have parented our children, but we didn't. Uh-huh. Um There's no real perfection in heritine ever. Right. Uh but what about what does God give you to redeem those things? Where where's Where's the bomb for parents who have failed? Yeah. Yeah, that's an important topic, and you can't cover every topic Every single second. So how would you answer the question? It seems to me like you've had time to think through stuff like that. What bomb do you think is present for parents? I don't think you can parent by a paradigm that presents things in this perfect world. You know, I I think the reality is each of us has to pair it according to our circumstances that God has placed us in And he gives us grace to deal with those things, those hardships that are there. Um and the failures that we recognize As we get older, we have to be able to look back and see that God was in even the failures Yeah. Um and so uh while I I appreciate that's a good principle. I appreciate what you're saying and what Joel Beakey is is giving us, I really do. But It does kind of feel I don't know, I I feel like I miss the boat on so many things. Yeah. Well we all miss the boat on everything. So I think that God in his scriptures does present to us the gold standard. And one of the things that that does for us is it shows us our need for Christ and his grace. You know that I have struggled with this myself because my life continues to be an ep episodes of failure. according to that standard. It is not as bad my life is not as bad as it was in that my life was a total failure, as at least the way it still feels from when I was growing up and graduated high school, instead of walking the stage, I was in juvenile detention. Uh there are many times I've taken walks asking the Lord, Are you going to redeem the years that the locusts have eaten? the locusts of my own sin, the locusts of people that were in my life that were not my fault. And my I would say one of the bombs for me personally is exactly what you just said, that Christ is present walking with us as a shepherd in our failures. He's walking with us as shepherd as there are things that we could not control that were not our failures, but people that entered into our life That caused a lot of damage. Christ is still present there through it all. That has been my experience, though I often forget that because I forget about the faithfulness of my Lord. So yeah, all of the I think all of those things are a part of the picture. I don't want to disregard the standard because God gives that in the scriptures. These models are ideals, right? I mean if you were to look at the the list of the cloud of witnesses, it's presented as a list of heroes. But the scriptures don't give heroes like this world gives heroes where there's no flaws. If you were to look in the biography of all of them There's problems. Yes, so I appreciate you bringing out that other aspect of it. I'm dealing with one section at a time. But you're right. All of these things need to be integrated together. So it's important. That's great. Yeah, I love that we're able to talk about all these things together and bring our different concerns or emphases. Okay, so we only have 30 seconds left. We got a couple questions that we were able to look at. Just give me one second. Uh here's one. Uh the uh uh Joel Beakey describes faith as involving uh positive action, like placing Moses in the ark. What practical steps can parents take today to place their children in the ark of faith amid modern challenges? I like that way of putting it because it's not as if you're playing the game, so to speak. without an opponent. There are many circumstances around you that are working against you. And that comes out in the Proverbs 24. Is that so you build the house And then if you just let it be, it doesn't just stay like that. There's a lull of entropy. All the time. So So um that's a good question is how are you taking that into consideration as you take your responsibilities to Covenant Children seriously? So um we could tie in Carol's question too. One of the things that can happen is in the raising of your children, if you see your failures, you can allow the enemy to use that against you. and to discourage you to the point where you don't feel like working as a parent any longer. That is something we want to fight against, not just by ourselves but with other people, in order to stay strengthened. in order to stay strengthened and to stay on the path and doing the work of the Lord. All right. Okay, let's pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, I thank you that you give us so much wisdom in your scriptures. You show us uh the the the picture of um your will for families and for the family of the church and for children and ch uh for children And I thank you, Lord, that you have given us this privilege of your oracles. We pray, Lord, that you would help us as we set out about these things. There's nobody here that parents perfectly. Lord, we pray, I pray for your congregation here this morning that you would keep them encouraged, that they would not uh hold themselves to perfection, but they would use your standards. wisely as the the North Star and the direction they should keep going. Lord, I pray that as a community we would gather around each other and help each other in our responsibilities. I pray, Lord, that we would know the great privileges that you've given to us and to our children, and that that would motivate us to bring your kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. Lord, I pray that you keep your people strong and that you would protect them from the evil one and his discouragement. I ask these things in your name. Amen.