That'll be for you to take a look at. Um we'll look at the final three. Just as a quick announcement, I'm pretty sure this is correct. I double checked Not sure why I'm doubting myself at this point. I think it's right. Is that we don't have any Sunday school during the month of December. And there's no evening service this evening. So please keep that in mind And I'll be announcing uh sometime in December what the next thing is that we'll be doing in the adult Sunday school. One of the questions I hear often is confusion on the Lord's Day and how it supp that time is to be spent. So one of my favorite books on that was from a professor and my former president, Joseph Pipa. He gives a real easy breakdown on that and I think that could do us all some good. We tend to run ourselves into the ground and not rest, so especially not a holy rest. So I'm thinking that will be the next thing that we go through together will be Joseph's book on the Lord's Day. Joseph Joseph's book. Joseph Pipa's book on the Lord's Day. We'll do that together, but Stay tuned for that. If you have any requests, feel free to shoot them over to me. I can't promise that I'll do your requests, but you can show me what you're thinking. So let's go ahead now into the final chapters of the book. I know that the final three that we'll be looking at today are Um uh chapter nineteen, actually chapter twenty and forward, but I did have a few people request that I would see if there's any other conversation to have on chapter 19, which is the handling of sibling relationships. Did did anybody have anything that they wanted to share In terms of h uh how for example, one thing you could share is different experiences you've had either yourself or watching others on how to help siblings have a godly relationship. Has God given you any stories to share in that department? You could be a sibling You could have raised siblings, you could have watched people raise siblings, you could have watched siblings. Anybody have any stories that God has shown to you on how siblings grew in their relationship Uh Lauren, you shared last time that Uh you share with your own children that hey if you want to have relationships that look like this in the future, it begins now. I thought that was an excellent way to approach it. Are there any other stories with regard to this? Okay, I'm not really seeing any. So I'll just point out to you on two twenty eight a couple areas where Um I've seen God help siblings. I'll share with you two areas And that's that's really what we're trying to do here. We're not really trying to show that we're wiser than each other. We're just trying to share what God has revealed to us, and then God gets all the glory. So in verse in 228, it says, one of the ways that we can help siblings to have better relationships is that they can be trained to worship with each other. I don't think I think that's a good one to bring up. I'm not sure that's the first one that comes to mind. And when you're thinking about how do we help sibling relationships, well one of the ways is we help them to worship with each other They could be praying with and for each other. They could be singing actually to the Lord together, but they can also, if you'll notice our hymns, also we sing to each other. encouraging one another to praise God. They can be singing uh to each other. It says here in the book, the family is a God ordained institution That is to model to society and church how believers are to interact with each other. Families exist to equip younger generations with the precepts of the Lord The family doesn't exist only for physical care and emotional nurture. It is designed to shape us spiritually. It is a prime place to experience having our hearts knit together in love so that we know Christ better. Does anybody here have any stories where they wa either watched siblings or encouraged siblings to minister to each other? Anyone Even if you think it's kind of a dumb example, it could be helpful just to hear different experiences. Yes. So um I could have a mixture of encouraging and challenging examples. I think with our uh with our girls I've had several conversations after a big fight about reminding them of God's call on Yeah. Um you know Um taking the example of Christ who did not consider who being God did not consider quality with uh something grasped before himself and gave him servant. Um and I um just praying that eventually that will soak in. Yeah. Having the mindset of Christ like it mentions there in chapter two. Uh-huh. Toward each other. It feels like the spaghetti is not stuck to the wall yet in that regard. However with the boys, especially my older boy, it feels like he has this uh urge to find ways to serve the family and even his His sisters especially as ladies, these he's inspired based by the idea that he and Jasper are going to carry their luggage for them or take care of things for them. Um and that's been encouraging. Okay, that's great. fruit in in that area. Yeah. Very good. So uh if you couldn't hear Ryan was sharing that in their own family, uh they're they're seeking for the for their children to relate to each other with the mindset of Jesus Christ as we read about in Philippians two, where they would minister to each other in that way. And they are seeing some fruit with the boys being especially inspired to serve the s sisters. And Christina? Well, I was gonna say that might bring out another point which is differences in gender and personality. I think one thing that is hard for me to do is to acknowledge growth according to who the person is and where the person is. I want them to all be at this level. But it's got different personalities, it's gonna come out in different ways. I want to only praise the things that I want to see rather than really see, well Maybe in my mind there's this ideal of Dorse Dorsey or Dorothy Clark or Jack for acting in this one particular way, but you know, they actually really struggle in this area and I they are making an intentional effort to um hold their tongue. Even if they're not falling all over themselves with kindness. You know, can I acknowledge that effort to hold their tongue? Yeah, that's great. and encourage that in them so that it doesn't become a a discouraging sort of impossible bar to hit Yeah, right. Very good. We tend to have sort of one idea of what it looks like and only want that idea to be the same set Yeah. Yeah, that's great. So Christina is sharing that as uh she and Ryan are are by God's grace seeking to raise up the children that she finds it a challenge to acknowledge each of the different ways in which the children make progress because they can be so different. And oftentimes we just have in mind one way in which it should be done And we haven't really fig we haven't really thought through, well, what would that look like for each of these different kinds of people to make any kind of progress And that's a that's a great I'm really glad that she shared that with us because what you can see there is the hand of God. even on Christina and Ryan, because that's how God teaches us wisdom. If you end up looking in the book of Proverbs, really wisdom is knowing his law but knowing it in all of the different ways in which it would apply. Like God knows how it applies to everybody in every circumstance And you're made in his image and he's showing you real wisdom. You know, if you were to I think uh a good model to be thinking about this kind of thing is and I know this is a little trendy, but it but But we'll forget that. The is to think in terms of our think of our lives in terms of craftsmanship and as a craft. If you look at people who have real skill within the crafts, and I'll include a lot of different people, let's just go with an appliance repair person An appliance repair person is who has been doing it for 35 years is going to show up. They're going to diagnose the problem probably on the phone with you because they've seen it so many different times. And just about any scenario they walk into, when they walk into your home, they're going to be able to fix that because they know how to take the general principles of that trade and apply it in a thousand different situations and God has given them that kind of skill You'll see that also in biblical counselors who are able to sit with just about anybody and make progress. You'll see that with carpenters who it doesn't really matter what the situation is any longer. They can always figure out a way to get the house built. or to deal with that particular kind of wood. And that is also helpful not only in thinking in terms of what is skill. Skill is being able to do well in a thousand different situations within your domain. But it's it's it also reminds us that there's a lot of different kinds of material that God gives us to have to work with. And we got to know the material that He's given to us. I'll tell you one quick story. You know it's so easy to frame a house, in part, because the framing is done with a spruce pine fir. If you look on the on two by fours, it'll say SPF. Alright, spruce, pine, fir. And the reason why that's so easy to work with is because it's a soft wood. Has anybody ever like whittled on a two by four or cut a two by four how it just kind of goes right through and it's it's almost like a a fluffy dust and and a saw saw dust that comes up almost as if it's snowing. It's easy to work with. And there are going to be some children in our lives who will be like spruce pine fir. But I'll tell you, I was working on a Brazilian nutwood a few summers ago. with a decking and it's nicknamed Ironwood. So I'm I'll use a I'll use a compressed trim nailer Initially I tried to use a compressed trim nailer on the Brazilian nutwood and a shot. It should just go right through. It just crumpled the nail. It didn't even t it go it did not go through the grain. This is wood. You know, with grain and you can burn it. I I hit it and it just crumpled the nail, like someone taking a soda can and doing this. No no dent I would take my, so then I had to do a little bit of research and they would say you have to pre-drill everything. And after three to five uses of the drill bit, the drill bit's dead. It's that strong. It's that strong. And some of our children are Brazilian nutwoods. You know, seriously. And w some of us are Brazilian nutwood, right? And uh and there's different people in the congregation of God's church that are these different kinds of wood, and that's what's so beautiful is you get An older Brazilian nutwood who's following the Lord can ha see a Brazilian nutwood growing up and they know how to work with them. So uh You re you both reminded me of that in telling your story. So thanks so much for sharing all that. And I think looking at our lives as craft is is really helpful uh in especially in terms of our expectations, knowing the different kinds of material. Now here's the thing, you can get a spruce pine fur, and then when you go to cut it right where you need to, Austin, sometimes there's a knot. And that just I mean how are we supposed to recover from that? You know, so there's there's a lot of different things that are that go into that. And I think all of those things end up being analogies to what we're doing here in this book. And you could tell this from other trades too. I'm sure Mike has very similar stories from the HVAC world in which skills have to be applied in that way there and that he recognizes a master HVAC person. And being able to do that. Mark, did you have anything? Yeah, we're in um this particular chapter of um training up your children in such a way that um you know they're willing to give their lives down for their siblings. Yeah. Um I can think of one example. Um If we were all outside or if some of us were outside and the ice cream man came by. Yeah, that was a while ago. That was a while ago. And uh so it was down the street and Liz Lizzie, a little Lizzie, was um was behind the ice cream truck Noah. had had had been paying attention and all of a sudden Lizzie's gone. And the ice cream man is cruising down the street. Okay. And so um That's scary. I don't like his story. Okay, yeah. It was it it was really scary. And so all of a sudden we heard Noah scream out. Um I'm not sure if I want to say this. He screams something out. pedophile and started s started running after the ice cream train. Okay, so he is thinking That his has been abducted. Abducted, yeah. Wow. He's he's ready to do whatever is necessary to take all the risks necessary to protect his sister. And so he's gone down the street And you know, we we get we finally are able to recognize that in fact Lizzie was not but The testimony, you know, was we we were able to witness Noah will be willing to lay his light down for the sake of his sister And so the good side of the story was that this it it's a it's a remembrance. So when it comes to the idea of um Training up your children. We really did embrace stories and examples Yeah. Of what it looked like, what light looked like and not and darkness looked like. Yeah. And these are some things that we as a family embrace and have lifted up and remembered for quite some time As an example of what is good. So Noah being aware not just of himself or his bike. But of his sister, and then being willing to chase down who he thought was doing something they shouldn't do to his sister. ends up being a great story for people to see what would it look like to really care for your your brothers and your sisters. Yeah that's excellent. That's great. Thanks thank you for sharing that. I appreciate it. Okay, so um that's just that first point. One of the ways that Joel Beaky brings up, and he's trying to pull from his experience as a father and as a grandfather is that we we want to make sure that in terms of helping siblings to to live godly lives with each other and not be stuck in sibling rivalry is to help them to worship each other and that would include helping them to s to see that they are members of the church. Pardon? Oh worship with each other. Yeah, worship with each other. And uh And they can serve each other as fellow members of the church. So we can help them in that way. I'll also point out in 229 point number three Train our children to teach and learn from each other. That can be a great, those can provide great opportunities for God to reveal to you what are going on in your children. And what are some of the things that we need to work on with this material that he's given to us? When we ask our children to learn from each other, there is a lot revealed in their attitudes. of learning to submit to one another. As we read in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 21, it says, submit to one another. And that's something to keep in mind. I'll just read this briefly. Differences in gender and age are opportunities for teaching and learning. Little children need big brothers and sisters. Our boys have the opportunity to teach their younger sisters what honor, integrity, and valor mean. At a time when such virtues are considered old-fashioned and outdated, it is even more critical for brothers to model them for their sisters. No brother should want his sister to marry a man who will exploit her and mistreat her. What a unique blessing it is, then, for girls to have God-fearing brothers as confidants. Knowing how the fallen male mind tends to work, a brother can also protect his sisters. If our boys show their sisters what it means to be godly, their sisters will be more wary of worldly men. Sisters can show their younger brothers what it means to be women whose beauty is more than external. I once heard about a young man in his late twenties who had five sisters. When someone asked him, when are you going to get married? He responded, When I find someone like my sisters. We should say to our daughters, Show your brothers what a godly woman is Show them the joys of being a young woman who walks in submission to the authorities over her and who is not easily taken by the flattery of a man. What a joy it is to see brothers and sisters walking in harmony, helping each other in this way. So there's some examples uh there that he he gives. And so I think that's good enough. I went ahead and camped out on chapter 19 there for a minute because some folks wanted to be able to talk about that. And so we did. So let's go ahead now to the chapters that we ha actually had this week, which begins in chapter 20. Now before we go into that I will tell you one story about the brothers showing sisters what a godly man looks like and sisters showing uh boys what a godly woman looks like. That has also I also saw an example where a father was seeking to show his daughter what a godly man looked like. uh that seems like a natural thing to do. He would take her out on dates and he would show her what it looks like for a man to honor her and respect her when they were on the date with each other. He would open up all of the doors. Car door, restaurant door. He'd pull out her seat for her. Uh I think when she got up to go to the bathroom, he got up This is kind of uh the way the world used to be, by the way. I don't know if any of you remember that. Uh and he had uh uh of course he paid for the bill. He didn't ask her to split it. Or ask her to pay for it because he didn't have a job. Uh and Uh he engaged politely in conversation with her, being very interested in what was going on in her life and didn't just overtake the conversation or look bored. If you grew up in the seventies or the eighties or the nineties, there's kind of a stereotype of men going out to dinner with their wives while also there's a baseball or a football game on. and figuring out sneaky ways to have like something in their ears so they can hear the score of the game. There's an old um does anybody remember the show Home Improvement? Yeah. And he and of course my friend did not do that. He was attentive the whole time And you get the picture. So that can be done in some different ways, providing examples of what good men and women look like as they're looking for their own marriage partner. Okay, so chapter 20 Helping teenagers discern God's will. So now we've moved into the teenage realm. And I'll just bring up a couple different things. And again, I'm really looking to hear your stories. All of us are living life. We all have something to share. Please don't fall into the trap of thinking that you have to have written a book or that you hold conferences and people come to your conference. That's not real life. This is real life. This is what we want to be able to share what God teaches us with other people. That's what Second Corinthians says. So Uh put a star next to a few things here in this. So I'm on page 235 in the book, Helping Teenagers Discern God's Will. Yes, okay. So I wanted to focus in on page two hundred forty-one under number three. Again, I'm just picking ones that I think will be healthy for you, but you're you're supposed to have read the whole book. Number three, how should teens use their gifts and desires to know God's will How should teens use their gifts and desires to know God's will? We begin to seek God's will by acknowledging that anything good in us is from God's hand. He formed our bodies with our particular abilities and disabilities. He shaped our hearts with our personalities and interests. And he made us as he made all things for his glory. What then can teenagers' personal constitutions teach us teach us about God's will for their lives? First, the scriptures call us to make an honest assessment of our spiritual gifts. That's one thing that it mentions. Second, on page 242. Teens should use their God-given aptitudes and desires to guide their choice of an occupation. And third, finding a mate clearly involves our desires. Now I just wonder, do any of you have any stories in uh your own life or watching other people where you've seen somebody do this well in helping older children, particularly as teens find their place within God's kingdom based on who they have become. Really tail helping them to See what God's calling would be on them as a person because of who God made them. Does everybody understand what I'm asking? God tailors each one of us. We're all very different. We're made to do different things. Have you seen Anyone help a teenager or different teenagers made in different ways discover God's will, especially for uh work? Marriage, family. Any examples with that? Yes, please state. Thank you. for cooking. Okay. And so I didn't high school I did encourage him to talk at McDonald's. Okay. And then later it's my grand show. And then so Okay. Excellent. So take it on the background and the zone now and then by the way. Oh wow. That's cool Tate. So Tate was sharing that her son Ralph Ralph, right? Yeah Ralph uh showed early on uh an inclination and what she said propensity towards cooking So she's first encouraged him to be working at McDonald's, then he went to the Macaroni Grill, then he went to several other restaurants, and now he owns his own restaurant in Ohio So that's a great example of being able to see who is God making this person and then helping them to see that. Any other examples with that? Yes, Marcy. Um for our family, we were very patient with um them and trying to figure out what they wanted to do for the rest of their lives. Noah seems to be the one, but he you know, he um went through s different stages of what he thought he wanted to do And we didn't push really push in any direction, whether it was college or not, but it was more of just um kind of you know, not making sure he was um being diligent with his time and all, but yet um He he finally at I think twenty three. He he got a you know, an associate in communityology and then thought he wanted to be a pilot and then, you know, was pursuing that and then um went to the with the worked at QT. worked with the T T for a while but then finally at I think twenty three or so he thought nursing was he figured that nursing was so he was still diligent in his time and trying to figure it out yet we weren't really pushing just kind of trying to navigate what we what we observed in him. Um actually it was even for our girls, same type of thing. I'm not Um wasn't um roquino college. Not just in college of course, but it was more of what we call our children their gifts and their talents versus pushing them in a certain direction worked for our family. Yeah. And Emma was able to realize that she was very artsy and was able to open an Etsy shop and um you know, still have it even even now. But uh that just works well with us, not really just trying to be patient. But yet but yet you don't want to just sit around and play videos Yeah, that's what we don't want. But sometimes allowing them to do that, there are consequences from it. Yeah. And they they learn really as well. But There's a fine line as an adult, like adulting adult children. It's very really lots of prayer. Yeah, lots of okay, very good. So lots of prayer and then you mention and then Marcy also mentioned that uh she and Mark really needed to exercise a great deal of patience. And the way that I'll take that is not really just patience with children, but patience as in, well what is God revealing about this person? What does sh what does God really want them where does God want them to take their place in the world? And and you were patient with that. Uh that seems and that's very important. A lot of the times I'll notice that younger folks, I experienced this myself, I'm sure we all did. Once you get to the end of high school you feel a tremendous amount of pressure to know uh what everything else is going to be in your life. Most people I've met, there are few that do know the answer as to what God wants them to do. Most people, like ninety-nine percent, they have no clue So being patient and figuring out, well, what is God based on my gifts, my aptitudes, and my talents and Just uh the different abilities that He's given to me, what does God want me to do? So you're saying a key there was patience and that being revealed and not putting pressure based on preconceived notions on what on the way life should be. I imagine you could have been pressuring for them to move into architecture, or you could have pressured for them to move into the corrugation industry and uh for them to become an engineer, to head off to Drexel, get their engineering degree. Uh and there can be some pressure to do that because you can see that engineers tend to make good money and you do want your children to have it where they're not struggling the whole time and we have to resist. Um very good. Okay, that's a great example. Yes, please. Thank you for sharing that. That's this of all is extremely helpful. Um I think I got more of a uh thought that could be question as well, but we we're using um in one of our children there's a there's just a uh a gift for the game of basketball and this really great. Um and well he loved he he loved it and and was working for him but I think as parents he naturally We saw the GIF and we're thinking, okay, um we're trying to figure the trajectory, how to where to take this so that it can be something that creates opportunity for him and things like that. Um um but then you start to then I think um because I think as parents, you know you're thinking okay how can we use this gift to help him create a stable life for himself. Um but of a of late I feel like the Lord's sort of changing my mind about um about about his trajectory in terms of it it he started actually not liking it uh or star started not liking it as much. Um but I started to look at other things and And I noticed that he is very inclined towards family things. Like like he'll be you'll find and he'll sit around and just draw pictures of families and he'll name them. You know, this is the name of the father, this is the name of the the mother. This and he'll draw the kids. And he's always he is very um you know protective of his as a sibling. He's very, very, very uh great brother to his sister. And so it started making me think there's just a gift there or or possibly something Yeah, yeah. So you you're trying to think, well how can you you know, so it it it but but the word having me change my mind about the thing that God places me doesn't necessarily have to be this revenue generating. You know. Um perhaps he can go into whatever he wants, but but there's clearly a a there's there's clearly a kick there instead of just being a Yeah. That's great. Yeah, and then you can use that too because um if he really does care about family, he'll be motivated to take care of his family Which means who knows if he'll end up with uh three hundred thousand dollar a year job. But we know that whatever job he ends up with, he'll work hard at it and his family life will be blessed Centered around the board. Might not have as much as other people. But you know, um there's a lot of miserable rich people. So that's a really great example. Where he'll be a family man. Yeah, that's definitely an obligation we have too. A good dad, good husband Yeah, that's that's awesome. Very good. Thanks for sharing that. Um we don't want to forget about that. Any other examples? That you've seen? Yes. Um thinking backing up what Marcy said a little bit just about being patient and I um there's a connection there to um, seeing God's sovereignty and the hand of providence in the things that happen in our kids' lives. Yeah. And um you know, I just I think of Well, it's a couple of our kids, but um I think of Alex and um it was evident from very young that um that he wanted to preach. Um anyway. Um but then he in God's sovereignty he had an opportunity to go to Indonesia to teach in a Christian school. Um but that first year was very, very, very, very difficult. And um and so when he had to quit that teaching job. I um thought, oh, he's gonna come home and that's that. But God has other plans. So um you know I don't feel willing to let that go Um, because it you know, my my plan, you know, what I saw is different, very different from what God was doing because God is using that to to grow him to And you know, just being willing to like more suspect, be patient. Yeah. And, you know, let that help you work. Yeah, and when you mentioned that it was really hard, are you saying it was hard for Alex to be in Indonesia or for you to have him in Indones? Yeah. things that were um he he was in a place where he didn't know anyone, he didn't know the language and um had some some big struggles with the school things that were going on there. Um And he was on his own. We things that we were trying to do was from halfway our own world, uh you know, there was just uh a trust that developed, you know, just seeing how gossip I do that. Okay, that's great. Yeah. That was very good. So Kate ha uh was piggybacking off of Marcy in terms of the parental patience and really learning to trust and watch God work because Kate has had to um realize that her son was called to Indonesia. So that's a really big deal. And uh watching being patient as God worked in Alex's own life. But then also having to get used to the idea that he's not within driving distance for Thanksgiving and neither are the grandkids. So and by the way, is Jonathan doing okay? Uh was that an old picture of him Wrecked on a dirt bike? Yeah. Or is that new? No. I knew I thought, man, he did it again? Okay. Okay. Okay. Got it. Thanks. Christina. I think it's also helpful I know as someone who is hasn't been in the workforce But is always looking you know, wondering, well, what does God have for me to do? It's hopeful that we have And thinking about how do I talk about this with our girls and with our boys as they're coming up with skills and talents. Um, you know, Ryan's Dad had other things he wanted to do, but he got a job with the telephone company at eighteen and it was stable and he did that for thirty years and it wasn't the fulfillment of all of his life's desires. Brian three quarters of the way through college went, oh no, this is the wrong field for me. And yet God has provided for our family and provided so many opportunities. in a field that he doesn't really want to be in. Yeah. To to be faithful and you know, in a sense Amazing for our family. My dad has always felt called to ministry in every ministry he's call that he's had. God has provided the call And so many forms to go with every single situation. Yeah. And so to to sh see examples of faithfulness and that it's not just about, well, what is the thing that I'm looking for that's gonna fulfill me? Meanwhile my mom got one degree and really until she was in her mid forties She got an opportunity to teach at a school and she had twenty years where it was so clearly the call of God on her And she was so skilled and able to flourish, but now she's retired in that sofa and nobody remembers who she is at that school. So it's just it's like work is important. Using our skills is important, but also what God has provided around us is also a big part of how He provides for us and it's not it doesn't always feel like everything is perfectly aligned. Yeah. Even though he is working and providing through the circumstances that we're in. And I think that's an important part, but a difficult part to talk to young idea I Idealistic teenagers about in their when you're working through that. So it's good to have examples and for us to be willing to talk about those kinds of things you know, how God has worked through all of those different kinds of circumstances too in our job. Alright, that's really good. So Christina was sharing that not only would we look to God in his providence in terms of our gifts and our pil abilities But uh sometimes uh what we think is our gift or our ability that we naturally have a desire to express, sometimes that doesn't align with exactly what God places on your lap as to the call And you'll end up in a field that is not your favorite field. It's not it wasn't like uh your dream come true, but it's providing for your family, it's an honorable occupation. And that we need to have examples of that too, because that's a faithful life uh lived. I I love that. I I would say actually that that is a lot of people Uh this might surprise you, but I don't feel natural in the pastorate. I feel natural in uh building homes. It feels like second nature to me to be doing carpentry work Um, but the Lord obviously, at least in my mind, has called me to do this work. Um when I first came here to this church, I had never written a book report Uh I basically stopped my education around the fifth grade and from the fifth grade all the way through high school there was really heavy drug use so I didn't really I I didn't attend class. I was I was um you know relatively speaking uh good at football and lacrosse, which would mean that I would help contribute greatly to winning championships for the high school so the teachers would just give me a C in the grade book even though I never went to class in order for me to be able to remain on the teams so that they could Go to the championships and um so then no education. You've all heard this story, I arrived And God said, I want you to be a pastor who has to write and speak all the time. And um And uh never had written a book report and then when I got here Ark said, You're gonna take the evening service with the pulpit and I'm thinking, well how do you put together a speech or something? And uh So I guess I end up being another example. If I have a drill or hammer or saw Um all the things align inside my head. I don't have a lot of questions. It feels just right. It could be also building a boat. It could be any of those things. But this doesn't feel natural to me. And uh I've often said that when I get to heaven, if there are pastors, it's not going to be me. I'm gonna be a farmer. Or something like that. I'd like to work with animals and just give a break to the human thing. But I'm very thankful for the calling that he's given to me. Thanks for bringing up that example. That's a realistic picture. Um I have friends whose fathers grew up working at Bethlehem Steel Mill. Does anybody remember Bethlehem Steel from the area? Yeah, that wasn't their dream to work at Bethlehem Seal, but they were able to not only provide a home, but um some of their children wanted to go to college and they were able to help with that education and Uh so that's a really that's important. Thanks so much for sharing that. You see how much we get if we just share what God has given to us? It's amazing. It's really great. Okay, let's go ahead and move on to the next section then. I just wanted to point out that one part about the gifts and the abilities. Something to think about. All of us uh we have different uh schools that we end up putting our children in. Something you might want to think about when they get to the senior class and they start uh the school starts making announcements If you notice that the school only announces like when kids are going to go off to college, you might want to say something to them to honor the kids that won't be going to college. Because the trades, for example, are honorable career, and they really should be listing that kind of a thing too. So just keep that on your radar. We don't want our kids g be being discouraged because God's calling them to be a plumber, for example. Um, you know. No, I I was just generally not a college educated person and not really appreciate that non-college educated person. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yes, different uh different callings for different people. I've also met people that I know God meant to go to college and to read Latin and to translate Syriac and they're a great gift to the church. So a lot of different people uh do different things in God's economy. So then moving on to chapter twenty one This was a really important one for me too. It's a question I have in my mind all the time, which is how to help teenagers resist negative peer pressure? And I didn't bring it, but I wanted to bring that picture that someone just gave to me of Daniel in the lion's den. Has everybody seen my painting? Actually Keith, do you mind grabbing it? It's in my office leaning up aga it's right behind my office chair leaning there. I just want to show it to you because it ends up being a great picture of really what we're trying to do with our children. I'll notice that one mark of maturity within children after they get to a certain age is they stop feeling like they're the crazy ones because they follow Jesus Christ. And that and that when other people don't follow Jesus Christ, they know that no, they're the crazy ones. That switch is really tough though, assuming some people call it assuming the center. No, actually, believing the Bible, that's the normal thing to do. You're not you're the one that's not normal I don't need to really defend myself. You need to defend yourself. I'm the one that I'm the one who's worshiping God. You not worshiping God, that's the weird thing. That's the strange thing. Yeah, thank you. Uh you could might as well just stand there. So here here it is. So this is a picture of what we would want to shoot for with our children is that they would maintain their ground for the kingdom of God. Uh despite the opposition. Now I'm not going to pass that around because I don't know that it would make it through. Uh but if if you want to walk through the aisle and just display the air, Yeah, so everybody's seen this painting before. This is a good I think paintings are so important because we get a little picture of a story and we want the heart of our children to move to that place where they're avoiding negative peer pressure. Does any thanks so much for doing that, Keith. I know that was a little awkward. Thanks for doing that. So does anybody have any stories where they were able to see God uh help a person help a teenager to grow in holy boldness, where they're really able to stand up for the faith And m maybe w what contributed? What did God use to get that person to that place? Or do you have your own experiences where you sold out for Christ in the seventies you were called you know, be called a Jesus freak? Yes. When I was a teenager I had positive fear of pressure from my sister. Okay. Because I had one sister one and was older than me two grades. And one a little bit less than two years younger than me, two grades behind them. So we went we traveled through high school together. There was that positive peer pressure that we went to church, we worshiped God, you know, we we didn't fall for drugs and smoking Okay. So Tate was th is saying that uh what in part what made a big difference is the positive peer pressure from her, the family that surrounded her. Uh that's important. So if you're here, uh you know, your older brother, older sister, remember that. Aunt, Uncle, Mark. I think um the things that we didn't really plan for, but seemed to be at our doorstep. was the reality of um having to make the difficult decisions to allow um teams who we knew were broken into our home Um and kind of have an open door policy, so to speak. Yeah. The there were risks. Um But I think that there's so many people, so many different families and and different relationships that were established by doing that Um I I think I think really did help frame um a worldview within our children, within Um and within the lives of those who we seek to try to disciple and reach out to, it's very easy to try to isolate It's it's not easy to um quote take risks. Um but they were all bathed in prayer and um with a heart to be able to reach out and be a witness to those. Um it it worked, but boy it was hard. All right, very good. So it really was hard. Mark is sharing that it's it is easier to isolate yourself from the world around you and just have your family as a kind of Christian ghetto. But the path is better if you reach out to the people that are around you, but it requires a great deal of sacrifice. And the way that they did that was allowing different teenagers to live within their home, which came with its rew r with its risks, but God has allowed it to come with rewards also. Um and that that has shaped his own children in terms of how they uh would appro they approach the world. And on page two fifty-five is what I starred, which goes along with what Mark is saying, number five. And this is the ultimate where uh uh the and what I mean by that painting that we brought in that we had uh Keith in Vanna White fashion walk up and down the hall there. Do you know who Vanna White was, Keith? No. Sorry buddy. Don't worry about it. Uh lead their fri so number five is lead their friends toward righteousness. Our teenagers should sacrifice themselves for their friends. But they should never sacrifice their convictions and beliefs for those friends. If our children truly love their friends, they should seek what is best for them That means not just fleeing from negative peer pressure, but exerting positive peer pressure. They must try to influence their friends to do what's right and to help them overcome temptation to do what is wrong. To this end, we should urge our teens not to be led, but to lead. So leadership training is really important within the lives of our teenagers, both men and women. Um Keith, your t your t if I remember correctly, your testimony is a testimony of some of the Donovan children leading you toward righteousness. Is that right? Is it appropriate for you to share that or is that too personal? No, I can share it. I mean I grew up in a non-Christian household. Um and I spent a lot of time well I I live in three houses towns now and so I spent a lot of time hanging out with uh Nate Nella specifically. Um And then eventually hanging out with Emma more than anybody. But uh I think when I was like three, um I was always hanging out with them, going over their house and Um I saw their family at the as an example of what a Christian family should look like. Didn't really have that growing up. My family was kind of uh divided, partly because of the the language barrier that my parents have with us and also just a lack of respect from the children to the the parents. Um do you mind just sharing about your language barrier? Well my parents are deaf so you know We grew up using English every day all the time and it was only when we got home to talk to our parents that we used the sign language. So it was more harder to convey ideas and And more specifically uh when we were talking to our to to each other, we wouldn't sign. So my parents always fell myself or they didn't like know what was going on Um and it got to the point where we were like very rude about it. Um like we'd be at the dinner table and we'd take a cup of water and we'd pretend like we were drinking it just so that we could talk with our parents saying, hey, fine Um so there was a lot of disrespect there. Um but you know, going over the zonings we saw me and my brothers and sisters or my brother and sister saw like This is an order of householding out obviously the six kids is kind of chaotic, but you could tell that they were doing something different than my parents were doing. The kids listened. They did their chores for the most part. Um and you know. So anyways, uh I saw a lot of that growing up and it wasn't until about high school where I started feel convicted. Um we were at a soccer game at an 118 soccer game and uh Lizzie and I were talking at the table and I was just kind of asking her about sex before marriage and like her thoughts on that and she seemed so hurt when I said that. Um I'm ashamed of this what I said. Like why would a guy wait for you to get married a sex with you? And I could tell that she was like kind of structured her for like a like very uh broken by that and that kind of like changed my point of view like okay well why did she feel this way? Yeah. And so we started a line of questioning and that evolved into a whole night of going to different people, asking questions So there's people saying, hey, you've got a lot of questions, we should talk to this person and so on and so forth, and still it'll evolve into Mark and Marcy House at their table, their kitchen table and just talking to them. about questions I have and eventually Mark was like we should you know start a cycle chip and you'll be able to learn a lot through this and so I was head. And so it will all become very fun Alright, very good. Thank you for sharing that. That's excellent. So then you have that picture of Daniel with the lion and you I don't know what you think. But that Lizzie there on the bleachers at the soccer game is the Daniel and the Lions. Right? So it's nice for us to be able to start putting real pictures to it. What does that end up looking like in the normal day-to-day stuff? Lizzie didn't change her worldview saying, Oh, you're right. It's silly. She was she stood her ground in her own way there, which then moved. Then God ended up using that. So that's a that's a good example. So lead their friends toward righteousness. We want to shoot for that and pray for that as a goal. with our with our children. Now the I I wanted to take the last 30 seconds. Is there from uh chapter 22 This tends to be a pretty regular thing that we experience in our homes. Does anybody have a story or two stories in where they were able to help or see other children helped in their in overcoming their anger problem? Helping teenagers manage anger. You could have been the teenager. You could just share with us what God helped with you. Anyone With anger. It's a pretty regular problem. Christina. I am currently learning how to not react in kind to the anger and to not so To w walk patiently with someone through it, which sometimes feels like you're enabling it. but in the end has allowed for more concrete real conversations, more actual repentance, even though we're not necessarily moving the needle tons right now at the flashpoint. You know, but but it but it used to be where at the flashpoint I'd be like, just stop. You know, and then we couldn't get anywhere Okay. So Christina's sharing um and that did you want to continue? I saw your hand do this. I didn't know if you had any other point. Well I mean I think we have learned how to like put certain parameters like There are certain kinds of behavior that are absolutely unacceptable no matter what's going on. But to to not put as many parameters on Everything has to be doused with the extinguisher before we can move on or before I can be patient. Like let's get some critical things in place for the safety of everybody else, both emotionally and physically. Yes. But then can you sort of put it in a pen so that you can walk along type of person um rather than trying to deal with it all at one moment. And it's just it seems like that's been helpful, but it is a much more long term longer term seeing process rather than uh you've got an eager problem Does it seem to work? I will pull out my back. I don't I can't do that. I'm having back problems. The um so Christina was sharing one thing with uh helping children to grow in anger problems is not responding anger for anger, not responding in kind Uh Marcy, real quick. I this is uh I failed miserably, but Proverbs fifteen one self-danger turn or self-cancer turns away rapidly. Yeah. Totally. Like I found that when I was like that. it changed the whole like the whole dynamic of the room. But I failed miserably. I mean I wasn't there was no lots of growth from that. But um but that is so true. Like The way I responded totally their reaction was it it was influenced by their reaction back together. But it just Yeah, not responding in kind. I think that's been a lot of people's experience that God works through that. You know, one of the things you could do with this too is the Proverbs talk a lot about anger. And um I think one of our members here at Severn Run reads through the book of Proverbs once a year. Uh Bill, do you read it through it once a year? Or is it is it more than once or just once? Twice a year. Okay. So Bill reads through the thanks for sharing that. Bill reads through Proverbs twice a year. I think it's important to do something like that because that when you're reading There are different things that are going on in your life at different times that will allow you to see different things going on that God is communicating through Proverbs. So always having that on a cycle, you'll start to notice different things Uh the we mentioned one of the proverbs there with the soft answer turns away wrath. There's some other imagery there too in terms of like not fighting against the wind but going along with nature That's my summary of it because I'm pulling from boat experiences that I have. Like it is very difficult to paddle into the wind. It is much easier to paddle with the wind. You could keep that kind of thing in mind, especially if you're work working with a teenage boy. It's very difficult to just uh manhandle a teenage boy. Their nature isn't for that They're actually on the verge of being very independent and leading their own family. So trying to work in such a way where you're going with the wind of their nature as opposed to fighting them at every moment about it. Uh uh I had that same experience growing up as a young man too. I wanted to exercise dominion So we would we want to respect those kinds of things. And then there's a thousand other things in Proverbs. So keeping those things in mind. So uh we'll go ahead and close there. Just keep in mind that the book here He speak he's he spoke straightforwardly about what is in the scriptures. None of us meet what he says here in the book. All of us need work. But all of us do accomplish these things in Jesus Christ. Again, that just shows you how valuable He is as our Savior from our transgressions and imputing his righteousness to us. I'll say that nevertheless this is a great standard because it just keeps quoting scripture for us to see, well, what's going on there. And in that way it can be used as a kind of reference work. Maybe you could set some time aside where you just read a chapter every couple months. Or maybe you'll look in the index if he has one or in the table of contents and just review certain sections. And I really would encourage you not to just do that by yourself, but to keep the conversation going where you can share each other's experiences. It's so helpful to hear where we're all what God has taught all of us and where we're coming from. God gave you each other so that you're not doing all this stuff by yourself. So um All right, well I'll go ahead and close in prayer. And thanks so much for going through the book with me. Heavenly Father, I thank you again for the ministry of Joel Beacie. I know that you work through him. And I thank you that you are with us and that we're not doing this alone, and that you've given us each other also. I pray that you would help us to grow in wisdom, that you'd protect us from the evil one. And uh Lord, we thank you so much that you promise us that you would not leave us nor forsake us I pray that you would now give us an excellent time of worship where we remember both your first and your second Advent. In the name of Christ. Amen.