Let's go ahead and start our time with a word of prayer. Please join me. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day you've given us to remember you as our creator and as our redeemer, to also have a time with each other. I pray that you would use our class to draw us closer to you. That we would worship you, we'd have no other gods before you, that we would hold your name high. And Lord, that this would lead also to us being truly neighbors to each other. In the name of Christ. Amen. Alrighty. So we're continuing in our class here this morning, parenting by God's promises. And if I'm not mistaken, this is the fifth week, is that right? Anybody know? Yeah, it's a fi I think it's the fifth one. I counted it on the calendar, so I think I'm right there. I get that kind of thing wrong sometimes, so I thought I'd ask. But nevertheless, we are really dwelling on the three on three central chapters of the book that have to do with prophet, priest, and king. Uh Joel Beaky has given to us a very useful way to think about parenting or grandparenting. Or even our responsibilities as mothers and fathers in the faith. And that way that He's given to us is under the titles of prophet, priest, and King. It's a it's a great little way to remember what our responsibilities are. So this morning I'd like to give you the opportunity to keep thinking through what what does it mean for you to have a prophetic, a priestly, and a kingly role. particularly in the life of the children of the congregation. So I'll point out a few things and then I have some questions for you. Do try to make this time here together. worth it. Try to ask your questions, whatever those questions may be, and we can at least talk about it for a couple minutes. Okay, so I'll tell you where I'm going to start in the book. I think I have the wrong book. Oh no, I don't. Okay. So I want to start in chapter Number nine, We've already had an overview of Prophet Priest and King, and now we're going to jump into specifically looking at Prophet Priest and King in more depth. If we can get through all of them today, that'll be great I think we can definitely do the pro the prophet and the priest. And then we can make some stuff up. Uh meaning make it up in the s make it up in the sense of like um if we miss something we can make up the work. Not innovate. Yeah. No innovations today. Okay, so beginning in chapter nine, it's the parent as profit. Could someone give us just a brief summary of the idea here? What is what is Joel Beaky getting after? And then I'll start breaking it down into its parts. What would you say in your own words he's after in looking at parents as prophets? Go ahead, Sarah. Thanks. Thanks for saving the class. Well that's what it seems to be as profit parents we train children in badly living and we instruct them Yeah, okay. So Sarah was saying that being prophetic parents is that we instruct them in godly living and we train them in the Word of God. So you'll notice the two points that she gave there, although one point dealt with life and let's say another one dealt with belief, both of them were coming from God's Word. That's what the main focus was, and that really is what a prophet is doing. Now when Joel Beakey goes through the chapter, he lays out a few things that I wonder what you thought about. in terms of breaking down your prophetic task. He says on page 104 that the first task that he has for those who are prophetic parents is that we're to train our children intellectually. He mentions that God commands us to love him with all our hearts and minds, and our intellectual goal in child rearing must not be simply to instruct our children in the contents of the Bible, but to encourage them to think biblically about God, their faith, their lives, and the world around them. We must teach them that they owe their minds to God and that they must develop and use their mental powers for his glory. And that means We must put doctrinal substance in our family worship and other times of interaction with our children. encouraging them to engage thoroughly with what they hear and learn from God's Word and to respond with faith and obedience. Now I think you get a general picture there, but I'd like to hear some more pictures. Based on what he just said there in the first paragraph. and that God that our intellectual goal in child rearing must be not simply to instruct our children in the contents of the Bible, but to encourage them to think about biblically about all things. What are some examples you've seen in your own life? that you think are good examples. You're welcome to use your o your own life and how you have done it, or you're welcome to share how you've seen other people do it. Any good examples in your life that stand out to you as a kind of shiny object? Yes. Yeah, we've welcomed her into our home and uh we're able to uh be a part of her life and she's a part of our life and we're able to better help her with needs and and uh yeah so so it's been a great thing. Okay. So the context for where you're working on understanding everything by way of God's word is really not in the classroom but more on living each other living life together. Yes. Is that right? Yes. Okay, very good. Thanks. Anybody have any other examples? Yes, Natalie. I have an example of I guess the outcome of parents doing this faithfully and being rewarded. Um so it was um it was one of our um Things on the pavilion, one of our rooms. And um a child walked up to their mother and asked if they could do something And their mother said, No. I mean it wasn't yes. And I expected pushback. And that child didn't give his mother a bit of pushback, just kind of went, yes ma'am, and went off and did this. So this is clearly um something that that child has been trained to understand that when They ask and they're told no that they are not to fuss about it. They are to accept their parents' uh decision on it and move on. And I was just in awe Okay. And and uh so Natalie is pointing out the an outcome that she saw that um It it seems to her that there was some training in God's word that led up to that on how we should what does it really look like both inside of ourselves and outside of ourselves to honor our moms and our dads. And um so then we'll get to this a little bit later in this same section, but what you're pointing out is especially what Joel Beakey points out that we have a responsibility to train our children from the Word of God socially. How should they exist in society? Alright. Very good. Yes, Marilyn? I'll drag on my husband. All right. We didn't call it found the judges. We had reading after dinner. Yeah. And um it was often a book in scripture, but sometimes it was told in priway for the whole world We probably read Children's Progress seven times during the course of our seven children. And then there would be questions afterwards for everybody in the church. And it would be gauge, he would gauge it to where they were in their level of mental intellectual development. Um and now that I understand the classical explanation of that the little kids would get the grammar level of, you know, what was the name of the guy that did this or whatever. And then they would become much more dialectic as the kids got older And uh it really struck me when our our kids were friends over, they would also get questions from the reading. And it impressed me when you're talking about just the intellectual training that my kids have been taught to listen Uh-huh. And comprehend through this. And then a lot of times kids will come in and will do it just as well in school as my kids are in here. But they we're not able to pull the facts and sometimes Daddy Wood goes down a grammatical level. Um and and then ask them a a basic question to pull them into the conversation. Um but it struck me that the there was a little part of their education that they didn't have that my kids had. But like listening and then having to respond with Yeah, very good. Alright, I'll go ahead and repeat briefly what you said just because we have folks online. Uh Marilyn was saying that uh she wanted to brag on her husband for a moment and commend him, which is always a great thing to do Um and mentioned that uh Bill at the table when the children were gro growing up would after dinner have family conversation they would talk about different things. Perhaps it would be a Bible passage, perhaps it would be Pilgrim's Progress, or another work by John Bunyan is called The Holy War Uh and I believe that's by Bunyan, right? Yeah, okay. That wasn't by okay. Yeah, the Holy War and that uh Bill would not just have the same level conversation with all the children But he would tailor the conversation to the child. So if the child was younger or at a certain spot in their life, the question may be as simple as Um just a fact. Where is the city of the king? And you could and it would have been right there in the story and you could have answered Jerusalem or something along those lines. And as the children got older the the questions could be more mature to have to work through them And Marilyn was reflecting on how that helped her to understand what we're doing in all in our education in classically training people when whether you're in this academy or Rockbridge or you've been in other places you've seen the different names for the the groups of classes. You have a grammar level class, a dialectic level class, and a rhetoric level class. And the same thing was happening at the table. Facts, ability to articulate and put a position together, and then even to do so beautifully. uh for the sake of something beautiful. So that that is a that a good that is a good example. Uh she also said that when children would visit they'd still have conversations at the table So they had friends over. Normal routine continued and Marilyn noticed that not only were her children learning things But um in terms of like, well, what does the Bible story say and how should we apply it? But they were also, by way of those table conversations learning how to listen to each other and learning how to discuss important things with each other. I think that every wife would appreciate a young man that knew how to listen. So that sounds like great training. So very good. Alright, great example. Thanks so much for that. Anybody else have an example of seeing uh good profit for children? Yeah, Matt. Uh Andrew called us uh this week. Excited because he wanted to talk to his pr uh faculty professor and um ask him questions and what he talked to this fabulous professor. Sh she was from China and she said, I was always taught just how to do the work and you want to understand why. Fabulous work He says, Well it it reveals a creator. It reveals how the reasonableness of how the universe is created. and how mathematically things work. And um so he kind of went into this, but he was excited he was able to share his faith just by asking deeper questions And basically sharing that he believes that the order of mathematics is a a proof of God. Amen. That's great. Yeah, that's a great example. So he was actually being prophetic towards his teacher Very nice, yeah. So those are all really good examples, Cheryl. Um when Alistair was much younger, like three or four sort of young, we were all in the van and somehow the topic of idolatry came up. And so we we've talked about it and then there's a lull in the conversation and with his little boy voice he says, You know, mom Sometimes I think that I love my blanket too much as an idol. And it was so sweet and so genuine and I said, well, bud I think in those times if you are feeling conviction about it, you can confess that to the Lord and he sighed and said Oh, I do. I do. And I felt like it was such encouragement from the Lord because I think what we're doing as parents is a nitty-gritty a million opportunities a day You're actually trying to equip your children with all the tools the Lord has given us to know how What does it look like to be a Christian here? What does it like right? Um so sometimes I'll even say to my sons, Go to your room and handle that like Christian voice. Right? Let's give you a shot to work this out on your own as Christians. And so even just such a young age to see he had a tool at his disposal when he was convicted of his blanket idolatry. He already knew in his bed. I know what to do with sin. I'm gonna confess this. It was just it's like such a sweet little thing, but it was so beautiful. Yeah, that's great. Yeah, that's a good example. So Cheryl is saying that She she gave a an anecdote from home life and and showed how she could point her young son to Christ and how to be a Christian in that moment. That would fit into the priestly role too, you calling him to confess. That's what priests do. So that's a a good example there. But it also falls in the prophetic role, and I think all these overlap. We're all wearing the hats. Same person wearing all the hats So they all end up overlapping and you were able to teach him how to think through that. I l I like the anecdotes also, which is one of the reasons why I'm asking questions like this is Because I just want to see and I want you all to hear each other on how this just happens throughout the day. Now one of the things I wanted to address, and then I'll ask you a different question is I want you to please be careful when you're hearing stories from other people of, in an unhealthy way, comparing yourself to them. Sometimes we can hear about what's going on in other people's homes and we can feel really ashamed about how our homes are going There are probably things, well, I'm not even gonna say probably, all of us have improvement to make in our home life And to tell you the truth, all of us have been given different children and some and all of us are different people and some things are going to be possible in one home that I'm telling you it's just not going to work in another home. So please keep that in mind. For example, Bill had the opportunity to go through Pilgrim's Progress and the Holy War Some of you will be given children where the only thing that's going to happen with the pilgrim's progress is it may be used for a bonfire. All right. Like and I'm not saying I'm not advocating that we burn good literature. I'm just saying different people are made in different ways. I've seen that in my own home I was able to have deep conversations about both the Holy War and Pilgrim's progress with one of my children And another child, I'm not going, that's not primarily where it's going to happen. It's going to happen as we're building something or talking about what that person has built and talk about it and do it that way. If and um and this gets to the next point I wanted to bring up with you. If you take a look on 105 I really am interested in what you think about this section of the book. He says it is important that we're proactive in getting good reading material into the hands of our children as a positive alternative to electronic media. Now I'm hearing amens and stuff. That's fine. But I just wanted to pose for you, how how do you all deal with that with children that could give a uh who could care less about who could care less about literature Anybody have any stories on children that just could care less about literature but still trying to keep them out of a unhealthy place with with media, video games, that kind of stuff, or overuse of video games? Anybody have any experience with that? Yes. So we have a kid who doesn't want to read, but He does love to listen. And so giving him access to envelopes and Maybe audiobooks people spend they just finished a fifteen hour book on three centuries. Wow. There are ways to get children to read without actually opening the book. Okay. So Rachel gave us an example where she has a young child who really doesn't love to read, but he does love to listen And he just finished a fifteen hour book on probably Audible or s a place where you get that free. I forget what that place is called. Uh Livvy. Yeah, Livy So that's a that's an excellent example. So let me just follow up with that for a moment. What do you think? I I I actually see debates online. Is listening to a book Cheating? Or could would you consider that actually reading? Would could you say that you've read the book if you've only listened to it? So let me know what you think there. Give me a couple of opinions. Let's see. This is actually a pretty hot conference. Yeah. So I I rivy all the time. I would be in Audible all the time. I've got a I've got a new tour Um and it is a different experience um because like when I'm home or at bedtime I will do immersive, what they're calling immersive, where you've got the book in front of you and you're listening. Yeah, I know a lot of people that do that. But yes, it when I'm actually reading the words, it it is just a completely different experience. But am I getting the information? Am I getting the entertainment? Am I getting the I am Um it just I'm not willing to give up my reading just because I'm looking at road and driving. Yeah, yeah. So if you don't mind, as long as it's not too personal, could you share with us a recent book that you listened to? Uh Yep. I gotta pick one. Well right now I'm listening to Dominion. Oh, by Tom Hollis. When you're done that book, will you tell people that you read it? Yes. I I yes. I read thirteen books last month. Okay. Okay. Uh that was a big month. So I've got also but but yes, but that includes all of everything that I've listened to because I've got several hours on the road you know during the week. Um but another book that I've I just finished listening to the Wayward Times trilogy by Blake Kurt by Blake Crown. Oh my gosh. Right, so I listened to the first one, right, and listen and and this is what happens. If I listen to a book that's really good, I'll buy a dog on book. Okay. You're getting very excited. Yeah. to the very last sentence of the third book. I think and complain about anything. A little gory with the with the Liddy with the Abbeys, I mean Um but but anyway. So uh so I listened to the first one because I do that also when I'm walking. Um, and then I got into the second one and I'm like, I gotta get these books. And they don't come hard back unless someone spent three hundred dollars because they originally came back he he self-published. Anyway So I had I I now I own all three books. Alright. And so I can't give her a third problem. All right. Thank you. That was a we're excited. I thought I saw a hand right over here Yeah. Yeah. I I would not define uh the listening book shitty at all because uh learning uh as multiple you know, silent standard and we are all different and and uh as she just said, her kids is more in listening some individual, so it's how your brain is processed. Yeah, yeah, okay, very good. Yeah. So do we have different kinds of learning styles? I notice that you'll have better a better chance of making this happen, especially with boys. for them to listen. A good thing to remember is that the scriptures were eventually enscripturated, but at first it's an oral culture where people are relaying stories from generation to generation by word of mouth So there's really nothing to be ashamed of in order for us to to listen to books and to inhabit those worlds by way of listening. I think is one of the main points of the book is of reading is to inhabit the worlds Is there any use in in having our children read? Should they become should they just learn to listen or should they also should we cut out all literacy? Yes, Myra? I think they should learn to read because you learn spelling. Okay. Because I can recog I love to read. And I can recognize them as spelled words. Just like that. Uh-huh. Um, and grammar. You learn grammar if you read. And um you can't you can't get the spelling and the grammar just by listening Alright, and you you think being able to spell is important? Do you think being able to spell is important? Probably not as much now, because you've got spell checks, but When I was much younger it was. Uh-huh. Alright, so if we have things that can help us out, it's not as important. Anybody else have anything to say about this on the importance of liter we spent a lot of time teaching our kids to read, so I wonder if you really think it's worth it Uh you just went for a little bit. I'm gonna let Cheryl go. Uh I mean I have some thoughts, but it doesn't really matter like whether I think you can honestly say you read a book if you listened to it. It's fine because I think ultimately the importance of the informed well by stories is what we're after. Okay. And so I think yes, I think So you're making an argument that we archives don't need to know how to read. No, um not at all. But I am saying Let's take I I would just say I think it's an important question. We have some parents that like as soon as those children are born they're shoving the alphabet in front of their face just so they can make it into certain schools. Listen, I have a child who can analyze a story Dad speaking to the child while still in the womb. Yay! Better than I can at times Reads really well, can listen for hours to Tolkien, which I know it's the librarian said, Oh, I just can't read Tolkien, it's too hard. Right The child cannot spell if his life depends on. So we're regardless of how well he reads and how often he reads. His grammar lesson. So I really I I have thought that I want to help this kid. But at the end of the day, it has been good for the Lord to give us to him because listen, you may not know this about me. I can tend towards being really pretentious, and that's really not like and so Chitm should take a moment and consider what is actually important here It is for my children to have access to good literature because of the way it forms us and for the way that we learn through it To to have greater self-awareness. It is helpful for my kids for me to be able to throw out a line and say, hey, you're being a real Edmund here And that's it. They know exactly what we're talking about. Right. For them to consider what character do I play amongst my friends? What character am I in my own household? And sometimes that is painful to answer for yourself. But then we have scripture. And I think so much it is necessary for you to be formed by stories. Okay, so we at least want our children to be able to read so that they can read the Bible. That's a pretty good argument. And then those who will struggle with reading and there are a bunch of us You can have I've noticed that some kids will have do what Natalie called the immersive technique, which is you have the Bible open in front of you while you're listening to the audio version of it. And I'll just mention you can get a little bit of the storytelling aspect if you grab a dramatized audio Bible, by the way. I have um we grew up and our I did not grow up, but my children grew up with the NKJV Dramatized Audio Bible. Now I'm talking about I had CDs. I don't know if you all remember what those things are, but we would pop those in and these would um be different voices for different characters as well as uh give a little bit of the background noise just to draw you in even a little bit more on the story without neglecting a word for word reading of the scriptures. That's what it is. So um okay now I want to move on to another thing here on page 106 there's another point that he makes that I think is important to read to you and see what you think. He says six When we're raising our children as prophet parents, as parents we're prophets in the sense that he means. And he says, it means you we do not compare one child's intellectual ability with that of another in their hearing. I wince every time I hear parents make such comparisons in front of their children. Children do not forget such remarks. Anybody have any comments on that? Ms. Alt, did you have something? I agree. Yeah. Yeah, you feel strongly about that? Very important thing more than to learn children. Okay, yeah, it's very uh m uh Monica says it's very important for us to to kind of embrace embrace how the Lord has made each one of our children Yeah, that's really true. Really true. Alright, any other comments on that one? Uh do you all you know we have some families here that have a l uh a number of children. Do you find that each of the kids are pretty different and you have to tailor you you can't really t it doesn't work to just treat them all the same even in their intellectual growth. Have you found that to be the case and do you have any stories with that or have you seen that in other families? Yes. Hey good morning Lauren. Hi everyone. I found that um specifically with school and grade. I have children that When they get an A, I'm excited. And I have children that want to get C, I'm just as excited. Yes. Because I know that they worked really, really hard for that grade. Yeah. Whereas other kids like I have other children write this time to leave. Yeah, and I bet you that's even true depending on the subject. Yeah. So like in our home we'll have like a A student and a humanities. And then if they get a C in humanity, then we're thinking, well you probably could have done a little bit better, I wonder what happened. But if they got a C in math, then we're going out to We're going to Halback. And we're gonna get the bloom and onion tonight. Yeah. I don't know what it is about my family, but we If the salvation of the world depended on us and mass, we'd all be doomed. So yes, please. So this is a powerful conversation. I I read this verse uh Dana, I was hoping that you could provide some context as it relates to what you're you're mentioning about this hearing. But when the apostle Paul was saying, um He's in a Romans, he said, I'm possible to be Gentiles. And as much as I am the apostle of the Gentiles, I take pride in my ministry in the hope that I may somehow arouse my own people to envy and say something. And when I looked at verse I thought Wow, he is I never thought that it would be okay to wanna arouse envy in something so that they can want something that somebody else has. And um kind of doing this and I know it's the context of salvation, but I feel like as a parent sometimes there's a temptation to want to uh incite your child to want something good for them to almost incite them to to almost incite them to that envy to want something by saying by kind of um praising another child, right? And so I know I'm I'm guilty of that sometimes. Um of you know, highlighting one child in the hope that the others will be incited to want to be inspired to provide some concept around that while not trying to compare and reading sort of present. Yeah. Well I'll just say a couple words. One is if we switch the word envy in our culture is used way differently So if we just switched it to something like uh like a zeal or a passion for a good thing, for example, you're using it just right. You're saying, I want to incite this person. I'm taking a general principle from this passage. I'm moving away from the specific application of salvation and just saying, isn't there a place for us to show a person an example and that would hopefully motivate them to uh keep growing and maturing and to be able to accomplish even greater things in their life. Am I catching you? Okay. Yeah, I think I think that that's true, but have you noticed that it really depends on the child? And like the season There I've noticed that there's some children where if you do here's a couple of examples. If you use let's say that it's a younger boy and then there's an older brother If you use the older brother as the example of like, well you know, if you start to put the time in In this way you could be as good of a an athlete as him. And you're saying that with nothing but goodness in your heart and you want them to become better But the only way they take it is you've always looked at him as better than me. I'm never going to live up to that And what has actually happened in that moment is instead of being encouraged to do anything, they're now discouraged. I've noticed that if you switch the example and you don't choose their older brother, but you choose their grandfather. or their uncle or whatever, they get inspired. So that's interesting to me that it can sometimes depend on the example I've also noticed that it doesn't matter what example you use, there's some kids that don't get discouraged and they just want to dominate. They just want to win, win, win. That's all that I want to do is win. And they don't let weird things get into their head. They don't have negative conversations that happen in their head. They just win. So it's really interesting to see how different you have to tailor each one of those moments uh with our children. And I think a sign of maturity within the children that get discouraged when you try to encourage them, a sign of maturity is where they stop taking your words in the wrong way. You know? And that will really help them, I think, for the rest of life, because they're gonna need to receive uh encouragement, criticism, constructive criticism from their wife, for example, or from their husband And if they always just take that as negative and then go into the pit, it's just not going to work. They're not going to be socially fit to work with a boss or anything. So I think help helping them to To rethink about what's happening in that moment has been really important in my life that I've seen parents have to do, and sometimes that can take a long time. I've seen kids um I've seen kids keep their face to the ground feel and feeling like feeling like trash. And I've seen them, through the work of the Lord, I've seen it break as late as like 35. And it will usually happen in relation I don't know what value this is in me telling you this, but it it sometimes happens in relationship as they finally figure out how to relate to their dad. I don't know why it it's like that, but It's a it's a like an interesting phenomenon. So and then you can see them enter into with confidence. They don't entertain the same negative speech that can go on in the head. and and they're let loose. So I'm not sure if that's helpful or not, but that's there's some just some observations from my side of things. So thanks for the question. Yeah, it's really important. Uh y I guess you could think about that as like a coach too. Anybody here coach anything? Baseball, lacrosse, football, soccer. Anybody here would you would you ever consider yourself a coach? Any time in your life ever? Have you coached anything? Yes, okay, there we go. So it's the same I think it's the same thing. You gotta read your players, you gotta see where they are at that moment. Um and sometimes y you can talk to 'em on the field, sometimes you gotta talk to 'em off of the field. Sometimes you need to visit 'em at their home. There's a lot of different things in order to be able to get a person into the right mindset so that they can perform well. So Um and there's a ton of books on that. Okay. So I just wanted to bring that up in terms of not comparing, and I think that's really important for us And then seventh, I wanted to bring this one up too, and then I'm going to move into a totally different topic. This is on page 107. He says Being prophetic parents, it means we remember that without heart application and humility, knowledge just puffs up. Has anybody seen our children or your children or other children learn something and the only thing they really did with it but is turned it into pride and status to dominate over other people not for their good? Anyone seen that? Yeah, yeah. Jimmy says, hallelujah. Yeah. Yeah, so that happens and I'll just continue reading here for a second. He says, Our children need to learn that they are debtors to God for every ability, every strength, every asset that they possess. And then it goes on, if if a child comes home with straight A's on his report card, what do we say? Do we tell him how great he is Or do we together bow in prayer and give thanks to God for giving him the intelligence to do well in his studies? I think we could have a mix. We could say you worked really hard on this, and we need to give thanks to God. You could have both of those things. The other thing I think that's important to point out here is that I don't know if you have discovered it yet, but you can Be a prophet to the children of this church, to your own children, to grandchildren, as much as you want. But unless God allows your words to be effective, they will not be. Uh a regular prayer in my own head while I'm up here. I'm doing a lot of different things while I'm preaching. I'm preaching, I'm thinking, I'm praying, I'm wondering why this person fell asleep again. What do I need to do better? That kind of thing. And um my my prayers are through the sermon, even after the sermon, oh Lord, how insufficient that was. Would you please do something with the words? Please. If you don't do something with the words, nothing will be done. Nothing will be done Now I coming up in March I'll have been uh pastor here ten years. And that thought rec is pretty recent thought in making that I think it has been in other forms, but it's never been this clear that unless He does something, nothing will be done. And so now it's just a continual, Lord, please do something. with the words. And so we as I think as prophets and as priests, as we're using those categories for thinking about parenting, we really need the Lord to take whether we're putting a classic literature in front of them, whether they're listening to audiobooks, whether they're in a private school, whether they're in homeschooling, whatever it is, it's for nothing unless God does something with it. And so we always if we're going to brag, we always brag in the Lord, because we know who the real cause is So we want to that brings us immediately over into the priestly aspect of parenting, but I'm not going to go there just yet. But it just it does point out how important it is to cover everything with prayer and thanksgiving. I wanted to, before we moved on, I wanted to touch on something that I think is also important, and that's on page 107, where as a part of the prophetic task of parenting is that we would train our children socially I'll just make a general statement. The entire book of Proverbs is about how, under the Lordship of Jesus Christ, to live within society. It is seeking for us under his lordship to not be anti-social. That we would know what it means to be to live in a city called the city of God. and that it would be maintained politically. And I use politically in the sense of a community that lives in harmony. That's all I mean by that. And So we want to train our children socially. Natalie gave us an example earlier where there was the we could see the effects of a child having learnt what it meant to honor your mother The way that that showed up is that the child asked, the mother said no, the child stopped. Okay, and that was a probably a good day. You know. Alright. But there are other things too that we want to think about. Let me just read the first sentence. He says, we send our children out into society to glorify God. That is why they were created. We are tasked to equip them to live in the world as followers of Christ. But if they do not possess basic life skills such as knowing how to dress and groom themselves, how to handle table utensils correctly, how to answer the phone, or how to greet guests and make introductions, their witness will be blunted. And that is a I think that's a measured statement. It'll be blunted. Doesn't mean it's over, but it will be blunted. Now, I'll give you an example. When I was teaching here at the Academy This happened sometimes earlier and sometimes later. But I was teaching the seventh and the eighth grade, D1 and D2, I would teach logic And lo and behold, those students would come back having been sixth graders and now seventh graders, or seventh graders and eighth graders, and they would walk into that classroom and over the summer No one helped them to discover that there is a thing called deodorant. So I would take them aside so that they were not embarrassed and I would say, you know, it's important that we use deodorant It's a part of our like s uh way to exist well with each other. I'm trying you know, logic is difficult enough to understand. And it becomes almost impossible to understand if the only thing we can do is smell you. Now I wouldn't say that But we do want to help our children out with just some basic hygiene. I think it's important for you know for people to know how to comb their hair. Call me old-fashioned. That kind of stuff. And I love that he brought that up. Anybody have any thoughts on that kind of thing? Maybe you think that's outside of the Lordship of Jesus, but it's not. Yes. Really unfair that you said that we haven't prepared our children. We have. It sometimes comes better from a teacher and their hormones are so kicking that like they need to reapply by one. Alright, so Barrett Barduing. Anybody else have anything else with the prophetic task in helping our kids socially? Anything? Yes, Sarah, yes. I mean one thing we're we're uh trying to help I'll show them with is the the greeting. This is very simple, you know, hello, but not just one word of greeting. Hello, follow by questions, hello, how are you? Right. Helping them understand that it's not weird to talk to adults So that's been a theme in our house is really trying to help them communicate and have conversations with other people. Yes. And like if they're the first ones, you know they enter a room and there are other people in the room The onus is not on everyone else to greet you. It's you know, you can you can greet the people who are already in the room. It's stuff like that. I love that. Yeah, that's great. I think that's a good bridge into let's say that uh twenty year young men, we'll say that. And he's gonna be an older man. I think it's a it's a beginning of him entering into manhood himself. Instead of turning the eyes away and offering a limp hand, he can he realizes he can He can be in that man circle too in just this beginning way. It's a gr I think it's a great introduction to it. You know, because becoming a man scary enough. You know, so that's great. I love that. Anybody hell uh have any other examples, Jimmy? Yeah, something similar I learned. Um that my parents did to me and I don't think was helpful. But I also read it. So uh when your children are young, like you say, and uh you're introducing them to someone or you know, I'm talking to you, and Joseph is standing there with them, you say something, and you know, the same thing It would not be helpful for me as his father to say, oh, he's shy. So now you've given him an excuse to never look you in the eye and shake your hands or ask how to do it And I did I was shy up until like high school. So okay. Like not I just can't picture that. Really awkward. But just not yeah, not making excuses for the your taste, I think it's especially when the therapy is another thing is he walked away and went, sorry, I'm working on it You know, we're trying to get them to talk about it so it's not so not be weirdo. Yeah, that's great. Do you uh and if this is too personal, just pass me uh shoe me away. Uh what is it instead of saying, oh he's shy, what have you ever run into that situation and what do you do? You mean with the So Jonas is there and they don't and they don't say anything. Yeah. Um I mean at the moment I would tell them to say something. Uh okay, after our conversation or whatever I will talk to. about it. Okay, so it's just as simple as go ahead and say something. And then we talk about it afterwards. Okay, very good. Yeah that's nice. Yeah. So my dad always emphasized in the greetings. He was like you always He he focused on like a handshake. That was common in my community and he's eighty four, so that gives you an idea of the how long ago. But um you would shake the hand but he made he emphasize when you shake their hand you squeeze it a little bit and you always look 'em in the eye. And he's like you really emphasize both. Like the eye contact matters. So when you're shaking, you're squeezing the hand, you're like, good to meet you or or whatever. And and the funny thing about that is is I work in industry and I work with Men predominantly through a lot of that. And men especially respond to that. They are a woman. They don't expect you to squeeze their hands like That was good. They always respond somehow. It'd be funny to just have that kind of have that but I always remember that and then the other thing people would comment too is but you you look people in the eyes. Well, I worked in management. And uh that was something that I liked in fact it it touches my heart in a good way. Some of them were always like you always you were never afraid to look us in the eye no matter what kind of conversation we had to have. I had to have good ones and bad ones Yes. But I treated them like a human being. And so I think that's a part of whatever greeting or whatever, but that but that comes from my father. It started with how you greet people. You always look someone in the eye when you're talking to them. That's good. And if you'll notice if you notice younger children, I'll just speak to it as of some of the counseling I've done around here If you notice younger children, teenagers not looking people in the eye, it would be great to seek to have a conversation with them over a period of time to find out what's going on. They may have an inner dialogue going on that w where there where it would be really helpful if you could help them untangle it a bit so they felt um more at liberty or less ashamed when meeting other people So it could open up some great conversations when we're raising our children if they're having trouble with that. It can get pretty deep. But um That's great. Now, uh I grew up with the same thing. You look a person in the eye and you shake the hand, right? Have you seen the new power shake No no no there's a power shake. It's a it's a new power shake. It's been it was invented by Donald Trump. Have you ever seen him shake a person's hand? He grabs the hand and he pulls the person into him. So So you're already you already hit level one with the firm handshake. I want to see you from today in the Narthex pull pull women and men in. Yeah. I I hate it. And it and I was young, and even twenties, and I Then too, and he had he had the softest hand I ever shook and it grossed me out. I was with you. Yeah, yeah. So when I shook this hand I did my best to keep a straight face. So after that I was like, all right, I gotta tame it down. That's pretty good. Now if you I'm I'm not commenting on Donald Trump, I'm just saying notice him And then notice other strong men, like Joe Rogan, for example. Trump will try to pull him in and Rogan will pull him back and it'll be this little thing that's happened Mark Yeah there was one of the um and it goes along with what we're talking about with regard to um social skills. The relationships that we have, instead of it being peer-to-peer of our same age group, the benefits that we have when we develop relationships with younger and older is uh highly beneficial and especially within children if they can develop relationships with um older folks not within their family yeah the ability For them to be able to benefit from not only the social elements of it, but also the wisdom that goes from those who have better bread So, um I I really is pressure in that area. Um and I've I've I've witnessed that um with some of my children um when I went out of my way to encourage them and or maybe develop opportunities for them to have that. Like say for instance they were to go Um like one of my one of my children, we set up and arranged an opportunity for them to um have like if they have similar uh talents, similar skill sets. Yeah. Yeah. It's amazing to see how that can blossom into something more than what you really plan for. Yeah. When you align a younger say a teenager with an elderly and they have common interests If we're if we're intentional about things like that, I think that there can be huge benefits. Yeah, my I'll speak for myself, my t I've watched my children benefit greatly from having relationships with many different people in the congregation. all of 'em m you know, it could be their own age but a lot of them were older. And it was it w they're milestone moments really. And I know you have the same experiences. So it's the God has made us a family for a reason And we really should seek to benefit from that. I'll just mention with the last couple minutes that I have that there is the section on us being not only prophets but priests You've already read it, so I don't feel the need to lecture on the whole thing, but I'll just point out to you that we want to be in continual prayer for our children. And I think I've made an argument for that already, just showing that you really are dependent on God for anything to happen. So we want to appeal to him in prayer. And then and um again I wanted to I wanted to s put it like this. If you're not praying for your children W the your experience might be, well, I hear these other people praying for their children, and they're and I know that they get up at 4 30 and 5 a. m. And husband and wife hold hand kneeling bedside and they pray for an hour and a half covering all of the needs of their children. And then you think, how could I ever get how could I ever do that? Well that's a false comparison. What you want to do is wherever you are, let's just start there. If you sit up in bed and you turn your feet over to the side as you're putting your little background music for my talk. And you before you step out of your bed, if you just bow your head and pray for your children. Or if you're while you're chopping up onions or something like that in the kitchen and you're married, you can say, hey, why don't we pray for the kids That's a start, right? We could we could I would just encourage you to take baby steps. Like g gets gets sorry, Jimmy, that was a What about Bob? Yeah. Um but it it's a like a real thing. So incrementally is what I'm pointing out is just start where you can. Um is anyone here familiar with a teacher named Jordan Peterson? Yeah, he w okay, well I don't agree with everything that he says, but he has helped people who feel stuck So what h what he was trying to do was people felt purposeless in their lives and they didn't feel like they could get started with anything in their life. So what they would do what he would do is he would encourage them, well, could we just begin with you making your bed And people would start making their beds. And then he said, well now that you've made your bed, what if we were to clean up the dirty laundry and put it in the hamper? They would clean up the dirty laundry and put it in the hamper. Well what if we were to clean our room? Just clean the whole room now that you've done these two things, look at what you're capable of And they would clean their whole room. And he has a whole chapter in his book where in order to change the world and save the world, we start by cleaning our rooms That's and that's his idea there is he's dealing with people that have all these blocks. And I know that's people like us. We can get these blocks where we feel like we can't even get started. So start with something small. You know the small thing that you could do is maybe just talk to somebody else About how they're doing it. Ask for prayer. That could be a good start. I just encourage you to start in whatever small way that you can. You don't have to be a champion. There are no champions right away. Champions work really hard to become champions It always starts with that first step. So we keep that in mind in terms of praying for our children, our grandchildren, and the children of this church. Also, please keep in mind family worship. With life, uh, and I'll admit to you, with life, we really slapped on our family worship for some time. And by God's grace we've been able to pick that back up. Now we had multiple engagements last week where where people were not around the dinner table, so I think we were able to do family worship one time. And we did that for 15 minutes So I read a scripture, we discussed, sang a song, and that was it. Um it was a start though. It felt great. It was a start. Felt really good. Um and then the the last thing I'll uh just mention to you that he mentions that I think is also really important. Does anybody remember in Hebrews where it mentions that Jesus Christ as a priest Has sympathy for us. He brings that out in the chapter also, that we want to have sympathy for our children. He says specifically that I don't remember exactly where I had it but uh now I'm not finding it. Uh does anybody remember exactly where that is? This will be the last thing I say. Oh, sympathizing with our children. As parent priests, our calling is not only to pray for our children, we are to care for them with hearts of compassion. As those who have true sympathy or fellow feeling for their infirmities and general neediness as human beings, as children, and as fallen offspring of Adam who are vulnerable to temptation and prone to sin. And I wanted to bring that one up just because it can be so difficult after you've already put in a really long day to then have fellow feeling. You could really treat them as objects that just need to stay out of your way so that you could finally have some relaxation or rest. Uh so I'd encourage you to be praying and thinking about that too in terms of the fellow feeling and raising them up in nurture. And Where they don't feel like you're they're just um uh children pick up on everything. And they especially pick up if they feel like they're nothing but an annoyance to you and just in the way. A lot of pain there, I know. So let's heed his words, even with uh just little steps at the beginning. Okay, that's all I have for this morning. So make sure you're looking at your syllabus as we continue on for it'll be week number six. Week number six. Okay, let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you that you give us this wisdom and you have helped us to have experiences where we can share with one another what this is really like. Lord, it can feel so overwhelming if we just have a list of ideals in front of us. We understand that they're meant to show us a rule, and that rule is very important in our lives. But Lord, we it is also helpful to see how that rule is accomplished over time by your grace with much patience. And Lord, we are grateful for your patience. Please lead us now in worship. In Christ's name. Amen.