Mother, I thank you that you have you know what we need. You know that we are as frail as dust. And so you give us time set aside for us to rest and also to worship you both publicly and privately all the day. and to engage in neighborliness and acts of mercy and necessity. I thank you that you have thought of us this way. And I pray that you would bless the time that you've given to us here in Sunday school and in worship and in evening worship and our rest this afternoon between services. Pray that you would make that a time that reaches the ends that you've designated for it. In the name of Christ. Amen. Okay, so we have a little bit of catching up to do within the book, but I am going to try to do that here this morning. I just have a few questions from you for each of the chapters. We are in the sixth, we are in week number six. So this week it is uh chapters thirteen through sixteen. If some of you are finding it difficult to read the chapters because you're more of an audio an audiobook kind of a person Then like you'd like to listen to audiobook while you're working out or whatever. Then um I did find an audiobook on the Ligonier Ministries website for $13. And you'll download it as a zip file and then it'll have all of the chapters separately for you to be able to listen to. How that will work with your phone and all that I don't know But that is an option for you for the for your readings. And uh like I mentioned today we'll do 13 through 16. Now what I'm going to try to do because Joel Beakey has really taken care of writing out the arguments for you. clarifying the definitions of things for you. We can do a little bit of that in the class, but I'm looking more for us to be able to connect to what he said by way of our experiences to share those experiences with each other in order to be able to get closer and closer to this making a difference within the life of our community. That's really my end goal. Nick, can you turn us down just a little bit? I'm already loud-mouthed enough. And so that's what we did last week when we were taking a look uh specifically at the first part of this threefold division that he's given to us where we are we are um prophetic parents, we are priestly parents, and we are kingly parents. Now that extends out into a broader domain than just the immediate father and the mother There are applications for that for grandmothers and grandfathers and uncles and aunts and brothers and sisters I think that the next step of the application is pretty easy to see there on the kinds of responsibilities that we have uh especially towards the covenant children. So this week we'll continue And I want to be ke I want to actually continue. I know that our chapters are 13 through 16, but I did want to um jump back real quick and cover chapter 11 a little bit because we didn't get a chance to talk much about our role as priests. And there's one part of our role as priests that I wanted to point out specifically. So I'm on page 123. of the book. And I just want to read a couple um paragraphs for you and then see if you have any experiences that either confound this idea to where you end up disagreeing or affirm and um confirm the ideas. And that main idea is that a priest sympathizes with their children. Just right off of the bat, right off the well, I don't know what that phrase is from, but right in the beginning. Does anybody know the scripture on why would Joel Beeky focus on the word sympathy? Does anybody know why he would Choose that. Hebrews 4. Yeah, in Hebrews chapter 4. So let's just take a look at that really quickly. You'll actually see that he quotes it in the paragraph on the next page 124. He says Hebrews 4. 15. So if someone could read that out loud for us. There's a connection between sympathy and priesthood. Anyone would like to read that one? Hebrews four fifteen, nice and loud. Thank you, Austin. We do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without tempathi. Okay. So this is where this is where he's grounding out this conversation is he's saying, okay, well if we're meant to be priests, there's really if we're meant to be prophets There's really one main prophet that we should be imitating by the power of his spirit. Well the and if there's and if and if we're meant to be priests, well there's really just one main priest that we're meant to be imitating by the power of his spirit And that would be Jesus Christ. So then when we look at Jesus who is the Christ, what are some of the attributes of his priesthood? Well, he that would be relevant for our discussion. And Joel Vicky points out over and over again sympathy, sympathy for our frailty. And he'll he'll cover that in in several chapters here In the chapter on discipline and all of that, there's a sympathy that remains. So let me just read a couple paragraphs and then we'll look at a couple scriptures. As parent priests, our calling is not only to pray for our children We are to care for them with hearts of compassion as those who have true sympathy or fellow feeling for their infirmities and general neediness as human beings. as children and as fallen offspring of Adam, who are vulnerable to temptation and prone to sin. Continues on the next page in 124, the second paragraph in. He says, we are to sympathize with our children. In the way of Christ, our great high pre um I'm sorry, with our we are to sympathize with our children in the way Christ, our great high priest, and the same thing. Wow, there's no compassion average showing that we want to share. Man. Alright, Ryan. Thanks for helping us out. Sure. Well, so I was trying to find a better example. Um, but the thing that came off the top of my head where I've been the recipient and The giver is where I'm in a position where someone's in authority over me and I have to come to them in confession of sin of some kind. And coming back. And the oh yeah right. And over time. And the no sympathy really she didn't want to return. That's a good that's a good lesson. Anybody notice let me just ask another follow-up question a little bit. What do you think it was about Jesus to where tax collectors liked Just I mean just think of some different Bible stories. Why do they like to be with him? They're sin. Oh he didn't um whitewash it either. Whitewash there's the guy who's very creature, not all eternity. Yeah. Um you know I think that might be what happens part of what happens to people who are held to say um the She didn't beat people over the head? Just wondering. You don't have to. Uh huh. Okay, yes. But he didn't. He he he he showed her compassion and go and said no more. Yeah and um okay, that's a good example. Yeah. It's interesting when we say taxes to Jesus. That's a really powerful question. Yes, Carol. Yeah, I think Jesus he noticed the um the unwashed, unclean. Marginalized, rejected, minimal, you know, those who are marginalized from society, the brokenhearted, all of that. And he He moved toward them with compassion and he healed the brokenhearted, he you know, made the blind to see. All of that. And so there's this this place of comfort in seeing how he moves towards people who others have rejected. Yeah. And uh have harmed. Yeah, and then that time uh the really devastating part is that it would be the chief priests, the elders and the scribes who Jesus had to confront over and over again for Uh ignoring all of those people. Yes. Yes, you. Yes, ma'am. He loved people, he loved them in spite of their sin and they just they knew that. Uh-huh. Yeah, thank you. Yeah, thank you. Very good. Um maybe a good example of that would be something that Joel Beakey brings up in the next chapter or next couple pages is how Jesus dealt with Peter Yeah, that's a good example. So building on that, you see that Jesus saw people made in the image of God and let their sin define them. I know I can't pretend to if a person is a certain way I can just affect them and exclude them. Yeah. But the way of uh they're made in the image of God they do a lot more than just their sins. And he was after what God the Father was after was people who worship him in spirit and truth and he knew that um some of the greatest sinners are also the greatest people. Yeah. Yeah, and there's one woman who washes Jesus' feet with her tears and hair. I believe it's her tears at that time. And he points out to those who aren't focused on that that so they don't pay attention to what she's doing. I always find it really interesting to just notice what other people notice or what do people pay attention to. I think it says a lot about people. And when they go into the room, they don't notice what she's doing They just notice that why are you allowing these people to touch you? And why are you entertaining them with hospitality? Why aren't you keeping some kind of a distance or a buffer between you and them? And then he draws what they're focused on, he draws their attention to her and then surprises everybody and uses her as an example of righteousness wherein she and wherein she is the one who because she has been forgiven much loves much. And then and in that the logic is, without him going all the way and saying it so that he's not crucified right there, is You you don't know the love of God, and you have not received the forgiveness of God. And that's why you show no love. You don't know what that's like. You and I think it's a I think it's a pointing out of their self righteousness. Lot going on in that scene, huh? Yeah, so that's a that's a great example that you've given on where we see that sympathy. Christina. Just as we're talking, if never real connected keepers before to these stories. When I think about those stories, I think about Jesus as perfect son of man and God, which he always is. But and there being a great divide in experience between him and all of the masses But Hebrews 4 does seem to say that part of what he was experiencing even as he interacted with these people Is that sympathy because he is a a human being also and he knows what it is to be tempted Even with the prostitute, even with the tax collector, even with the annoying people who are following him everywhere demanding for him to feed them more. You know um he Hebrews four says he faced all of those temptations. Yeah. As well. So I've never put that lens on how Christ is thinking as he's interacted with them until this moment. So that's kind of cool and interesting. Yeah. Yeah, and he knows what it means to be in pain and I think to experience a kind of loneliness. Ridicule and rejection. You know, all of his followers left him at the when he needed him most. All his closest disciples. And um and yet one of the things we see him doing even through that is he's still seeking to have sympathy on them. He's while he's on the cross, he looks down. And he says, Behold your mother. He's still thinking about them and about the struggles they're gonna have. That's amazing. Jesus is amazing. Uh any other I'll do one more example of Jesus showing sympathy so that we can see how it's really supposed to be done. Yes, please. I was just it was occurred to me that um thinking about people that he as a Jewish man at the time would have on the as a normal Jewish person would have hated tax collectors. The Samaritan woman as well. equals that that he would have been expected to hate just as much as the other Jews at Italian. And yet while he did not condone the sins, like someone else said earlier He did not condone their sin in what they were doing. Like with the Samaritan woman, he pointed out to her, showed her, you know, what her sins meant. He he showed a compassion instead of showing the hate and the persecution and you know looking down on them, he welcomed them Yeah. Yeah, very good. Thank you for that ex those examples. Okay. So let me just finish this paragraph then. Those are some examples and maybe one of the lessons we can take there is how important it is for us to meditate upon the life of Jesus. when we're when we want to discover what it means to be a prophet, a priest, or a king. Right after those quotations, excuse me. Right after those quotations at the second half of that paragraph on 124 He continues with an important remark. He says, Yet at no time does Christ lower his standards of conduct for us, or cease calling us to repentance. and commanding us to persevere in faith and obedience. As priests in the home, we should do the same, ministering to our children and their weakness, but keeping before them the precepts of God's Word. and the demands of his covenant of grace with us. I have uh an example of that I've shared with you before where we had friends. Um Some of you know the Lapiccolos, Brian and Becky Lapiccolo. And um when Holly and I, when we were dating, they really took us under their wing and discipled us. They were a w one of uh several couples that had taken us into discipleship. And um So we would we would uh be over their home all the time. And I thought it there was one experience I had that was I'll always remember, and that the youngest, Sarah Lapiccolo, or the oldest, Sarah Lapiccolo Who I cannot believe has just she's just now married. That was wow, it's like watching all these ones you've seen as babies walking down the aisle is a crazy experience. But uh she was young, maybe she was four. I'm not sure exactly, I'm not great with even my own age. Uh I've s stated my the wrong my wrong age from the pulpit. Um she was help so her mom had taken a load of laundry out of the dryer and put it in the hamper and then brought it into a place where she could be watching I think maybe one of the other children while sitting on an ottoman and folding the laundry, and then she always encouraged the children to help out with the household tasks so that everybody felt a sense of responsibility. So then Sarah would help out and she would grab a piece of clothing out of the hamper and then she would seek to imitate her mother by folding it, but when she was done when Sarah was done folding the piece of clothing, it looked the same as it did when it was in the hamper Uh but Becky didn't never chided her for that. She didn't say, What are you stupid? Don't you know how to fold these like they fold them at Macy's? Or whatever it is, she was very pleased that her daughter was helping out. And I think the reason why she was at that time was because of the sympathy and understanding she had of what Sarah was capable of at the time. And what c Sarah was capable of was taking the thing out of the hamper and mimicking her in some way And then we're gonna leave it at that for now. Now Sarah just got married. So if she continues to fold things that way, Becky will probably say something to her So it you know there are these uh the depending on the circumstances and the times and the seasons, there's different ways in which we respond. But that's always that was always a good example for me in what just the embodiment of what sympathy for children would look like. I wanted to read another paragraph to you from this section on 125. He says in the second paragraph Even when we are disappointed and frustrated with our children because of our infirmities and theirs, we are called to show them agape love. Loving them with the love of Christ. One thing I do when I'm disappointed with one of my children is recall what I was like at that child's age. That helps me understand and sympathize more with him or her. Most of the time we see our own image reflected in our children, especially when we see them at their worst. That's why Thomas Watson advised, a father is a looking glass, a mirror, which the child often dresses himself by. Let the glass be clear and not spotted. And I think that can go a couple different ways in terms of like the confidence of our children. H how they see us see them greatly affects their confidence. So There needs to be a love that they always see in us. At least that should be our prayer. I know that that's extremely difficult. Um so that was uh just another remark. Now that's all I really wanted to say about the the section on the priestly part. I think the obvious point that he made in the book that you read is that we should be praying for our children. It's not unimportant. We just have already read it. So is there are there any is there one final remark before I move on to King and more? Okay, so we've seen the prophet, we've seen the priest, and we are now moving into the king. One last thing I'll say about the priest is the greatest sympathy I received growing up, which was the most helpful to me, was from my grandparents. So please do not forget the ministry of grandparents And I would say also my aunts and uncles, very, very supportive and helpful. I've shared with you before how my grandmother would take me to Baskin and Robbins and that just made the world to me. Meant the world to me and made a really big difference She also, you know, smacked my butt with a ruler. But she also took me a basket of rods. And so that was helpful. I miss her very much. Okay, I wanted to look at one thirty-five with Kings, and I just wanted to go through what may be some of these may be um unclear or controversial for you I'll just read the introductory paragraph and then I'd just like to look at each one of the points that he makes and see if you have any experiences or concerns you'd like to express. And we'll spend maybe a minute on each one of those We are we are this is 135. We are to be kingly rulers in our homes who exercise loving rule. Being a king in the home means ruling our children in love. This combination of rule and love is taught by the Bible and is critical for proper child rearing. If we love without ruling, we will spoil our children. If we rule without loving, we will provoke our children to anger. So the principle in exercising the kingly office of Christ in the home is that we rule in love. Love for God and His Word, love for our children and the desire to secure the kind of order in the home that affords them a safe, wholesome, and nurturing environment in which to grow up and come to years of discretion. I thought that that was well put. And now I want to just look at each of the numbers. Number one, uh he says the Bible gives us a clear mandate, a clear goal, and a clear set of means for such discipline Loving rule involves discipline. So then the first one he says, a clear biblical mandate to discipline. The Bible verses clearly teach that parents are to discipline their children. Proverbs 13, 24. He that spares his rod hates his son, but he that loves him chastens him betimes. Proverbs 19, 18, chasten your son while there is hope, and let not your soul spare for his crying. Proverbs 22, 15, foolishness is bound in the heart of a child, but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him. So could what I wanted to do is Ask you, do you have any good experiences of parents disciplining their children with the rod? And the question that I want to ask before that is, what is the rod? We see it repeated here in these verses. It really does it's really there. If you were to look in your Bibles, it's really there. The rod's there. Well, let me just ask you, what is the rod? Yes, Brian. My grandmother's ruler is a good example. It was a yardstick, yes. Yep. Alright. My grandmother's ruler is an example of a rod. Awesome. Two blinds together. Two what? Two blinds. Two blinds. Yeah, like two little Oh two little so it's like a switch. Or it's like a it's like a homemade ruler. Without the measurements. Okay. Alright. Anybody else have anything else in mind in terms of a rod? Yes. Great question. Like clear consequences that show the pain of sin and are meant for correct. Yep. To take like action that is meant for actually moving the person from one place one path to another. Okay. Christina, I'm going to put it in a little bit of different words just to use that as an opportunity to launch and to see what everybody thinks. Christina is asking, perhaps it is not less than a yardstick. But could it also be much more than any kind of physical spanking or punishment? Do you see any scriptural warrant for that as meaning as a meaning of rod? Any thoughts on this Um well I think about um twenty three. I ran like a So the rod of comfort? Uh huh. It's referred to also I guess it's the rod and fast equal something that guides. Yeah. Okay, so l so we can if we were to draw a circle and start to include all the different examples of the word rod, we definitely have rods that are like the traditional understanding of what my grandmother had with me as well as how she grew up. Usually I think in her childhood they basically would take something off of a like a switch off of a specific kind of tree and that would be the spanking or there was a paddle or whatever But then you could also include in there that in Psalm 23 there is a a rod. Your rod comforts me, and you mentioned one example in which a rod could comfort is that the shepherd's rod provides guidance and boundaries for the sheep to remain safe. Okay, that's a bit that's a bit more of a positive vision of the idea of a rod Okay, interesting. Any other examples of Rod? Yes. support that Raj and every major of discipline and why I would say seven these these verses my son do not regard lightly the discipline of the both the only way we include it by For the world, this is only the one he does. He test targets every summer he sees. And then in the following verses he uses our earthly father's test argument, physical test argument as an example. Okay. So just to repeat what you had just said so they can hear online, and uh those who may not have heard you is that was from Hebrews twelve, correct Alright, so we now have an illustration from Hebrews 12. And the assertion at this point is that any act of fatherly discipline or guidance is an act of the rod. by way of an argument from Hebrews 12. So that there I think the argument then would be there's all kinds of means that God uses as a kind of rod in order to discipline his children because he loves them Okay. I'll let this be the last one. Also the the idea of a ride um would differ depending on on the maturity of the person. So um uh in just going back to God disciplining us, uh I think when someone is a baby Christian Um his discipline might be a little bit more um gentle. Right. Um with a new believer than it is with somebody who should really know better. Yeah. Um which kind of is the maybe the reverse a little bit with with Right. Or a toddler. You mean you have to start to start doing that, but sometimes It has to be something more physical because that's what they get. Um but as they get older you reason with them Um and maybe very true. Um but you can you can ask for a while not to use a physical rod with an older child. Yeah. Um So yeah, um so it's just big my point being is that they it doesn't provide changes to the maturity of the individual and the person Yeah, that's a great point. Um so if you would like uh uh you could grab a concordance from the church library or there's so many different things online now, I guess we won't really need to do that But you can look up the word rod and you could see all of the places in the scripture where it's mentioned. You're going to find what you've heard here today. But you're also going to find that uh leaders were called rods. For example, a governor of a state, a a senator, in our case, these are public republic terms. Um if you're in the nation of Israel, you could also have governors, I suppose, and others who are going elders, they're all going to be talked about as rods. So you'll find that one of the ways in which God brings judgment to a community is he removes what the scriptures call the strong rods. So what it will mean is there are rods that keep everybody moving on the right path, and when God removes them, the society spirals and devolves into chaos. Right. So there's foolishness built into the heart of a nation, you could say. And there are rods given by God in order to keep that foolishness going to the the worst places possible. So the removal of the rods is an act of judgment. Jonathan Edwards has a a famous few sermons on the removal of rods. He gave a sermon at a funeral when one of the the political leaders of that time had died uh prematurely. And so so that uh those are good things to keep in mind that that Christina really is onto something by saying maybe it's not less than the kind of spanking we've grown up with. We should be in control and for love. But it could it is so much more when we look at the scriptures. And that's captured well in Hebrews 12, where it's all of the different means used. I think don't we have experience of this where Uh in my experience, some of my children, the whole the whole idea of there being a physical consequence meaning involving my hand or a ruler or something, it was unnecessary. uh I would just look at some of my children and that was enough. Or I'd say no and that was enough. There were some of my other children I could have said no five hundred times and it didn't make any difference. And guess which one that was? The boy. The boy. So eh yeah. So um so there's that. Okay. So I think we have a pretty good sense there, and uh that's a that was a good discussion. The second one that he points out, and we don't need to dwell long on this, is that a cl uh that that There should be a clear biblical goal in the discipline. Our goal as parent kings is to teach our children to obey God, our Heavenly Father. God gives us children to raise for Him. We are not to rear them according to what we think, but according to what God thinks and what He teaches in the Bible. And there's freedom and liberty and happiness in the way of God. And that is why those who have their senses about them, they delight in the law of the Lord. Now, of course, that delight has to come by way of the Holy Spirit. I understand that. But we're really we're not uh coercing our children into a terrible path. We're h hoping for them to our hope is for them and our goals is for them to have life and life abundantly, though they don't exactly view it at that time because usually their goals are very short-sighted. For example, they want to eat all of the candy that is present. And we're saying, but every time you do that you throw up. So then could we just have one of the pieces? And could we could we not try And then you find the candy hidden under that. So I didn't want to dwell on that long because we were supposed to talk about King last week. Are there any final questions on chapter twelve with the and really prophet, priest, or king? Any I'll take one final remark before I move into chapter thirteen. Yes, uh Natalie, you're are you high five and Esther or raising your hand? Okay, I am this. Yep. Very good. All right. I I I'll allow it. I really like the Prophet, Priest King. Yeah. Okay. You lay the foundation of profit and future and priests also. Your kids only see you as a king without that token that profit resource will probably All right, so Brian pointed out that he is appreciative that um he gave us the framework of Prophet, Priest, and King. But he was he Brian is saying that it's really important to make sure we don't just focus on the king part and forget the prophet and the priest. That we need to be really careful about that. And maybe to be even more fair it would be to be a poor king Right. Um but I see what you're saying there. Did you have any um any experiences or anything that brought that to your mind, by the way? Yeah, I would say um I remember disciplining one of my children when I was a relatively young parent. And it dawned on me that as we were going through the discipline discipline if you don't have any of like prayer or even scripture. Uh huh. I was like well it was nice, but I was like I felt like I was convicted I was neglecting my prophet duty So I was like, wow, this is probably the first time this week that I've actually opened a world with this child. We're only getting it in the context of the Okay. But like just talking about the Bible praying with them when they get in trouble is really not fulfilling my full do it to come. Thanks, Brad. Thank you. So Brian would say that uh early when Brian was younger and he was spanking Zach's Heine And I'm just kidding. He's here is when I thought I'd poke fun at him. that uh after the spanking they would read scripture and pray together and then Brian realized that's the only time they had read scripture and prayed together that week And he didn't want the reading of Scripture and the prayer to only be associated with that kind of last resort, and um was greatly convicted by that And I think that brings out an example of the of what Brian means by let's not forget about the prophetic and the priestly throughout the rest of the week And not just the kingly iron scepter, so to speak. And that does bring us into a good transition into the next chapter, which has to do with that category a little bit too. I really just wanted to look at 150 and 151. There's a list there that captures the guidelines for preventative discipline and I'd like to see very briefly what you think about it Um he mentions here on discipline. These five rules of discipline can help us bring up our children in the Lord, but every one of them of the Lord our children to flourish under our care. Man, is that true? Okay, one. First, husbands and wives should discuss and agree over matters of discipline and love so that they can act as one in giving direction to their children and enforcing it. Any specific thoughts or experiences with that? Any uh peop people have is that contentious for anyone here? Yes, Ryan? of our children uh to date with they do this, but this is like sort of the comically obvious version of it when they're younger where like they go to school and they don't have a answer they don't like, right? Yeah. Um which we've all experienced. But uh there are a lot of examples where I think Christina and I were not united in our desire to bring the children up together um then they would have quickly you know You know, they find these cracks and crevices and they get in there and and will try to wreak havoc for their own selfish and and then it ends up, you know, in their own destruction is the the ultimate path they're on but um I think a lot a lot of the times it's uh it's ended up working out for us because we're Yeah. Um understanding I think you're sharing that It's been important in your relationship with Christina to make sure that you both are in agreement as what's going on within the discipline of the home because the children like to divide and conquer. Right. Is that fair? Yep. Yeah. I'll do I'll do um I'm gonna do okay. Well okay. I'll let Marcy go first. Go ahead Marcy. And in any at any time that I would try to undermine him for whatever reason, whether I thought he was being too uh strict or not strict enough, in the presence of the child, any time I would do that it turned out terrible. Number one, our relationship it showed my disrespect for him and it showed the child that. And it really convicted me to trust To ha him and have a household and if I disagree to do it in private and try to to get online page. Okay, very good. And um Natalie, I'm gonna keep going because I have a lot to accomplish. So thank you for understanding. Let me just point out too very quickly while we're here, what you're hearing in the book. Look, this book is to the general population. See the cover? That's a general population cover. There are a bunch of special cases where you would need to really keep turning this over as to whether the husband and the wife are can work together on this. There are some husbands and some wives in situations where that's not exactly going to work. So um we're dealing with normal cases. If you end up knowing someone who has a difficult case then that requires further conversation, is not really addressed by this book. And I'd be happy to talk to you if you ever need to to talk about that. Human beings, human society, human families deal with very difficult things. That and this isn't enough wisdom for that. I just thought I would mention that. So then number two, second, we must conquer our children's will early. We must not make excuses, tell ourselves it is too soon to begin, or wait until we have a much bigger problem to address And there is a little letter that he includes in the book that you could go back and you can read. It's by a woman and talk and s it's by a woman's uh a mother speaking about the importance of conquering her child's will. I think what they're Huh. She's gonna be the cutest thing in the world, man, with that bow. So sorry, she distracted me with her bow. Yeah. Um the what was I saying? Okay. So then the the the thing that I'll I will have I'll attest to what he's saying here. Uh saying a uh conquer conquer their will or something could sound really harsh, but I think what he's just getting at is If you're not the one that's ruling your home, it creates a vacuum and one of the children sometimes steps up and they will rule the home. And if the home is subjected to their will, it's not a good situation. And let me just assure you that a two-year-old is fine with running the house They they have the will to do it. They really do. They'll put everybody in service to themselves, for sure. So we want to keep that in mind. Um and so That is a very important part of the education is for them to see who's in charge and how the hierarchy works in the home Number three, we must make the rules clear and identify the punishments for violating them within my home. I wonder about yours. There were definite things that were sins, but there were some sins that required a greater punishment than others. And that usually had to do with the kind of person you become if you continue to engage in those sort of habits. Lying was a really big deal in our home. We don't want deception. We don't want lying. Those are two main things. Perhaps you have some other examples. I'm flying through this because I have a couple other things I want to cover. Number four, these are all preventative. Fourth, we must take a loving interest in what our children do outside the home. We are responsible for them and what they do wherever they are. It is good to learn to ask open-ended questions in a friendly way. Doing so fosters a climate of love and openness in our homes. And number The the last part or number four? I couldn't find you. Number four? The open-ended questions. The do open-ended questions or the doing so fosters a climate of love and openness in our home. Does anybody have an answer to that? I have an answer in my mind, but yes. Yes or no question like how you know this food today or whatever you say what was the most interesting thing you is they have this kind of Okay, yeah, so it'll be asking questions to where they're going to share what has happened with them outside the home and not just give you yes, no, yes, no. Which happens more and more they get older. As you know. And then number five, fifth, we must enforce and enrich every act of discipline with large doses of love. And um I just wanted to make sure you knew those preventative parts there. And There you have it. I will say, even though it sounds perhaps the harshest to you, the uh uh second we must conquer our children's wills early, I have found to be the most important. when I'm working with families. Like when new families come from outside of the church, into the church, and Christ is seeking to disciple them, one of the first things we're going to do is we're going to get the hierarchy correct to where the children aren't ruling the home. That can happen with teenagers too. Teenagers have a really great way of me of having greater convictions than you do, and they're willing to suffer for it. Uh they'll fight you all the way to the end. And uh sometimes they have to be removed because if they remain, they refuse to they will always rule and they will not give up, so they have to be removed. Other times it just takes a while for them to fall in line so that the household can be in total order. The alternative is for them to rule, and the way that they rule leads everyone to disaster Right, so uh there are examples of that and that's one of the first things we have to get under control. Now what are the ways that the will uh continues to rebel and win. Well, you could be 17 years old or you could be two years old. The temper tantrum tends to win, especially if it's in a public area. They uh the kids know exactly when you're gonna give them what you're gonna give them. If it's in the aisle of the grocery store, they've got a lot of leverage over you. If there's a long line Uh waiting to get to the register and there's nothing you can do but be there with everyone looking at you who doesn't have any children. That's a great place for them to have leverage over you. They will pull leverage over you in order to dominate the home and rule when your parents or uh or family are in town. They will manipulate that situation Um I've got some stories for you. And uh they I've also seen teenagers resort to physical force Um hitting their fathers, holding their fathers down, physically intimidating their mothers with their bodies and getting in their face and backing them up against the wall. These are all ways for them to rule. You see what I'm saying? And they choose di and they choose different things. Uh yeah. So we w so I'm just trying to give you some different examples of where that will part, we really do want to work on that, and that's going to require prayer, a community. And the worst cases it will take many families working with that family to try to help that out. I've had teenagers come and live at my home as an effort to try to work those kinds of things out. And uh but that please remember number two so you can see what you're dealing with with the temper tantrum in the kitchen Okay. Next point I wanted to bring, we only have a couple more minutes, so I'm just going to choose one more, even though I had a few, is um I wondered if you were surprised on the section on page 171 on the authority of the family, which talked about the submission of the wife. I wonder if some of you were surprised by what Joel Beakey pointed out that is in the literature of the Puritans. So what I want to do is I want to read the bottom of page 171 over into the next paragraph so that you can then interact with his thoughts. Now, those of you um does anybody know why Joel Beake should be trusted as to what the Puritans think? He studied them. He's the president of Puritan Theological Reformed Theological Seminary. He is got he has authored I don't know. Probably over a hundred books on the Puritans. And the reason why he's bringing this up is that if you're to if you wanted to touch base with where we get a lot of things within our community, it's going to be the theology of the Puritans. That's the Reformed faith is very much reliant on them. Reformed Heritage Books, Banner of Truth. press. You're going to find it at um the PR publishing. Westminster Theological Seminary is going to have a lot of lessons from them. Um you're going to find uh C C E F counseling material, you'll find them quoting Puritans. Um There's there's a lot of influence. So that's why he's bringing that to bear here, is that we often get our understanding of the scriptures by way of them. So then he says, the Puritans believed A husband and wife had equal authority in the eyes of their children, though a wife was expected to practice biblical submission to her husband. They had an orderly protocol for making decisions. You can find this on books in my office, by the way. If a husband and wife disagreed on a matter, They would talk over the issue until they came to a mutually acceptable solution. In the rare case, when agreement could not be reached, it was the wife's duty to submit to her husband's authority in the matter. Of course, at times a Puritan husband might defer to his wife's opinion, especially if he was persuaded by her reasoning or if she f or if she felt more strongly about a particular matter than he did. As long as her solution was biblical, a husband could, with good conscience, lead according to her desires rather than his own In other words, the fact that the Puritans advocated strong male leadership did not mean a Puritan husband could simply have it his way. A wise husband out of respect for his wife's intelligence, good sense, and practical experience, frequently deferred to her. Husbands and wives work together as a team, as they should today. William Gouge, I o I never know how to pronounce these names. Author of the best-selling book of domestical duties, which I have the copies in my office, said that the wife is her husband's co-worker, counselor, and comforter. He said, though the man be as the head, yet is the woman as the heart. A century earlier, this kind of thinking would have been intolerable But the Puritans took the Bible seriously enough to live according to its principles rather than the traditions of society The Puritans believe that a wise husband recognizes situations in which his wife's skills exceed his own and trusts her management in those areas. He is not threatened by her talents. Some Puritans suggested that husbands might delegate management of the family finances to their wives, since many women are better at it than their husbands And I'll go ahead and stop there. I just wondered what some of you or what wonder what you all thought about that Puritan vision of life in the home and authority in the home. Any thoughts? You're welcome to disagree or to agree? It's up to you. Okay, sounds wise to Natalie. Natalie says, go forth. I just saw a left-handed thumbs up from Jimmy, which is as good as a right hand in this case. Oh, now I just saw the right-handed thumb from Jimmy All right. Anything else? Anybody have any problems with it? Any questions with regard to it Okay. You all Yes, sir. I um just hanging off of um what I was comment earlier. I think there's a beautiful byproduct that flows from that kind of relationship in that. There is By by way of agreement and um working through particular issues, you are forced to be in communication, be present, and be in prayer together as you navigate the various social pressures um that you're often caught off guard by. And so and and and I think that there is also a uh an opportunity to mutually agree that when there is a need for outside resources To help, whether it be grandparents or friends or church, you're doing so in a state that is um mutually agreed upon. Yeah. Yeah, very good. Uh I'll just end with that authority in the home portion. You'll want to review that and you may want to follow up and buy some of these books that he recommended. You can a lot of times find them people reading them or something along those lines. If you'd like to borrow mine, you're welcome to. But I just wanted to point out that in my experience, you know, I grew when I became a Christian I became a Christian at um, well, in a juvenile detention facility in a rehabilitation center, which was under the leadership of Pentecostal and Charismatic Churches. When I was removed from those situations and started entering into different kinds of discipleship, it was a basically just a Bible community church, a broadly evangelical dispensational church. And then from there there were a few people there that discipled me who were a part of that church plant who were uh reformed. Uh uh a husband and a wife originally discipled me. They were from Covenant College, they had just graduated. Uh uh Chris and Lisa Moore. Did anybody know them? Chris and Lisa Moore, they had a they have a son who attended the academy here for a while. And then they introduced me to other people within the Reformed Faith, me eventually meeting Holly, where I ended up at SPEP And the pr the primary place of my discipleship was in the reformed world. As long as I've been in that reformed world, in terms of helping a person understand a marital relationship The primary vocabulary word used is submission. It would be submission and then it would be it would be servant leadership. and wifely submission. I was very surprised as I continued to study within the what the reformers have seen within the scriptures that there were a lot of other vocabulary words besides that to inform what marriage is. And in this one page, did you notice all the vocabulary terms? Let me just run them by you again and then we'll end. He mentions that um a couple of things I think are really important. He says Wrong page, sorry. Uh other vocabulary words are One would be to defer to the wife's opinion. I know that's more of a phrase. The wife's intelligence, good sense, and practical experience. Another is that uh she is the heart, he is the head. Another is where's the one where it's like co-worker and Yeah, team is another vocabulary word. What were some of the other ones? Advocate. Um Yeah, where do you see that? That was the under right after William Gouge. Is that how you say it? Okay. Yeah, so um co-worker, counselor, and comforter. Those were additional. And if you were to read these Puritan works, they have got a lot more to say. about all that is involved within marriage and way more than just the vocabulary word submission. So I encourage you to to chase that down. So, okay, we're going to go ahead and end there, and then that what that brings us to is that we're heading into week number seven, chapters 17 through 19 for next week's discussion. If you, again, if you have trouble reading and you need an audiobook, you can find it on Ligonier Ministries website that has the audiobook. Cool. So you can walk and listen, you can clean your car and listen, whatever you're doing. Okay, let's go ahead and end