Good to see you all. Here we are. Let's go ahead and start our time with a word of prayer. Please join me. Heavenly Father, I thank you that you've given us this day. Where we are able to remember you in the thick sense of that as our Creator and as our Redeemer. I pray that you would bless this day in blessing your congregation and that They would respond in praise of your majesty, of your goodness. And Lord, I pray that you'd work here even through this book we're going through. and through the scriptures that we'll look at and through our conversation with one another. Pray that your scriptures would be fulfilled by the work of your spirit here in your congregation, edifying one another through conversation. In Christ's name. Amen. All right. Well, we're on the second lesson of this class. Today is chapters two and three. And we're going through this book, Parenting by God's Promises. So what I'm going to do this morning is I'm going to start off with just a review from what we did last week. That'll be very brief. And then There is one part of the chapter that I want to make sure that we have our heads around. I'm imagining you're going to want to discuss it anyway. It was the section that had the three circles. just looking at the different ways in which our children are involved in the covenant or not. And then from there we can go ahead and see what kinds of questions that we have and that'll bring us a close uh bring us to the end of the class. I will be teaching on some of it but My overarching philosophy, and I'm happy to argue with you about this. In fact, I would love to argue with you. My overarching philosophy is that education is done better if you think about it like you went into an apprenticeship for carpentry. So I really view this as a workshop. Uh I don't I think that uh we can fool ourselves in thinking that we're growing by you just recording all the information that I say It will go much better for you if you take a little bit of courage and interact with me. And let's start working through some different questions. All of us here are Need to learn. All of us need to grow. So there's no shame in saying I don't know and um and wanting to keep work on keep working on that. So um My dream is for us to be able to have a conversation therefore where we get to have a little bit of back and forth and to find out where the gaps are in our thinking and our feeling. and our practices and we can learn from one another's experiences. That's really where I think it's at. There are m there are, I'm looking around here, there are people here who have done a lot of work in raising children in the covenant. And I would love to hear from them. They have a lot of wisdom for us. The scriptures don't present to us that we're supposed to go to go to elite elite teachers uh who have graduated with their PhD on parenting. That's not what we see. We see people going to their grandmothers and to their mothers and uh And that's that's the kind of workshop that I'd like to have here. And if you don't like that, if you would prefer to have the kind of YouTube AI mentality where you just put me on double speed and you just want the information. That's not how I that's not how I look at things, so we're gonna need to argue a little bit. Okay. All right. So let's start with um Let's start with just a review. The review is going to take place, just take a look at with me really quickly at Psalm 127 and 128 These are psalms that should be somewhere in your house. Is Emma here by chance? No? Okay. Sometimes what Emma will do is she's such a great artist. She'll take scripture verses and then she'll uh incorporate it into a larger painting. She really should she m she should make up some prints for the church to buy from her with these verses, 127 and 128. What we pointed out last week, and I'll be brief about this in Psalm 127 and 128. I'll start with 128. I wrote about uh both of these things, uh, if you get the substack. But in 128, what we see is an emphasis that God blesses households. specifically through certain means. So when God says, I'm going to bless you, he can do that directly Or he can work through someone or some situation in order to bring the blessing. So for example, God says, I'll bless you with provisions of food. You won't go hungry. Ordinarily that's the case. But we don't find that God fulfills his promises and his blessings to us in that way by just placing fish in your stomach. Instead, he works through fishermen who actually have to go out on the water, bring the fish back, sell it at a market price. And then that gets sold to you in the grocery store or made for you in some restaurant or whatever it is. God is working through means in order to bring those things to you and I use the fishing example especially for you this morning, Bill. There you go. So God's mean for food is Bill right there. And It's the same thing if we're talking about many of their other blessings. If you want to see a decent book on this, there's one written by a gentleman with the last name of Veith. V-E-I-T-H and the name of the book I read it in seminary is called God at Work. God at Work. And the argument is that Martin Luther has brought a great framework for us to be able to understand this. and that God works through means in order to bring the blessing. Now when you look at Psalm 128, you can see that there's a kind of domino effect that's happening within the Psalm. So for example, just take a brief look at it with me. Blessed is everyone who fears the Lord, who walks in his ways. Now, when we jump down to four, we see that there's a repetition, but it doesn't just speak about everyone. It speaks about one particular blessing to the household, which is the husband. Verse number four says, Behold, thus shall the man, husband, be blessed who fears the Lord. And if and then if you go to verse number two, you will see that the very first blessing is that the Lord will bless the work of his hands. He will not be subject to futility. And the work of his hands will create an atmosphere and a kind of society where, verse number three, his wife is able to Be fruitful like a vine in the center of the garden, and from her there will be children. So you can see you can see this domino effect where the blessing begins through the means of the husband. Because of the work that he's doing in creating a kind of soil where his wife can grow, she's able to then be fruitful and to be a blessing. And then you have these green olive trees sitting around the table in the psalm where now the children are able to be a blessing and you have a whole family that is multiple generations that is now a light and salt in the world. And God accomplished all of that, not directly, but indirectly, through husbands and wives and kids. And the larger picture here includes, if you get into the latter verses, the larger congregation, the church. And grandmothers and grandfathers, uncles and aunts, all of those things are going on here. Now, that's the emphasis in 128. In 127, the emphasis is different. The emphasis is not on what are the means that God uses in order to bring blessing to households. The emphasis is, hey, guess what? No matter how hard you work, if I'm not behind you, nothing's gonna get done. And you can see that there in the very first uh verse which should be a memory verse for us, unless the Lord builds the house, those who build it labor in vain. And he continues to say that again, unless the war Lord watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain. That's verse number one of Psalm 127. Now he lists out different ways that we try to make things happen with or without God. He says, you can get up extra early thinking that's going to take care of it. You can, that's verse number two. Verse number two B, you could stay up extra late thinking that's going to take care of it. You can subject yourself to ancient to anxious toil and you think that'll take care of it. And the let the moral lesson here is none of those human efforts will take care of it. Because it's vain to build the house if the Lord's not building the house. So we have in 128 an emphasis on our place within God's kingdom. And in 127, we see that everybody finds their place only in God. It's really his will that is done at the end of the day. So when we go to start applying this to Raising households. I pointed out last week that we begin to see that especially in verse number two of Psalm 127 when he says. For he gives to his beloved sleep. And the key here is that this is a little hint for you, or breadcrumb. For you to realize that the way to connect your work, being blessed, to the God who blesses is by way of covenant. Because the beloved language is talking about we could really think of it as a marriage covenant. If I'm going to connect my work to God's blessing, if we're going to build the house together, that's going to happen only if we're married together. And that makes sense actually even of Psalm 128. You could say, oh, it looks like I'm the bride. My Lord is the husband, and the only way for my work to be blessed is if I marry him. And I work within that marriage. So that has a tremendous, there are a lot of applications that can come from there, that our blessing is located within the covenant. And that covenant happens specifically in uh with Jesus Christ. He is the bridegroom and we are the bride. Now the way that we're applying it here is we're applying it to parenting, and that's why the title of the book is Parenting by God's Promises. And chapters two and three are be are Joel Beake helping you to see the difference it makes for you to start thinking of your children not just as children. And your household is not just households, but covenant households and covenant children. His argument to you is that there is a tremendous amount of security and hope and encouragement if we begin to Start thinking of ourselves and our households as the beloveds. So let's take a look at chapters two and three now from the book. I do hope that you got a chance to read all the way through chapter one and that you did read through two and three. What you're going to find is um in preparation of the class I really do want you to read everything in the chapters. And one of the reasons I want you to do that is because Joel Beakey is is um he's not a he could be because he's brilliant, but he's not primarily acting as a theorist. He's very pastoral. So he'll say he'll give you the meaning of something in a paragraph and then the rest of the time he's just talking to you as a dad and a granddad who's got tons of experience. And I think it will be encouraging to you if you see all of his pastoral applications. So make sure you're reading through these chapters If you look at your book, you can see that chapter number two is Children of the Covenant. And I'm not going to dwell much on this just yet. I'll come back to The first part of that, which has to do with that our children are sinners, and so are you. And what are the implications of that? I want to focus first on page number 18. with the three circles. Because that is emphasizing the covenant. That's the heart of what Joel Beeky is after here. And in order to be able to see that emphasis, we need to turn to 1 Corinthians 7, because all he's trying to do is to show you various ways in which people have understood 1 Corinthians 7. Alright, are you all with me so far? I know y'all are just waking up. I've had two cups of coffee. I feel like I'm in I feel like I'm going 60 miles an hour here. But we all good? Okay, great. Very good. Okay. So we're t we're turning to First Corinthians seven and then we're going to look at the different views of this. And let me just read the verse for you. Okay. So let's just start at First Corinthians seven twelve. This is a section where For those of you, I think there's a lot of people here in the room who have gone through First Corinthians, uh whether it's here or elsewhere. I know that Carol had done a first Corinthians study back in the day Uh, when was that? Uh probably been two years. Yeah, isn't it amazing how fast time goes by? Man. Yeah. That's funny. Yeah. Um so we're gonna start in verse number twelve, but this is 1 Corinthians is really Paul receiving a letter from people as to what's going on in the Corinthian church, and there's all kinds of questions and problems. And so Paul is primarily in both the 1 Corinthians and the 2 Corinthians, he's writing back to them saying, this is really what you need to do about that problem. Let's ground it in the scriptures and then let's go ahead and work it out. So what you see here is really a pastoral, the pastoral work of Paul You see the pastoral work of Paul. And here he's in this section of 1 Corinthians 7, he's talking a lot about sexual relationships, marriage. family. And so let's begin in verse number 12 of chapter 7 and see some of the things she says. To the rest I say, I not the Lord, that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever and and consents to live with him, he should not divorce her. If any woman has a husband who is an unbeliever, and he consents to live with her, she should not divorce him. For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, and the unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband Otherwise your children would be unclean, but as it is, they are holy. And so when you look at a passage like that, you'll remembering that he's giving pastoral advice. He's conceiving of a situation here where uh they're in a culture where perhaps let's just say the that two people were married And they were both good citizens of Rome, participating in their pagan practices. They loved all of the festivals. They loved all of their idolatry. They went to every feast. They were Romans. But then the gospel of Jesus Christ made its way into their town. And the wife, while she was at the market, overheard a preacher. And Jesus Christ worked in her heart, and she began to talk with the disciples of Jesus, and Christ drew her to himself, and she became a professing Christian. You know, her husband just thinks she's at the market. So she goes home and he's not a Christian. He's still just a good old Roman. So now there is this unequal yoking in the marriage. And Paul is and they're asking Paul, what are we supposed to do about this kind of thing? And he's saying if you two are able to continue together, then stay together. And if it were to happen where the man went to the market and the same thing happened, if you two are able to stay together, then stay together. The believing person makes that family holy. And in terms of your children, if you were wondering about them, the believing parent makes the children holy. Now the big question for you, I know, is well what in the world does he mean by holy? And that's where that's where the debate begins, is what do we mean by holy? What do we mean by holy? Now you can see in Joel, in this section of Joel Beacie, he is looking at it as three different views of what does it mean to be holy? relative really to the covenant. So he's understanding this passage to mean that there's some kind of this is covenantal language being holy. And if you were to look through the scriptures you'd find that that is the case. that people are set aside or made holy. That's one understanding of holiness, and that's covenantal language. But there's different ways that people arrange their children relative to this. So I just want to go over that real quickly. uh maybe over the next 15 minutes and then we'll move into a time of back and forth with your questions throughout the whole uh two chapters. So let's take a look at uh page number 18. You have three different circles. Actually, we can begin discussion just a little bit earlier. We'll see who's really awake. We have three different circles, and they're labeled internal and saving. external, not covenantal, and external and covenantal. Now that sounds a little bit abstract, but I thought his explanation of it was excellent. He did a good job, and I hope it cleared up some stuff for you all. when you were reading it. Okay, so who wants to give a crack at explaining to us the view where holiness and a child's relationship to the covenant is internal and saving? Let's so let's try to get our heads around this. Their relationship to the covenant and holiness from 1 Corinthians 7 is teaching us that it the holiness is internal. And it is saving. What is that view? You can if you only know part of it, give part of it, and then we'll build on the foundation you lay down. Or if you only know the roof of the argument, we'll build the foundation after you. What's the position? Yes, Carol. Make sure you speak up nice and loud. Thank you. The children are born in a regenerate state or are regenerated in infancy because they are children of their father. Okay. Yeah. So let's just go ahead and break that down into its pieces. What they are reading this as in First Corinthians seven, and I'm sure there are other scriptures that would go into it is that When the child is born, perhaps even in the womb, because they belong, because they are a child already within a covenant household, they are regenerated in infancy. And what was the second part? Or they're um because they are sort of the covenant, they are regenerated either in infancy or born in the regenerated. Yeah, born in a regenerate state. So what does that mean? Let's try to put that into work. Let's let's get rolling here. Yes, Sarah, please. Well, regeneration needs to be born again, so they don't need to be born again. because they are holy. So right after that sentence that Carol quoted and he says, those who espouses he did it, that says children do not need to be born again because they are already are. And they will no doubt come to faith in due time. Okay. Yeah, so what we mean by re-genesis, and and this is great, you can go to first you can go to the Gospel of John to take a look at this. What they mean is that they are born again, either in the womb or at birth, that they're already born again Alright, so that's one way in which they view it as that they're they're not just holy in some external sense. They're holy internally. They've already been born again by the Holy Spirit. All right, does anybody have any questions about that particular view? Yes. Um the the uh what I'm thinking is is that I because to me I'm like I don't know if that's a hundred percent guaranteed because we don't know exactly who God has predicted, so to speak. Okay. I guess my question is, is it a hundred percent guaranteed for people who for children of belief? Well the first that's a great question And the first thing to note is that Joel Beakey disagrees with this view. We're just looking we're just looking at different views. Just just no, just to get it straight. But there are folks that will believe this and you have to understand a little bit of Joel Beaky's background Joel Beaky is primarily ministering to Dutch Reformed churches. If you've ever been to one of their services, they can be pretty neat. uh not their old habits and traditions, but the there is one tradition that's pretty cool. They have the service. I'll just tell you this real quick. They have the service and then uh just like we do and then we move into the preaching. Before they move into the preaching in their service, they stop the whole thing and have an intermission. And they pass out these little licorices to the children. And everybody has a licorice And then when they're done, then the preaching starts. Isn't that cool? No, you know. If you like licorice. Yeah, if you like if you like licorice. Yeah, I was thinking we could expand on that though. I mean if you wanted to Oh no, no gummy bears. Who said that? Yeah, gummy bears, sure. Yeah, yes, sir. My grandfather was Dutch Reformed. Was he really? I sat with him in church because my parents were in the choir and he fed me liquor Did he really? Do you remember the name of what they're called? It can't be any liquor, so there's a specific brand that they pass out. No, we we were just stuck with little good and money. Okay. That's good. So within the within those traditions they had adopted a view that the children, when they are born, are already saved. They're already born again, and they don't need to do any evangelistic work with them. Yes. I just to also add something to it, um he does like the point that they do believe they should be high school educated at the out of church, but that the dotted circle it it's die because some can leak out and become covenant breakers. And um so that raises questions about prescribes to take um in this whole Yeah. Yes, you know we can put it in the form of a question. That's great. Thank you so much for entering into this workshop. So that that's a great way to put it because if they are born again then how do you explain when they leave? Are you saying that they could be born again but then that born again can be taken away? Now I know that there's different positions on that too. Uh but I'm just showing you some of the problems we can run into. Okay, and what we so what we do the isn't that true for adults too if we baptize someone as an adult as a believer We say they're fully in the covenant with venerate, we believe it based on their you know, profession of faith. But they there are those who then walk away. So I think that that is true. I'd be interested to see what we say when we get to another circle that also has dots that accounts for that reality. Are you seeing a um Do you have a larger thing to say than that? I mean obviously we see people that say that who make a profession who then leave. Everybody's seen that. I'm just saying that I don't know whether it makes sense to have a different scene or in that sense. for children who are born into the covenant and those who enter the covenant play their life. Right. We shouldn't hold children to a higher standard, I guess I'm saying, than we hold the women. Yeah. Okay, does anybody have a response to that? Yeah, give me. Make sure you speak up. Yeah, in this regard to family, I think. Uh it is a bitter blessing for our children to grow up in the faith in the comments, or even things from infants to adults. So that's where I do think it is a bigger blessing. Okay. What do you think of do I don't know if you have any thoughts on this and you don't have to take this, you can just push it away. But I think what Brian is saying is that on the very first one, and I'm only going to spend like one more minute on this because we have two other circles. Uh and these things are debated for a reason. The very first circle is dotted. And part of what Carol is pointing out is that there's a couple different aspects to this view When some people, particularly within this Dutch Reform tradition, read 1 Corinthians 7 and that talks about the holiness of children, they view that as an internal holiness that has been given to them And they interpret that to mean that because their parents are believers, when they are born, they're born again So then, since that internal holiness has been given to them and they're they're born again, Carol was pointing out that Joel Beake said, that makes it tough for us to be able to explain why they would ever leave. The big and that's what the dotted line um represents. And Brian is bringing up, if I'm understanding him, yeah, but isn't that true also of adults? We say they're born again, and then we watch them leave. So why is it that we're applying a standard to the child and saying, hey, that's a real problem? But then we see the same thing happening with adults and we say that's no real problem. Yeah. Is an explanation for that found in the four whole state of land that they might suggest that that one state is a passe pathari state still and in a damage state where they could they're boring it in that sense, but they can still perhaps I mean 'cause I don't understand how I don't know how you can explain that otherwise. Because if you're born again sealed by the Holy Spirit, then that seems like you wouldn't you couldn't slip out. I I would think so. I'm trying to put that together, but I don't know exactly how to do that. Yeah. I'm not sure if we could f it sounds to me like you're saying could we find some answers if we turn to this paradigm that's given been given to us in the past called the fourfold state of mind. I'm not sure. Okay. Yeah, I'm not I'm not sure All right, well I don't want to keep on that. One of the differences you're seeing here between uh what we would say when a person makes a profession of faith and then um And then we we're saying that that profession of faith is a sign that they are born again. One of the differences I would think, Ryan, would be here they're saying there's no profession of faith or any nothing. wholly internally just by being born to the parents. So aside from the idea of the question of the perseverance of the saints They're taking a position that the holiness is internal. You have any thoughts about that? That's a real that's a really specific position to take to say when my because I'm a Christian, the children that are born to me are already saved. That's a pretty serious thing to say. It is, it has a scriptural back into it in 1 Corinthians 7 14. Whereas saying we can say that we know something about an adult's internal state based on their profession if they use the words because they're older, I don't see much scriptural Yeah. Are you are you I I I hate to put people on the spot, but I do believe in responsibility and your I've interacted with who you are, a real man. So, uh is this a position that you take, by the way, this first one where you believe that they're born internally holy and saved? No, I like the third circ set of circles. Okay. However, I would say that there's a a great uh I don't know warning warning is right for us to take the first one seriously and not dismiss it out of hand And as we think through that first one and the reason we don't like it to be thinking about the same thing for adults in our kids and ourselves. Okay, great. Okay, very good. So you got if I'm understanding you, you're saying Hey, we may not adopt this position as the most accurate one, but there's some lessons to learn from it. Absolutely. Okay. Alright, very good. I see you both and I have to keep I have to keep going because I'm already Pass where I wanted to go. And I have two more circles. Okay, so that's the first one, and we can talk more about that position. You're welcome to look into it. The second one is external and not covenantal. So the first one wasn't it's internal. The holiness happens just because they're born to parents, meaning they're born again. And then the second one mean is it they are external The holiness is uh not present, they're not born again, and They are not a part of the covenant. So if you wanted to, if you look at page 18, you could take a little circle and and draw it and you could label that the child And you would say that child is outside of covenant with God. Now, does anybody want to try to explain that position from what he had taught? Yes. Isn't that the practice view that their children are like generation or vibers anyway and until they are born again they won't be okay. So Tate is saying that uh perhaps this is the the Baptist view on children. And unless they make a profession of faith, they're not a part of the of any part of the covenant of with God until that profession of faith happens. Mm-hmm. Does anybody have any questions about that one? I think I think we see that one a lot. Yeah. Does anybody have any questions with that? I did really like that Joel Beakey at the end of this section said that yes, this is the this is the view that he believes Baptists take that children are not a part of the covenant until they make a profession of faith. But that Baptists oftentimes show up the reformed community because they bring their children to church and make sure that they are raised up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord as if they are a part of the covenant. And I thought it was interesting that he he made that observation that they still put a lot of care into their children as if they are a part of their covenant. Yes, Paul. All of them. Okay, gotcha, I got it. And I brought my children to church and they became Christians all but one. And Yeah, right. It happens that way as well. Yeah, yeah, very good. So here's a view where we would think of our children not a part of a covenant. not a part of the covenant at all until they make a profession of faith. Then there is the third view. Would someone like to explain that one? And that's the one that Joel Beackey in this church adopts Could someone explain the third view on our relate the our children's relationship to the covenant of God? Yes. I think you are um treat it as a part of the church as you are sort of the important position and you receive the elements of the means of Christ for you all of the reach to But the leaders all what flows with flows. So the thing is um and almost the same way that I don't believe in some shit and becomes for a conversational. But um the the the the child he thought of the church and he created the thought of the church and received the uh Um construction is into uh uh what you think that um when we think we uh We know it very well. In South Africa, we are between in the settlement or literally cherry churches. Yeah. And and we they don't always leave it in the front of the generation. But you see basically a lot of flavors are. So I think where you don't see three cabinets are the three. Right. You believe that the child is the second condition of grace and is treated as part of congregation Um but so the load we've learned. The Charlie C have goes on the generation. Yeah, that was a great explanation of it. Yeah, very good. So I'll repeat it from the microphone. So what was just said was that The children are external but still a part of the covenant. So what what the holiness is external, but they are still a part of the covenant. So the children that are born to believers are not saved. They are not born again just because they're born to believers. But they are still holy They're not holy internally. They are holy because God has set them aside and put them in, you mentioned, a privileged place. That's the language that you just chose. Put them in an honored or privileged place, and we say that he has made them members of the covenant Around here we say they're non-communing members. And that is where you would you could draw a little dot for children right inside that dotted line Is that they have a special place within the covenant where God has set them aside to be raised in His nurture and admonition And as Brian was pointing out earlier, has made promises to parents and congregations with regard to raising up those children in the means of grace. And we'll need to talk about that. Now you see a second circle, right? So then how is it that there is an internal holiness that would happen within our children? Just like you said, when the spirit blows where it was face to the space. Yeah, they come to faith whenever the Lord draws them, grants them faith as a gift, and they're able to make the profession of faith. So really you see this every single week Just inside the dotted line are all of the children here who are not admitted to the Lord's Supper. They're being raised in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. They're not outside of the circle So I've been trying during the Lord's Supper to say, hey, you're inside the circle. Keep pulling on your ch your parents' sleeve and say, please keep catechizing me. And let me go before the elders. Uh they're inside that circle. That's why I keep saying that. But you can see that solid line circle, until they're able to make that intelligent profession of faith, we're not going to let them uh suff with us at the table. All right, because we we are we don't have the signs that Christ has given to us in terms of them being communion members or an internal holiness You see what I'm saying? Okay. Yes, Mark. Yeah, um Joel brought up an interesting um statement. It's a great reminder. And it helped kind of help me frame this even stronger by reminding by reminding us that our children are not ours. Uh-huh. Right, yeah. If if we if we recognize that our children, even ourselves, are not ours to begin with. It helps to frame how it is that we structure our approach to um treating them as well as how it is that we structure how we train them up. And the just and the the pressures that we get as to why we are to do what we're doing. And so if if we think, conversely, if we think that they're ours, and we're the ones who are responsible ultimately for them, it's going to change how we approach Everything. Yeah. And and you know, it can turn very disruptive if we think we're the ones who are ultimately responsible for Not only are they salvation. Very good. And that's a good segue into us having some discussion. So I know that there's more conversation that needs to happen over theological positions on the covenant here. Okay? I I have limited time in the class. My main goal is to just introduce this to you and then you get to have the graphics as you continue to think through it Let me just point out to you, go back to page 18. Joel Beake makes the argument, or at least mentions it. I'm not sure if he argues it from experience. Based because I've listened to him in other contexts He makes the argument that when people adopt the internal and saving, he often finds that they do not put much time into their children Because they're already saved, so the pressure's off. Right? So he doesn't he doesn't want you to have that practice. And then the external not covenantal, he says, even though they get the theology wrong, oftentimes Baptists are doing a great job with their children. And that we should replicate that. But if you want to have everything right, and what it by right he just means what's the most accurate way to describe what's been given to us in the scriptures Taking 1 Corinthians 7 into account with other passages. He says the best way to look at it is that the holiness given to our children upon birth is external, meaning they have entered and are members of a covenant Right? But there still needs to be a profession of faith in order for them to become full members of the covenant. So the question then what we want to ask, which was Mark was already starting to get to us, take a look at page 18. And if your children have not been admitted to the Lord's Supper, or your grandchildren, they are in that, according to this argument, they are right past that dotted line So then I have to so then we get to ask the question, what do you, whether as parents, grandparents, or a congregation, what responsibilities do you have to those children? And the second question is, what motivation or confidence do you have as you seek to carry out those responsibilities? So let's start with that second question first, and this will get into well you'll be exposed as to whether you've read these chapters But maybe you can just think of other scriptures. What motivations for confidence that you have that your work is not in vain in working with those children who are just past that dotted line. Someone help me out there. The first argument that we've heard from Mark is Well, we need to recognize that these are not, the children are not our property in the ultimate sense. They belong to God, and God has given them to us to steward. Okay. And what confidence do you have in stewarding them? Anything? Yes, Steven. Uh if I remember correctly, I think DT references uh First and Proverbs, train the trial the way they should go and they will not park the promise. Okay. Very good. Alright, so there's some uh confidence there. We could talk about that with our actual experiences and how we work through that. Okay, so But we have a larger category here. Are there any promises that accompany our work with our children? Yes. So you got me. Uh-huh. But um but there are Throughout Old Testament these ideas of God. I forgive you. Thank you. Thanks for but I should probably wait until I see repentance. Right? Sure. That's that's what message Or are you right now admitting that Erica Kurkame were real a real prediction? Sorry, this is a dead side joke. Gotcha. Just the just the idea of God's has established that the means of grace coming through covenants and therefore promising to to parents that there is a a relationship that their children have that is promising that generationally he will bless them and bring them into his kingdom. So I I don't really know where those verses are, but I know that that that they're in there. Okay. And so that that's frame let's just have our confidence in doing the work that we do. Yeah, let's just frame it this way. If we go back to 127. This is really important. If you don't know the answer to these things, you need to find them. Yeah. Okay, and Psalm one twenty it says it says, Unless the Lord builds the house, those who uh th those who build it labor in vain. So those kids that are just past that that dotted line, do you have any confidence that he's building that house? And uh and uh and if you do, wh where does that come from? Are you just optimistic? You just a kind of glass half full person? Or is there anything in the Word that talks about this? What do you got? Kate, please. Um so he goes I I can't honestly remember if He probably does. But I've been doing other studies too at the same time. Yes. Um and so um you go back to Genesis seventeen where he um makes his covenant with Abraham. And that covenant is given to Abraham and his college. Yes. So and that's carried through um all the Old Testament and into the New Testament and the Covenant. Okay, very good. So Kate is making the argument that the Abrahamic covenant is not just a covenant that was given to people a long time ago and far, far away, but the promises that were made there are still applicable to our families today. Okay, now we haven't proved that here, but that's something you probably would want to write down. If you're not convinced by that or if you don't see the encouragement that comes from that, you're going to want to write that down and start working that out Okay, anything else? I thought I saw Stephen. Yeah, just uh go off of what Kate said, that covenant that he made with Abraham. He split animals, right? I didn't put Abraham into a deep sleep Um historically that company would be two parties and contract with one another. They would both pass through this but in signifying that If I break this covenant, be unto me as these animals that I should die and receive that covenant. But God went through that by himself to the most Okay, and so you look at that all of the symbolism that's going on there as There need to be signs and seals for us to have confidence that God has made promises to us and our household. Okay. Alright? Again, that's a statement and not an argument. So we w if you're not convinced by that, that's something we would need to work out. Brian, did you have any? You had mentioned promises earlier. Uh you don't um you could say to mine. I know there's a great book from Doug Wilson called Standing on the Promises. Standing on the Promises, yeah. Promises made to parents and why we believe. Okay. Yes, Jeff. Um Roman three starts out saying that uh Paul's talking about the biggest advantage that the Jews have, even the unbelieving Jews Is that they had the word of God. Can you make sure you speak up if they have the word of God uh given to their nation really? Um and that's really in our fitness uh as God's people that our biggest advantage uh for our children is that they have the word of God presented to them so as much as we can keep God's word in front of them then we have promises uh like Isaiah fifty five eleven that God's word won't return to them without accomplishing the purpose that Okay. Alright, so Jeff is pointing out if you didn't hear that one of the reasons why we could have confidence is if we ask the question Well why we're a group of people, including our children, whom God has given us his word. So if we look at why is it that he has given us his word then we could we could begin to see that his intent is for not just the adults to be blessed, but also the children, which starts to speak to God's design and God's promises and what he's doing in the world Is that fair? Okay. That's a pretty good one. Uh did anybody remember th the part in the book where where the children that were being sacrificed were called my children? Did anybody see that one? Just to s start to see how God used that. Does anybody remember where that Where he said that in the in the book. I actually didn't write it down, but I think it was in perhaps Ezekiel. If someone found that, you're welcome to quote that. Are there any other reasons that you could give where we should have confidence in with our work in and building the house just past that dotted line. Yes. So in Acts chapter 2, I think he mentions this in one of the chapters when Peter is giving his sermon and he's recounting God's work with Israel and then he says, Repent and let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins. We shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit for the promises to you and to your children. It's all who are afar off, as many as the Lord your God will call. Okay. Yep, very good. So there's another promise, and that is a echo of the Abrahamic promise. It's pretty obvious if that is the case. You can look at that also. So what we're accumulating here is the same kind of thing that Joel Vickey's trying to point out though you mean may need to keep working in order to develop develop a conviction, is that God has made a lot of promises to the household to the household. Not just to the adults in the household, but the whole household of a believer. And it's just a believer. And that goes back to that 1 Corinthians 7. If the unbelieving wife is still with the believing husband, she is made holy by the believing husband. If the unbelieving husband is with the believing wife, he is made holy and the children are made holy. That's this whole argument here is that the covenant is applied to entire households. Households. Everybody got that so and you're starting to see that show up here within the particular promises that are given. So you might need to to work on supporting that. Let's take a look at a couple things that he says within the book. He outlines his points starting on verse number 23. The first assertion that he m makes is that our children must be born again. We'll go back to that in just a moment. Wow, time is almost up. I cannot believe this. Okay. Look at number two, and then I want to jump back to number one. God ordinarily works salvation among his covenant seed. And I just want to read a couple lines here. God's normal way of adding to his church is by saving the children of believers. He does not promise to save all children raised by Christians, but it is his ordinary way to save them over a period of time. He has promised to raise up a seed to serve Christ from generation to generation. And then you can look at all of those passages. The church is exhorted to praise the Lord because He has blessed He hath blessed thy children within thee. Psalm 147 God also saves people from unchurched and non-covenantal families, but that is not as usual as conversions within church families When it does happen, the converted person enters the covenant by joining the church as a confessing member, then potentially marrying within the church and raising a family in the church so that the process of raising covenantal children goes on. Psalm 68, 5-6 says, A father of the fatherless and a judge of the widows is God in his holy habitation. God setteth the solitary in families. He bringeth out those which are bound with chains, but the rebellious dwell in a dry land. God's ordinary manner of working should instill in us the sense that He delights to save our children. Such an expectation motivates us to make diligent use of the means of grace. We can come to church on the Lord's Day with our families beside us, expecting that God will work in us, our spouses, and our children. Because he is a covenant-keeping God, and his word does not return to him void, but accomplishes his will and good pleasure. Isaiah 55, 10 through 11. So if you haven't read those pages and maybe it's dawning on you now what Joel Beacie was getting at in the first place and you have read the pages, I'd encourage you to go back And gain confidence in this covenantal view of the promises. That's the first thing. And now I have 15 seconds before that bell's going to ring. The second thing is, is as Mark was pointing out earlier, if God design is that He has put them he has put our children and our grandchildren, our nieces and our nephews, our brothers and our sisters, if he has put them in covenant with him in a way Then you have to ask, what is your responsibility in stewarding those who are just past the dotted line? What is your responsibility? Well, we're not taking the first view. So it means you better be evangelizing your children. There's no one who goes past the solid line except those who profess faith in the work of Jesus Christ. Do they know what that work is? Are you doing the work in order for them to be able to understand who Jesus Christ is and the only way for them to have eternal life is through Jesus Christ? You've got years to work with them. And that is your stewardship. Now, I know that so I so I encourage you to keep thinking down that line that God has placed within your care His children of the covenant. What are you doing with them? Now I want to expand that application just a little bit because we have um folks here who who don't have any children. Uh for example, I'm I'm seeing some who aren't out of their teens yet. You could ask yourself, what is your responsibility to the little ones that are running around here? Those of you who have who are at the table uh who have gone past that solid line and you've made your profession of faith, whether you're 14 or 20 or whatever it is, what is your responsibility to the little ones around here based on what you've heard here this morning? If you're a brother or a sister to those who are younger in your family, what responsibility do you have for them to be raised up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord Those are some important things to to think through and responsibilities to take up. You could ask the same thing about yourself as an aunt. Or an uncle. You could ask yourself that as a grandfather or a grandmother. You could ask that as just a fellow congregant. All of us take that vow At the baptism that will help the parents raise up the children and the nurture and the admonition. That's the bill The main point that I really want you to get here in this first class is that God takes these children that are just past that dotted line as holy and a part of his covenant, he takes them very seriously. And he has placed them into your care. And has backed up him placing them in your care with promises for you to have confidence. And I'm just raising the question, are you taking your responsibilities seriously? Are you taking your responsibility seriously? Or are you acting more like the first position? Man, we don't really need to do any work with them Are you acting less than the second position where though we have these beliefs of the reformed, we're terrible we're worse in practice than Baptists. And I'm not saying that in a derogatory way. I have Baptist brothers and sisters. Everybody get everybody get that third position and the responsibility and the confidence that Joel Beaky's saying that it gives to us So okay, so that's the first lesson. We have a lot more to talk about. And I hope that you keep the conversation up with each other. Let's go ahead and pray. Heavenly Father, it's one thing to be given instruction, and it is another thing to take take it and do something about it. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would raise up in our hearts a real sense of responsibility to the children around here. And I pray that it would lead to us having perhaps even difficult conversations with each other where we see parental neglect in terms of their duty to uh for children to develop a profession of faith. And Lord, I pray for those who Maybe with now an empty home, haven't thought they've had any responsibility, I pray that you would bring conviction into their hearts. I pray that you would help those who, even the teenagers, Lord, or those in college to see that they have responsibilities to their siblings. that they've been placed in their care by God Himself. Pray, Lord, that this would result in seeing the next generation Profess your name and carry the kingdom forward. I ask these things in your name. Amen.