I'd ask that you turn there and we'll be read- I'll be reading verses eight through eighteen and let's stand for the reading of his word. And let's take a deep breath and prepare our hearts to receive his word, even as I'm reading it. Let's read with openness and sympathy to what our God says. This is Acts chapter 14, verse 8, and I'll read to 18. And in Lystra, a certain man without strength in his feet was sitting, a cripple from his mother's womb, who had never walked. This man heard Paul speaking. Paul, observing him intently and seeing that he had faith to be healed, said with a loud voice, Stand up straight on your feet. And he leaped and walked. Now, when the people saw what Paul had done, they raised their voices, saying in the Latonian language, the gods have come down to us in the likeness of men. And Barnabas they called Zeus and Paul Hermes, because he, Paul, was the chief speaker. Then the priest of Zeus, whose temple was in the front of their city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates Intending to sacrifice with the multitudes. But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard this, they tore their clothes and ran in among the multitude, crying out and saying, Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men with the same nature as you, and I preach to you that you should turn from these useless things to the living God Who made heaven, the earth, the sea, and all things that are in them, who in bygone generations allowed all nations to walk in their own way. Nevertheless, he did not leave himself without witness, and that he did good, gave us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. And with these things, they could scarcely restrain the multitudes from sacrificing to them. Please pray with me. Oh Father, we pray that your word would go out, that the preaching that was done here by Paul would be the preaching here this morning. That eyes would be opened and ears able to see, and that there would be people gathered to you, and those already gathered strengthened. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Maybe see that. Well Jack has had his first football game and Ellie is having her field first field hockey game soon. This is a new experience. We are officially in the heart of suburban life. We, with this new experience, did not foresee a few things that would happen in entering into the recreational sport life. One major example is that Jack and Ellie wear glasses, and neither of them can wear glasses in those sports. And so we have put in an order for contacts. Jack and Ellie for practice so far, except for last week, have had no glasses, no contacts, no nothing. And uh at one point Jack I tried to check and say, uh, am I sending you out there to the wolves blind? And I asked Jack to describe what was going on, and I said, well when they throw you the football, what's it like? And he said, a brown blur So now that he has contacts, I expect him to do much better. But here's the thing, I don't know if you know this or if it's just isolated to my family, but the problem is that apparently it takes, even after you gain contacts, for your eyes to adjust a bit depending on your prescription. And that's what's going on with us. So and interestingly, we we've entered now into three different stages with this eyesight thing in sports There was the first stage, which is the I can't see. It's a brown blur. And then there's the stage my eyes are adjusting much better. And then eventually we're hoping that all can enter into the stage where they say, I see the field hockey ball or I see the football clearly. But as I was thinking about that, I was thinking, well, those are the three those are the three stages that are present within this passage also It's actually three stages of many different people. There are three stages of sight that are similar to how we relate to Christianity and to the triune God of Christianity. In fact, what I would like you to do, as you're sitting here this morning, I don't want you to tune out. I don't want you to be thinking about Jeremiah's ribs that he's smoking down there at the pavilion. I want you to think about these three questions. I want you to ask, what stage are you in? And use the illustration that I just gave you with the contacts to help you as you're going through the sermon. Are you in the I cannot see the truth or the reality of the triune God stage? Are you in the I can see his reality, but my eyes are adjusting. Things are blurry. Or are you in the truth of Christianity and the triune God are clear to me and I'm going to glory Where are you? Ask those questions as we go through that this passage in those three stages this morning. What corresponds to those three stages within the passage is going to be a cultural story that I'm going to tell you about. It's the way that the Laconians. interpreted the events that we see within the passage. We saw them do some things that were were pretty crazy, and how Paul and Barnabas respond to that. They respond by bringing out another the second point, which is natural witness The nature testifies to things that are true. But then it's going to end being crystal clear in the same progression as context. With divine preaching. And so those are the three main headings, but I want you to think of those three main questions and these three main headings: cultural story, natural witness, and divine preaching. And you'll see that it gets clearer and clearer and clearer. As we go through the passage. So let's begin and make sure you keep those questions in your mind. What stage are you in? Can you not see the truth? Do you see but barely? Or is the truth clear to you? So let's begin with the cultural story. Luke is the author of Acts, and he fills the scene beginning in verse 8 with a dramatic miracle performed by the Apostle Paul. Verse 8, take a look with me. You're really going to need to look at your scriptures so you can follow along with the story here, the history. Verse 8 describes a man that was crippled from his mother's womb who had never walked. You catch that detail, right? There's no chance of him walking. He's never walked. Everyone knows what his condition is. The man is characterized as having no strength in his feet. And in other words, the man was born without use of his legs, and it could be various reasons. And you can think of the same condition within our culture. Verse 9 goes on. Verse 9 tells us that the man heard Paul speaking. It's very sparse. Luke hasn't included all of the details of the scene. This is not a Hollywood movie. He gives you what you need to know. There's a kind of reticence in it. Verse 9, however, does point out to you That this man who has no use of his feet hears Paul speaking. This word speaking is usually associated with Paul or Peter and the message that they would be giving about Jesus Christ. Paul must have been telling the locals, which were in Lystra, a specific city in the Lyconian area, it's present-day Turkey, if any of you have ever been around the Mediterranean. And the news is that Jesus has been proved to be the Christ through being resurrected from the dead. That's what the man heard, and the man was attracted to it. Do you know why I know that? Because of what it says in the passage in verse 9. Paul notices something different about the man. Paul, in verse 9, sees that this man has faith and he is therefore capable of being healed. And Paul says with a loud voice, verse 10, Stand up straight on your feet. And the man not only stood, but just to make sure for everyone so they could see what could happen. He leaped and he walked. He didn't just stand. He leaped and he walked. And now we have the response of those who are natives of that city. Those from Lystra had to make sense of this situation. When things like this happen in your world, you have got to figure out what does all of this mean? How is this taking place? How does this make sense? I've known that boy since he was a young man. He's never had use of his feet and now he's leaping. What hypothesis would they come up with? Let me ask you, if it happened today, how would you make sense of it? If you saw someone that you knew Was paralyzed from the waist down or had no use of their feet, and then someone said, stand up and walk, and they leaped and started walking. How would you make sense of that within your mind? The way in which you would make sense of it is very telling. I wonder if a lot of you would call mythbusters to find out what really happened and to gain some kind of scientific explanation. Or I wonder if you're open to the supernatural. To miracles. It tells us a lot about you, depending on how you would make sense of the situation. Well, look at verse 11. Verse 11 tells us how those Lyconians interpreted the event. It says, Now when the people saw what Paul had done, they raised their voices, saying in the Laconian language, The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men. And Barnabas they called Zeus, and they called Paul Hermes, because Hermes is the messenger of the gods. And Paul was doing all the speaking, and so obviously Paul should be called Hermes. This is how they have made sense of it. It's quite obvious if you understand the literature of that culture, the Lysonians. If you understand the literature of their culture, what they're doing here, and the interpretation that they're giving of Paul's healing event, it's through the lens of their own cultural story from a poet named Ovid. I hope I'm pronouncing his name correctly. I haven't taken Latin yet. They were viewing the healing, let me say it again, through their cultural story by the famous poet Ovid. He was a Roman poet, and he wrote a work entitled Metamorphosis. Has anyone here read that in their classical education? I see one nod. Okay. I should have seen others In that tale, Zeus and Hermes take on the guise of ordinary people, and they visit that same countryside in Lystra. That same area. While they're in town, Zeus and Hermes look for a place to find rest and to be replenished, to get some food and some wine for the evening. But all of the people in the town, I think it was a thousand doors, were shut in their face, except for one righteous couple, who raised their household well, is what it said And this couple offers the disguised Zeus and Hermes the ultimate hospitality. They bring out everything for them, giving up their possessions. And after the feast, and when they are filled with wine, Zeus and Hermes They leave, they go to a hillside, and they decide that they are going to destroy the entire town, except for the one couple, and they will turn that couple's house into a temple to Zeus. That's the story. Do you see what's happening then? Since that's how they're interpreting an event through their cultural story, the Lystrans were seeking to avoid the past mistake written in the metamorphosis. They said our town was destroyed once, not happening again. We're bringing everything out to you. You're getting all the bulls. You're getting all the wine. So, whereas in the past they turned the gods away from their doors instead of offering hospitality, in the present, the whole town sought to offer the ultimate hospitality. And they did that because they interpreted Paul's healing through the culture story where Paul was Hermes and Barnabas was Zeus. As if the Roman poets' words were coming to life again. Now you'll notice that in verse 14, Paul and Barnabas are not pleased with their understanding, to say the least. He rips his clothes. I'm sure they were very nice and expensive. And he decides to rip them anyway out of grief of what's going on. It was a sign of grief, actually. Paul and Barnabas were not gods. Just because it was their cultural story and their culture disposed them toward the Roman poet did not make them right. The Greek mythological gods don't deserve credit for the healing, but credit was not given where credit was due. That's Paul's main problem, really. And you could say that we're similar, as Brad brought out earlier. Is it possible? I just want you to ask yourself this question. As you stand in their shoes for the moment, is it possible that you give credit to education or to government or to medicine or to science, all good things? Is it possible, however, that you give credit to those things instead of giving credit where it is due, which is the triune God that controls all those things? They are in his service and are humble before him. It's a natural human problem to do so. And so I fully expect you to say yes. Now, Paul's going to combat this. This is where we move next in the story. And we're going to see in our second point that Paul is going to point them towards the truth. By pointing to the natural world around them. This is called the natural witness. This is part two. And here's where they're going to get a pair of contacts, but their eyes are still going to be adjusting. We hope. Verse 17 holds the words of the argument. Take a look at that with me. Nevertheless, we did not, he did not leave himself. without witness and that he did good. He gave us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. You can see that on the front of your bulletin if you want to remember this. This point, filling our hearts with food and gladness. You could picture Paul pointing to rain clouds in the distance in the Mediterranean sky, or to fields of crops just up the hillside Or the healthy livestock that's being offered by that priest for the for the temple to Zeus. Paul points to their productive natural surroundings As a witness to a personal and a good and a loving creator who deserves credit for the healing that was just given. They had missed it, and yet it had always been all around them. Do you know what I mean when I say that the that there's a natural witness? Do you have you used that language within your own life That there it is a witness, do you know what I mean by that? A synonym would be it is a sign or an evidence of something. Now we use this all the time within within our regular speaking If you want to try this, this is non-technically speaking. I have a lot of technical people in the congregation, so I have to always say this is non-technical Smoke is an evidence or a sign of fire. Very good. My stomach just grumbled. It literally just did. Which is a sign of not food poisoning. Just a sign that we have a meet and greet today. Anyone's stomach grumbling could be a sign of hunger. And that's what we're talking about. That's the kind of witness or sign or evidences that we're talking about. And likewise, the rain, fruitful harvest Food on the table, fresh corn from the eastern shore, garden fresh tomatoes. They are the opportunity to enjoy those things with our families. Feasting Having our hearts filled with our stomachs filled with food and our hearts full of gladness, what elder Bibby calls conviviality. These are all evidences, witnesses, and signs, according to this argument. And they are signs that God not only exists. But that he is loving, that he is good, that all goodness flows from him, that all light flows from him, that all wisdom flows from him, that he is personal And as Paul says specifically within this passage, that he is the one who made heaven and earth and sea and all things that are in them, and that he is totally aware of our lives. Have you ever thought about God that way? Just by way of looking at the things around you. Just by looking at creation. Is that what you see when you not only look at nature, but look at all the health and the goodness that you have in your life? Have you ever stopped And had a friend give you a fresh grown tomato? Way different than the grocery store. A grocery store tomato is like the lettuce that just tastes like water. But a fresh-grown Maryland tomato, which we're known for. Have you ever stopped in the middle of eating one after putting a dash of pepper and salt on it and just thanked God for his goodness? There's something like that going on here that we should have within our hearts. When you go to the grocery store, Or when you look in your fridge, do you think of the love and the goodness of the Creator? That's what's going on here that Paul's pointing out to this group of people. And they had missed it. They had brought all this food and all this wine to him, and they had missed in worship, and they had missed the one that they really were supposed to worship, the one who provided all of this, all of that harvest. You know what I would expect to get in our culture if I were to ask that question, here or anywhere else? about the tomato or about the grocery store or about feasting at Thanksgiving is that I'm just a silly person. That this is a silly s this is a silly perspective. But I ask you, is it really that silly? Is it possible that if you think it's silly, it's because you are culturally conditioned by North America? Do you know that three-quarters of the world still looks at their harvests as a blessing from the Creator? If they can grow a plant and it's not eaten by a hippopotamus in Africa, which is a real problem, they praise their creator. Did you know that you were the minority in terms of the whole surface of the globe as to a view like that? And so I really think, as you do that kind of survey, what you're ultimately saying, if you think I'm silly and saying this about tomatoes. What you're really saying underneath of what you're saying is this. We in America are smarter and more enlightened than the rest of the world. But I don't think that's playing out What if you're the wrong one? What if there are signs all around you of not only a creator, but of a creator who is personal, who is kind, and who is good, and who you are meant to worship and adore? And serve in humility. You are meant at your table to put your hands together, close your eyes, bow your head, and to give genuine thanks for the food that is before you and your family. What if that's the truth? The group in Lystra were blind in their own way, right? We look at them as believing in Greek mythology and we think, how stupid. They were giving credit to Zeus and Hermes, they had these wild ideas on how to make sense of the miracle when they should have been worshiping the God of heaven and earth. But are we not under the same kind of criticism? As Westerners, do you really think, Westerner, that you're not culturally conditioned into atheism? I mean, come on. Westerners are blind in their own way, ignoring any possibility of a benevolent creator. The world never used to be like that. It is a cultural movement and fad, and it eventually will be erased But here's the good news, and this is where it's interesting, because we have moved from a place when there's there's really total blindness. And we've moved where Paul is saying, trying to give them a stepping stone to the truth, where maybe they could have a set of contacts on, but their eyes are adjusting. But Paul knows, and you can see by the end of the passage when they continue to try to sacrifice to Paul and Barnabas, Paul knows that it's not going to be enough. Looking at the tomato and the wine and the fruitful seasons is not going to be enough for them. Those in Leicester and Westerners will remain in ignorance if that's all that they have. They will remain in confusion if all they have is the natural world around them. And so we see Paul taking one more step to bring clarity. Paul does not give into the cultural myth, and he does not just leave them with evidences from nature. He preaches a divine message. It is the ultimate grace. That you would not just be stuck with signs, but the very mind of God Himself, from messengers from God Himself. This is our final point, the divine message. We need to remember, let's take a look at verse 18 and then verse 15 as to what's going on here. This is a summary account by Luke. In verses 18 and 15, we see Paul, in verse 8, it shows that Paul was speaking a message, which I mentioned to you in the beginning. The man with no use of his legs was attracted to this message, which means it was a coherent delivery of a message that he could understand what was going on and what just took place within Jerusalem. Verse 15 preaches, uh confirms this because it says this, we preach to you that you should turn from these useless things to the living God. Now this is a message that was is very similar to what Peter had just given in Jerusalem. Turn from these things, repent, and believe. And Paul is giving that same kind of message now to a group of people that no one expects expected The Gentiles. And I'm convinced that this is only a summary of a larger sermon by Paul. But we, when we look at the way the message of Paul, we can see the larger story that he would have given By sermon, this is what I mean. That can be lost on us these days. I mean that Paul is relaying a message that he did not invent. Even this group of people recognize that because they call Paul Hermes, and Hermes does not deliver his own messages, but that which is from the gods. And in the same way, Paul is not inventing anything here. He is simply delivering that which has been told to him by God to this group of people. You and I, I don't know if you've ever thought about this. Raise your hand if you're excited about epistemology. All right, yes, very good. Thank you. I don't know if you've thought about your thinking. But you and I can only know so many things. And there's only so many things that we can know about God, even if you're very in touch with nature. There are some things that will always remain a mystery, hidden within the mind of God Himself, unless He were to reveal it to you in different ways. And that's what Paul is doing in this sermon. Something that had been long hidden has shown up. The mystery is being revealed, and his name is Jesus the Christ. He is sent from God the Father, and he is not sent without a voice. He's sent teaching and preaching and establishing preachers to go across the land, telling the land everything that God has to say to them. Stuff that we could not discover on our own. You could stare at an oak tree all day long and not know the message of salvation, planned by and decreed by God the Father and enacted in the Son and performed in the Holy Spirit. That's what Paul is going to do within this sermon. And that man who had no power in his feet saw it. And Paul saw him. And he was healed in the name of Jesus. Christ, just like what happened with a similar man in Peter. That's what I mean by a sermon. The full message given to Paul was that although this world has ignored God in the past, God has provided the way to be reconciled and to live together with Him again. Every tomato has been screaming out, and we've ignored it. God has not only, however, provided for your stomachs to be full and for drink to quench your thirst. God the Father has provided a way for your deepest yearnings to be filled. Now when I say that, since you're American, I have to clarify and say, I'm not talking about your yearnings for Amazon Prime and what can be offered, or the getaways that they offer at Bass Pro. This is what I'm talking about. It's an ancient truth. St. Augustine said this: all of our hearts are restless, restless, until we find our rest in God. our maker. This is the problem. And we see it within this group of feel, and you can see it within yourself. The problem is that naturally As proven by the people in this passage, their failure, and as proven by our failure to worship God every time we walk into the grocery store, this is the problem: we are not attracted naturally to God. That's why Paul saw faith in the man. If he did not have it present, he wouldn't have seen anything but a natural man, not attracted to God. But a grace had been given to him. We don't acknowledge naturally God. We suppress his reality. We sin against him and call it good. The whole relationship on our part is a total mess. That's what we bring to it. Which ultimately means that you are separated from the only being that can make you whole. Imagine that. The one thing that can heal you, the one thing that could make you whole and be what you were created to be and designed to be, you are separated from that one thing. And repulsed by it. Imagine that kind of condition, how tragic that is. That's you. If you were to put it in terms of food again, hunger is a sign that you need food. You can be physically hungry. You can be emotionally hungry. You can be psychologically hungry. It's called confusion and ignorance. You can be relationally hungry. You can be socially hungry. You can be politically hungry. And all these hungers are only filled in humble relationship to the triune God. Because it is in him that all things are complete. And yet it is the one thing that we reject naturally. And so this is the great message. This is what we call the good news. It is the translation of the word the gospel That God the Father has provided a way of forgiveness through Jesus Christ for you to enter into relationship with Him again. To find your wholeness, to find your chief end and the only thing that you could truly enjoy. Only person. God has provided a way for us to see again through Jesus Christ and His Spirit. God has provided a way for us to start to worship for the first time through Jesus Christ, in which we find our own completion. And that's the divine message. That's what we're referring to when we're seeing in verses 8 and 15 that he saw faith in the man. It is what he would have said. And that's what the cripple man was responding to. That's the divine message It is part of the preaching in verse 15 that would turn people away from useless things to the living God. It is not a cultural story. That's blindness. It's a myth. It is not just a natural witness which we we confuse that. We've come up with all kinds of theories to deny the witness of nature. It is in fact a divine message from God to this world. It is the divine message to you. And you stand in the same shoes that that group of people did, where you can accept the message or not. That's the question. We've come back to that threefold set of questions that I asked you about. You see how we move right to that point? We're right at the point. Are you blind to the truth of Christianity? Do you reject if there is a message from God? Do you see the reality of God, but things are blurry? Your eyes are adjusting. Sometimes you do, and sometimes you don't. Is that who you are? Is that where you are? Or have you accepted the divine message and therefore see with some clarity? It is very important for you as a human being to know where you are in regards to the message of Christianity and the triune God of Christianity. There are many people that have no idea what Christianity is and they have rejected it. It is important for you to understand this ancient and enduring message. If you cannot see the truth of Christianity Is it because you understand Christianity, or are you culturally conditioned to unbelief in Christianity? You know what I think you should do? If you can't see it, if you can't see the truth of Christianity, you should have lunch on me And let's just talk about your skepticism. If you believe, but things are blurry Then is it because you are not regular and in a solid Christian community? Well, you know what? We're a solid Christian community. Did you see did you see with Calvert singing that song how tight of a family we are? We can sing songs without the words and the bulletin. Join us for regular Christian fellowship. Find out about our worship services and why we do what we do. Check out our Bible studies. No matter who you are, I'll say this. This is my prayer for you. Listen to this. And if you want this prayer, I'll give it to you later. And I'll tell you where it's from. But this is my prayer for all of us. O God, my Creator, who sent your Son as the way, the truth, and the life to save me. I believe in your reality. Help my unbelief. I long to understand all that it means to be loved, known, and forgiven by you, and to be made whole. At peace with you, others, myself, and your creation. I know I have sinned against you, others, myself, and the creation of which I am part. Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me, a sinner. Open my eyes to all that you are, and draw me closer to you, I pray. Amen.