Let's open our scriptures together to Jonah chapter four and our reading are verses five through eleven. And we'll be looking at a couple other scriptures this morning too, so it'll be good to have your Bibles open. Chapter four, five through eleven. So Jonah went out of the city and sat on the east side of the city, and there he made himself a shelter and sat under it in the shade till he might see what would become of the city. And the Lord God prepared a plant and made it come up over Jonah, that it might be shade for his head to deliver him from his misery. So Jonah was very grateful for the plant. But as morning dawned the next day, God prepared a worm, and it so damaged the plant that it withered And it happened when the sun arose that God prepared a vehement east wind, and the sun beat down on Jonah's head, so that he grew faint. Then he wished death for himself and said, It is better for me to die than to live. Then God said to Jonah, Is it right for you to be angry about the plant? And he said, It is right for me to be angry, even to death. But the Lord said, You have had pity on the plant for which you had not labored, nor made it grow. which came up in a night and perished in a night. And should I not pity Nineveh, that great city in which are more than one hundred and twenty thousand persons who cannot discern between their right hand and their left and much livestock. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ and by the Spirit That you would work in your congregation through this preached word today. I pray that you would seal upon their hearts the great responsibility that you have given to them. For the Great Commission. Amen. You may be seated. We could have begun our reading this morning with verse number four just to remind us of that final question. that he po that God poses to Jonah, then the Lord said, Is it right for you to be angry? And we could have started with that just as a way to remind ourselves of the main problem that we saw last week in the passage, and that that is that Jonah It's a problem we all run into. That Jonah got out of sync with God. Jonah wanted it to be a season of judgment. A lot of different reasons that could have been the case. Lots of speculation out there as to why he would want that, but we can just say it generally speaking so that we don't need to speculate. That Jonah was out of sync with God and that he wanted it to be a time of judgment. But God was declaring that this was in fact a time of mercy. God sought to give mercy to Nineveh, and Jonah wanted judgment. And we were able to reflect and see that if we look at the rest of the scriptures, we see that this is the age of mercy. This is a message for us as a congregation. Now there's uh one final message here in the book of Jonah. And so what I'd like to do is to continue here just walking through the passage with you so that you can You can see what this week's lesson is. So let's take a look at the scriptures together for our faith and our life are built upon God's Word. Just take a look starting in verse number five, and let me state the obvious. Jonah is still out of sync with God. It's still going to continue. His mind has not changed. You can see there in verse number five, so Jonah went out of the city and sat on the east side of the city. And there he made himself a shelter and shed and sat under it in the shade till he might see what would become of the city. He's wondering if God is is going to Listen to him, or if the perhaps the Ninevehs will show that they there's really no repentance here and judgment would be brought down on their head. Really, what's going on here, you can see by the signs within the passage, that Jonah we've returned to the beginning of the book. Jonah is rebelling and running away again. The hints that tell you that are the, for example, you'll notice that it's mentioned at least twice within our passage is the word east. I remember being in a class with one of my professors, Dr. Morales. Dr. Morales was showing us all of the different instances of someone heading east or coming from the east as being an indication that they're moving towards chaos and evil and the grave and Sheol. And here we have uh But just as um he had mentioned, my professor, here we see Jonah heading off toward the east. another sign of him moving away from God. Now, for example, we see this in Eden. Genesis 3, 24, so he drove out the man and placed cherubim at the east of the Garden of Eden. And a flaming sword which turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life, or Cain, Genesis four sixteen, then Cain went out from the presence of the Lord and dwelt in the land of Nod on the east of Eden. Is it possible that there is a Yes, there is. And who wrote that? Steinbeck. There you go. So he knew about it too. I bet you wherever that was, I haven't read the book, but I bet you East of Eden was not I don't know. I'll have to read the book. But that's the that's the point that's being made here is we're going back to the beginning of the story and we're seeing that God Is seeking to reason with Jonah, which is very gracious, and once again Jonah says, no. That's the first thing that I want you to notice is uh Is that Jonah is running again. Now, just to to to buttress up that point, just as we saw Jonah running before, and then God appointing particular things to teach Jonah a lesson. So too do we see within this passage that since Jonah is running, God again appoints or prepares different things. in order for there to be a lesson. Take a look at me at just the word prepared or in some translations it will be appointed. It's an act of God's sovereign will. uh creating a situation to teach a lesson very similar to the the the um the the triumphal entry i mentioned that last week so you can take a look at chapter four verse six 4 verse 6 he says, and the Lord God prepared a plant. There's a sovereign action toward a lesson. Or 4-7, 4-6, and then 4-7. But as morning dawned the next day, God prepared a worm. Now the last time that we saw this kind of language We see it in chapter 1, verse 7, after Jonah has run, and he mentions specifically, I'm sorry, that I'm sorry. Uh where am I? Nope. Seventeen. Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days. And that's where Jonah's lesson really begins, as he's sinking to the bottom of the sea. He's drawing all kinds of conclusions, and he's finally able to see himself as he really is, and that he must call out to God, and it's God alone who delivers. uh Jonah sees and discovers the grace of God as he's at the moorings of the mountains. Another repetition that I want you to see, just so you can see that Jonah ran away. Jonah's running away again. God prepared a lesson. God is preparing a lesson again is in Chapter 4, verse 8, notice how he describes himself after being under this eastern sun. and uh uh eastern wind with the sun. And it happened when the sun arose that God prepared a vehement east wind, and the sun beat down on Jonah's head, so that he grew faint. Well we see the same thing in the other lesson in chapter two, verse seven. When my soul fainted within me, I remembered the Lord. So all I'm trying to do, here's a lot of facts here I'm throwing at you this morning. I hope you Had coffee or matcha or whatever you do. But all of these things show that there, again, like I talked to you earlier in the sermon series, there's a kind of mirror here. Jonah ran away, Jonah ran away, and there's a lesson in both. And the lesson really is the same. The lesson of the plant is the same lesson as the fish. Jonah and his people are entirely dependent on God's mercy. Jonah builds himself a shelter and that is not going to be So God allows the plant to come over and cast some shade. That is the vision of God's grace, of keeping him from the heat of judgment himself. Is a kind of judgment or disaster that's coming upon Jonah. But God shields him from that, and then he removes it from him, and Jonah doesn't like to be subject to judgment. Jonah would rather have the grace of God And Jonah should be able to see that just as he learned at the moorings of the mountains, it is only God who can deliver from this heat of judgment. And that having experienced it himself, having experienced the compassion of God in his sinfulness and his rebellion himself, he should want others to be able to know the compassion and the mercy of God for themselves and not have to just sit under the heat of the sun. He would want other nations to be under that plant. But that's not what happens in Jonah. And the problem is revealed is that Jonah is unwilling. He is unwilling to take up his commission of telling other nations about the grace of Christ. God. And it looks very similar to the older brother that we read in the br in the pamphlet this morning or in our worship bulletin. The problem revealed is that Jonah is unwilling to take up his commission of telling other nations about that grace. Now this is a part of a larger story. It's important for you to be able to see that Jonah here, even as a prophet, it's It's no stretch of the imagination to see that he is a representative of what the entire nation of Israel was put on earth to do. If you remember as early, well it goes back even further, but one of the more explicit statements is Genesis chapter 12. That the nation of Israel and the various covenants that were given to them acting as tutors were meant for this nation to be a blessing to all of the nations. Now we know exactly how that's going to happen. Jesus Christ. But this would be an instance of this: that Jonah, as a representative of Israel, as a kind in a kind of living parable, is meant to bring the grace of God to the nations that are around them And Jonah as a representative of Israel is essentially standing for all of Israel, saying, we're not willing to take that role with regard to the rest of the people of the earth. It's a great commentary of problems they were having at the time. And that's what he's really pointing out here. You know what's the most fascinating thing? Let's see if you can guess. What is the most fascinating thing to me about this book? That's right. It ends with a question. That is just wild. That really blows my mind. I have a lot of thinking still to do about Jonah. I'll be thinking about Jonah until I die and probably afterward. But it ends with a question. And I think it's the perfect question put to Jonah as he represents Israel and put to Israel and then put to those who all of those who become God's copy Congregation. Listen to this question at the end. And should I not pity Nineveh, that great city in which are more than 120,000 persons who cannot discern between their right hand and their left? and much livestock. And I think that's really the heart of this book. And that's why the story is repeated twice. That's the question that would be posed to Israel, and it's the same question that's being posed to you The question could be put like this, especially since this was given to Jonah. Are you willing to take up God's commission of compassion to the nations or not? There's two models presented, speaking academically. Israel could take up the model that they are God's covenant people and that is reserved, all of those blessings are just reserved for them. them. Everyone else is a dog and will be outside of the circle reserved for the pit. The model that's being presented here is that Israel has been placed on earth in order to bring a blessing to all of the nations. And that that is God's commission. Now, there's some scripture that we have to read together to begin to see that Israel is not just those who have a genealogy, a genealogical line. with specific the specific Israel, but it's all those who, like Abraham, have become God's people by faith, both Jew and Gentile And so, as all of these various congregations form and the nation or city of God expands throughout the entire globe, the question of Jonah keeps being poured out to us. Will you take up my commission or not? Are you willing to tell people That upon repentance, mercy is offered and reconciliation will take place, or are you not? That's the question. And in every generation, each congregation will decide. And so it's placed before you also, and it is placed before me. Now Will you take up the Great Commission? So where we started in our sermon series is also where we're ending. And I think that's exactly how this book is structured. So what I want to do now is I just want to build up a little bit and connect this more to Jesus Christ so that you can begin to see this. same thing that Jesus Christ really does call you to take up the Great Commission as a congregation. Let me begin by just mentioning that reminding you and trying to draw some parallels here. I already stated to you that Jonah was an Israelite and he's representing that nation. within these stories. And as God interacts with Jonah, he's really talking to all of Israel, asking, are you going to take up being a blessing to the blessing to the nations or not? Now, what's interesting here is that we have Jonah, who is a servant of God and a representative of Israel. He ends up look, if you look at the poetry in chapter 2, with that psalm of thanksgiving. He goes to Sheol at the bottom of the sea. That specific language is mentioned. But then he is raised again and sent to preach repentance to Nineveh, but he ends up rebelling. So Jonah's answer to God is no, I'm not willing. But can you think of another Israelite who was willing, who also went down to Sheol, but then was raised back up again? I don't think that this is definitely not a coincidence. I'm not just doing some kind of crazy medieval exegesis here Jesus Christ is the representative of true Israel. He is a servant of God. If you read Isaiah, the servant songs for Israel. example, and he goes to Sheol or dies, and he's raised again. And instead of saying no to God, he brings the message of repentance and grace to the nations. Listen to Matthew twelve, thirty-nine through forty. Jesus answered and said to them, An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and no sign will be given it to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. Now, in that same gospel in Matthew 12, after Christ is raised from the dead and before his ascension, he says this. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all of the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. And it continues from there. I just want to show you this parallel that's going on where we finally do have a servant of God, a prophet, and a priest and a king, rising up, and God gives him his commission, and as the good son, he says yes. But he doesn't only, he doesn't just have a prophetic ministry himself. He passes on by way of the Holy Spirit his prophetic ministry to his congregation. That's one of the insights that uh William Perkins has in his writings. When he looks at Isaiah and he sees a prophetic ministry being given there to Jesus Christ. He says that's true. That Jesus Christ does in fact own the prophetic ministry of preaching the gospel to all of the nations. But you know, he makes this observation, but you know, if you talk to the nations after the ascension of Jesus Christ, Christ was not walking around with them personally. as their personal prophet. So how is it that Jesus Christ is exercising his prophetic ministry of the gospel today? He's doing it by way of his spirit in his congregation, especially amongst the preached word. But it can also happen in conversation, as we'll see in just a moment. You see there that though Jonah said no Jesus Christ says yes, and that Jesus Christ is not just a prophet walking around the earth still, but instead sends his Holy Spirit that he would work through his body who is his Congregation and that is you. Different ways for different giftings. And the question that's placed for you now is besides this just looking at Jonah and saying Will you take up the commission as we see in Jonah? Now I can ask the question even more poignantly for all of us: will you follow Christ? Will you take up his commission that he works through you as the great prophet? You know, it's not only apostles who were given this task, and it's not only preachers and teachers who are given this task. They certainly have a role within the kingdom But in Acts 11, 19 through 26, we see that there's a lot of different people talking about the gospel And it's just through that chatter and that conversation that Christ even there uses his prophetic power to show forth his glory in the gospel and to bring people into his In Acts eleven, nineteen through twenty-six, it says, this is when they're scattered. Now those who were scattered after the persecution that arose over Seb And traveled as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch, preaching the word to no one but the Jews only. But some of them were men from Cyprus and Cyrene. Who, when they had come to Antioch, spoke to the Hellenists. Now we're moving into a different nation, preaching the Lord Jesus. And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord. And then if you were to keep going in that passage, jumping down to 26, the church had become so large just from this uh from this teaching and people talking about what had happened in Jerusalem with the Jesus Christ. They that Barnabas has to go and find Paul, and then it says in verse 26 of this chapter, and when he found him, he brought him to Antioch. And so it was that for a whole year they assembled with the church and taught a great many people And the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch. Here we see this unfolding and the gospel message starting to reach different lands because of this scattering. And Jesus Christ exercising his prophetic ministry as the servant of God, doing so through his body, that the church would grow. You know, earlier on in the series we used Paul, but especially Peter, to try to understand this transition that needs to take place within human hearts. Chase did a good job of capturing that this morning as he e expressed his frustration and then the shift he had to do in caring about the people of Annapolis instead of just hating. them. We've looked at Peter to try to understand that. And I want to remind you of his journey a little bit, but then I want to share with you the end of his journey. And I want to tell you it's a good story. It's good news. If you'll remember, in Acts chapter 10, verses 15 through 16, there is the vision of the sheep coming down with what he called unclean animals, which had been unclean in the past. And he says, I would never take up and eat. And a voice spoke to him again the second time and said, What God has cleansed you must not call common. And this was done three times, and the object was taken up into heaven. Now we know that this was to prepare Peter, who had some real struggles like the rest of us. This was to prepare him for receiving the delegation from Cornelius. He was now going to move from having preached at Pentecost especially to the Jews, to now a kind of Gentile Pentecost where he is going to be preaching to Cornelius. And he'll see the Holy Spirit descend upon them. When they heard these things, and so Peter uh gives an account of this to his brothers, trying to help them to understand understand that God is opening the doors to the kingdom, that Gentiles would become co-heirs, and our brothers and our sisters As the people of God. And he says there's a the last part of his argument in Acts 11:18, when they heard these things, they became silent and they glorified God, saying, Then God has also granted to the Gentiles repentance to life. Jesus Christ says yes. Jonah said no. Jesus Christ says yes, he sends his spirit to his disciples in order to ensure that his prophetic ministry would go forth. And now we're seeing that the prophetic ministry was not only to the Jews, but to all of the nations, as Jonah was to have realized. And all of these disciples are starting to partake in it, including Peter, but Peter has this problem. We remember in Galatians 2, 11 through 12, that when he had come to Antioch, remember that church that we just read about, Paul had to withstand him to his face because he was to be blamed. For before certain men came from James, he would eat with the Gentiles, but when they came, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing those who were of the circumcision. Acting out that they were unclean. And so Paul has to rebuke him and ask the question: how does the person become clean anyway? It's not through religious rites, it's through Jesus Christ. That's how we become clean. Now you wonder, how'd it go for Peter being rebooted like that in public? Did he eventually start to learn his lesson? I think that he did. I'm sure he had struggles just like the rest of us have struggles. with this in taking up and saying yes to the Great Commission. Peter really struggled as a Jonah figure. But you know, I want you to turn to 2 Peter chapter 3, verse 9, and I just want you to see something. of the work the gracious work of God in Peter to where he didn't keep saying no He said yes. I will take up the Great Commission even at great cost to myself. This is really beautiful. This is at the end of an argument Where there are people saying that God will not be judging the earth. And so Peter is giving different arguments as to no, he said that he would. And then you can see here in this passage that perhaps some are saying That he's late. I think that would be making fun of God. And so Peter points out, and he says, in a paraphrase, the Lord's not late. In the NKJV it says the Lord is not slack concerning his promise. some count slackness. Now he's going to give an explanation here as to why the, this is a question that is throughout the scripture. Why are the wicked still present and God has not brought total judgment on the world, making the new heavens and the new earth? And here he gives the answer. He helps you to see into the divine counsel as to why God conducts himself the way that he does. Chase brought up the Pride Festival in Annapolis. Why is that still allowed to happen when God is in charge? And here is the answer. It is because God is long-suffering And I just want you to remember this is coming from Peter. Peter's trying to figure this out too. And Peter comes to the conclusion because he's long-suffering toward us or their variant you Well why? Why is he long-suffering? Does his patience, does his divine patience serve a particular goal, aim, or Well yeah it does. It's after the comma. It's because God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Man, do you see the change that must have happened in Peter's heart in order to be able to write this down and to say See, I bet you he really wrestled with how God operates. And then he's able to see the lesson that Jonah was supposed to see. That Jonah even pronounced earlier in the chapter that God is slow to anger. This is from Jonah. God is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abundant and loving kindness, one who relents from doing harm. And Peter had to go on that journey to realize even towards the people that have blasphemed blasphemed your name, even Even the people that have sacrificed children, even those who are Sodomites, just like Sodom and Gomorrah. It's not taken care of because God is long-suffering that perhaps they would repent. And they therefore would not perish. Now that is real maturity in Peter. And it's there that you can begin to see that he's going to have all kinds of sacrifices. That he's going to have to make. He's still going to have to keep putting up with evil people because God isn't judging yet. But he's willing to now I suspect because his heart has become like God's heart. And that is our journey also. You know, I'm asking you the question, will you follow Christ in the Great Commission? The answer will be yes or it will be no. Jay shared with us that his heart was geared toward no. But then a woman handing him a tract, his heart said yes. Thank you so much for that example. That really encouraged me. I've been thinking a lot about what's going on down there. You know, the final thing I'll share with you is I know that you've heard this before. But sometimes people paint us as Christians as, well, what would it mean for us to be long-suffering and call people to repentance? And I know that you've heard this before, but some people paint the picture of us as if all we're really trying to do is to figure out where somebody is having fun and try to stop it. That is such a mischaracterization of God's Great Commission and the task, therefore, that He has given to you. Like Jonah. You can be consumed with anger and indifference, or you can say yes. And I'll end that with a question. Which do you want? Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you once again for the inscripturated word. It is truly a lamp unto our feet. We can see Jesus Christ how you work through your word and the preached word and prophetic ministry, not in person, but by your spirit Oh Lord Jesus Christ, pray that you would look down at this congregation and up to be. Lord, if we believe that they were truly in a dire. Lord Jesus Christ, please work in this congregation. Make them not into a philosophical community, not into a scientific community, but into a prophetic community. Lord, I ask that they would do so in all of their deeds, showing that the kingdom in fact has come on earth as it is in heaven. And that therefore there must be given an explanation, and therefore the gospel message. I pray that you would show this congregation how to enculturate those whom you bring into your kingdom.