Judges eight, thirty-three through thirty-five. So it was As soon as Gideon was dead, that the children of Israel again played the harlot with the Baals, and made Baal Barit their God. Thus the children of Israel did not remember the Lord their God, who had delivered them from the hands of all their enemies on every side Nor did they show kindness to the house of Jerubel Gideon, in accordance with the good things he had done for Israel. Amen. Let us pray. Father, you have sent your only begotten Son that we might be united with him by the Spirit. And in this relation, Lord, it is our great hope and actually your great promise that we are your sons. Lord, that we are your daughters. We ask, therefore, Lord, this morning for the privileges and the benefits of such a status. We pray that you would illuminate our hearts and our minds, that you would strengthen us that we might work for you in service of you. And Lord, we ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Judges has been a series where we are learning one symptom after another Of becoming worldly as the church. The point of learning the symptoms is to not suffer the disease. to stay away from the sicknesses we've seen in the past. It's not a deterministic pronouncement that you are doomed to suffer these same things. In fact, it is our prayer that we would not walk into the same foolishness that we see within the book of Judges. The symptom that we saw last week, the one symptom of worldliness of Christians, is that we can abuse power. That's not isolated to just Christians, but we can partake of that. And we read of our Savior who has all power in heaven and earth. From John chapter 13, verses 14 through 16, as the model for us. If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. Most assuredly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is he who is sent greater than he who sent him This example of Christ in the Gospel of John is not him pushing away all power and refusing to hold any. It is him using his power for the glory of God and the good of others, which is what we're called to. In Christ and by his spirit May we use our power as our Lord uses his. Now for this short paragraph that we have, ending the, well, we're going to move on to Gideon's son. But ending the Gideon cycle insofar as we're dealing with Gideon. I want to make a few observations about verses 33 through 35, and then I have two points. Of application. So really, there's one observation today, but it has three parts. If you look at verse 33, Gideon dies. And then the rest of the paragraph is just letting you know. three evils that the Israelites entered into once he was no longer present as a kind of cap or limitation for their sin. We don't think that Gideon is sinless, but you can see right from this paragraph that by way of the Lord and his grace, Gideon did some good. And one of those goods is that with him present, there was a limit to their sin. Well, he's not present. And so there goes the limit. So we end up seeing three evils played out amongst Israel, and boy are they familiar from the rest of the cycles So here's the first evil. They first play the harlot, notice the adultery language, entering into a covenant with the local god Baal. Take a look at that verse there. That the children of Israel again played the harlot with the Baels. Now you see after the Kama, and they made Baal Baarit their God. That's Baal the God of the covenant. That's what's going on here. The word made there, they made. I'm sorry, I just lost my place. And made, that's a point. They are actively leaving Yahweh and his covenant, and they're appointing another God who is now in covenant with them. That's really important to see. Would you like to see a picture of what that looks like practically? Of course you would. And you really have no choice because I have the mic. So here's Judges chapter 9, verse 46. Here's a real practical expression of what it would mean for them to enter into a covenant with Baal. Now, when all the men of the Tower of Shechem had heard that, that there was basically doom descending upon them in the form of Abimelech, they entered the stronghold of the temple of the god Barit Okay? So what this reveals is that the Israelites had turned to a Canaanite God for divine protection. Have you ever seen the um the stories where When all hope is lost, people run to the church and they cry sanctuary. Well that's what they're doing here. They're crying sanctuary, but they're not in God's temple. They're in the temple of the God that they made covenant, a covenant with They put themselves, another word, and this is going to be a key word for the sermon, they put themselves under the patronage of a local Canaanite God. This is typical for all of the people of this land, minus Israel. It should not have been for them. But basically, each pagan tribe would have a God over them, promising them a good harvest. Protection from bordering nations and other kinds of prosperity. This is recorded in a lot of different documents, even within the scriptures themselves. Israel was supposed to look to Yahweh for these things exclusively, to no other God, but that's not what we see here. They left their heavenly husband, to go back to the language of harlotry, and they found security in the arms of another God. That's the first evil. Notice the second evil. The second evil is really explaining what's going on there with the first. Why would they leave Yahweh and find another patron? The answer is in verse 34. They did not remember the Lord their God. This is a phrase that is repeated throughout the scriptures. You just heard it from Chase as a part of the fourth command. They're not talking about suffering literal amnesia. They assuredly, this same generation, remember the sword of the Lord in the recent defeat of the Midianites Their problem, though, is one of faith and one of hope. The former works that the Lord had done, they no longer hold sway and power in their present decisions. The works of the Lord that they were to remember from former generations, like him drying up the Red Sea and defeating Pharaoh and his army. Those works were meant to speak to who God is and that we can rely on Him. And the fact that He had entered into covenant with us and that He is a faithful God means we don't need to look for anyone else. But they forgot all of that. There must have been events that had happened, and they began to doubt. There was something that entered into their life and took that diamond of faith and thought Popped it right out. They lost their hope that Yahweh was there for them, and so they turned to another patron. That's evil number two. Evil number three, which we won't dwell on this morning, but just make a note of it. The third evil relates to their relationship with Gideon in his house. Gideon did good for Israel. Think about the story that we just went through with the cycle. Israel was groaning under the Midianites, who were like locusts devouring their lives. God eventually, in this patience, raises up Gideon to deliver them. They are in fact delivered, and now with Gideon dead, the nation shows no gratitude to Gideon's family. You can see that there's a kind of correspondence that when God is abandoned, so too will his servants be abandoned also. Those are the three evils that we see here, and we can summarize it like this. It's really just it's very easily taken from the passage. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is to forget the one God. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is to forget the one God. And I'm talking about the kind of forgetting, that thick forgetting that we're talking about. Loss of faith and loss of hope. It's another symptom of becoming worldly. Well, I'd like to ask the Holy Spirit to pile drive two applications in your heart this morning. Forgetting God and faithful Christians. Those are the two application points. Forgetting God and faithful Christians. And I pray that He would drive these into your heart Let's start with forgetting God. I just want to understand this a little bit better by way of patronage. When the residents of Shechem needed help, they ran to the house of another God. One way to understand this is through the concept of the patron or patronage, which is what I told you a little bit earlier. Have you heard this language before? What is a patron? Some of you may have supported somebody on Patreon. It's the same kind of thing. These days, if we talk about a patron, it basically means a person who gives financial support as they seek to launch their small business or try to make their hobby into a livelihood. But the word is much older than that use of it, though even that use is derived from this. It's from the Latin. And the idea is of a protector or a defender. Now I'm going to say it and in a certain way, and let's see if you can start to notice this link with a very famous story you're aware of. with the idea of patron, defender, and protector, and it's this, Patronus. Have you heard that before? Does anybody know? You're just looking at me. You're embarrassed that I'm bringing up Harry Potter from the pulpit. I get it. Let's just move on. Let's move on. I saw like all the kids like, don't look at me. That is the same the same meaning is brought being brought out in the Harry Potter series that he can he has a charm that one of the things it does is it protects him or gives him defense It is a defense, and that is derived from the ancient meaning of the word. That is what's going on here to understand judges in this context. In the context of judges, Israel appointed Baal As their patron. This meant that they looked to Baal for their land and for their produce. For defense of the borders of the land from invading armies, and for government, and for laws and for royal power to uphold social order. All of these things are delivered to you from your patron, your patron deity. Are you beginning to see, if you turn from Yahweh and to another for all of those things, how serious that is? Look at the depth and how deep that runs within that society if that's what's going on. Do you see why it would be called a forgetting? Think of it this way. If you already have Yahweh as your patron, why would you turn to another patron, especially after all of the works that He has demonstrated for you? And earlier generations. Here's what's going on. At some point, in some set of circumstances, they determined that Yahweh was not trustworthy and they needed to run into the arms of another God. I want you to remember Gideon's statement from early on in the cycle. Do you remember how he characterized the God of Israel? The God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, he said this. Gideon said to him, speaking to the angel of the Lord, O my Lord, if the Lord is with us, why then has all this happened to us? You see how circumstances came in, and they're causing people to raise certain questions about the faithfulness of God? If He's really with us, why have these things happened to us? That sounds very familiar to pretty much everybody's human predicament, but he goes on and he says, And where are all his miracles which our fathers told us about? That reminds me of when I had the youth over my house quite often, and they'd say, I would just believe and I would obey my parents if God would show up and show some of the miracles that he used to do, and I would say, no, you wouldn't You'll never obey your parents until Jesus returns. But that's the same thing that Gideon is saying. And where are all his miracles which our fathers told us about saying, did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt? And now listen to this final phrase from Gideon, because this is capturing the book and hearts of where Israel has returned. But now the Lord has forsaken us. That is the exact opposite of what the Lord says in Joshua. I will never leave you nor forsake you. And how many other times does he say that? But something has taken place within the lives and the heart of these people that is captured in the words of Gideon, but now the Lord has forsaken us and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites. This is the mindset where the next step for that person is to say, I want a different patron. Boom. And that's exactly what the people did at that time. Now they did this with What they know to be patrons. And for us today, we wouldn't make the same choices. We would choose something within a secular lifestyle to replace Yahweh and find him no longer needed In fact, did you know that on recent religious surveys trying to find out what is the religious state of the United States of America America, do you know what the growing category is on the survey? None. None. Isn't that interesting? There's no reason for God any longer. But how could that be since we all still have the same human needs? It means they are being met by another patron. At least that's what they're thinking. And that's the same thing that's going on here within the book of Judges. That's what it means to forget God, and that's a little bit of the path of moving towards forgetfulness. Now, what I want to do now is I want to look at an example of faithful Christians. Because that's not what we want. We don't want those symptoms, we don't want that sickness. Let's just quarantine them. And move on. And I want to talk about faithful Christians here. I try to do research. That's one of the things that I'm supposed to be doing all the time as a pastor. And one of the things I've been trying to research is God's providence in particular groups of people. In other words, how is it that we can see God helping Christians who are suffering in China? What about in Africa What about all of these different places? Where can I see tangible, a tangible picture of God working in a group of people, and then what does it look like for them not to forget God, but to remain faithful to God So I could choose any hosts of people, but this morning, because of the reading that I have been doing, I want to share with you a group of people and their faith. They have faced great adversity and yet did not appoint another patron. And that is the example of African Americans under slavery. African American, not just in general, but Christians, those who had been given faith from the Son and the Holy Spirit. They faced horrible conditions in slavery, but kept looking to Yahweh for deliverance. And you know what I find to be a very important question? Is how in the world did they do that? Why didn't they, given all of their various circumstances, go for another patron? Did it not look like God had forsaken them? Why did they stay with him? I want to know, so that I can benefit from their own experiences. Now, this is the way I want you to picture this so it doesn't seem too academic, although I'm reading African-American theology. But I don't want it to seem academic. I do you did you grow up with grandparents? Of course you did. I remember sitting at my grandmother's feet or my grandfather or even my great-grandparents And I would have all these questions mostly about the war and can I have the gun and that kind of stuff. I never did get it Somewhere in the family. But we would ask questions like that. How many miles did you have to walk to school? Did you have both shoes or just one shoe? Was it through the snow? You know, all those questions about the old days in Pennsylvania on the dairy farm. And we would sit at their feet and keep asking them questions. And even as we got older, we start re- started recording their answers. So that we'd have some kind of memory of them. Do you did you do something like that with your par your grandparents or your great-grandparents just to remember what it was like and how they lived Well, that's how I want us to picture ourselves this morning. I want you to picture yourself at sitting at the feet of the grandparents and the great-grandparents. Who are African Americans who actually, as Christians, experienced a loss of civil rights and who experienced slavery? I want you to sit at their feet, and I want you to hear from them what they have to teach you so that you don't go running to the arms of another God. Because some of them didn't. They spoke about God and they spoke about Him in a way that made all of the difference. They broke it down as I was doing my reading. They broke these things down into basically two main things that the church must never forget. You must never lose these two things according to this community. Do not lose your hope. Very important. Do not lose your hope. Do you see how that could be important to them? Second thing, do not forget that you are a part of a people. You are not just yourself, you're a part of a people that goes back even to those who are dead. Two very important things for the church to not run into the same worldliness running after another patron. So let's look at hope first. One black theologian says this: Hope is one of the pillars of African American religious life. Black Christians have come this far by faith Which is another way of saying we have come this far by hope. And then I love it, he quotes John Calvin, who's a Frenchman, by the way. The two are ultimately inseparable. As John Calvin famously noted in his Institutes, faith is the foundation on which hope rests. Hope nourishes and sustains faith. Now listen to this. This is how they break it down. What faith believes, hope expects it. Do you see that? Isn't that beautiful? What faith believes, hope expects. Think of all that you have expressed today in song that you believe, and then expect those things. Expect him to be that way. Expect that future. That's hope. Faith believes that God is true. Hope expects that in due season he will manifest his truth. Faith believes that he is our Father Hope expects that he will always act the part of a father toward us. Isn't that beautiful? As we sit at their feet, the grandmothers and the grandfathers, this is what they're teaching us: hope. Hope for the black community was rooted in the faith and hope that the God of the end time is also the God of the present time. God is our present Redeemer as well as our future judge. This faith has kept us alive when there was no tangible basis for hope Our faith in God has kept hope alive. And that is a reality that you may be unfamiliar with. But this is a reality that Christ has given to his church and his providence for them not to run to another patron. And I encourage you to hold on to hope. And here's the second lesson. There are many more lessons, but I just brought two. The second lesson is to remember that you belong to a people. This is a slightly different statement than what we say around here usually. We say community is important. Make sure you're chipping in. This is different than that. This is saying, it includes that, but this is different. It says, remember that you're a part of a people. It's like this. I got caught lying when I was younger. You want to know what the primary rebuke is? When I got caught lying. It's the same one I gave to my children. You are a crutchly. Crutchleys do not lie. He asked my children if I've said that to them. They said, yes, he did. It was very scary. Because I am a part of a people. Do you see what I'm saying? And that's what they're bringing forward. They want to carry forward the faith exercised by their great-grandparents They want to tap all the way back into Sarah and Abraham and their faith. This is another way of the application of the cloud of witnesses. Is to know that you are a part of a people. Listen to this. African-American great-grandmothers asked these kinds of questions rhetorically. What is one woman? What is one man standing against the forces of sin and death? To stand, we must stand in the name of the suffering and conquering one and in the locked, armed power of community. It is difficult to remain in the pit of despair, and notice this language, and shackled by hopelessness when we remember and know that we are a part of a people. Remembering that we belong to a collective, a people, a body, is a ladder out of the pit. A lifeline in the valley of death, the breaking of dawn in the hour of utter darkness Whether we are black or we are white or whatever ethnicity, we remember the community to which we belong. That's the main point. The church is a people who have endured by the power of Jesus Christ in hope and grace and faith That is their legacy if you read Hebrews 11. That is the point of that passage, is for you to see in Hebrews 11 the people to which you belong. You have the same spirit. As a people, we have been afflicted in every way, but not crushed. We have been perplexed, but not driven to despair. We have been rejected by all manner of people, but we are always embraced by the God who stands over all. That is in common across the train and cloud of witnesses that goes back to the beginning. One black author puts it like this: thus, despair when you realize that you're a part of that people with the same spirit who worked in all those people. Thus despair, as tempting as it is, is actually experientially lacking when we look at the history of the church. For we are a communal people, and guess what? We're still standing. No matter what you have tried, world, we are still standing by the grace of God. More than that, and I love this, he goes on, this one black theologian he says, and by the way, despair is a theological falsehood. For Christ, who suffered for us, like us, and with us, guess what? He's risen. And he is our champion. We shall follow in his train. These, my friends, are the two realities which taught the black church. Whether black or white or whatever, we must cling to our hope. And we must remember that we belong to a people. Those are both two biblical means that God teaches us to not run to another patron, whether the circumstances are slavery or whatever it is. It is hope and remembering to who you belong Remember your ancestry. God taught those black communities deep wisdom, which is why I wanted to bring it to you here this morning. That is scripture applied. In a specific group of people. That is the grace of Christ applied in a specific group of people, and then we can learn as we sit at their feet. What do you have to learn from God through them and their experiences? Were there any lessons that you could take this morning? Whatever it is that you're facing in your circumstances, when you sit at the feet of these grandmothers and grandfathers, what changes in your outlook? Were you getting a little weak in the knees and you wanted to quit the race? They're looking at you and you say, Don't do that. Don't you know the hope that you have based on the faith that you express? Don't you know who God is? Don't you know the people that you belong to united by the same spirit? What are you facing? Is it time to pile drive basic truths like these back into your heart? I didn't say anything theologically complicated up here Is it time to look up to the horizon again and sing like they would have sang while working? Look up to the horizon and sing and imagine with hope those truths coming true in the future. What is draining you? What is draining you? What's making you feel like uh not enough butter over too much bread Is it time for you to remember that you are a part of a people called Christians? Do you not know who we are? We are the church. Look at your ancestry. You belong to a people filled with a spirit that does not quit. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is to forget the one God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. God tells us about these symptoms so that by grace we, the church today, may avoid the sickness altogether. And I end with this: a verse we have heard so many times, but how meaningful is it? Therefore, we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, Let us run. Let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking on to Jesus. Amen. Amen. Let us pray.