Looking at the first six verses. Although this vision that we see here from heaven continues well into the ch into chapter twelve. I only have time to deal with the first six verses, and I will mention verse seventeen towards the end. So please follow along with me in verses one through six, chapter twelve, the book of Revelation. Now a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a garland of twelve stars. Then being with child, she cried out in labor and in pain to give birth. And another sign appeared in heaven. Behold! A great fiery red dragon having seven heads and ten horns and seven diadems on his head His tail drew a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was ready to give birth to devour her child as soon as it was born. She bore a male child who was to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. And her child was caught up to God and his throne. Then the woman fled into the wilderness where she has a place prepared by God, and they that they should feed her there 1,260 days. Please pray with me. Lord, we are so often, well, every moment of our lives left to ourselves confined to our own perspective, and how limited it is. But here, Lord, you raise us up into the heavens to see through your eyes. Help us to understand what you see through these symbols. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. But you would go there in the cool question. A rugged cowboy with five o'clock shadow rides in and saves the woman and her children from the greedy rich man. Do you recognize the scene? It's been played with over and over and over again That scene. You could substitute different characters and different roles within that scene, but it shows up in countless movies and in countless books Here's another one from of old. For example, the prince sweeps in on a white horse and rescues the damsel in distress. You were to put him in a cowboy outfit instead, it would change it to a western. And we recognize this. We see that there are archetypes or types of characters that are played out in each movie and each story. And that's part of the fun of the I wonder if you could think of some others in your favorite stories and your favorite movies that transcend movies that are that are characters that capture something of the essence of what it means to be a a human and to be be uh postured towards the world in a certain way, whether as a hero or as a villain. There are all types of characters that show up again and again in books and movies. The ones I've listed and the ones that you might be thinking of Well, just as our culture has familiar characters that we recognize, like the Western or like the Knight or the Prince, So too does the culture of the scriptures. They have a series of characters that would have just stood out to the original recipients of these writings Last week we noticed the character of Joseph and Herod and Jesus, and we were capturing them in the story of the Nativity, but we saw archetypes or types that were laid over top of them that everyone would have recognized that was familiar with the scriptures. Although Joseph and Herod and Jesus are are obviously real historical characters, we saw that their types were Moses. Pharaoh and Israel as a nation. And we brought that out as Matthew developed it. Well this week we have some characters. Just like we would see in movies or like we see within the scriptures last week in Matthew. And actually, I hope you notice, but chapter 12, verses 1 through 6 is still a story of the nativity. But it is a book of Revelation that we don't often get to. And this time, because it is in that genre, the symbolism stands out to you more than perhaps it would have if you were reading Matthew. And that gives us a lot of help because we're prepared for it. We're ready for symbols and that the the individual characters are not just the characters, they're standing. for something much bigger. And that's what we have here. We have these three characters. And that's really what I want to look at in terms of the nativity to understand the coming, the first and the second advent of Jesus Christ. Christ. We have the symbols of the woman, we have the symbol of the dragon, and we have the symbol of the child. And then lastly, in the conclusion, we really need to think about what does this have to do with us as a church? Because the church is also present here. The woman, the dragon, and the child. So let's begin with the woman. This gives me great pleasure. To speak from Revelation on the woman, because there's so so many times that there are derogatory things Reference from the scriptures about women. And here, this section, the woman is nothing but glorious, which is right, because women are glorious You see here the woman first in verse 1 we meet with the woman of heavenly glory. Now a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a garland of twelve stars She wears the sun, she wears all of these celestial objects as her dress. How could you be more glorious than this, standing on uh on these these kinds of things? You'll notice if you were to read through the book of Revelation that main characters like this, like the woman or the dragon or others, are clothed. And they're clothed with very specific things to let you know what kind of character they are. The dragon, and if you we'll get into this, is clothed in such a way to where you know that's the villain. That's the evil one. The woman is clothed in such a way to where you know this is the good one. And she is glorious. And that's how we are to recognize her. And that immediately puts us on the trail in looking through the scriptures. Remember, if you were If you were aware of what the scriptures say in their entirety, you will see not just this woman, but most women from the scriptures In this woman. For example, you would see the glorious woman of Proverbs 31. The woman is so glorious that her children stand when she enters the room and they bless her name. And her husband, it says literally, praises her because of the glory of her productivity. And creativity, as really it's a picture of a small businesswoman in that proverb. But then we could turn also to the Song of Songs, which not many of us have looked at lately. It's actually a glorious book, also full of symbolism. The husband counts all of her glory in chapter 6, enumerating symbolically her every body part. And depicting it in glorious imagery. In chapter 6, verse 10, I'd encourage you to look at this later. It says this: Who is she who looks forth as the morning, fair as the moon, clear as the sun, awesome as an army with banners He's speaking about the woman there. So you can see that this woman here in Revelation is a line of other glorious women that are types or archetypes that we see throughout the scriptures But she's not just a good, glorious woman, she's also pregnant in verse 2. Then being with child, she cried out in labor and in pain to give birth. She therefore, in addition to the Proverbs 31 woman, in addition to Solomon's bride, is also a kind of Eve who is cursed. She stands as a woman glorious, and of course Eve is glorious. But she is also in deep affliction, and of course, Eve moved into deep affliction in her glory. Under the curse of God. It says in Genesis 3:16 to the woman, he said, I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception. In pain you shall bring forth children. Your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. And in those verses is a whole story of womanhood and what it means in part to be a woman. And surely also we must notice that her labor is representative not only of Eve but of Mary, particularly if this is a scene of the nativity, giving birth to the Christ child. And I hope that became obvious as we were reading. For example, from Luke 1, 34 and 35, then Mary said to the angel, How can this be since I do not know a man That's a reasonable question on her part, by the way. And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore also, that Holy One who is to be born will be called the Son of God. But it ends up being bigger than all of these women and that are glorious. You have the Proverbs 31 woman, you have the Bride of Solomon, you have Eve, and you have Mary. We could talk about Rahab and we could talk about others. Who have these particular kinds of glory that are manifested, but it all starts to come together and mesh together as feminine names are also given to cities and to an entire group of people. And so we can't just focus on those individual women. We can't say that Mary is clothed with the sun and the moon only Mary And that she wears this garland of stars only, that would be to ignore the total brilliant effect of the whole heavenly vision as God is synthesizing and bringing all things together here. The vision stands for no single woman, but the elect woman of all history, the church. That's really how we see it developed within the book of Revelation. By the time you get to 21. It is the bride of Christ, the church, standing there in all of her glory. Spotless, blameless. and good deeds, full of love. And in fact, you'll notice this even in our passage in verse 1, it says, the woman of the heavens wears twelve stars, and you know that this symbolizes the twelve tribes of Israel, or in other words, the full number of the elect of God. That's what's going on here. Now you can see language like this anticipated in earlier scriptures. For example, in Micah 4, 9 through 12. It does speak about the people of God and the city in which they dwell as one who is pregnant and about to give birth. For example, for pangs have seized you like a woman in labor, speaking of Jerusalem. Be in pain and labor to bring forth, O daughter of Zion, like a woman in birth tanks. Speaking about the coming of the Messiah, that she would give birth to him. Or again in Isaiah 26, 17, and I could go on beyond this, but as a woman with child is in pain and cries out in her pangs when she draws near the time of her delivery, so have we been in your sight, O Lord. People of God have always been thought of as a great bride in their city, even in the gender as feminine in the language of Hebrew. And thus what we have here in our first character is the church. Seeing throughout all of history in her consummate glory. laboring to that one moment that she had awaited all of her life since after the fall. She is pregnant with the child. And she's contracting. And the contractions are getting closer. And so with Revelation I say to you, Behold the great sign of heaven, the woman, the children. But that's only the first sign. Did you notice that it said in twelve one? Now a great sign. Now when I when I preach through the book of Revelation we'll go through what all that means. But I just want you to notice that there's the first sign. Now we have in verse 3 another sign and that moves us into our next point which has to To do with the dragon, because the woman is not the only heavenly vision that we have. We have here a real drama unfolding. We have a dragon who enters the scene in verse 3. And I want you to let me read this to you. And another sign appeared in heaven. Behold, a great fiery red dragon having seven heads and ten horns and seven diadems on his heads. In verse 4, it says that his tail drew a third of the stars of heaven and drew them to the earth. Now you notice those three symbols in the beginning. That he is a fiery red dragon having seven heads, ten horns, and ten diat or seven diadems. I won't belabor these points. Let me just point out to you that the seven heads symbolize as the number seven does But here, because of his character, it is the perfection of his evil and of his evil plans. Not just of his being, but the manifestation The ten horns, if you were to have read the book of Daniel, stand out as an obvious with an obvious meaning because they've literally been interpreted by us by the Holy Spirit in the book of Daniel. Daniel. And the ten horns remind us of that image in Daniel 8, symbolizing empires that are set on destroying God's designs and people. And then you have the seven diadems or crowns on the beast's head. And this also is something from Daniel, where it is a pretended authority and rule. All of the same imagery is used and interpreted in the book of Daniel, and it is replicated here within this passage. And like I said, if you were a part of this culture, if you were raised on the scriptures, especially the book of Daniel. You would recognize all of this as easy as you recognize a cowboy or a prince saving the damsel. Before us, we see the devil himself, embodied as a great dragon who manifests himself in powerful empires throughout history You know, it could be the primordial empire of fallen angels who set themselves to deceive Adam and Eve in the garden. That certainly would have been an act of the dragon. Or it could have been the Egyptian Empire, who was likened to a great sea monster or a dragon. In fact, it says in Ezekiel 29, 3, Behold, I am against you, O Pharaoh, king of Egypt, O great monster who lies in the midst of the rivers. He literally calls the pharaoh a dragon, because that's the kind of character that he is in the story. Behind them all, recognize, wherever you are in history and wherever these empires rise and fall, and you can read about those empires in Daniel. Behind them all, as we see here in this vision, the great dragon, the devil, lies behind them all like a puppet master pulling the strings of kings. and presidents and armies and r and the resources of entire nations and movements, so as to verse 4, not the stars, God's people, out of the sky. And you can think of specific examples of that, even if you were to go through right after the Nativity story of John the Baptist, a great thing. Great star being knocked out of the sky, with his head being chopped off by Herod. The dragon stood before the woman. We read on. who was ready to give birth to devour her child as soon as it was born. Do you see how he's acting as he has always acted? And do you see how it's not just the great dragon, but the dragon ruling over empires to do his work? Behold the work of the dragon in the story of the nativity as we read last week, in a more historical setting Last week we gained a great vision and a vantage point to see Herod as the Pharaoh. He's the sea monster in the story, the dragon. And the dragon is using him, the great dragon, to kill the infant males of Israel because he's so frustrated that he couldn't get his hands on the Christ. But here in Revelation, as we still keep that historical moment in mind, we're taken past a high point where we can see the Matthew narrative as an as an exodus. And we're brought all the way up into heaven itself to where we can see how God sees things. And Herod is the historical figure who acts like Pharaoh, who is controlled by the great dragon from of old. And the devil is pulling all the strings and using all of Herod's resources and power, sending out soldiers to find out where the Christ is to be born and to hunt him down and to kill all males two years and under. And that is the second sign. Behold the second sign of the nativity. The nativity. I still haven't seen nativities like this on your front lawns with the dragon. The great dragon and all his children seeking to destroy the Christ child. And that brings us, of course, to the child. A major figure here in verse 5, as a part of the nativity. It speaks of the woman again. She bore a male child who was to rule all the nations with a rod of iron, and her child was caught up to God and his throne. The time of labor has arrived. The woman pushes. And verse 5: the child is born Christmas morning has arrived, but it has a different flavor because of the dragon that has been present, doesn't it? Do you feel the tension and drama that you normally wouldn't feel? Now we see Santa Claus as just an agent of Satan. Maybe. Jesus the Christ is born. Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people. For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest. And on earth earth peace, good will to men. And the shepherds came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger And you can see some of this in verse 5 with the way it's represented. This child was to rule the nations with a rod of iron. It's the same message that we would read in the Gospel accounts. We as the church hear the nativity story in this morning, but also verse 5 brings the nativity story together with the rest of the cross. Christ Child's life. Did you notice that? That you're pushed into the nativity and then you're immediately pushed. Well beyond to see the the whole meaning of the Christ Child. Look at verse 5 again. from Isaiah. But then he goes on and he says, and her child was caught up to God in his throne. There's a sense of immediacy there. He skips over the life and the death and the resurrection And the time with his disciples after the resurrection and immediately moves into his ascended glory. All as a part of the nativity. That's interesting how God views the nativity from heaven. And that's the nativity story that we have this morning. The woman is the church who gives birth to the long-awaited Christ, and the dragon seeks to destroy him. The child is born, but is caught up to God and his throne out of the reach of the devil. You have birth, and it immediately yields to ascension power. And you can see the emphasis there. Have you seen the nativity this way before? Did you realize, and I was getting into this last week with the Lord's Supper, did you realize the grand drama that you have been sucked into? We talked about this last week. You are a character in this story, one way or another. The heavenly woman is the church who has given birth to Jesus the Christ, who has defeated the work of the devil, and now he reigns from on high. It's a message that's not just in the book of Revelation, but it's through the whole scriptures. But we do have to ask this question as we think about These three characters and the meaning that comes out of those considerations. What about us? We are the glorious woman left behind. So to speak, with Christ and his ascended power. And you can see that in verse 6, can't you? Then the woman fled into the wilderness. Christ goes into his ascension safety, and we run away into the wilderness. We're still here on earth while Christ is in heaven. Christ may have ascended and he has, but the woman, the church, as you can see in verse 6, is still on earth and is now in the wilderness. And you know what that means is it means we're really on to something because In Matthew, we saw the Exodus theme, and now we're back to the wilderness and back to an Exodus theme in the book of Revelation. Just as God defeated the serpent Pharaoh in the Red Sea and brought the church into the wilderness, so too has Christ defeated the work of the devil and now rules, bringing his church you, into their own wilderness, awaiting his return. But is your whole story in the future of your story here in a nutshell? And we could put it in such personal terms because we are the body of Christ locally Particularly, we seven run are all in a place prepared by God, the wilderness, that we should be nurtured until the final time arrives for the second Do you see that that's what's happening also in verse 6? We did flee into the wilderness where she has a place prepared by God. That we would be fed for 1,260 days. A place of nurture, although still a wilderness. As our King, Jesus in every age nurtures his church in the wilderness until his second advent. When it won't just be a candle in hope of final peace, but it will be the real thing. All brought together under him Now let me draw your attention as a part of this application to verse 17 of chapter 12 also. Chapter 12, verse 17. I hear pages flipping, I'm not sure why. Chapter 12, verse 17. And the dragon was enraged with the woman. After Christ's ascension, the dragon is enraged with the woman, and he went out to make war with the rest of her offspring, namely you, who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus. The Christ, the church throughout all ages, including us. And so I have to say something else as a part of the application here is that we see Christ in ascension safety and we know that he nurtures his church. But there is a dragon in the wilderness. And I hear you saying in your mind, duh. And I just want to ask you, where have you seen the work of the devil on earth lately? Where do you see his gaping mouth think seeking to swallow anything good that could come of Christ's work through the church? Where do you see Christians tossed to and fro by every new teaching that seems to arrive coming out of whatever new philosophy? What nations and empires and industries and political movements and powerful industries are doing, individuals are doing his work Because remember, it's the great dragon as the puppet master who controls people in real historical moments and in history to seek to bring about the death of Christ in whatever way he can And when you think of all that, how could we ever light the candle? How could we dare have the theme of peace today? How can we celebrate peace when the dragon is in the wilderness? And you can see that sometimes he even has a foothold on our very children. Perhaps lighting the candle was me saying peace when there is in fact no peace, which would make me a kind of false prophet. That's what false prophet Prophets do. They say there's peace when there is no real peace. But there is real peace. Although the dragon is on the earth deceiving and persecuting the church A million ways. Christ reigns from heaven and will always nurture his church. And this may be difficult for you to understand that you are ruled and nurtured by one who is ascended in heaven, but this is how it has been going for thousands of years And Christ still has nurtured and fed the church to where you are in existence. Think of all of the persecution, think of all of the murders, think of all of the reproach. Think of all the philosophies that have stood against the church. Has one ever actually stood against her? Or does she still reign in glory? With all of her moral imperfection and stupid decisions that she makes while she's still being sanctified. And the closer that you get as one friend of mine said, the closer you get to the church, the uglier she becomes. But Jesus Christ will never let her die and her glory is soon to come. That is where our peace comes from. It comes from that deep-seated conviction, not in your inner potential as a corporate body, but because Christ has decreed The Father has decreed and is accomplishing through Christ the glory of the church. Although there is much trouble in this world, do not fear, for I have over. overcome the world is exactly in relationship to this. Continue to read Revelation and find out what happens to the dragon. And everyone who is his child. We may be deceived, we may be imprisoned, we may be killed. Nevertheless, the church will always be victorious, and our time will end in peace. And that's the beauty of the ascension, because it's an ascension to safety, where he may rule in all godliness over And just focus on nurturing her, not having to escape from one town to the next, as political people chase him, trying to crucify him perhaps again. Christ in heaven is safe from the dragon, and in his ascension safety by his spirit, he preserves his church throughout all of the ages. And so we can truly appreciate this final verse that I'll give to you this morning. Philippians chapter 4, verses 6 through 7. Seven run. Be anxious for nothing. But in everything by prayer to the ascended Lord and supplication to him with thanksgiving. Let your requests be made known to that God. And the peace of God Which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds through the ascended Christ Jesus. Let's pray.