Okay, so for this morning I want to take a look at a few different things. If you're taking notes, I'll give you just a summary outline here of what I'm going to go through I first want to look at a radical view of conflict. And then I want to look at one main reason that we would want to live as pe at peace, which should hopefully set us up for the value of the rest of the book, because the rest of the book is going to show you some basic ways to live at peace. So we're going to just ask the question, well why would we want to live at peace? I'm going to give you one main reason Why we should live at peace. And then I want to look a little bit more closely at 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Which showcases arbitration, which we're a bit unfamiliar with in the church, although we should not be. Okay, so let's begin then with the radical view of conflict. What is this radical view of conflict that Christians adopt being under the authority of Jesus Christ? Well, it's this. Conflict viewed by Christians is an opportunity. Conflict is an opportunity. Now, if you were on the escape side of the Peacemaker slippery slope, Conflict is never feels like an opportunity to you. It feels like something that you should get out of your life as quickly as possible. It feels like maybe there is a horse lie that's just going to continually bite you and you've got to find it and kill it. If you're on the attack side of the slope, then you may view conflict as an opportunity. To exercise your will and dominate other people so that you can be the king or the queen. And when I say conflict is an opportunity, I don't mean that it's an opportunity for your Luciferian ways. I mean that it's meant to be an opportunity in three main ways which you've read about within your book. They're summarized as this gives us the opportunity to glorify God. Conflict gives us the opportunity to serve other people. And conflict gives us the opportunity to grow to be like Christ Himself, to participate in the divine nature. Not in any weird way, but in the orthodox way. Lowercase O. Okay. Alrighty, so conflict is an opportunity. Yeah, the third one is that we get to grow to be like Christ. Okay, so conflict is an opportunity. Let's just talk about that just for a moment before we get into the three ways in which it's an opportunity. I'm sure that you've recognized, if you've been on the face of the earth long enough, that God Himself likes to do His greatest work In the the the suffering and the heat of human life, we find out the most about ourselves in our most difficult circumstances. For example, we find out what other people are made of when they are finally tested and tried in the furnace of life. And so I think he particularly likes to work through conflict, to tell you the truth. If you look throughout all of the Old Testament stories We do see that God is superintending all of history. And the way that he structures his stories as the author is he inevitably does permit conflict. Lots of it. And he uses that as a way to drive history forward and to accomplish his ways. That same thing can be said within the New Testament. There was a note in your book this week that peace is and therefore implied conflict is a part of every New Testament epistle. That shows you God's love for peace, but it also shows you that as he's superintending all of history, that he permits conflict to keep going, and he uses those things. Very much like Brad's sermon last Sunday, when he was uh had as a kind of theme verse, though he didn't preach on this verse, his theme verse was the story of Joseph. that what other people intend for evil, God intends it for good. Right? There's something like that. There's a pattern that we all see in our lives where we're all living the story of Joseph. I think that's one of the reasons, besides just the sheer power of the Holy Spirit and His will, one of the reasons why the Joseph story remains alive in thousands of cultures. in tens of thousands of different languages and throughout history is because we can all connect with the Joseph story. We understand that it it earmarks or describes our life quite well, especially under the superintendence of Christ. So it's it's um there are a lot of opportunities so what I'm saying to you in a nutshell is this before we get we launch off into the three opportunities. God gives you a lot of opportunities in your life. But the primary way that I find that he gives you the greatest opportunities is in the heat of conflicts. So we need to begin to value them. in a in a in the right way. Okay, so the first opportunity that we get for uh in our conflicts is we do have the opportunity to glorify God. So this is um let's take a look at First Corinthians chapter ten. This is the same passage that is quoted in your in your book. And it's a good catch-all. If you want to know what you're supposed to be doing in any situation, ten thirty-one Gives us this general principle. And now it's important for you to realize there's a great deal of conflict happening in this church. So here's a pastoral principle that Paul lays on us in such situations. He says in 1 Corinthians 10, 31, therefore, whether you eat or drink Or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. Give no offense either to the Jews or to the Greeks or to the church of God. Just as I also please all men in all things, not seeking my own profit, but the profit of many, that they may be saved. And in 11. 1, there's the famous verse, imitate me as I also imitate Christ. Now we know that Christ certainly upholds that main principle that the glory of God is the utmost. Whether Christ was eating or he was drinking or whatever he was doing, he was seeking to glorify God. Now let's speak very practically by looking at our pamphlet. I want to keep going back to the pamphlet because the second to last no. Two classes from now, right, this is the second class. Two classes from now, um Brad has been voluntold That he's that he's gonna enter into a role play with me. And w and we're going to um We're going to role play and I'm going to show you how to go through the pamphlet if you're with somebody having coffee to help them work through their conflict. So Brad will be in Brad will be conflicted. Yeah. And then uh I'll hope I'll hope to be able to coach him through it. Okay, so if you look at the uh back of the bulletin you see the peacemaker's pledge is at the top And then it's going to go through what are in the book called the Four G's. Now, when you hear things like four Gs and that kind of stuff, it can sound a little corny. But I'm telling you, the Ken Sandy compresses and and does it this way because when you're in conflict it's hard to remember stuff. So it's just a nice neat way for you to have the right things on your mind, okay? So please overlook the the cringeworthiness of it if you feel that way. And you see right there at the top that he has a section on glorify God. So I'm going to go ahead and read that and I'll see if you have any remarks and then I'll say a few more words. Instead of focusing on our own desires or dwelling on what others may do, we will rejoice in the Lord and bring him praise depending on his forgiveness, wisdom, power, and love, as we seek to faithfully obey his commands and maintain a loving, merciful, and forgiving attitude. And there's a bunch of different verses. So here's glorify God. And that's the first opportunity that we have in conflict. Now let me ask you a question. I want you you've been going through the book and you have had to answer questions in regard to a conflict that is in your life. You can use that example, or you might be able to think of a different example when I ask you this question But what are some of your first thoughts when you are engaged in a in a conflict that r grabs your heart? It's not trivial. It's something that gets you. You think about it on the way to work You think about it while you're walking around, you think about it while you're at the dinner table, maybe. What are some of your first thoughts when you're when you have a conflict like that in your life? Don't be too personal, but if you could be honest I'd appreciate it. Okay, Barbara and then Brad. The two B's. occasionally resistance. My first reaction is how can I get my way? Okay, how can I get my way? Okay, that's a very human reaction. Very good, Bradley? Y D. Okay. Like as in um why is the path uh always happen with it. Oh Very good, that's great. Okay, Michelle and then Raquel. Um for me my first Okay. So self protection. Okay. Self protection, self preservation. Alright, very good. Raquel? I I'm the Yes. I'm thinking like, oh, this is not right, you know, this is unfair. I did this and this and this and this person is sensing trying to have all um becomes all the reasons why am I right in the situation. And that's the thought. I mean Yeah, now and if you go down that and if you go down that road where if someone confronts you and you have a conflict And then you say, This isn't fair. Look at all that I have done for you. You now have about four or five different layers that can be the fuel that ignites a flame that can go really high and last for years. You know, okay, very good. And it can happen that quick. That quick. Uh-huh. Yeah. All the pets. Yeah, that's right. But you said, you know, forgive. But like, what about all these? Yeah, you're you're gonna this person's always Yeah, that's very good. Mike. Um, I always try to resolve it in a in a loving way. Okay. To the point where I may May become the difference. Okay. Yeah, maybe even peacekeeping. You mean peace faking? Peace faking. Yeah. Okay, so you May try your first thoughts are that you may try to solve the problem by peace baking. Yeah. Okay. That's a also a very human response. I'll take just two more. Okay, Marilyn, and then I think Jen. And then my second thought is Okay. Uh huh. So flight. Okay. Very good. I haven't heard any fights yet. Yes. Well, this is the last one. Okay. Oh, you wanted a fight. Yeah. And you haven't looked at they're like looking at this back in my eye and Not pouring a lot like it feels I have a critical situation. Unless it's really blatant, I don't like to be out host. Yeah, yeah. Very good. So that's really honest of you all. I appreciate you sharing those And I was just hearing different laughs and watching other people's body language and you could see people were really relating to the things that were said because that's their experience also. So, let me just give you this picture. Imagine you're in that frame of mind. You invite me uh over for some coffee or a steak or something. And you tell me a little bit about your conflict and you start to go down that defensive road and it's not fair that I ha how could they put me in this situation and look at all the things that I've done or whatever it is and look at all the bad things they've done and whatever case. Imagine what would happen in your heart if you had any softness to it. If I said, well, would you I know this might sound a little weird to you, or perhaps even corny, but I want you to read something with me. And I slid the pamphlet over to you. And I said, go ahead and read the section that says glorify God. Now let me read it to you again, now that you you're a deacon, so you can figure that out. Yeah. I've been there, brother. Um Imagine I slide this over and then you're in that frame of mind. See how you're framing your life? You're not framing it like it's an opportunity. You're not even God is not even in the center of your thoughts at that point. Unless He's going to be the one who takes vengeance for you on the other person. Then I slide this over and I say, go ahead and read this out loud for me. And you read. Instead of focusing, and I sometimes I do this to people too, instead of saying our, say your. Try to make it as personal as possible. Or my. Instead of focusing on my own desires or dwelling on what others have done to me. I will rejoice in the Lord, and I will bring him praise by depending on his forgiveness, wisdom, power, and love. as I seek to faithfully obey his commands and maintain a loving, merciful, and forgiving attitude. You see the switch Usually people by this time, even with just this first glorify God, people are stopped in their tracks. Because they were not oriented toward the world this way at all. So if you have someone who's not consumed in perversity, but has some softness, and you'll watch the Holy Spirit actually work on people with this question. because it's based on the word. You will you'll watch them sh shift. It's almost as if they're like this. And they have all of these things before them, a whole way of life that justifies them and k and murders and kills. And you watch them turn to a different way. So right in other words, right in front of you, what the book is encouraging us here to do, based on what the scriptures are teaching, is that oftentimes, in order for the conflict to become an opportunity, there is an initial act of repentance. And the repentance is this. You are oriented toward the world primarily selfishly. And this first question or the first opportunity tells you that's not the primary way you should be oriented to the world. The question, the main question is, how are you gonna glorify God in this situation? That is an amazing question. And it's a it's um And so I'd I'll just introduce you to the first opportunity, which is to glorify God. Now that that phrase, glorify God, we've heard that a lot, haven't we? Many of you here have memorized that within your catechism. It's the first question of the shorter catechism that we're after. If you're in Sunday school and and um If someone says to you, well what's your main purpose in life? You all are smart enough to know, to save, to glorify God. Well, let me just ask you, how is it that in a conflict you could glorify God? Do you have any ideas? What does that mean and how what does it look like in a conflict? Any ideas? Yes. Darren? Well one, I mean my brother my older brother just said this to me that love covers a multitude of sins. Okay. And so you could go by God by not taking offense, even if it's given, even if you sinned against, there may be an opportunity we discover it and go on. I think my question for you though is how is that glorifying God? How does that glorify God? I so you gave me an example of how does that glorify God? Sure, sure, sure. I think that uh because we have been redeemed and given the Holy Spirit and been given grace and power to actually respond in a godly way. God is glorified that we respond in a godly way because it turns back to the story. I don't I'm not going to do that in my flesh. Because the work of the Lord in me. And that that glorifies him, as he says, you know, even you kind of look what I've done in the life of this particular soul Okay, so let's l let's listen carefully to that, because sometimes we don't know what we mean when we say glorify God. I'd say if I gave you that on a quiz, you would most most of you here would get it wrong. Okay, so uh uh Darren's pointing out something very important. One of the ways in which we would glorify God, if you were to look back down at the glorify God article Where it says that we would maintain a loving, merciful, and forgiving attitude, Darren is pointing out human beings don't do that on their own. So we end up glorifying God and showing his mighty power to change human nature. That there has a there is a mighty power acting in the world. His name is Yahweh, and he is excellent in the works that he does. Not just in the creating of Jupiter, but in the creating of merciful, loving, and forgiving human beings. Even the ones who have been pronged. Okay, let's do one more. Does anybody else have an example, not that same example, of how this would glorify God, brethren? We have to trust God that if we are not going to be standing up for our best interests, because we're also looking out for the best interests of the other person, that we will not then become the doormat for, like Mike said, and that's peace faith and be We have to actually trust God and trust his justice, trust that vengeance is his and all that. So we end up glorifying God in that when you're in a conflict, if you're going to treat it as a true opportunity, you will have to trust God with your life. So if you are trusting in the in God, that goes a lot as a witness and shows people around you who He is. Namely, that he is trustworthy. In fact, he's so trustworthy that he should be glorified in his trustworthiness You should sing. It's so beautiful and it's so good, his trustworthiness, that you should sing about it. You should be giving him praise for it. Did I get it what he part of what you're saying? Okay, that's very good. So let's just keep going. I have limited time here. Okay, so that's a little picture of the glorified God, and that's the first opportunity That orients us to the entire conflict. Your first opportunity is that you get to glorify God. Congratulations. The second is that you get to serve other people. And this can happen in a couple different ways. It's interesting to me, just uh before I get into the couple different ways, it's interesting to me that the majority response to what hap-what are the first thoughts that happen in the conflict I w our thoughts are not how to help the person. It's actually, if you were to play the whole thing out all the way out to its end, is how do we kill them so that they shut up and are not a problem. We're figuring out ways to not only raise the knife, to stab them, but that we would be justified in doing so. So this is a second one where we're going to have to enter into an act of repentance because the conflict is not there for you to become Cain. The conflict is there so that you can serve others. Now, what are some of the ways that we can serve other people in the midst of the conflict? Well, when conflicts arise, it's a result of different kinds of things And so as you read in your book, one of the ways you can help other people is you could help them to clarify and to solve the problem that they're facing. You can help to clarify and to solve the problem that they are facing. I'd say that that takes a great deal of maturity, but I think you're all up for it in the Lord. It would require, even in the heat of the moment, that you're worried about them or concerned about them is a better way to say that. A second way in which you could serve other people is that not only do they do do you sometimes need do sometimes people need help uh clarifying and figuring out the path, the right path in their problem. But sometimes they also really need you to not just send them off on the path, but to help them to carry their burden on the path. So you get to hear about what's burdening other people, and then you could offer to carry the burden with them. And I believe that's what we're encouraged to do in Galatians chapter 6, verse 1. Is that correct? So let's take a look at Galatians. Yeah, it's uh actually verse two, but I'll start at verse number one. Are we all there? Galatians six one and two. Brethren, if a man is overtaken in any trespass You who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness, considering yourself, lest you also be tempted. Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. Okay. Are there any in the in the very first verse Do you see what do you see in there that where uh what little clue does Paul give to you to help you with your orientation towards towards people to be able to help them? Is that a confusing way to put that? Paul you said yes. Yeah. Thank you for being honest. The um Paul gives you a hint in verse 1 on how you can move into a helpful frame of heart. What is that hint? Carol. Okay, spirit of gentleness. That's definitely helpful for our frame of heart. So let me ask a follow-up question. How do you get there? Is there a hint in the verse as to how do you get into a spirit of gentleness? Yes, Deborah. You live by the spirit. Okay, you have to live by the spirit. Okay, very good. And what does that specifically look like, Raquel? Um, watch yourselves So you can be vigilant when when you're how you're unlocking as well. Yeah, it says considering is this what you were gonna say, Brad, considering yourself? Okay, go ahead and give your answer first. Um for me the biggest thing is overtake it Because the person is is under attack by the devil and he's winning. And if we love them, our goal is to get them out from under the Okay, did everybody hear that? So Brad was saying is saying that when we look at this scripture, we can see there's actually a bigger picture being painted. It's not just about humans and their sin. It's also there's an enemy present who is overtaking your brother or your sister and leading them astray. So we want to be able to rescue. So now you've got to be in a rescue frame of heart. And then the last one that I was going to say is that considering yourself lest you also be tempted I think that reveals that we ourselves are not above our brothers and sisters. We can fall into the same kind of stuff So we need to enter into their difficulties with a level of humility knowing, and I've heard you all say this many times, um, it's uh what is the phrase? Uh there go There but there but wait say hold on, whoa, hold on, wait. What is it? There before the greatest of God in Allah. There but for the grace of God go I. There but for the grace of God go I. There go I wonder where that's from. Okay. Yeah. Sa yeah, probably Shakespeare. Okay, very good. Okay. Yeah, that's always the answer. Yeah, so can so getting yourself into um like Carol was saying, getting yourself into a gentle frame of mind. um being able to have a a frame of heart that is a rescuing frame of heart and and also um Having a a g a good estimation of your own self so that you're not puffed up with pride as you're entering in to um who work with other people. And then it mentions in verse number two, therefore, you could see how it would lead to this, that you would then bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. John Brad Okay, we'll keep checking on it. Yeah. Hey s okay. So what is the law of Christ, by the way, just to finish out this passage? What do you think he's referring to? There's two options for you. Anybody have a clue? I think about Rome since we're no longer under the law of sin and death At some level it means because we are I this is what I mean. Because we in Christ are forgiven, we are hidden in him, we are uh all of the things that have been accomplished because of what Christ has done. We're now under that law and under that we have been set free from the laws of the to actually bear one of those birds, to move towards them. Not because we look to ourselves for our own righteousness, but because we look to Christ. In great news, right? Okay, so it might mean that we're no longer under the law of sin and death. That is a that is one way in which the word law is used. I think he has something different in mind here. Jen? Love the Lord your God Yeah. So I think one um major option that we should consider is the summary of the law, which is love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and your neighbor as yourself. Okay, and then there's one other option that it should be seriously considered in this for for this passage. Does anybody remember? That's why I think it is the golden rule. Not the golden rule. Yeah, what is the law of Christ here? Yeah, another important option would be there is no greater love than this than to lay your life down for the for your for your friend. Right. That's he he's speaking about the law and then he says I'm gonna add one. He doesn't mean a new one, but You see, so that's I think he's that's a good candidate there for the kind of law, especially in this context, because you're laying down your life for the people around you by carrying their burdens Right. Carrying uh the cross. Okay, so that's the second way in which we can serve others. The third way that we could serve others, this one is a tough one. Are you ready? For all of you peacemakers out there. Sometimes the Lord Jesus Christ calls you to serve other people by helping them see where they need to change. Helping them see where they need to change. Now some of you might be thinking, oh good, because they do need to change and I need to let them know. And that is not what I'm talking about. But I mean how does that not come across as Yeah. Um that's that's uh that's a good question. Natalie raises the question, how do we um help people to see that they need to change and it not come across as an attack. And I would say that the Holy Spirit over time gives you wisdom to be more and more successful in that regard. I was watching a video of a guy who was a craftsman and he carved spoons. And I think he said it took him about 3,000 tries to get to be able to carve a spoon that actually felt good in your mouth when you were eating off of it. I think that ends up being a good model for how we should be looking at our lives. So if you were to, instead of carving spoons, figuring out how how to help people by sharing with them how they need to change, how many times have you done that? You might have 2,999 more to go before that's as effective as before you could declare yourself to be a craftsman of letting people know their sin. Yeah. Let me just ask very quickly, have you encountered anybody in your life who has confronted you in your sin and you didn't take it as an attack? Let's share a couple stories if you have, uh if it's not too personal. Michelle? Yeah, I had um a mentor when I first started following Christ and God was renewing my mind uh from living like the world to living as Christ. And she had such a beautiful way of convicting me of my sin without making me feel condemned But really showed me my sin and my need to change for it. Yeah, very good. Perfect at it. Great, Darren. I had a friend in college, his name is Chuck. And we've been sitting around Chuck. Uh Chuck No and he uh we've been sitting around talking about something. He wasn't saying, but I was in in gossiping where I He comes to me later and he goes, You know, Darren, the Lord should really be convicting me of my struggles that I'm having with gospel. What if you'd h help to hold me accountable? And it was perfect. Okay. Perfect. It's like right between the eyes. That's great. Yeah. Yeah. So it is possible for those of you who think that it would be difficult. Th it is possible. And yes. Rachel. I have been on the other side of having to confront people and I will say that it is very I've gone into it with fear and trepidation, but it is amazing to watch the Holy Spirit work in that relationship. So that the word that That you say do not come across as an attack. So when you were going into it with the Holy Spirit calling you to do this, it makes it away. Yeah, he does make the way. Um I have uh some experience at this also, and I do find that when you have to talk to people about their sin even if you're doing it in the most gentle way possible, they can frame it as if you are attacking because they don't want to face it. So it becomes a technique that they use to keep you at arm's length. And at that point, I would just say I stop talking. And I move into prayer asking the Lord to work on their heart. And I also move into an active mode of listening because when people are angry, they reveal a lot to me. So I just want to hear where is their what are they com where are they coming from? What are they struggling with? Why is this so hard for them? And then I try to use that in my prayers and the next interactions that I'm going to have. And I'm going to pray, since I'm not the only human being on earth, I'm going to pray that they have other interactions and other conversations And that the Holy Spirit is working towards the same end. Um and that can happen in some really mysterious ways, not only for human beings, but I've seen people face certain circumstances like their cars breaking down or trees falling on their houses or whatever that wake them up that they need to s take their sin seriously. It's really wild. ha what the Holy Spirit uses to get his point across. I'm sure you have those same experiences. The Holy Spirit is used a lot. Uh out of the mouth of babes and whatever. Yes, Carol? Yeah I think one one thing that I wrestle with Um is trying to discern is it an actual offense sin? Or is it a human difference? Yeah. And so I think sometimes we get confused in And we don't spend enough time asking questions, getting to know what's really going on um in the midst of intentions and understanding who this person is and being able to not make assumptions. Yeah. Um rather than going right towards, you know, this is a sin against me and I need to confront. I think sometimes we have to step back. It's like the First Thessalonians 5. 14, we have to understand, is this a person simply weak in understanding scripture or they have some limited abilities in how they process, or are they misreading? Am I misreading? And so I think it's spent you have to spend a lot of time discerning the difference between is this simply a different way of processing the world and how God has made them or is this a actual best against God and against me. That's great. And what is w and I'll just say one of the most effective ways to have the conversation begin that way is opening up with questions. When this happened, can you help me understand what was going on? Let them give an account, as opposed to entering the room with accusations. The other thing is that, and this is very tricky, but I'm telling you right now, we're going to return to the pamphlet here in a second. If you are going to enter, if you're going to enter into those moments and not come across as an attacking person, you have to have your own heart right before the Lord. If you don't, even if you open with questions, human beings are so good at picking up on intonations and reading faces to find out if you have already condemned them. Or you already have made up in your mind that they're wrong. And if you start off on that foot and people read that in you, they are not going to open up to you. What if they are wrong? I I don't I don't understand. So I mean think about the situation. What I'm saying is that if you walk in with the possibility that you might be wrong, the conversation goes better So then you a you start by asking the question, what was going on here in this speci this specific situation? And then they s they give you their account Now if they're lying to you, then you can say, yeah, but that doesn't make sense if you take a look at it this way. It seems like you're being sneaky. You can have those kind of conversations But you might also, because you ask the question, you might go, oh, I didn't realize that that that was actually happening. So I need to think about this for a minute. Something like that I'm not going to stay on this but for another 10 seconds. Okay, I gotta go. Alrighty, so let's just take a look at the pamphlet real quick so you can see how this ends up working out in the in the pamphlet The main thing that we've been focused on in serving others, we've looked at we get to help other people solve their problems, we get to help them carry their burdens, and then number three We get to help them to see where they need to change. This largely falls under gently restore, the last one. So let's just jump down to the third step, gently restore Instead of pretending that conflict doesn't exist or talking about others behind their backs, we will overlook minor offenses or we will talk personally and graciously with those whose offenses seem too serious to overlook, seeking to restore them rather than condemn them. When a conflict with a Christian brother or sister cannot be resolved in private, we will ask others in the body of Christ to help us settle the matter in a biblical manner. So that's a good summary and then it has a bunch of different verses. Alrighty. Um I have found that these principles work between Christians and non-Christians also, but I think right now we're talking primarily of work within the church. Okay. Okay, so then let's go to the next thing. The next opportunity. The first opportunity is we get to glorify God. The second opportunity is we get to serve others. And then the third opportunity is that we get to grow to be like Jesus Christ. So that means that if there is going to be growth, the primary way in which Christ uh create growth in us is for us first to acknowledge and confess our sin. So you're seeing a place wherein you should grow And that's going to be a place where you're immature and sinful. And then there is a place to which you should grow, and that's growing to be like Christ. Uh you you've become established in maturity and in your book you read about the ABC of conflict which is adversity builds character. So this this one is the second G, which is get the log out of your own eye. Instead of blaming others for a conflict or resisting correction, we will trust in God's mercy and take responsibility for our own contribution to conflicts. Confessing our sins to those we have wronged, asking God to help us change any attitudes and habits that lead to conflict. And seeking to repair any harm we have caused. So now we've gone through the three G's, and if you were reading carefully in your book the um the the three opportunities lead to the four Gs. So we have one more G to read, so let's just go ahead and read that now. And that's going to reconciled. Instead of accepting premature compromise or allowing relationships to wither, we will actively pursue genuine peace and reconciliation. Forgiving others as God, for Christ's sake, has forgiven us, and seeking just and mutually beneficial solutions to our differences So in other words, what I'm saying to you, the main part of the lecture so far has been conflict is an opportunity. It gives us the opportunity to glorify God, serve others, and grow to be like Christ. Those three opportunities are captured in this pamphlet by the four Gs. Glorify God, get the log out of your own eye, gently restore, and go and be reconciled. And I'm telling you right now, even in pretty complex situations, I've used the four G's and the Lord works through this. Uh you mean it's really according to the scriptures. So let's go back just for a moment. and consider that that natural frame of heart and mind that you find yourself in when you are in the when you find yourself in a conflict. We were able to express that natural human way, blaming others, blame shifting, becoming angry that they would bring something up, compiling evidence that they're wrong and they deserve to be punished There's some um flame that ignites in our hearts. We know that. And I and I said, okay, now imagine me showing up and saying, could you read the first G for me And then you read The Glorify God and you're like, oh, I'm oriented the wrong way. And then you're thinking Okay. I want to be oriented the right way. I want to glorify God. I want to talk to them about their sin in a way that is going to glorify God. And then I say, well, hold on. Well let's talk about your contribution to the problem. And then we go ahead and we read, get the log out of your own eye, which is the first step Not the third. I mean it's the you know it's the second step, not the third. So then you would read to yourself in a personal way Instead of blaming others for a conflict or resisting correction, I will trust in God's mercy and I will take responsibility for my own contributions to this conflict. I will confess sins to those that I have wronged. I will ask God to help me change my attitude and my habits that lead to conflict. And I will seek to repair any harm that I have caused. Now what that is doing is putting you into, instead of that sinful human frame of mind, you're getting into a Galatians 6, 1 and 2 frame of mind. And by the time you actually go to another person, you're going to be gentle Have you'll have yourself been humbled before the Lord. And here's a funny thing that happens. I oftentimes in conflict don't get past the second G. It dead ends here. Because people start to look at their own contribution and they realize, you know what? I think I'm just being a pain in the butt. I've been looking at this all wrong. If anybody needs to confess here, it's me, not them. I've been holding them to such a high standard That no wonder our relationship is horrible. I realize that I've been holding on to things that have happened over the last seven years. And I haven't let them go. I've prided myself on being the kind of person that's not bothered by things, but actually, this is constantly stewing inside of me. And then they realize there's just a ton of work that they need to do on themselves, first and foremost. And it really not about the other person as much. Does anybody else have any experiences like that? Sandy, do you have any experiences like that with the second G? That it's often not necessary to go to the third Okay. Yeah, and uh and I'll agree with you, but it uh if conflicts do reach my office, we're gonna need to go through them all But if we're having uh more of a we meant for coffee and this came up on the side, then I don't go past the second cheek Now I ask Standy, because if I'm ask if I'm correct, Standy, you are a trained Christian conciliator, even in the peacemaker model, isn't that right? Yeah, and a recovering lawyer. Yeah, so we have Sandy who was a trained Christian conciliator. Were you actually um Um credential by ICC? Yes. Yeah, so Christianity was Prudential by ICC, which is the Institute of Christian Conciliation. Is that right? Yeah, and then uh Doug Smith has also had a uh a great deal of training and is a mediator and has been mediators for churches. Barbara Smith has sat under a lot of training. Have you done mediations, Barbara? I know you've done conflict coachings. You've also been of okay conflict coachings. And so you have a number of trained peacemakers here. I'm sure there's more of you. I'll just point out some that you may not know. Yeah, I'm picking on Sandy because she can take it. Yeah. Okay. So we're gonna go ahead and wrap up, but That gives you a picture of the conflict as an opportunity, what those opportunities are, and how that fits into the four Gs. Now we did not get a chance to get into well why would we want to what are some other reasons why we would want to live at peace? One is that Jesus' reputation is largely affected on how you conduct yourselves as a society. If you look like a you're a mess, what does that say about his work? It says, I mean, if you were to look at Romans, it says that because of the behavior of the church, this is a paraphrase, throughout generations, because of the behavior of the church, God's name is blasphemed. Okay? And instead we are to be a city on a hill. And then um The thing maybe we'll get to this next week. I still have one minute left here. But I do want us to look at some points at 1 Corinthians chapter 6 because there's some surprising principles there in terms of us handling even what would be categorized as lawsuits, handra handling them for different kinds of suits. handling them amongst each other as a body, which I would say is is a combination between mediation and arbitration. That the church should be set up to do that. And we see Old Testament examples where in fact it was. And we see New Testament examples where in fact it was and should have been. That's Paul's main point in 1 Corinthians 6 is I cannot believe that you were not set up to judge these matters. Do you not realize that you will be judging angels at the end of time? Certainly you could judge this. That's his argument. And that's something for us to pick up and talk about at a later date. It c shows up a couple different times in the book, so I don't feel too much pressure at this point. Okay, let's go ahead and end there with a word of prayer.