Morning will be verses twenty-six through thirty-eight. Now in the sixth month month, the angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city of Galilee near Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David. The Virgin's name was Mary. And having come in, the angel said to her, Rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women. But when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and considered what manner of greeting this was. Then the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb, and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus. He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. Then Mary said to the angel, How can this be, since I do not know a man? And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore, also that holy one who is to be born will be called the Son of God. Now indeed, Elizabeth, your relative, has also conceived a son in her old age, and this is now the sixth month for her who was called barren. For with God nothing will be impossible. Then Mary said, Behold, the maidservant of the Lord, let it be to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her. Let us pray Father, we pray that you would help us to understand your great counsels that you have revealed here. We pray, Lord, that it would lead to greater faith and hope and love. We pray, Lord, that it would help us to truly, by faith, be at peace. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. In our first week of Advent, we acknowledge that God is committed to reformation, beginning with the church. Based upon a view of Christian history, we know that God still reforms in our time. In our time, therefore, we have hope. Now this week we continue with the beginning of Luke under this same framework. I want to make a few observations with you and then I have some applications this morning, mainly one about the Christ of peace or the prophet of peace. Let's start with the first observation and I encourage you to follow along in the scriptures with me. This is a great way for you to then be able to go home and to make sense of what you're reading. Observation number one. I want you to remember first that the frame for understanding the beginning of Luke is primarily 1 Samuel. So if you're not familiar with 1 Samuel, you're going to want to go back and read 1 Samuel, perhaps even for the first time in your life. And you want the one to overlay the other so that you can see the meaning and the significance. If you go back to 1 Samuel, you will find there a woman. Her name is Hannah, and she is barren. But then the Lord blesses her with a boy named Samuel. God had plans for Samuel as a preparation for the Davidic monarchy, for a new king to come into power, whose heart is after the heart of the Lord. Samuel reforms the church in preparation for this coming king. In fact, by 1 Samuel chapter 16, David is anointed as the Messiah or the King of Israel. Well, you're supposed to keep that in mind. That's the reference point by which we make sense of Luke. It is the template that Luke himself is using as an authorized guide. And it is the same progression, brothers and sisters. John the Baptist in Luke is to prepare the way for the new Messiah in the same way that Samuel was. And now in verses 26 through 33, which we just read, the angel Gabriel is announcing the birth of the one who shall be called all in royal language and titles. Verse 32, the Son of the Highest And the Lord God will give him, notice the royal title again, the throne of his father David. It's the same thing. But the consummation, really, of what those old things were figures of. And then we turn to verse 33. He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. And of course there's Davidic references with his father's line, and you can see that with Mary herself. It's a pretty obvious overlay of one to the other. That's the first observation, and that really helps us and orients us to how we're supposed to be reading this. Observation number two. I want you to notice, however, that there is a major difference in this Messiah who is named Jesus than the Messiahs of the past, particularly David. Mary, verse thirty-four, raises a very reasonable question. How can this be, since I have never known a man? Women, that would be your question too. So she's quite reasonable, and then there is the answer that the angel gives. And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore also that holy one who is to be born will be called the Son of God. And so you can see here the difference with this Messiah. The past Messiahs were in fact descendants of Adam inheriting his estate of sin and misery, which he has passed down to all of us But that is not the case here with this Christ, with this Messiah, and with this Jesus. Here we see that God shall take upon Himself human nature, a true body and a reasonable soul But he will do so by being conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost in the womb of the Virgin Mary and born of her, yet without sin. That is a key difference. And that makes all the difference for observation number three. This is what this means, in part. The human race Descended from Adam, everyone but Jesus does not have the resources within itself to restore this creation and the people in it back to peace. The solution for the reordering of this world in the way that it has always meant to be is outside of ourselves. God Himself must intervene and interrupt. By His grace He does not leave mankind in the estate of sin and misery, but he provides us a redeemer, and his name is the Lord Jesus Christ. Now that's the main teaching here that is present within Luke, and it makes all the difference for us. Let me state the doctrine for you that is of the utmost importance. The only Redeemer is the Lord Jesus Christ, who being the eternal Son of God, became man. That is what this is all about. The only Redeemer is the Lord Jesus Christ, who being the eternal Son of God, became man. Now, what I would like to do is to just bring this home with really some more instruction by teaching on the prophet of peace. Really, it's the Christ of peace or the redeemer of peace, but you'll see how all of these things fit together. There'll be an ultimate focus on him being the prophet of peace. Now, when you end up hearing a doctrine like you have this morning, the only Redeemer is the Lord Jesus Christ, who being the eternal Son of God became man. If you couple that with our candle this morning, And you say, okay, how does that relate to peace? He's my only Redeemer, the eternal Son of God who has become man. His name is Jesus. How does that relate to peace? Let me think about that. How would I apply that on Advent Peace Sunday? Usually, you will only apply it to one of the offices of Christ as a Redeemer. As a Redeemer, Christ has three main offices. He is a priest, he is a prophet, and he is a king. For whatever reason, him being a prophet and him being a king has fallen on hard times, and we really end up focusing primarily on him as priest. In other words, Most of the time and the emphasis is placed with Jesus on the cross. Jesus Christ having been crucified. As Paul says in Galatians, this is not wrong. Preaching is supposed to give a portrait of Christ having been crucified That's the way that he puts it. Did I not portray to you Christ having been crucified? Was he not portrayed before your very eyes, the one having been crucified? So of course that is not wrong. And when we look on the one having been crucified by faith, we know that he takes away our transgressions. And he makes us righteous before God the Father. And we can say that, in other words, when we truly grasp that, when we hold on to that by the grace of God. Our conscience is finally at peace. He gives us peace with God. That is certainly an application toward peace. You can put it in a song if you'd like. This is not original to me. Not all the blood of beasts on Jewish altars slain, Could give the guilty conscience peace peace or wash away the stain. But Christ the heavenly Lamb takes all our sins away, a sacrifice of nobler name. And of course, all of this is the sweetest and most excellent news, right? Peace in our conscience before God because of the cleansing and atoning work of Jesus Christ. But I have to point out That Christ as our only Redeemer is more than just our priest. He is also our prophet and our king. And I just want to focus on prophet today because I ran out of time To then focus on the king on King. It would have taken us well beyond where I want to take you this morning. And so let me reassert to you that as our only Redeemer, he is also a prophet. And I'm telling you, this is what we need to hear today. In other words, let me just make this real simple for you. We need somebody around here who just knows the truth. We just need somebody who knows the truth. We don't need another person where we have to ask, what's your angle? We just know that whatever angle Jesus Christ has, it's the truth. And that's what he means. That's what we mean when we talk about him being a prophet at a real simple level. Briefly, the way which Christ taught about himself as the prophet. Is connected with the difference of him as the Messiah and all the others. Let me restate that. Understanding Christ as prophet must also be understood in relationship to how we've understood him to be a different kind of messiah. That he's not just another man descended from Adam. Of course he is man But he is the eternal Son of God, become man. And that makes all the difference, too, in who he is as a teacher. This means that he is the man from heaven. Now, this is a direct quote, really, from 1 Corinthians 15, verse 47. The first man was of the earth, made of the dust, the second man is the Lord from heaven. He sats and sits in the eternal councils of God Himself Our only Redeemer, in other words, is an eyewitness to what God is doing with His creation and what God requires of us, His people. That's the kind of knowledge that he has. He then discipled the apostles to know his will by the scriptures, and that apostolic teaching is preserved for you, if you have it on your lap, on your lap. Right there in your Bibles. And I wonder if you've ever thought of your scriptures and the Bible that way before, of that statement that I just made Have you ever thought of your Bibles as the recording and the preservation of that heavenly doctrine that He taught the apostles? And the prophets. At different times throughout the history of mankind, I want you to think about this, with that Bible in your lap. I want you to really think about the nature of it At different times throughout the history of mankind, God permitted certain men to know him and his will. That is to say, to in a way, enter into the heavenly counsel and wisdom of what is going on with the world. And what has been done is that that revelation that God has given to certain men has been, in fact, preserved for the knowledge of future generations, and it is sitting on your lap. Jesus Christ is the pinnacle of such revelation. As the eternal Son of God He is, in fact, witness to all of the will of God and has delivered that wisdom to the apostles who have preserved the correct understanding of the Old Testament primarily for us in the New Testament. Now I want to put it this way because some of you are kind of turning your head like a golden retriever that's confused. I want to put it this way. I want you to think of all of the well-known prophets who entered into the heavenly sessions of God Himself. What are some of the names that come to your mind when you think about those who have visions, dreams, and the one who saw him face to face, as it mentions in the book of Numbers? Let's take Moses, for example. I wonder if that was on your mind. He ascends into the cloud on that great mountain, and he is with God. God reveals his most holy will for his creation. including what he requires of all of his elect people down through the ages, and this is enscripturated and preserved for us within the Torah. Or maybe you're not into Moses today. Maybe you like Daniel. You could take Daniel and you could take any of the other prophets. It is through those night visions or visions and dreams that they are brought into the heavenly meetings wherein is revealed God's mysterious and secret will for everything. Any knowledge or wisdom that we would need as a human race to go forward in confidence in anything, knowing who we are or what this world is all about, is being revealed within those sessions. And Daniel was present, and Moses was present, and other prophets were present in those meetings. And now I have a question for you. Let's say that you could accompany Moses or any of the prophets into those meetings. Let's say that before he heads up the mountain, he turns back to you and he says, Come on. Let's head up here. I want you to see what's going on in the heavenly session. Let's say that you could enter into the visions of Daniel. When you got there, in all of the visions, who would be present in every single one? Every time you show up to a meeting, it's not always Moses there. It's not always Daniel there Every time you show up to a meeting in the heavenly council wherein God is revealing who he is, what he is doing with all things, and what he requires of mankind, who is present? The answer, of course, is bigger than this, but it is not less than the second person of the Trinity, the Son of God. He has been present From eternity in the eternal councils of what God is doing with his creation. And now I have another question for you. Who is your only Redeemer? It is the Lord Jesus Christ. And who, I ask you, who is the Lord Jesus Christ? He is the eternal Son of God that has become man. I just wonder, what better teacher could you ask for? What other teacher could be given to you whether you asked or not? And now I have one last question for you. If you want to know the reality, where the world is headed, who you are, who God is, what you should do with your life, or to whom you should listen Who should you turn to as your prophet and your teacher? And the answer is quite simply Jesus. His credentials, quite honestly, just beat everybody else's. Where are his understandings and teachings recorded? They are recorded on your lap. Now, this is quite different from the culture that surrounds you. Our culture has decided that the scriptures no longer have present in them any wisdom. It's not even worth having on your shelf. And you can begin to go to hotel rooms now, and they will in fact not be in the drawers. Instead, they have tried to turn to a wisdom which they would consider to be based on science. It is by God's grace that science does not hold the same legitimate authority that it used to in our culture. At least among us. But nevertheless, they continue down that line and they believe that through scientific endeavors of physics and biology, they will unearth through microscopes and telescopes the nature, the true nature of reality, and all of the secrets and the significance of our existence. Recently, within the framework of evolution, our culture believes that we have been illuminated into a new understanding of what it means to be a man and a woman And that this illumination is setting us free finally from the oppression and tyranny of the long-standing patriarchy. Recently, by defining the core of humanity according to an abstract disembodied consciousness. Our culture thinks they have finally evolved into a true understanding of genders. If you don't understand all those words I'm saying, you at least have experience with them. And in accordance with our sermon last week, I'll just mention, with regard to the reform of the church. Even some in the church have adopted this philosophical viewpoint, seeking to make men and women equal in the church When that is not true, of course, we're just meant to be in harmony. I don't even know what it would mean for men and women to be equal Some in the church have also decided to use CRT or oppressor and oppressed as basic models for reality, and in ten years it will be something different Because these will have faded, and it will be some other model that is finally supposed to give us the wisdom we've all been wanting so that we can truly understand who we are. And what we're supposed to do, and how we're supposed to raise our children, and what's worth our time. But it will be the same old problems and the same old dead ends. But right now, what you are experiencing, brother and sister. Is the culture thinking they've found it? And we're watching businesses and universities Try to rearrange everything in reference to this new understanding of reality with the tests that they offer The curriculum that they promote. That's what you're seeing. And it's really not new. There's nothing new under the sun with this. It's been done probably a thousand times. You are watching, unfortunately, though, some churches do the same. But I want to tell you this morning, based upon what we have said, that those are all dead ends. They're all dead ends. It's just barking up the wrong tree. And I would encourage you to just get back to the word that's on your laps. The problem is not with it, the problem is with you, you've forgotten how to read it. But we're learning again because our teacher is teaching us. In other words, the only true university is the wisdom of God revealed by the Son in the canon of the Old and New Testament as understood by the apostles. Let me reassure you, though you have trillions of dollars to be able to pull off the deepest ocean excavation herd amongst the human race. You will get to the bottom and you will not find the wisdom you're looking for. You will find sand that is a different color and fish with larger eyes than usual. You could do the same with diamond bits cutting through rock, getting to the deepest parts of the earth, and when you get there, it will be more dirt or molten lava, whatever. But you will not find the wisdom you're looking for. The meaning of life cannot be discovered by physicists or microbiologists Wisdom is only revealed by the Son who has taken upon himself human nature. You will not find, in other words, wisdom within the man of dust. You will find wisdom in the man from heaven. And it is my privilege to announce to you this morning that he has come. And that he is in power and authority, teaching every nation across the earth the truth. When you hear things like this, what we have and have been given as Christians, and then Of course, the road that our culture has decided to go down, and even the church in some cases. I just want to leave you with a encouragement. Really, it's an admonishment. The whole world right now, can you just hear the buzz of people running anxiously trying to figure out what they're supposed to believe? Trying to anxiously make sense of life. I am just here this morning Based upon the doctrine that you have heard and the reality of who Jesus Christ is as your only Redeemer, I am here to admonish and encourage you and say to you: do not enter the rat race. Do not enter into that anxious life trying to figure things out based on the framework that they have created. It is a dead end. You know, we all run into times like that when we're very, very anxious. We're very anxious. We don't know up from down, we need that knowledge, and so we start to turn, which That which seems most promising. I remember being like that when I first started the ministry here, which was not that long ago, but within my first year, I remember almost pulling my hair out Because I just did not know what to do in certain situations. I didn't know what God wanted from me And I remember the profound words of a congregation member that was built on our doctrine this morning and built on who Jesus Christ is: that He will give knowledge at the appointed time And you can live in that knowledge. But until then, do you know what she said to me that was the most profound that I say to you this morning? She said, chill out! Literal quote Chill Out. It was actually chill out, Jesse. And that is my pastoral wisdom for you this morning. Hear everything said about Christ this morning and chill out. Take a deep breath. Those of you who have been around the globe a few times, and you know, with your age, You've seen this stuff before. You see what what happens if these things are thrown at us? And it always goes back to the same thing It always goes back to that the truth is in Jesus Christ. Relax. Really, I'm just encouraging you to do what we have here in this candle this morning. Know who Jesus Christ is. And would you just be at peace? We can be at peace because the royal Davidic son is our priest. We can be at peace because the royal Davidic Son is our king. And we have learned this morning just a little bit about how we can be at peace because the royal Davidic Son is also our prophet. The only Redeemer is the Lord Jesus Christ, who being the eternal Son of God has become man. Let us pray.