Nevertheless, the gloom will not be upon her who is distressed, and when at first he lightly and when at first he lightly esteemed the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali And afterward more heavily oppressed her by the way of the sea beyond the Jordan, in Galilee of the Gentiles. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light Those who dwelt in the land of the shadow of death, upon them a light has shined. You have multiplied the nation and increased its joy. They rejoice before you according to the joy of harvest, as men rejoice when they divide the spoil. For you have broken the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulders, the rod of his oppressor As in the day of Midian, for every warrior's sandal from the noisy battle and garments rolled in blood will be used for burning and fuel of fire. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder, and his name will be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end. Upon the throne of David and over his kingdom, to order it and establish it with judgment and justice, from that time forward even for ever The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. Let us pray. Oh Christ, it gives us great joy to read. These words that you have enscripturated. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that our hope would increase today. That our understanding of shalom, our reliance upon you for it, would all increase today, that you would work through your preached word Please, may we not just be hearers of your word, but doers. And in our doing, may we be a witness. to our kingdom which has come on earth as it is in heaven. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we made uh somewhat of a a stark pronouncement, stark in relation to what you would hear in your normal college classes or in your continuing education. If you went to uh just about any college you would have heard that you need to learn all of this theory in order to then be able to truly know and then do. And we reversed that and spun it on its head and said, actually the Bible oftentimes teaches us that you have to do in order to truly know. And we saw that especially last week in terms of our singing, that we are to be a people that are bringing our praises before the Lord. And that in turn, our gathering for worship, shapes and forms us. The reason why we were talking about all of that is because we were exposed to the servant of Yahweh in Isaiah chapter 49. And one of the main points at the very end is that since we have the servant of Yahweh bringing hope to all of the world, we have every reason to be a people that are always singing. Now this week we dropped back from 49 all the way back into chapter 9, but we're still in Isaiah. And so I'd like to just make a few observations about this passage. Sometimes these things can be difficult to follow, so it'll be good to reflect on them for a moment. The verses 1 through 7. And then I have a few applications for us this morning. So let's begin by just making a let's notice a few things. Now some of you would know this just from the kind of studies that you have done. It's pretty easy to do a historical study of a book like this. And you know that he's writing during a time that has has to do with uh Assyria and Assyria taking this nation captive and uh especially the the um areas that were announced in verse 1 where we see Zebulon for example But I'm not so much focused on the historical. If you would like to, I have books where you could read about the historical situation. I want to look at the poetic situation. If you were to back up a little bit, and I'd encourage you to do this over lunch and with the rest of your Lord's Day, take a look at the passages and the stanzas that were before Verses one through seven and nine. And you're going to see all of this different poetic imagery that Isaiah is using in order to get at the reality of what is going on and to tie it in with the rest of the canon of Scripture For example, Assyria is likened to a great tidal surge that drowns the Israelites who lived between the Sea of Galilee and the Mediterranean lands of Zebulun and Naphtali. And he continues, as you see, the flood, however, would subside. They're not going to be kept underwater, so to speak. they will be able to breathe again. And the way that that's communicated, though switching the imagery uh quite a bit, which I'll talk about in a minute, is that the people who once walked in darkness have now seen a great light. In verse two. This is following on the footsteps of things that he had said earlier about Assyria. They were in darkness, now they're in light. Those who dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them a light has shined. The imagery does speak about the end of the Assyrian title surge, and I pick up that imagery from earlier stanzas, but it then switches in our passage to the language of creation. The rebellion of the people against the Lord led to a kind of decreation. The light and the order which the Lord brought in the beginning when he said, And it was good on such and such. It had departed and their lives and the world started back to the chaos and the formless and void. You can see that relating to water imagery. If you've seen a place that has had a tidal surge, it doesn't look great afterwards Everything that you had set up and managed and stewarded has uh pretty much fallen apart. You ever go downtown Annapolis after they have a a tidal surge? Look at how the stores look inside when it's done. And all the trash over the streets. It does not look like a civil society. He's getting at the same thing here, but he also uses the language of light to bring us back to that creation account Because of the way they had chosen to relate to each other and to the Lord, their lives and the world started back to the chaos of the formless and the void. Yet, in contrast to that, and that's really the whole point of this portion of Isaiah, Isaiah paints a picture of the Lord in a sense restating, let there be light. He's not going to leave them in that darkness or in the shadow of death, but is going to do a great work. Now that's the first thing I want you to notice in in one when he's talking about the gloom upon those who had been taken captive by Assyria, and then he moves into verse two, walking in darkness in this this different language. He's building on what had already been laid down in the scriptures, about the flood, about the creation of all things that are good He's tying back into that. Now here's the second thing I want you to notice, bringing us to verse number three. This hope is turned to joy. And this is very interesting. It says, You have multiplied the nation and increased its joy. They rejoice before you according to the joy of harvest, as men rejoice when they divide the spoil. The kind of joy that he speaks of here when he says that harvest joy is the kind of joy you would have witnessed in all of the harvest festivals celebrated by Israel. And you can even expand into all of the kind of festival living that Israel. Engaged in. The holidays or the holy days of Israel were observed to celebrate God's works among them, and they went to great lengths to have wine and food and worship and merriment. And those festival days here were returning. You can see that what he's trying to capture, the kind of reality that they're moving into and why he chooses the language that he does In talking about it in terms of festivals, the same thing will happen in the New Testament. Time itself and its rhythms would be made right again, which is also a part of establishing the creation. That brings us to our third observation. The big question is why? Why all the joy? What right did they have to celebrate? What could give them any kind of confidence that this really would happen, that the floods would subside that there would be light in the land again, that there would be life and not death. The same kind of questions that actually we ask. That's what his main purpose here is, is to answer that, and he gives the answer in verses four through seven. I want you to notice something just for your Edification really for the rest of your life. Notice in verse 4 it begins in the NKJV at least with 4. In verse 5 it begins with 4. In verse 6, it begins with 4. What he's doing is he's he he knows how he knows the existential givens of this group of people and he knows the existential givens of all of humanity, the Spirit does And so he gives us plenty of reasons to be a people that could stay in our festival attitudes. I really wish, in a sense, this passage was for next week, because then we get to talk about joy. It would be most fitting. But today we get peace. And that's good, because when we discover what peace is, we'll see that it fits anyway. But you can see why do we have all of the joy? What right would we really have to celebrate if we look around and see what actual human life is like? And the answer is found in 4 through 7 with these four Because of this, and because of this, and because of this, it would really fit for all of the themes of Advent. Why must you have love among yourselves? Because of this. And why joy? Because of this, and why hope? Because of this And why faith? Because of this, he lays it out before you. In verse 4, we see Isaiah referencing the Exodus. And he refers to Gideon's days of judging Israel. That's the reference to Midian there. And like those days, God himself delivers his people from the pharaohs and the slavery of their day. There will be no more burden There will be no more rod. There will be no more oppression. You can hear the language of Egypt, can't you? Can't you hear the language of being under the Philistines? Other kinds of oppressors. That's verse 4. And then in verse 5, all of the items of war are placed into the fire because war is over. All of the garments that were soaked in blood, there's no more place for these things in our midsts. They're just going to be tossed into the fire And this is analogous to something Isaiah had revealed earlier in chapter 2, verse 4, that you're all familiar with. He says, They shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into printing hooks Nations shall not lift up sword against nation, and neither shall they learn war anymore. Those days are over. A great light has come. And then we move to verse 6, and this is the center. In a kind of climax, an apex of the mountain. We see the center and the ultimate cause that there will be a child who is born. And this child is described by Isaiah as bringing peace. and bringing order, as being mighty God Himself, and as being sent, undergirded, and underwritten by the zeal of Yahweh. That's a quite a a list of reasons to keep up the festival. Now, when we gather all of these things together with those verses, we can see one, two, and three showing us what the Lord will do through his Messiah or Son, and then four. 4, 5, and 6 showing us that we really can trust in this. When we gather all these things up, we have the following doctrine this morning. The Father, that same one in his zeal, the Father through the Son brings peace to the world. The Father through the Son brings peace to the world This is an important confession. I want you to imagine that that doctrine was something that you believed with all of your heart, with all your mind, with all your soul. That you could really say and not have anything poke at your conscience that the Father through the Son brings peace to this world No matter what darkness you face, that you'd be able to say, even at the end of it, still taking the darkness into consideration and not sweeping it under the rug or hiding your head under the sand, that you would still be able to say that the Father through the Son brings peace to this world. Now to unfold that a bit, I want to look at the problem of peace, the person of peace. And our confidence in peace. So, children, that's a lot. And if you need those titles again afterward, it's uh, I'll just say it one more time: the problem of peace. The person of peace and our confidence in peace Now, let's just begin with the problem of peace. The problem actually starts to multiply more and more the the more you look at this idea of peace When Jeremiah was speaking as the elder this morning, he did us a great benefit of revealing to us a certain kind of peace that we really struggle with, which uh I categorize as a kind of psychological well-being or being at rest within ourselves about what's happening in the world and in our lives. But the word peace in the scriptures has a a far greater reach than just a kind of psychological peace. I think we all know that this word, uh if we were to read it in Isaiah, it would be shalom. We're all aware of that, I think. And it is not less than a psychological calm, but it is certainly much more. In fact, I would uh say a a a good way to go ahead and capture it to make sure you've captured all the parts of it is to say that it is it is a kind of order. That shalom you could even say is the order of harmony. Now we're a musical people. We've been trained to hear when the notes to our hymns are flowing along just as they should. It's amazing how keen you all are in picking up on exactly what notes fit and what's what notes don't. And we would pick up if there were ever a wrong note struck, there's never a wrong note struck around here, thank you very much, just saying. But if there ever were, we would pick up on it and we would be gracious, wouldn't we? Yes. But we would pick up on it Because we know, we can see what note belongs next to another and how these things are supposed to relate. And with that idea of a song in mind, I want you to think of the passage before us when we're talking about this idea of shalom or peace. The world is meant to be a place of the order of harmony. It's an ecosystem wherein all of life is in perfect relation to other life. Sometimes we become envious when we look out at the natural world because they're relating so well together so often. There never really seems, except in our fictional stories, there never really seems to be a fight between the oak trees and the maples. They figured out how to relate to each other. And we become envious of that because I think we all know that our lives are meant to be in perfect relation to other life. We're not supposed to have a situation where we love wrongly and therefore squeeze too hard and kill the animal, so to speak. But we know that that is our life. It ends up being when we look out and we look at the state of our world, it is one discordant note after another being played by an incompetent pianist in a sense. whatever the ruler happens to be at that time. I just wonder, just just stop here for a second. Can't you feel at certain times that just inside yourself that things are off Do you really think that they're supposed to feel like that the way that they do when you become as anxious and stressed out that you do? Is that really the way you're supposed to relate to yourself? We've talked in the past of how we speak to ourselves sometimes. Is that really how we're supposed to speak to ourselves? So abusively I wonder, do some of you sometimes feel the electric current of relational conflict that can be between us? Doesn't it seem like you can only go fifteen minutes before there's just more drama? It's like in some sense we just never leave middle school. That's what it looks like in human society. And if you were to just grow and look out larger, if you were to get to the top of the tallest building and look out at all of the cities and all of the the countries, what would you see? Would you see human beings knowing civility? Putting everything in its proper place and order? Or would you see them diseased and sick? Our reading this morning, and this is the astonishing thing, we're really building this up so that we can have uh a a realistic picture of this. Remember this first point is the problem of peace. Peace is supposed to be a solution, but at first it's a problem. Well, how could I say such a thing? Our reading this morning says that the Father in his seal has given the Son to restore those things. Now, I've only listed a few things. I haven't even gone into your past or your present or your future. We haven't looked at all of the things of all of the nations. And yet here we see the astounding claim that the Father is giving a son who will take care of all of the tasks. Do you see his goal? If you came forward with let's just look at Isaiah for a moment and pretend that this passage was Isaiah's business plan. And you came forward to someone who was a small business consultant and you said, here's my plan. I want to bring peace to the world. Well, what kind of peace are you talking about? All peace. Everything. I'm going to put everything back into order. Everything is going to be the song that it was meant to be. There will not be one discordant note within The cosmos. And I'm not just talking about human beings, I'm talking about angels too. And that becomes a problem. For us, once we begin to see the task, there is a question that arises: what kind of son? That's what we hear of in Isaiah, that there has been a son sent. A child born, a son sent from the zeal of the Father. What kind of son would be able to accomplish this task? What kind of sun could accomplish such a goal as bringing harmony back to all of creation? That's the problem of peace. I think it's a problem that is at least unconsciously on everybody's mind, whether you're a Christian or you're not a Christian. And that brings us to the person of peace. That's the problem of peace. The problem of peace is that what kind of a son could actually accomplish these claims? And now we get to the person of peace. Now I want you to, that question, what kind of sun could accomplish such a goal of bringing harmony back to all of creation? This is so interesting. Here we have an Isaiah, basically that question forming, when we wrestle with this passage. And then interestingly, when we go to answer the question, and if you were to turn to Matthew chapter 22 Verses 41 through 45, we see Jesus posing the same question to the Pharisees, seeking to help them to get their theology right. Jesus poses the same question about the nature of the Son. What kind of Son must the Christ be? to accomplish such a task. Now let me just read part of Matthew 22, 41 through 45, and I encourage you to look over that. uh as families and uh and together as friends this afternoon. And he says this while the Pharisees were gathered together Jesus asked them, saying, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? And this is a great way to get at the nature of the Son. And they said to him, The son of David. I wonder if you would have answered the same way. And he says to them Well, okay, but how then does David in the spirit call him Lord, saying, The Lord, Yahweh, said to my Lord, Adonai, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. If David then calls him Lord, how is he his son? Jesus begins by asking whose son is the Christ? They answer, Christ is the son of King David, and then just and then and then Jesus brings to their mind Psalm 110 at least. Saying, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand shall I make your enemies your footstool. And the underlying question Is that if the Christ was just another son of David, why does David take an inferior role to Christ, calling him Lord? What is it that David sees? What is the reality that David sees that you're obviously not seeing, to where he must call the Christ Lord? This is how David relates to him, as one who is superior to himself. Jesus' problem with the Pharisees' answer is that it did not take or make, it did not pull together all of the pieces of the canon. They did not see all that the scriptures had revealed. The promised Christ is not just one more sun descending in the line of David. And what he's doing here, I don't think that this passage is just seals the deal for certain arguments that we have in our Christian uh beliefs. But what you see here With Jesus is him laying down some breadcrumbs, or he is at least leading them to a door, and he partially opens it with his question and he says, If you saw what David saw, You would know what kind of son the Christ is. He leads them to a threshold, or if you're very familiar with this story, he leads them to the back of a wardrobe. And if they were to enter in, they would call Jesus Lord also. Now, there is more to what Jesus is doing in that Matthew 22 passage than just playing around with the word Lord. He's really not just trying to do a word study with the Pharisees, saying, if you just had your concordance and your lexicon, you'd have all this straight. That's not the only thing that he's doing here. I want you to, if you get a chance a little bit later in Matthew 22, he doesn't just say David. He says David in the Spirit. Now that should bring up all kinds of different references for you. All of the prophets, certainly, and John in the Spirit on the Lord's Day. Think about what's going on with them when they are in the Spirit. This refers to David having prophetic entrance into the very counsels of God Himself. David can hear and perhaps see in a sense, or so to speak, into heaven. And what is it that he senses? He sees the Father speaking with the Son. That's what Psalm 110 is getting at. Listen to it again. Picturing David. Being able to have entrance into the councils of heaven, picture the meaning of Psalm 110 again. The Lord Yahweh said to my Lord Adonai, Sit at my right hand. This is a descriptive task that David has engaged upon, where he's describing in the Spirit what he has heard. It's a conversation between the Father and the Son. This is what we as Christians have noticed from the beginning, about the nature of God Himself and about the nature of the Son Himself. What does he see? He sees the Father speaking with the Son David hears the Father's plans for the vindication of his people. David hears about his creation through his eternal son. Now, I want you to take that work that we can do there and go through the back of the wardrobe for Matthew chapter 22, and I want you to bring that back over into Isaiah. Think of Isaiah from last week in Isaiah chapter 49. In that account, Isaiah enters into heaven and he hears the Son giving an autobiographical account of his calling and vocation given to him from the Father. And now we are in Isaiah 9 and we witness the same. Isaiah with continued access to the divine, hears that this eternal son shall take upon himself human nature. And that is how you should be reading. When it says, unto us a child is born, and unto us a son is given. You should see prophetic clarification of the further divine plan that is unfolding Now maybe that all felt really academic to all of you. I don't know. There is a a painting that perhaps some of you have seen. I think it was created in the 19th century. I always get confused about what century things are in. But the painting represents the Earth like a kind of snow globe. But just don't imagine snow, just imagine the globe part. Have you seen this painting? It's flat, and then there's like it's kind of like a snow globe. There's a globe that's going over the top. And in that painting There is a traveler with his staff. That's how you know he's a traveler, because he has a staff and he's he's walking along, he's on a journey, and he's looking for the truth. And you see that he places his staff back and he gets on one knee so that he could stretch further and his head pops out of the globe so that he can see all of the stars and the mysteries of the universe beyond the earth's atmosphere. Has anybody seen this painting? I mean I'm standing here looking like a fool right now. I mean, you know. Look it up. Look it up. And even if you've never seen the painting, I think for my strange posture there you know what I mean. The picture is meant to represent the scientific task of knowing reality. The painting is illustrative of our time with Matthew and Isaiah this morning. That is a picture of them in a sense. Jesus was helping the Pharisees see the reality of his person as the eternal Son of God, the one that those men, Isaiah and David, had heard before There he is in the flesh. David and Isaiah stretch their heads beyond the limits of our own little snow globe. They had access to the divine dimension, having a conversation between the Father and the Son in Psalm 110, hearing the autobiographical declarations of the Son in Isaiah 49. And hearing that the eternal Son will take on human nature, even being born as a child, in Isaiah 9. I'm tempted to say that when we read these passages, we are truly on holy ground, and all of us should remove our shoes. Now that is the person of peace. We had the problem of peace, and that is the person of peace. We have been led to see that Jesus, who is the Christ, is also declared, and he even acknowledges himself and seeks to lead other people into the understanding that he is the eternal Son of God. Now, our our next point is our confidence in this piece. We have the problem of peace, and we begin to see that since the person of peace is the eternal son, then the problem could actually be solved. This is why Christians have so much confidence. This is why Christians have so much joy, even among deep griefs. This is why Christians have so much hope. It's because of realities like this. I want to do a little bit of a test though. Why do you have confidence that shalom will be restored? That God's creation will be vindicated. Why, if someone said to you, why do you, you know, that that's a huge task that that person has, why do you have so much confidence that it will in fact be accomplished? Now I think undoubtedly you would answer, well obviously because the one doing the restoring is God duh But that's not actually all that we have learned this morning. It actually leaves us a little short. That answer is, of course, right, but it's not the specific conclusion at which we have arrived. We did not just say that it's because he is God. We said that he is God the Son. And that takes our confidence to a whole nother level and degree. The fittingness of the sun being the one to restore harmony to the earth is the most fitting. It befits that he would do that. Why does that help us in our confidence for restored shalom? Because it is the Son in particular who is the master craftsman ordering all of creation so that it is good. Let me tell you a little bit about the Son, the one who has taken upon himself human nature, the one who has this task that is before him. From Proverbs eight, twenty six through thirty, while as yet he had not made the earth or the fields speaking of the fathers, or the primal dust of the world still speaking of the Father, now speaking of the Son, then I was beside him as a master craftsman. And there he is. Or we could turn to John chapter 1, 1 through 3. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. Now listen to what John immediately jumps to. This is important for your faith. This is important for you actually believing that we would have peace. He continues and he says, all things were made through him. How many features or characteristics or attributions could John at this point have said about the Son of God? Why does he choose to drop into this kind of discourse? With him being the one who has made things. It is the same reason why we're dropping into the discourse this morning is that these words are not given to you to just have Great philosophical speculations. They are to establish you in your faith and in your hope and in your love. What kind of confidence that you could have that this son that the Father has given, the one who has taken upon himself human nature, that he could restore harmony? The answer is he is the reason why there is any harmony to begin with. He is the one that took the formless and the void, with his spirit hovering over the face of the deep, making all of space habitable, and they pronounced, and it is good. He is the reason why you can enjoy a nice orange or a pear. He is the reason why you enjoy a good steak. And if you don't like meat, he's why you like eggplant, or whatever it is that you do All things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. I cannot think of a more competent person to take the job. I cannot think of a more competent person to finish it. What we need is just for the Holy Spirit to seal not on our minds, but also in our consciences and our hearts. Just who it is that the Father has sent, that we might be redeemed and the creation vindicated. If we did, we would not just have a psychological piece that would be a part of it. We would have Joyful anticipation and full assurance that all things in heaven and earth would be at peace when he finishes his work. Even in the darkest moments, they would not be able to snuff out the light. We've really just been considering one main question today, and my prayer for some time now is that it would just be sealed to us. What kind of sun could accomplish such a goal, bringing harmony back to all of creation? It is the same Son who ordered creation from the beginning. Our Christ is not a novice needing to read a manual about how to bring world order. The government shall be upon his shoulders, and they are broad enough to carry the world. It is not a new work for him, folks. And therefore, we may together with all of the saints who have pressed who have professed this from the beginning. Who profess it now and who will profess it in the future. We may have confidence. We may believe that the Father through the Son Truly brings peace to the world. Amen. Let us pray