We're going to spend some time walking through Matthew chapter 18 together. And if we have time, I'd like to look at forgiveness. I'd say it's uh it's uh we need to t hear more teaching on it, and we need to become more skilled in forgiveness. by the power of Christ the Spirit. So I'm hoping to look at the promises of forgiveness. And then I want to look at the two-step process of forgiveness. And then I just wanted to reread something from the book that I thought was just really caught everything quite well. So let's begin with the review then from last week Last week we were continuing with gently restoring another. So we've had the opportunity to get the log out of our own eye, and by God's grace, we're now able to see So, being able to see, we do have to ask a main question. We have to ask, is this something that I can overlook or not? And in order to get to the bottom of that question, you would ask other questions like, well, is this dishonoring God? Is it damaging my relationship? Does it is it like a termite that has gotten into the wood of our relationship and it's just kind of destroying everything? Is it hurting others? And is it hurting the offender? If you answer yes to those any of those four questions, then you most likely need to go and talk to them about it. When you do, we then can ask the question, well, what does it look like to talk to them? Well That's a difficult question to answer. The best you could do is you could come up with a few principles that Christ shares that work in the real world. Uh but oh but uh eventually you're gonna realize that you're gonna need to grow in Christian wisdom. It's like asking the question, well, how do you play baseball? Well, y you know. I mean you get a book from the library, I guess, and you can hear about the importance of how you grip the bat and that you don't hold you don't hold the wide end, you hold the skinny end. That kind of stuff, but eventually you're gonna have to get out on the baseball diamond and just keep playing. And hopefully you'll develop some baseball wisdom and some of you will be better at baseball than others. And I think it's the same thing with reconciliation. Okay. So when we move forward, what is some of the wisdom that is shared for us in the scriptures? Well, one of the things I covered, just so as to not keep repeating the book, is that it is important for us to speak the truth in love. And there are a lot of different ways to talk about speaking the truth. truth in love. I was pointing out uh I was reminding you of the deep truth that What God gives us in His Ten Commandments, or the moral law, is meant to give us a positive vision for the flourishing of human life. So when you are speaking to other people, you're coming from a place of you wanting them to flourish. You're not showing up with a hammer and they're the nail. Everybody got Okay. So we took a look at an example of the sixth commandment. We also looked at the division of the New Testament letters that they're typically divided in what has Christ done? And therefore, what are you called to do? And this is another way of seeing that when we do approach people, we want to approach them from the framework of the gospel. We want to approach them with the grace of the gospel. They're a child of God, and you need to be respectful to them and help them to see all that God has for them. Again, they're not your enemy. In addition, you could get into some what I would say are basic techniques of listening. It's important for us to wait patiently. while other people are speaking to us, that we should attend to what they're saying. It is often wise to ask clarifying questions to make sure you understand what they're saying. You can reflect back to them what they have said. And when they reveal something that you agree with, it can be good to agree with it, even if it's something about you that you have done. In addition, you want to bring healing. And in order to do that, we would want to make charitable judgments, which I want to talk about in a second. That you want to talk from beside and not from above. That you want to choose the right time and place, that you want to talk in person, please just close Apple messages Get away from the text messaging. If any of you are still using an Android, we have bigger problems, I guess Talk in person. Plan your words. It is wise to write out a a a letter and be concrete and specific so people know what in the world you're talking about. The make charitable judgments, I wanted to go back to that. Last week we ended with um one of the class members a asking about um We're to be making we're always to have charit we're to have charitable thoughts towards each other when we're in the midst of conflict. How does that play out in terms of the other priorities that Christ gives to us in his example where he condemns the Pharisees, for example? How do you hold both of those truths together to where you're not walking through the world naively? Well, we talked about that a little bit, and that's how we ended I want to not end that way and tell you that in my experience, and I'd love to hear your experience at some point, in my experience the basic posture that you can have in the church is to have charitable judgments towards each other. I think you can operate like that ninety-eight percent of the time. And even when there's that other two percent, I still think you should be having charitable judgments. You're just going to have to have more tools besides just the charitable judgment. But I think what what Christ reveals to us here, part of the wisdom is that you as a human being, you have to decide What are my presumptions? What are my presuppositions? Where do I begin? What's my default? in the world. What's the posture that I take? Well if you choose the wrong posture, you you're gonna have a lot of frustration in your life. And I think that what Christ is giving us here is, you know, a good posture to start with is to be charitable towards one another. You're going to be able to hear them better. You'll have clearer eyesight to see what's going on You won't have a set of assumptions that are blinding you. You could be a real contributor to the community if you are driven by love, I think is another way. And that's a good posture to be in. To be in a different posture, let's say that you're constantly in the posture of um Not agitation. It would be on edge. What's the the what's the word I'm looking for? Anxious, but it's like you're waiting for the shoe to drop around every turn because you know someone is always out to get you. Paranoid. Yeah, if you enter into your relationships with paranoia, your normal relationships, the relationship is already broken in a lot of ways. You can't see clearly. It's not a good place to start. Are there people in life with whom you should be extra careful? Yes. In my experience, I haven't had to do that with any of you. I So I mean maybe I should, but I don't think that's I think Christ wants us to have a starting point and the starting point is charitable judgments towards each other. And then Ken Sandy says this very well, and he says, after the accumulation of evidence to the conversation contrary, we can begin to take a different stance in the world towards that person. Right? Once they start to reveal That they're a fox or a wolf. I know I can't say that like you say it. What they always make fun of how I say Did I say it well? You know what I wanted to say? I wanted to say what? It's the my my grandmother grew up in Baltimore. And then I went to the eastern shore and then there's this weird blend. Okay. So I think you get the point there. I don't need to. Oh, we want to have charitable judgments towards each other until there has been a cumul an accumulation of evidence to the contrary. That's a paraphrase. So if you pick up on a you you start picking up on a pattern, you're like, oh wait a second, I can't I can't operate as I normally would with somebody here because they're different. And now we start to come up with different names to help us understand how to operate with them and it ends up becoming usually names of animals that are predators and you are the prey. So you gotta watch that. Yeah. Okay. Um okay, so that brings us now into uh the next section of our book, which is taking or the next part of the book, which is taking one or two others along. And to get at that, I wanted us to Uh take a look at Matthew 18, because that's where we see uh Ken Sandy developing his teaching from And just look a little bit at the context. Let's make a few observations so we can better understand the heart of Christ's teaching as recorded by the apostles. And then we can get into the actual process of Matthew eighteen. Sometimes we miss the context. And um That's not good. Okay. So let me just point out a a few things to you. And we're beginning at eighteen, eighteen one. Okay. Yeah. Okay, so the first observation I wanted to show you was that And let me go ahead and read the first three verses of chapter 18. At that time the disciples came to Jesus saying, Who then is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Now I think they mean that question in kind of a funny way, seeking status, which means we're already off on the wrong foot. So then Jesus, making the most of the situation that he's in, answers and he says, well Jesus calls over, verse number two, then Jesus called a little child to him. Set him in the midst of them and said, Assuredly, I say to you, unless you are converted and become as little children, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. Therefore, verse number four, whoever humbles himself as this little child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. And that's the beginning of this chapter. I think you could summarize it as asking, if you really want to know what the real question is that Jesus is answering, is it, what does it look like to be my disciple? Well the first answer we already have is it does not look like you trying to climb to the top and have everybody else underneath of you. And Jesus talks about that in other places where he says, you're not going to be like the rulers of the Gentiles exercising lordship over everybody. You're going to be like me, and you're going to become like a servant. And so similarly, he pulls over a child. to seek to present this. Now there are other aspects of the child besides their humble station in society. Uh there we we could talk about like a childlike faith. We could there's a number of different things Well, if you if you flip over to chapter nineteen, verse thirteen. I just want you to see the bookend here that Jesus keeps talking about these children He says, then little children were brought to him, verse number 13 of chapter 19, that he might put his hands on them and pray. But the disciples rebuked them, but Jesus said, Let the little children come to me and do not forbid them, for such is the kingdom of heaven. You see that And he laid his hands on them and they and departed from there. So we've got all the way up until nineteen fourteen, this this these are bookends. We've got children entering into the scene. We've got a bunch of instruction about what does it mean to be a disciple or a child who follows their heavenly father. And then we get to 1914 and we see there's an 13 and 14, we get another bookend showing us the close of this sections of teaching. So what that ends up doing secondly is it tells you that the way that the Holy Spirit has arranged this book is that this is the set of goggles you need to have on You should have a lens on of what does it look like to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. And the first figure that you have is this idea of the child. Alright, so you're going to want to use that. Eventually we're going to get to Matthew 18, 15 and following, and you want to use that as a lens. What does it look like to be his disciple? You can use that question as the lens to understand the Matthew 18 process Whatever you're doing in that process of discipline, it's an act of being a good disciple of Jesus Christ. All right, so then if we keep going, you'll see, for example, in verse number six, Jesus turns to a mark of d of his disciple that his disciples are not the kind of people that are going to cause other people to To fall and cause other people to stumble. And I'm just going to paraphrase this section. In fact, if there's something about you that destroys other people, it'd be best for you to get rid of that Than to have a millstone tied around your neck and thrown to the bottom of the sea. And that is his point of the figures of speech given with the cutting off of the hand and the foot and the plucking out of the eye. He then moves into something that I want to read for you at length. Now I'm going to begin in verse number 10. Still focused on the child. He now calls them the little ones. Take heed that you do not spise one of these little ones. For I say to you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in heaven. For the Son of Man has come to save that which was lost. Okay. Now we're going to get into a parable so that you could see a picture of what it looks like to be a great disciple. What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them goes astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine? and go to the mountains to seek the one that is st uh straying? And if he should find it, assuredly I say to you, he rejoices more over that sheep than over the ninety-nine that did not go astray. Even so, it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. You see that right there? We're going back to the little ones. The disciples, uh a mature disciple in the kingdom of Christ will make sure that those whom Jesus Christ is calling to himself are rescued when they go astray. They will not give up on them. They will seek and save the lost. Okay, so there's that parable to help us understand what it looks like to be Jesus Christ's disciple. Then it goes into Matthew 18, 15, which is the church disciplinary process. But before we go there, I want to show you one more lens. So that you can see again what does it look like to be a good disciple? And so I'm flipping over now into verse number twenty-one. So Peter, I really relate to Peter. I relate to Peter not in any accomplishments that he has. Yes. I relate to Peter in that I also take forever to figure out what the Lord is actually trying to say to me. And I mean that in like a real practical way. You know, just when you think I've got it, I mess it up. Just like Peter. And I need to be rebuked over and over again. And that's why the Lord has given me holly. She is good to me. So verse number twenty-one, here's Peter. He's trying to figure this thing out. And so he c he so Peter comes to Jesus and he says, Lord, we just went through the Matthew 18 process. He heard the parable of the lost sheep. He's starting to get a little bit of the picture of what it's going to take to be a good disciple, like all of the effort it need you need to put into making sure the sheep stay together. So then Peter comes up with a good question and he says, well how often do I need to really do this? Lord, how often shall my brother sin again how how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Up to seven times And Jesus said to him, I do not say to you up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven. Therefore, the kingdom of heaven is like a certain king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants. It would be so fun to hang out with Jesus. Just all of the different stories. Yeah, yeah. Another story. That's cool. Very good. I'd have to really slow down though. I usually need people to summarize it in a sentence. Sticking around for a whole parable is just I'd have to do less on my calendar. Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like a certain king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants. And when he had begun to settle accounts, one was brought Able to pay, his master commanded that he be sold with his wife and children and all that he had, and that payment be made. The servant therefore fell down before him saying, Master, have patience with me. forgave him the debt. But that servant went out and found one of his fellow servants who In the beginning we have Christ uh calling the children over. We then have a discussion of if your hands destroy people, that's bad. And he's not talking about literal hands Okay. Then we have here a hand, and at the end of the passage we have Jesus taking with his hands and Now there's a different kind of But he would not. But he went and he threw him, and you throw with a hand I forgave you all that debt because you begged me, should you not also have had compassion on your fellow Also so my Heavenly Father also will do to you if each of you from his heart can Um going to hell. It would be better to be without all these things than to be thrown Uh minuscule thing that they had ever done to him because of that, he ends up working bookends. We have in the beginning we have this these children so that we can To your fellow uh Christians, and it looks like uh bringing them in and keeping them Christians. side we see uh the kind of thing that's going to be necessary And now we arrive in the center, sort of the center. Trifocals? Man, that is cool. You have trifocals? What do you use all three for? So you see distance, okay. That's pretty cool. Well you kinda have like a uh bifocals on either side of this. So you have these different lenses that he that he wants you to look through. The Holy Spirit wants you to look through You to look through these different lenses, like just imagine you're wearing Dwayne's glasses. These different lenses in order to understand what's going on in the Matthew 18, 15 to 20. So let's go ahead and read that now. And then we'll discuss just the parts. But I am going to ask you a question. Okay, so let's begin in 1815. In 14, notice the final word is perish. He doesn't want anybody to perish. Okay, well what could we do about that? And how could we promote forgiveness in our midst Moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his faults between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother. But if he will not hear, take with you one or two more. By the mouth of two or three witnesses, every word may be established. That's an italics for me. Is that italics for you? Okay, good. And if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church. But if he refuses even to hear the church, let him be like a heathen and a tax collector Surely I say to you, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. Again, I say to you that if two of you agree on earth concerning anything that they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. And here's a quote which is often ripped out of this context. But here it is in context, for where two or three are gathered together in my name, I am there in the midst of them. What a great assurance. Okay, so you've read your book already, and you so you know the parts of this. But uh right off of the bat, before we even get started, I have a question for you. Looking through the bifocals of the total passage passage from 18 to 1914 What are some things that you notice about the Matthew 18 process? What are some things that may be more clear to you about it? What would you say? Any real Any do you wonder if it might be a certain way? Any thoughts Oh, hi Barbara. Putting into the book ends that it isn't just simply to show up in somebody's door and say, hi I have some I guess it it's a matter of understanding myself, but also remembering the value of the person who's driving the craving. Oh yeah, okay, very good. Remembering so Barbara, if you didn't hear Barbara, uh she was saying that one of the things she sees when she considers the bookends is it this whole thing has to start in me examining my heart. And then the second thing is that it's very important to remember the value of the person that she's talking to, even if they have offended her. Did I do that okay with that? Yeah, and that and uh and I would say that she would get the where would she get the idea of the person being valuable? The person who sinned against you still being valuable. Where would she get that idea with the with the bifocals that we have? Image of God, that's true, but that's not how Jesus puts it. He doesn't get into a discussion that's Okay, going after the stray. So the sheep to the shepherd is valuable. Anything else? Who said that? The child. The child, yeah. S were the children valuable? Well I think yeah. I mean I'm talking about it in the passage. Jesus was showing the Bible. Yeah, Jesus Jesus was definitely saying these are these right here are valuable to me and he says m several times don't mess with them don't it couldn't be stronger language you know it really couldn't If you don't care for them, my disciples, the way I care about my disciples, then you're not going to be in a good spot with me. S yeah, I think so. So all right, very good. That's great. Anything else that you realize about Matthew eighteen just out of the gate in looking through the bifocals of the passage? Well when you think about children, I I've always tended to believe this factors of you know they're the children. Oh yeah. But actually children are very foolish and often they they corrected. Yes. So that's it. Yeah. That's good. at children don't like like with my own kids and I've never saying to them, How could you do that? I'm so surprised at you. But why am I Hey, well my mom said that to me. I always ask the same question. Why are you so surprised, Mom? I'm like four. Of course I'm gonna eat my truck. Okay, that's good. And I uh I'll go with that too because you're mapping the sheep that go astray. They wander away, their hearts are prone to wander. In the same discussion that's talking about children, which are pretty they're pretty unstable also. So you just watch a little kid, you watch Ian and Amanda's Emmett running through the North X, she's a little wobbly. So he is getting better. That's right. Very good. That's good. And Bill Yeah, I have not noticed the bookends aspect of this, but it begins in eighteen one where two is greatest in the kingdom of heaven and it ends what he was saying in nineteen fifteen. Yeah. Yeah. The kingdom of heaven belongs to such as these. So there's those those two ends. And does that help you at all with the Matthew eighteen, fifteen through Well it is the whole the whole picture is from the state went head. Okay. How p spell that out for me. I already told you I struggle like Peter. Well Oh okay, yeah. That's a neat connection I haven't thought through. That's great. Very good. Christina. How big or small it is and respond. Isn't it the point where I have to say there are many things that the board do You know, see clearly in his scripture, I do not see all of the things all of the time about myself and God's heavenly And so is this a point. You know, we've taken this step Do we need to take the next step or is this a point where I need to say because God has is merciful and gracious and long suffering with me, that is also the next step? So it's not necessarily you start here and then you go all the way to the end. Uh huh. You know, there's so that's how it does Yeah, so for example, you could go you could um may I summarize what you said? Uh I don't think I'm gonna catch all of it, but I'm wondering if exactly If you're basically saying we're going to have to make sure we use this procedure with Christian wisdom and not use it as if we're conducting a s uh we're thoughtlessly dis uh conducting a science experiment. Where we just follow the steps and we're not really thinking through it. This is meant to be a tool used wisely in our hands. So for example, what that might end up looking like is in the first step There's you had you're having that conversation and something might be revealed where you're just like they didn't exactly repent of this, but now that I have more information, I think we're done. I'm ready to just overlook this is not as serious as I thought it was. And after we talked, I think it actually has more to do with me and my sensitivity than it does them. Would that be an okay example? And and so even though you started the first step and they didn't repent, you didn't go to the second step because you discovered this should really be overlooked. Yeah. Or but it could also be you go to the person and they don't see it or they're not interested in talking or they don't have any desire to move forward in any of the problems process and the degree of the offense might determine whether you push that forward or not. Yeah. And that's good And it depends on the scenario too, because there's different things that come up that change the the urgency of something. Yeah, okay. Fair enough. You think that was okay to summarize it basically as saying we're really gonna have to use this as wisdom. We're not allowed to just check out. Yeah, and I think the verifults of service is really check on that. It's a good call to Christianism in using the It is and it's also a call to a basic posture of Restoration and healing and rescue as opposed to envy and jealousy and destruction and you getting your way. And all of these things. Or elevating yourself or winning. Okay, I saw a couple I'm gonna do I'll do these two and then we'll be done. of uh Christine is becomes tricky because in that situation where you are working with somebody and you might be able to you should be going into a Uh-huh. Um but if if if they're not willing andor able to see way that you were offended and aren't willing to ask for any forgiveness or even see anything that they did wrong starts to get tricky whether to just over look as it starts you you have to ask yourself, okay, am I um am I letting gonna let a pattern go that I might be okay with this? But this could go on to affect others and their relationship in the church. Mm-hmm. You do. So it it it becomes even though you realize what you did wrong you realize, okay, well maybe I was making a little bit more out of it than it was. There is you know there are other parts that say, no, but I was offended to this And the person doesn't even care. It says, so do what? Yeah. I think even though you know the the issue became less than it was, it still is. Hey Maybe we need help to be able to see, you know, the the small effects here or the how do we how are we how can we be truly right Rather than me just going, okay, I'll do that again. But it's so easy. Okay, I'll I'll ignore that. It's really ignoring it, it's really the easy way. It's hard to help for itself. It is hard. It's hard to go out into the pastures and bring back the sheep. It's much easier to stay by the campfire. Um yesterday I was listening to uh Legs Together by Swan Stop. Oh. Cool. You know I have never read that. He talked about intercessory prayer. for the person and how it hard it is to to be really angry with or have negative feelings with when we're praying for someone. And so that the loving prayer But I think it factors in and can help with the wisdom and with the It's de it's definitely in the picture that Jesus is painting of how we're supposed to be relating to each other. Yeah, even the leader relating to Okay. So that okay, very good. Those are good observations. Those are the kind of things that come out of looking through those lenses at 1815. Let's talk about the particulars just for a moment. I'm going to begin with verse number 15. You can see that there's distinct phases in this. What we can go ahead and call it now is this is a rescue operation. Because we're just coming off of the heels of going out and s and grabbing a sheep that went astray, and then you'll notice there's a repetition of This uh same idea uh amidst this uh eighteen fifteen where it says, Um, you have gained your brother. I think the idea there, if you're gonna understand words in their context, the gaining is like gaining the sheep from having been let astray. Led astray. Right? So it's the same kind of thing here. This is a sheep rescuing operation. This is especially important for Peter to hear Because his example is the Sanhedrin who uses their court and their authority to destroy people and actually use their court to f to find the innocent Jesus Christ guilty and to crucify him. Alright, so we don't want to become like that. So Jesus needs to teach his apostles on what does it look like to actually be a good shepherd? 15, it begins with, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. So there's an emphasis here on us beginning in a de-escalated green zone. We're talking to somebody personally and privately. We didn't start the discussion on Twitter with them. We didn't open up the idea at a party in front of everybody. We are having a personal and we're having a private conversation with them. And it specifically says here, though we could look at other scriptures to balance this out or to add other flavors. It specifically mentions here that the driving force that is going forward is that there is some kind of a sin involved. There is some offense. That has happened, that has risen to the level, because we know that there are some we we would overlook, but it's risen to the level in your mind where you need to let them know that they are headed down the wrong path. They're straying off into a place where they're going to be eaten alive by the wolves of their own uh the of like the of the unhealthy self, the wolves of the company you will keep if you head down that path. I'm just using the imagery of the lost sheep. So you're going to start personally and privately with them and share their fault to them alone. And now you can see here that really what we're after is that rescue operation because the next phrase is, if he hears you, you have gained your brother. And there's a celebration. Because you, through the knowledge that God has given to you in His Word And the holy boldness that we talked about last week, you did not consign them to their sin. You did not just let Satan take them captive. You didn't allow the heart, which was beginning to harden against God. You didn't allow it to freeze over. You stopped it. You did something about it. You took responsibility. I love um there is one commentary that titles this whole section, My Brother's Keeper. I think that's a great way to put it. We've decided not to be like Cain. We've said, no, you know what? I am my brother's keeper. And I'm gonna go get him. Because I love him. And he's doing things that are destroying him and other people. Okay, so if so if he hears you then you have gained your brother. Sometimes did you know this in human life that sometimes people don't hear you? Anybody have that experience with a two year old? They don't hear you. Two year old. Keep going, yes. Yeah. Three year old. Okay. Okay, but what if we don't gain 'em? What if that's what if they don't hear you? Okay. So that takes us to number 16. This is still a rescue operation. So what this tells you is that if we need to keep going, things are more difficult and further along down the path than you thought. When people are entrenched in sin, they oftentimes are characterized as being blind. So if they can't see what you're saying, it's going to require more effort. And here's the second effort, therefore. But if you will not hear, take with you one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. Now that's in italics. Why is that in italics? It's a quotation. Does anybody know where that quotation is from where that quotation is? Deuteronomy, yeah. Yeah, there's several quotations like this and then several examples throughout the scriptures that show that you're going to establish an offense by one or two witnesses. Now when you look at the scriptures and you ask, well what are witnesses? It's not just human beings. There are different things that can be used as uh evidence. Uh what would you're in law. Are there different kinds? It's like a human testimony, but then what if I found the smoking gun? It doesn't talk. Yeah, fingerprints. Fingerprints. Does that a s has a name as evidence? Um forensic. Forensic, corroborating? I don't know. Anyway we'll there is certain things. Yeah, so there can be different things like this, like when um So can you think of an example where the evidence wasn't just a human testimony, but it was something else? Yes, Raquel. Oh yeah yeah but I mean in the Bible. Yeah, yeah, no, that's good. I really appreciate it. Yeah. Yeah, that's good. No, that's true. In real life, text message works. Emails, letters. Bob, you were gonna say something? Uh you have held on to somebody garnish as payments, say a belt, and then when they tried to say, Oh, I wasn't involved in that, the belt was produced, then their belt is revealed. Yeah, and what was her name It was Tamar. Yeah, it was Tamar. That's right. That's the example that I had. I think. Yeah, so I mean yeah, that's a g that's a good example. Very good. If you look in the book of James, I bring this up all the time But if you look in the book of James, those who held money back from the laborers, the ev part of the evidence that's being used against them is that they have a bunch of things laying around their houses that they do not use and yet there's a bunch of people that need them right there who are poor. So the so when when Jesus shows up as judge and he sees that these people are poor and you have way too many carrots to ever eat You're held accountable for your greetingness. By the carrot. Woof. That's very serious. That's pretty serious. And this is an argument for not allowing clutter to form around your home. No, I'm just kidding. I mean in a sense. Oh that that was that was meddling, I'm sorry. Okay, so you would bring one or two others along. Uh you can and uh they're acting as witnesses, and that's the primary emphasis. The primary emphasis is not someone who's a third party who's helping you talk through these things. That can be an aspect of that of those people. And I do believe that it's a good and necessary consequence to say that sometimes mediation is your best road. But here it's established with a long scriptural heritage that you're bringing witnesses. Now why would you need to do that? How is that a plausible method to rescue someone in a s in a hardened condition. Because they don't want to admit it. These witnesses can be used to help them see. That's exactly right. Think about a person's conscience. And that conscience, they want to suppress that truth and unrighteousness so they don't hear you. But then you bring two or three other people and they're like, listen, and it could be the right kind of people, people they respect. People that know how to talk and who are gentle. Could be that and they show up and they say, listen, uh, we don't know what you're doing. We all saw you. Now that is very difficult for the conscience to resist. To have multiple people sitting in your living room all saying, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Honey, we don't know what you're doing right now, but this isn't good. We all saw you. It would be so much easier to just go ahead and drop the attitude, we're not here to hurt you. We're here to help you and you need to ad you need to admit this. What is going on where you can't admit this Now assuming that they're all there to help and you didn't end up in the living room with a bunch of mean girls. Then that the Lord has formed our consciences in such a way to where that is going to work with most people. Okay. So that's why he wants you to do that. There's another reason why, which is now you have more people involved if they s continue to not listen. And we can now move into this second for this third step that we see in Matthew 18, 15, that's still a part of the rescue. Um and if he'll notice before we leave, look at number 16 that the witnesses are doing something very specific. They're establishing every word. So they you could see there they could be sorting some things out while they're in there too. Okay. Number 17. And if he refuses to listen to them, now tell it to the church. So it's going up the ladder and it's actually also going to go from personal and private, sitting in the living room, to formality. You're going to have to because of the because of the level of because of where their conscience is and most likely if it gets this high, the complexity of the case. You're now going to need to make sure that you're handling things well and there will be a level of formality that has to enter in. And you can see different levels of formality within the scriptures before the Sanhedrin, for example, because I think that's what they have in mind here. is conducting a case like that. Or if you look at the Jerusalem Council, there's a kind of formality there that you sometimes don't detect, but they're bringing in different witnesses to testify what's going on with the Gentiles in Acts chapter 15. And then as a presbytery or a court or a Sanhedrin kind of thing, they're then taking all of the evidence in, seeking to understand What the Lord's will is, and then making a declaration. And then the result of that declaration is they write a formal letter to all of the Gentile churches. The letters from the court. Alright, so we s and you can look back and elders meeting at the gates. Proverbs 31, the husband is in the center of the poem and he's at the gate. These are all little glimpses of of what's happening in the gate are the dealing with difficult cases. Those could be personal offenses, they could be business disputes. You saw in 1 Corinthians 6 that the Apostle Paul said, Aren't there people in your congregation that know how to judge? And if it got to that level and there was the complexity of a case to where th there was someone in a incestuous relationship then there needs to be uh a formal structure to be able to work through that and to make a declaration for the community And that can be personal offenses or it could be arbitrating business disputes. This contract didn't work out. We need to figure out who has what obligations. You can see the next step that if they refuse to listen there, where they're sitting with the leaders of the community, and the leaders of the community are still on a rescue operation. The leaders of the community are not trying to destroy somebody. If they don't listen, then there's the next step, which is if they refuse even And I think that's a good translation there. If they refuse even to hear the church, you see the escalation, see the hardness of the heart, then what you might have on your hands is someone who's not a follower of Jesus Christ. Now we don't know that eternally. I don't know the counsels of God and who's written in his book. But you can judge if a person is unrepentant. And it has been established by the word of multiple witnesses, then, and they're not repenting, then they're you can see here they're saying, well then they belong to a different community But because this is a rescue operation, let me just ask you a question. How did Jesus treat the people that are listed there? It says that if they're if they refuse even to hear the church, let them be to you like a heathen and a tax collector. How did Jesus treat heathens and tax collectors? You know what? With grace. Okay, with grace, yeah. What else? Like what what did that look like? He told me like that. How was it? We didn't give up on them. Okay. Now we have to say that in the cases that that we do see cases where Jesus seeks the salvation of the lost. But we also see cases where become people people become so corrupt that you're not even allowed to have dinner with them. And that is in like in the 2nd John. Because what the person has done there is that they've confronted the person They've become hardened and they're drawing the entire g congregation away over into the snare of the devil. And so they have to fence the congregation from that those false teachers. And you'll hear Paul speaking about them like that, saying their anathema. In Galatians, for example. So again, we need to use wisdom on exactly what does this look like. But the overarching spirit here, you can see what he's trying to accomplish in eighteen, fifteen through following. Yes. on on tears on on the religious leaders. So it was there there does seem to be a lie that that if it's just a lay person and and they're they're not They're just lost. You just keep you keep coming after, you keep coming after them, but if if it's they're they've got authority, then they're doing damage. Yeah, and you can see the You can see the judgment there dealing with the degrees of sin. It's that if you have one person who is uh sh is at a Bible study and they say There's, you know, a way we can explain this whole thing is that there's one God in the Old Testament who was full of anger, and there's another God in the New Testament who's full of love. That just wraps it up Well we know that that's an ancient heresy. But they're in the Bible study, and though there should be some correction, we don't need to send out a pastoral email to everybody at that moment and say you're not allowed to go to Panera Bread with them. But if they got to the point where they're they have figured out a way to gain a platform and you're noticing that two Well one, two, three people are like, oh yeah, I always wondered. I'm gonna adopt this heresy too. Then then think the degree starts to climb. So what I did there is if they have a platform of influence, they're all they're by definition moved into a place of authority. Legitimate. But yeah, okay, that's good. Alright, we have we have officially arrived. I heard the bell. So next week we're going to finish out the book, but I do want to talk about forgiveness next week. And I'll stop there. Let's do that. Heavenly Father, we thank you for our greatest teacher, the teacher of all teachers, who is our Christ. He is our great prophet. We thank you that he has helped us to see what does it really look like to relate to each other in your kingdom. Even if you're a leader, what does it look like to relate to those that you lead? We thank you for these multiple parables that you've given to us, the image of pulling children close. rescue operations, and even laying down for us, for our simple minds, just a concrete concrete set of steps for us to be able to follow as we We thank you and we ask now that your spirit would be with us as we move into worship. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.