I'll begin in verse eighteen. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. After his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together She was found with child of the Holy Spirit. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you marry your wife. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will bring forth a Son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel. Which is translated, God with us. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him and took to him his wife. and did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that as always your word would go forth And that it would not return to you without accomplishing its purpose. I pray that even the preached word, that you would use it and make it effective. That you would change your congregation and those that you're calling to your congregation here on the spot. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. You may be seated. When I was growing up, I wonder if I had a habit that was similar to a habit that you might have. And that is I struggled with a great deal of anxiety and unrest just in my own mind and heart. I couldn't seem to put things together well in my life to where I felt at peace. One of the places where that would begin to change is if I went for a walk in the woods Does anyone else like that where if you really need to allow your shoulders to drop and relax, it happens when you can enjoy the changing colors of the maple tree. Or if you have the opportunity to go fly fishing or uh even just walking through some of our local trails with Bacon Ridge or riding your mountain bike or whatever it is. I wonder if some of you are are like that. As I grew uh closer and closer to becoming a Christian, of course I'm looking at this in hindsight. I had no idea what was happening at the time. Even walks in the woods did not work. God had set his spirit upon me to make me uneasy. And to no longer find peace by way of the changing leaves of the trees in the autumn or in hunting in the fall But the only way that I was able to find peace was in turning to Him and looking for reconciliation through His Son, Jesus Christ. It was after that I became a Christian that I was able to enjoy the woods again. I would look at the leaves differently. I would say, these are my father's leaves. Before they were just colorful. And the peace returned. Peace with God is what permits there to be peace with anything else. We can suppress that all we want. We can try to hide that in trying to gain peace through dopaminergic release with hearts on social media. Or whatever it is, but I'm telling you, according to the scriptures, the only way for humanity to have peace is to once again be at peace with God. That's the main message that we have here this morning. Last week we had the opportunity to look at hope and the hope that we have with Jesus Christ. We looked at the genealogy, which within our culture is a bit odd, even though we have ancestry and other places where we're finding out our family tree. Looking at a long genealogy of strong names uh odd names is still odd to us. But when we see what the spirit is doing by way of that genealogy, we're seeing That God has brought all of time to its apex and its defining moment. And that time is the time when He sends the eternal Son to take upon himself human nature, to release us from exile, and to be given all authority in heaven and in earth. You'll remember that we're looking at Matthew. And at Matthew 28, that's exactly what it says. Jesus has all authority in heaven and earth. And that is already said there in that genealogy. And we move forward today from the genealogy into now the birth of the one that was proclaimed to be the son of David. And I'd like to look at that under three main parts this morning. You can just keep track of where I am and where we're going by remembering these three titles. We're going to look at the Genesis of Jesus. We're going to look at the prophecy of Jesus, and we're going to look at the naming of Jesus. All of those things are going to help us to understand uh the peace of God and how that's accomplished. The genesis of Jesus, the prophecy of Jesus, and the naming of Jesus. That's one way for us to divide up this passage in front of us Let's begin then with the Genesis of Jesus. Now why is it that I say it that way? The Genesis of Jesus If you look at verse number 18, which is where we began our reading here this morning, you'll see it says, now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. The reason why I've chosen the title Genesis is because the word birth there is the word Genesis. And that is important because as I pointed out in Matthew 1. 1, the word genealogy is also Genesis. So there's this continuation of this theme going on. The Holy Spirit here this morning wants you to be thinking about the creation account. as we look at the conception of Jesus in the womb of the Virgin Mary. That's something he wants in our our our um uh to foreground for us. But he also, this with this word Genesis, if you had the time to take a look at it how it works out within the uh original Greek language, it comes from a particular verb which means to be or to become or to happen. A birth isn't a wrong translation here, but you can see that another part of this is that Matthew is asserting how Jesus came to be And that reinforces the idea from last week when we heard that story about the missionary translating Matthew. That this is not a myth. This isn't a philosophical idea. This is about reality and what has taken place in history. That Jesus was actually born from a virgin. And as you can see even in this passage, that he was conceived in her womb by the Holy Spirit. You can continue in this verse, if you will, with me, please, that after his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together You can see what I said explicitly is right there in the scripture, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. That's the genesis of Jesus. That's what the Holy Spirit wants the foreground and place right in front of your face as we continue in the greatest book written, which are the Holy Scriptures. If you want to know about some of the historical details with this betrothal, it is like an engagement, but more serious especially in that culture. It was an unbreakable pledge that was undertaken usually, according to historians, one year before the wedding. And it carried just about the same weight as marriage itself to the point where if you entered into an engagement and then something happened, there would need to be a kind of divorce that would take place, according to some commentators. You would not be under the same roof in this engagement. You'd have to still wait. You would still if you were a bride, you would wait within the your father's home, if you are the if you're the groom, you would wait within your father's home. But then once you are married, then you are able to come together as man and wife. And you know what that means, that if you're living in separate houses that there's a kind of distance between the two of you, and that represents even the distance that should be between you in intimacy Which of course still stands today, that there is no justification for premarital sex, not under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. And it's the same thing with this picture here within the scriptures. And that's why it's so alarming when we read. Before they came together, she was with child. That was quite the surprise. To her and to him. But it is explained to us here very, very quickly, so that we don't have any wrong ideas about the kind of woman that she was That's very we don't want that uh there is there is historical record showing that one of the ways that they were trying to work against Christ and his kingdom was to scandalize and blas not blaspheme, scandalize and s uh the name of Mary as being a loosed woman. But that's not the case here. You can see right away within our scriptures that she was found with child. That's true. But there's a really important prepositional phrase after that, which is of the Holy Spirit. Not with Joseph, not with some other man, but of the Holy Spirit. Now when we get to 19, we begin to see the husband Joseph who is struggling with this. He is a just man, it says in verse 19, and he's not wanting to make her a public example, so he was minded to put her away secretly. He didn't overlook the offense as if it was no offense. If you were to look through the Old Testament scriptures, this kind of relationship where a man and a woman would come together before marriage intimately There is uh plenty of laws that show that the result of this is a death penalty. But if you look here, he isn't denying that the only thing that he's doing is he's not dragging her out into public and making it the most embarrassing moment of her life. Instead, he's offering a kind of compassion by doing the divorce privately. He's not condoning the sin. He's just maintaining her reputation to a certain degree and therefore doing this privately. But as he continues there in verse number 20, while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David. Do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And now we have this a second time. Do you know what you're supposed to focus on in the passage yet? That this isn't illegitimacy. This isn't a lack of self-control. She's not a partier. The main point and the emphasis here is that it conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. In Luke's version, when the angel Gabriel told Mary that she had conceived the child and would bring forth a baby, she was stunned and she said, How can this be, since I have not known a man? And the angel replies, in Luke 1, 34, and all the way through 37, with God nothing will be impossible. And that's really the beginning of the Genesis and the birth of Jesus. A birth like no other birth. Now if you were to go back into the Old Testament the Old Testament you would find in many, many books birth narratives. And in those birth narratives, you would find that people or a man that God was raising up in order to bring salvation to his people That that would be accompanied by the Holy Spirit accompanying them in their work. You would see angels speaking to husbands, for example, in the story of Samson. raising him up to deliver the Israelites from their bondage at that time. The angel of the Lord would come and he would speak to both Samuel's mother and father, or Samson's mother and father. But there's one thing that you won't see in any of those birth narratives. None of those children Though they were accompanied by the Holy Spirit, none of them were conceived in the womb of the Virgin by the Holy Spirit. And so once again, wedding nicely with the genealogy that we have just seen, time is not continuing on from generation to generation with just another child. Time has continued to its endpoints in the child, and it is Jesus who is the Christ. Of course, we want to continue thinking about Genesis, where the Holy Spirit hovers over the face of the deep. And it's especially true within the account of Luke that Luke pictures the Spirit working with Mary in that same kind of fashion. One commentator wrote, Gabriel was declaring to Mary, that same power by which the universe was made, that same power that brought life out of darkness originally, is the power that will overshadow her womb and produce a son. God doesn't need a human father to bring this to pass. And it also reminds us something of which we forget Sometimes. I just had a person ask me the other day, they said, Is the Holy Spirit God? I never hear Christians talk about the Holy Spirit. And I said, well, you're in luck today. Because over at my congregation, we just worship the Holy Spirit in a psalm. And so, yes, the Holy Spirit is God. And here we're reminded of that. The Holy Spirit in our own confessions. How does it appear that the Son and the Holy Ghost are equal with the Father The scriptures manifest that the Son and the Holy Ghost are God, equal with the Father. How do we know? Because what is ascribed to them within the Scriptures, in their names, what they're called The attributes that they have are all divine, and their works and the worship that is given to them show that they are God. Because those things are only said or given to God properly and only. And here we have another example. Of where only what God can do, the Holy Spirit does, and so you see a work, and it is another proof that the Holy Spirit is God. I just wonder, before I move on to the next main point here Have you taken time to ponder that, this Advent? That the Holy Spirit is God? And that Jesus Christ has sent his Holy Spirit to you. Do you know how close God is with you? He's with you every moment, Christian, by way of his spirit. I can't think of a greater privilege. that is given to us. The same spirit that we read about in this passage is the spirit that is here with us this morning. It's the same spirit, those of you who know what it's like to not walk with Christ, but to be stuck in your transgressions, and that means all of you It's the same spirit that has set you free from those things. Where you're able to start seeing clearly, it's the Spirit. You're able to do something loving. That was the Spirit. Be able to confess your sins? That was the Spirit working over you, making you his creation. It says in John chapter 1 that you're not born In John chapter 3 it says that if you are to enter into eternal life, you must be born of the Spirit. Well, you are not conceived in your mother's womb by the power of the Holy Spirit, but there is an analogy. That you are like Christ and that you have life from the Spirit. Well, we not only have here within our passage the genesis of Jesus, But we also have the prophecy of Jesus. The prophecy of Jesus is seen here in verses 22 and 23 of the same chapter. It says, so all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child. and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. Now does anyone know where this prophecy is uh this is a quotation from where. Does anybody know? Isaiah, anyone want to say the chapter? Seven. Very good. So this is Isaiah chapter seven. And if you had the if you ever have the opportunity to follow these different prophecies. For example, if we were to follow Isaiah 7, it reads more fully this. Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Now he's speaking to Ahaz. This is happening within history. Therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. And it if you were to go to the verses before that, you would see the reason why in that I that um Isaiah context There needs to be a sign given is because the current king is under a great deal of pressure and attack, and God is coming to him and saying, you don't need to worry. What they're seeking to plan and undermining you won't come to be But there will in fact be this sign for you that this young girl of marriageable age or virgin shall conceive and bear a son. and shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God is with us. And that king, at that day, let's say somewhere around 795 B. C. That king of that day would take great hope and comfort that God was with him. But here's the thing, and this is why I'm pointing this out to you, is that we look at here in Matthew. And we see what Matthew is saying, really it's more appropriate, as I was taught by the president of my seminary, Joseph Pfeiffer, it's more appropriate to say we see what the Holy Spirit is saying. That the Holy Spirit is pointing out to us that that prophecy from Isaiah really had to do with the Son and what's going on here with Mary. And yet when we go to Isaiah, we see that it had to do with a whole other situation about wars between tribes, about national defense. How is it that you're supposed to bring those two things together? Is Matthew just fast and loose with the scriptures? No. What we see here is the same thing that we have seen within the genealogy. It's the same thing as we've been talking about as the unfolding of time has all been moving to the sun. All of time moving towards the sun, all of history moving towards the sun, all stories within the scriptures moving toward the sun. I'll remind you of this, and this is something you could ponder over your Sabbath lunches. Hebrews 8. 4. This will get a family conversation going. Since there are priests who offer the gifts according to the law, who serve the copy and shadow of the heavenly things, as Moses was divinely instructed when he was about to make the tabernacle, for he said See that you make all things according to the pattern that was shown you on the mountain. So if you pick up what's being said here in Hebrews, Moses is on a mountain. God shows him a pattern that he's then to copy and make into the tabernacle. And you've got to ask yourself the question, well, what is the pattern by which all things are made? Well, when you continue reading through the book of Hebrews, the answer is Jesus, the Son. Jesus is the pattern for all things. Let me ask you the question. What is real and what is the shadow? The Passover that happened in the Exodus or the death of Christ? What's real is Jesus There is a reality and there is a shadow that goes through all of the scriptures. Sometimes we'll make the mistake of reading something like Matthew when we get to the Sermon on the when we get past the s when we get into the Sermon on the Mountain, we'll say, Jesus was just like Moses. No, he wasn't. Moses was like Jesus. Before Moses was, I am, says Jesus. All things within the scriptures that are given to us, whether it is Joseph in his story, whether it is Moses in his law, whether it is Adam in being the head of the race. All of these are but pointing to the one that all time is about, and it's Jesus. And so we then, taking that same stance, continuing in the same posture, when we turn to Isaiah with the Holy Spirit, we see in Isaiah 7, yes, historically there were tribal uh difficulties and national defense issues. But ultimately, what is being given here would be fulfilled in the form of the sun The Son himself is the one who shall be born from the Virgin. The Son himself will be the protector and the defender. The Son himself is Emmanuel and who is God who is with us. He is the savior of his people. All things find their end and their meaning in the Sun. He is the Alpha and the Omega. He is the beginning and he is the end. It is in him and through him and to him that are all things. Now, that's how we would read Isaiah. And that's why the Holy Spirit reads Isaiah this way, is because everything is about Jesus. Jesus is the reality of those shadows. Jesus is not like anyone. Everyone is like him. They are received, they all received who they are from Jesus. I wonder if you have been taken captivity taken into captivity by the devil. Well, Jesse, that's a odd thing to wonder all of a sudden. I put it that way because I wonder w when you're going through your day, how many different times Do you see reflections of God? You know, when I started to look through the scriptures by way of some help by a gentleman named Bob Ink. If you want to know who Bob Ink is, actually if you want to know what he looks like, just see Chase Bond. Look Chase Vaughn and and Bob Ink look the same. But he's a pretty major theologian and uh in one of his sections he listed out all of the ways in which creation is likened or is a reflection of the attributes of God. And he pointed out some things I just hadn't paid attention to before. The strength of the lion is meant to be a reflection of the strength of its creator. The ant and its prudential wisdom, when we consider the ant, is meant to be a reflection of the prudence and the wisdom, the excellent wisdom of its creator If you'll remember from Romans chapter 1, it says that all of these things are bearing testimony and witness to the attributes of their Creator. And yet we can go through our day never really thinking about the Creator. And it means that we have a certain kind of blindness. And that's appropriate to bring up under this point because if we're seeing reality correctly, just in the way that this Isaiah passage is being interpreted, To see reality correctly is to see everything with reference to God. Everything with reference to God, especially the Son. Everything with reference to him and his glory and his beauty and his wisdom and his goodness and his love That is how our days should be gone through. And when we're reading the scriptures, you know what we should most often see in everything? Jesus. Jesus. Now, those are the first two parts of the passage that is in front of us here this morning and the genesis of Jesus And we also have the prophecy of Jesus, but then we come down here to the end with the naming of Jesus. The naming of Jesus. Some of the names have already been given here. I've already mentioned to you from the last past part that we just looked at. That his name shall be Jesus and he will save his people from their sins. He was also already called Emmanuel, I believe. But when we move into 22 and we continue, we can see that There's something interesting going on here that brings us back into the Genesis passage. I actually want to start in verse 24 since we've already looked at the prophecy in 23. It says, Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him and took to him his wife. and did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son and he called his name Jesus. Well number one, the first observation is There's a great deal of energy being put here to make sure that everyone knows that this son's father is not Joseph The Son's father is not any other man. Again, we're going back to the beginning there. You can just see in the the language that He did not know her, and there are the reason why he points that out is to leave no doubt that Jesus is conceived and conceived in the v womb of the Virgin Mary. But secondly, I wonder if you notice how much Joseph is like here, like Adam. We already have the repetition of genealogy as Genesis, birth as Genesis. And we can even find that elsewhere here within the passage. And then we have Joseph waking up and taking to himself a wife, just like Adam. Genesis is really a main place in which we should be understanding this section. The Holy Spirit's pointing out to us something by way of contrast, though. You know, there's something that Adam did. He named all the animals as the vice regent exercising dominion over the creation. But you know one thing that Joseph doesn't do here as a kind of Adam figure? He doesn't name. Those names are already given. In fact, Joseph's not even the father, so it wouldn't be his right to name. It says here that God Himself has already determined before the foundations of the earth, if you were to review the whole canon. that he shall receive two names, that his name shall be Jesus, and we have already seen that there is a kind of action that he'll take or an identity that he has. And that is picked up by the name Emmanuel. And these two names are very important. This name, Jesus, I'm sure that some of you have done the study where you're able to see that this is derived from Joshua. And that this means Savior or one who shall bring salvation. Now the Holy Spirit in this passage spells that out a little bit and especially connects it to our exile under the dominion of Satan when he says that he shall be a s he shall save his people from their sins And we know that he will be able to do so because this isn't just anyone, this is Emmanuel, it is God with us. Certainly he has the power to release his people from this exile When you look at a name like this, when we look at the rest of the scriptures here and we see that his name is Jesus and that it's not meant to just be a signature that Jesus gives for you to know legally. who he is, but instead that it signifies what he has been sent to the world to accomplish I wonder if you think of him as your savior. I wonder if you really when you say his name, I wonder if you really mean it. That he's here to save you from your sins. You know, I don't want to say a lot about that, but I do Want to bring up something that is a little strange even within my own self. You know, when we go through this whole passage, whether it's the Genesis of Jesus or the prophecy of Jesus or hear the naming of Jesus. You know, most people are astounded by because we're so affected by viewing reality like scientists tell us to view it. We're amazed by the virgin birth. We're amazed by the Holy Spirit Conceiving the Son in the womb of the Virgin Mary. And of course, those things are astounding. But as Luke says by way of the angel Gabriel, nothing is impossible with God. If you begin to think about what God has done hovering over the formless and the void and the creating of all things, is the conceiving in the womb of the Virgin Mary, is that more difficult? You know what really stands out to me once we learn that his name is Jesus is not so much the astounding nature of the miracle in there being a baby born from a virgin, but that God would go to these lengths in order to save us at all. Isn't that the astounding thing? I mean, I know that we have egos. But when we look at the scriptural portrait of ourselves and what we have become, can you believe it? That even in what you have become, if we could broadcast all of your secrets, all the things you've done, all the things you have ever thought, and everything that you've ever felt, and all of its rottenness God knows all those things. There's no such thing as private with Him. There's only public. And yet, knowing all of those things from eternity past. Look at the moves he makes. That's what's astounding to me. Is that he would even want to have the name Savior. That he would want to have anything to do with you or to do with me. But that's who he is. We've learned a lot about God here this morning. God, the Holy Spirit, and His creative power. But it's not just a raw exercise of His force. You're learning here that God is taking all of his power, all of his creative power, and he's exercising it toward a particular end, which is always his glory, but another end is also That he might be reconciled and find peace with you, because he would take away your sins. That's the kind of God that is revealing himself to you here this morning. He's revealing himself to you that way through the genesis of Jesus. He's revealing that through the prophecy of Jesus. And he is especially revealing that to you here with the names of Jesus. And she will bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All of his power, all of his goodness is directed to you. And thank God for that, really. Because we read in Genesis 3, 8 through 10, I told you Genesis has to be a part of our time together. And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the full of the day, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. Then the Lord God called to Adam and said to him, Where are you? So he said, I heard your voice in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. And the story will go on. That's Genesis 3, 8 through 10. By the time we get to verse number 24, there is the ultimate separation So he drove out the man, and he placed cherubim at the east of the Garden of Eden, and a flaming sword which turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life. But here we see within our story that we're not going to stay outside of the garden. That those being given the gift of faith and repentance, those who turn to the sun, shall take the sun's hand. And they shall walk back into the garden together. I started the whole sermon by saying that eat before I was called by Christ and reconciled to the Father, even my walk in the woods was no longer peaceful. I wonder if there are some people here this morning that no matter what you try, no matter what you accomplish, you still find that your heart is restless. I'm here to tell you this morning it is because the only way for your heart to come to rest is in the sun That is what everything is for. And that is what you are for. If you have not committed yourself to Christ and even getting to know who he is, I'd encourage you to do that today. And then there are some of you here sitting in Advent who have been Christian for some time. But when I read the story about us being removed from the garden, though that's not true of you in reality, because you've been reconciled to God Nevertheless, experientially, that's how you feel. Oftentimes you'll say to yourself, well, where is he? And I'm here to testify again to his nature. That he is one who always moves towards you. He is always drawing near. He is always seeking peace and love with you and goodness. And if there is a problem in the relationship, It is because most likely, because there can be so many different problems, you have believed lies about him. But I'm here to tell you here this morning, the scriptures tell us the truth about him. Again, look at the creative power and the exercise of force. For what? So that he could save you from your sins, that he could be in communion with you again, that there would no be no more blocking of you from the garden And all of that is not wishful thinking. He sends his son to accomplish it. Now, I sent out something this past week and Matt had brought it up. And I had mentioned to you, oh uh saints of God, don't waste your Advent. One way that we would not waste our Advent is to get rid of the lies about God and the evil thoughts. Reread these scriptures. Look at who he really is. Look at who he is, not in the abstract, but who he is to you. To you, even as his congregation. Look at the genesis of Jesus. Look at the prophecy and look at his names and see how he's after you. There was an old poem called The Hound of Heaven. Boy, is that true. He's the hound, he's tracking you down. He insists to have communion with you, his people. He insists, especially as we consider our theme today, to be once again. At peace. Let us pray