Now in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David. The virgin's name was Mary And having come in, the angel said to her, Rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women. But when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and considered what manner of greeting this was Then the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus. He will be great, he will be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end Then Mary said to the angel, How can this be? Since how do you not know a man? And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you Therefore, also that holy one who is to be born will be called the Son of God. Now, indeed, Elizabeth, your relative, has also conceived a son in her old age And the and and this is now the six months for her who was called barren. For God, nothing will be impossible. Let us pray Oh Lord Christ, what a great mystery you revealed to us here. We pray that you would show us how we should be before your awesome majesty. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated We began our annual Advent series last week, and our first doctrine in beginning the series. was that by the witness of John the Baptist and Elijah, the first and second advent of King Jesus brings reformation to the world. If we wanted to, keeping a famous painting in mind, we could say that John the Baptist in the Spirit of Elijah points to Christ, saying, Behold the great reformer. The reforming grace of Christ, therefore, poured out on the world, we learn, does not destroy our natural familial and civic life, but He restores and He perfects it. This week we continue with our Advent series and we'll, as usual, start with a few observations. The strategy is working. I have little children now coming up to me before the service saying, how many observations do you have today? And what are your points of application? I want to write them down before we get started And if I did that, then you could you don't have to listen as closely, so it's just not going to happen. So you have to the whole the whole point is for you to pay attention And so we are going to start with some observations. And so make sure you're listening carefully to each one because they build and arrive at our doctrine, which we then bring into life, our life. We cross the horizons. Into our contemporary scene. So here's the first thing I want you to notice is that last week we witnessed the angel Gabriel reveal the long-awaited good news and glad tidings of the coming Messiah and his forerunner. Zacharias, in the order of this whole plan that God is unfolding, Zacharias Would have a son with Elizabeth, and their son would be John the Baptizer. The problem, which we did not focus on last week, which is why I'm mentioning it this week The problem, however, was that Zacharias did not receive the good news from Gabriel as he should have received the good news. He was actually rebuked, and then there was a temporary punishment or discipline, let's say, or affliction, that was given to him. Listen to it from Luke 1, 19 and 20. Listen, read listen to the account. There's no mistaking that Zacharias is in the wrong here. And the angel answered and said to him, I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God, and was sent to speak to you and bring you these glad tidings. But look Or behold, you will be mute and not able to speak until the day these things take place, because you did not believe my words which were fulfilled in their own time The angel makes this quite clear that he is in the wrong and therefore he will receive that discipline And the message is basically this, and we can see this message. I actually preached on this particularly in 2021. But the message is this from the angel that since Zacharias is a priest who is meant to be the mouthpiece of God. But since this priest doesn't want to receive God's words sent by Gabriel, well then this priest officially has nothing to say, and he will be mute for a little while as an act of discipline. So that when he opens his mouth again, it can be speaking in faith. And that is exactly what you're going to see. The next time you see Zachariah's speech, uh he will be singing a psalm, I think. is one way to look at that. That he's singing a psalm of the good news that the angel Gabriel declared to him in the beginning. That's the first thing I want you to notice. And there's a reason that we start there is because when we move into our second observation What Luke intends for us to do, and more importantly, what the Holy Spirit intends for us to do, is to contrast Zacharias and Mary. That's what you are meant to do. There's a number of parallels here, and they're meant to be contrasted and compared. So whereas Zacharias was judged immature, and he needed humbling unto obedience. Mary is shown to be ready and willing to receive the words of Gabriel and to obey. Now, I have to give a little preface for this, especially for this crowd. It can automatically start to feel weird when a reformed preacher speaks positively about Mary. But uh but we have a a a really uh great account for being able to do so. Uh it is true that there is a great deal of error surrounding marriage. I remember a very dear Christian woman to me, and part of her repentance from Roman Catholicism is she took her statue of marriage, she put it in a paper bag, and she smashed it with a sledgehammer And I understood what she was doing there. And I want you to know that I'm on that woman's side. But there are so many good things to say about her, as we would say about the other saints that are recorded in the scriptures. So we don't want to throw Mary out with the bathwater, so to speak. We want to see what how Luke portrays her and he goes out of his way in a is the same thing with the angel Gabriel. The spirit is going out of his way to say, listen, you see how this woman sees things? This is how you should see things. She's pious. She's godly. She's after God's heart. She has the gift of faith. You need to see how she sees the situation. You don't need to pray to her. You don't need to worship her. She's not the divine mediatrix. It's none of those things. Those are all errors. But you do need to pay attention to her. I think you already know that, but I want to be clear. So the first thing that we end up seeing here is that she is portrayed as quite the pious woman. She is first, and this is remarked upon throughout the text twice, it kind of takes center stage, and that is she is a virgin. There are so many reasons why this is mentioned. One of them is this is the beginning of the fulfillment Of certain prophecies, the Emmanuel prophecy from Isaiah chapter seven, verse fourteen, for example. But her virginity is also a sign that she has been walking in the ways of God and living according to the Structures that God has laid down for His people, wherein a knowledgeable relationship with a man will only take place in the context of marriage. You learn, that she's obeying all of those structures. She has moved into betrothal with Joseph. They're now in their waiting period, and one day they shall be wedded and then go to the world. To have child. She's following all of God's precepts, which is supposed to be yet another argument that we would see her as one that we can trust. She's second is the opposite of Zacharias. Look at verse 38. In verse 38, Mary responds differently than Zecharias responds. She says, Behold the maidservant of your Lord. Behold, just take off the maid for a second. Behold the servant or slave on your slave. I'm your slave. Let it be to me and whatever you say. I take you at your word. Now that's quite different than what Zacharias has done. And you can see that too in how the angel responds. Did you see the angel's response? He just leaves. There's nothing to do here. We don't need to do any further work or punishment or discipline. This is good. This is good. Truly she is faithful. Well that's the second thing that I'd just like to point out is that um whereas sometimes we'll see other characters like Paul or Peter or James Or Moses. Here it's Mary. And we want to be respectful of what the Spirit is showing us through her. The third observation I'll make to you is that Of course, uh the center is not Mary, and the center is not Zacharias, and the center is not Gabriel. They are all, in one way or another, meant to be messengers, bringing the news of who is the center. And that is the Messiah, who is Jesus the Christ. I really repeated myself there. But Luke gives us the position of the Messiah, for example, in verse 32. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. Luke tells us of the authority of the Messiah. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Highest And uh, as we just mentioned, with the throne of David. And he also, and this will be developed later and throughout the uh time in the church, he also gives us the beginnings of the divine identity of the Messiah. That Jesus is not just a man, but he is God in the flesh. And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow shadow you. This is just the beginning of reflection that we should do to see the divine identity of Jesus. And so we see two ways with Christ at the center. What you have here, the way that Luke is unfolding this, is that you see two ways Of viewing the announcement and the good news of Christ the King, God in the flesh. The Spirit places Mary before us as the example. In other words, this Advent season, we want to raise this question: how should we view Jesus as the Messiah How should we view God as taking upon himself, God the Son, taking upon Himself human nature? And the answer is that we should view it As Mary has viewed it here under the superintendence of the Holy Spirit. And so this morning, this is our doctrine We are called to take God at His Word and resign ourselves to His will. This is in fact what we learn from her. For as Mary said, Behold the maidservant of your Lord, let it be to me according to your word. This, O Christian When confronted with the incarnation and kingship of Jesus Christ, is the simple and profound profession of the Christian faith. Faith. Let it be according to your word. Oh, and may my will be your will. Whatever is done, may it be done according according to your pleasure. That is the great profession that we see here in the face of these ultimate realities. So this morning there are a few applications, children, and whoever else is taking notes. I have two main points of application this morning. The first one is a great crisis. And a second is a great viewpoint. A great crisis, and then a great viewpoint Point. And so let's begin with the crisis, why don't we? One problem, as we come to especially a passage like this, you know, this is one of the um uh I'd love to talk to other preachers sometimes times but when you are confronted in uh needing to preach about the incarnation, I can just not tell you how much you really don't want to have to do that in some sense because it is uh Such a serious reality to try to make sure you get right. And it can be difficult to figure out exactly how are you going to talk about that thing. Well, that difficulty is actually a difficulty in a crisis It is a problem we have as modern Americans that we can lack an authoritative vantage point and we can be unsure as to how we are supposed to look at things. And you know what makes that even more difficult? Is that every Tom, Dick, and Harry has a different viewpoint telling you they have the right And that's the situation in which we have we live. Now, if you are thirty and under, you are uh forty and under. How do I? I'm forty-five, forty-five and under You hey just came to a realization there. You are used to hearing that. Let me just give you some news. once upon a time a world in where people thought they knew the right way to look at something. There was a whole generation where they thought, yeah, I know how to look at that They didn't struggle with it. College students even. In the past, the person who kind of typified this person perspective was Walter Cronkite. Anybody ever heard of him? Is anybody still alive that's heard of him? Walter Cronkite was a broadcast journalist and anchor man for CBS, and he would do the work of investigating kind of like Columbia. Colombo with uh this enlightenment perspective. And he would go out and he'd investigate both sides of the story to arrive at the truth of what was happening in the world And when he was done, most of his audience believed him. He was voted. Most trustworthy man in America At some point. He would end his broadcast. Can you imagine this today? He would end his broadcast saying, and that's the way it is Can you imagine? And that's the way it is. In other words, he offered an authorized vantage point by which Americans could understand the world And how they should feel about it and what they should do. That is to say that at a certain point, the American moral life was not confusing, and everybody knew how to act Now, I want you to imagine that there's a miraculous thing that God does and he brings back Walter Konkite and he gets his own YouTube channel or whatever. And he starts to broadcast and he ends his segment after doing his enlightenment investigation and he says, and that, as a white male says, and that's the way it is He would be called arrogant, he would be called chauvinistic, he would be called insensitive, they would say that he's a mansplainer He'd probably be called a racist also. In other words, all of the tribes out there would seek to undermine his viewpoint. And that gives a good picture of our cultural situation and the difference, and the difference that that can make on the moral life of human beings There is an argument to make that the greatest crisis, which is why this point is called the great crisis, there is an argument to make that the greatest crisis we face today is realized in this question How am I supposed to view that? And based on that view, what should I do? What some folks folks are starting to realize, and I'm starting to see this actually more and more. I'm starting to see that some folks are starting to realize that Christianity has a lot to offer here What we call our Bible and some call the scriptures provide a divine perspective on all things that certainly out outweighs Walter Cronkite. They bring to the human race an authoritative vantage point, and people are starting to notice They do this primarily through the stories, as you've heard me say. And so, for example, let's take the teaching before us this morning. Jesus as the Messiah and God in the flesh. This is basic Christian teaching you can look up in an encyclopedia. The question, though, is: well, what am I supposed to do with that? How am I supposed to view this? What should I feel about such a thing? What experience should I have? Then you could go and you could run into my office and you could pull down the systematic theology And you could look, incarnation, kingship of Jesus, and you would see all of these propositions, and you would say, I still don't know what to feel about this. All you have done is you've described something scientific to me. And that would have its value, and that would have its place. But the question is still left ringing in our ears. How should I view this? What should I feel? What should I do? What am I being called to do? Is there any demands that are placed upon me when I see? That Jesus is God. And those answers, the way that God has done this by way of his spirit and the spirit's wisdom and craftsmanship Those answers are provided by looking at how authorized people like Mary view and feel and experience those realities. Now here's a news flash, and I mentioned to this in the Sunday school. God did not give you a systematic theology. He gave you primarily narrative that you might understand the most profound realities in all of the cosmos as human beings. Through the eyes of people like Mary. That is important because I could stand up here and give you a bunch of propositions about the incarnation. I would not have done my job today. There will be no reason for Mary to be even in the passage if we want to treat it that way. And so, our great crisis is that our world is needing an authorized viewpoint to know what is before them and what they should do. And the great thing that we see here this morning, the first application I want to make, is that God has given that to you as His church by way Of his scriptures, especially the scriptures that are handled well by looking at divine realities through an authorized viewpoint that the Spirit makes clear is an authorized viewpoint. Now, that leads us right into the authorized viewpoint and the kind of gathering that we can do on how we should be viewing these divine realities. And leads us to really a main question. How does Mary view the good news of the Messiah and the fact that God became flesh? Well, we could go on about that for a long time, but I just want to point out two things. And the very first thing that we see that Mary does is that Mary exercises faith You can see initially that she is confused. But then she exercises faith. And her confusion is understandable She basically says, but I'm a virgin. So since she is a virgin, she doesn't understand how she is going to have a baby. She says, I have not been with a man. How is this supposed to take place? This is a reasonable conflict and leads to her reasonable question in verse 34 of the angel. And so the angel explains to her that the Holy Spirit will overshadow her. Now, if that were Zacharias, he would not have believed. That has already been proven to us. For if he doubted Elizabeth's pregnancy, which would still be a pregnancy due to natural conception, How much more would he have wrestled or doubted with the conception taking place without a man involved? And that brings out the salient point. Mary does not have that problem. And she ends up being exemplary for the whole church on how we, first and foremost, are to approach that Jesus Christ is King and that He is the incarnate God. You begin with this simple statement Let it be to me according to your word. She takes God and she takes God's messengers at their word. Now this can be difficult for modern people to do. But what the Spirit is teaching us here through another Christian is that if you really want to enter into real life, then this is must how this is must be how you must do so. It begins with taking God at his word that Jesus is God incarnate and king. It starts there Mary does not need to know how God will accomplish forming a child in her womb. Can you imagine how many questions remain? She just needed to know, once she could understand the words, she just needed to know who told her the words. The conviction and the belief is not resting upon the at this point the volumes of her understanding of the situation. Her conviction and her belief rests upon those who have told her what to believe. It rests upon someone else's understanding. Gabriel has already said, I stand in the presence of God. And so the message is from God. Now she's a considerate person, Mary. You saw that earlier in the passage. She considered, what kind of greeting is this? She's not an unreasonable or inconsiderate person, but we see here that the Spirit has certainly given this woman faith And faith is expressed by receiving the message of the good news of the gospel because God said so. That is faith. Later, she could seek out further understanding. And that is how the church operates. We have faith seeking understanding. That has always been the Christian way. And that raises a question for us this morning. As we take the Spirit's work here in this passage, you are confronted with the same divine realities. Of the incarnation and of Jesus Christ being pronounced as King of the world, as we see within Psalm 8, even in our readings. And the question that comes before you as you see these truths plainly written out To where you could be six years old and you could read these things and know what God has said, the question still rises up: do you believe God at His Word? Can you take him at his word? Do you accept what is being said in the scriptures first and foremost, based upon the fact that God is saying it? That's the first lesson that we must take as we face these divine realities. You don't go away to seminary for twelve years and then come back and say, now I think I'm in a position to under to be able to make the the statement of faith. That's a secondary action. The first action is Well, if God says it, it must be true. Therefore, I take you at your word. I hope that you can help me understand this more and more over time. That's the first thing we see. But the second thing, and this is especially important for this time and day, and that is that we see that the Spirit wants to bring out that the church is meant, like Mary, to be loyal. To be loyal. When these divine realities, like the incarnation and the messianic promise of Jesus, are pronounced, we are to be loyal to Him. You can see this in what she says, behold the maid servant of the Lord. Her faith expresses itself in works of service and loyalty to Christ as King and God. Now, this might seem like no big deal to you, but I just want you to think about her situation for a moment. What will, and this is some a question that all of you need to answer in your own places, what will the incarnation require of her? What will Christ being king require of her? What are the demands that would be placed upon your life in the face of the incarnation? I want you to think about that just for her for a moment. She is betrothed, remember, which means she's engaged. Let's put it that way, though it is much more meaningful at that time than Some of our engagements today. She is betrothed. She is not married. As uh the angel Gabriel has said, soon the conception of Jesus by the Holy Spirit will start and show. She will be walking around, in other words, pregnant. When she goes to the store To get Annie's mac and cheese at Trader's Joe. Trader Joe's. People will look down the aisle at her profile and she will be pregnant. I want to ask you, how will she explain this to her mother? And how is she going to explain this to her father? And if you're a member of her local synagogue, how is she going to explain it to you when she's in Trader Joe's What will she have to say for herself? You know, you you can really get it that these are the right questions, and that I'm not just going off on some imaginative trail here. You can really see this when you start to look at Joseph as a part of the picture. In her culture This pregnancy, if it is outside of this marriage and against her betrothal, could lead to the loss of everything, by the way. What will she say? What will she say to Joseph? Can you imagine the conversation? They decide to go out for coffee at the bean rush. And she says, Well, I know how this looks. But I tell you the truth, the Holy Spirit has overshadowed me. I have never been with a man. Now, look at Joseph's mindset. Just flip with me real quick to Matthew 1, verse 19. Look, for example, at Joseph's mindset. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man, and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. How did the coffee conversation go? Joseph was a good man. And he was not going to publicly humiliate her. I imagine he loved her. But they couldn't be together. Why? Why did he need to break the betrothal? Because she was pregnant and it was not his child. Can you imagine how Mary felt? All I'm trying to do is to give you a ri I mean these are real people Like I said, this is not a systematic theology. You need to look at this and you need to see what were the demands that were made upon her By the reality of the incarnation and the fact that Jesus Christ is Lord. And it starts this early at the moment of the announcement of the conception and will continue for her to be quite difficult. The demands will be high upon her. And you can look at Matthew and the kind of moving that they had to do to a Gate death. Look at those demands that are placed upon that full family in the face of the incarnation and Christ being king And yet her words, we are told by the angel, will continue to stand, or by the Spirit. Behold, Lord, I am your maidservant If you see maidservant and you think that's just lip service from a woman who doesn't really know what she's going to face, then this is meaningless But she is a considerate person, that has been demonstrated. She's done a kind of calculating of this. She, of course, starts to see more and more of what it will require for her, but it will continue to be her profession by the grace. Of the Spirit, I'm still your servant. It is my privilege. Hear her saying this, and then I want you to start putting yourself in her shoes. It is my privilege. To lose everything for you. It is my privilege to lose everything for you. That, my friends, is the beginning of what it means for us all to see Christ as King and as God. This is what it really looks like to not only know, but to be loyal to the incarnate God. Jesus of Nazareth. You want to know if you really know him? You take him at his word and you're willing to give up Everything. Now that has to happen over time. As you can see with Zacharias, he's going to come forward, he's going to proclaim the praises of God as a Christian would. He needed a little discipline first But he's going to come to that point. He's going to be able to profess, it is my privilege to lose everything for you. There is a loyalty that is given to us as a gift from the Spirit. You know, this is important for us to hear, especially in a day where you hear from almost every media source that you are the author of your own story that you are writing Anybody who is, I'll say, forty and up, knows that, yeah, I started off young thinking I'm gonna write my story. And then my story's r a lot different than what I thought I was gonna write. But our culture is thinking that we are the authors of our own story, and that we are going to write out how it will all go, and nothing is going to interrupt it. And that is not how it goes. What we learn here from the privileged vantage point is that God is the author of all. He writes our story, and when he confronts us in the reality of his incarnation as King Jesus, we must ask: how should I respond to this? And we should answer as Mary authoritatively answers. I am your servant. I am not my own. You have the pen that shall write my story. I am willing to accept Whatever comes my way, and whatever obligations your incarnation and kingship make upon me. That is the stance in the basic profession of the church. Now as Joe pointed out, the whole world is full of anxiety. Can you feel it, by the way? Everybody's anxious. And yet we are professing here this morning That God has come in the flesh as Jesus the King to bring this world peace. Have you entered his peace In both of the ways that Job has delivered to us, the declarative peace and a kind of experiential peace, both apply here, have you entered his peace? Well, the Spirit shows us how this morning. You must take the Lord at his word. The reason why you're anxious is because you have no authority. Vantage point. You were not meant to be the Walter Cronkite of your existence. The Lord is. He is the one that tells you what things are and what to do. And he does so through the scriptures. And we are meant to take him at his word in faith, and then faith over time seeks understanding. That is the first way to enter into his peace. And the second, because faith without works is dead, you must resign your will to his will in loyalty. We must say, in other words, with Mary, by the power of the Spirit, behold the servant of the Lord. Let it be to me according to your word. Amen. Amen. Let's pray