Okay, so that's the homework, 201-224. That's that's part four, section ten. Let's do eleven twenty-four. Okay, so let's start with a review from what we covered last week. And this week we'll move forward and we're finally going to get out of the section that's the get the log out of your own eye. If you look in your pamphlet, you can remind yourself that we're really just following the book follows the four G's. So we've already looked at glorify God. We are ending get the log out of your own eye today. We're starting gently restore and the last class will be go and be reconciled So last week we continued talking about how conflict starts in the heart. And we really spent two weeks on that because it's so important. We first looked at James chapter 3 with the opposites. The bitter water, the bitter people the wisdom that comes from heaven, the wisdom that comes from the earth or that is earthly or demonic. And we see that with within ourselves we see the same kinds of opposites. Even if you have been redeemed by Christ and He has sent you His Spirit, although the old nature does not have dominion over you, Christ does. you nevertheless wrestle with the old man or the old woman. Paul talks about this in Romans chapter eight. So we have to be aware of our basic motivational structures, the intents of our hearts. as we're moving into conflict. And the way that we would do that in the the most ordinary way would be Before you move forward in any conflict with someone, you would see, do you have a log in your eye? Has your heart been Acting out of its own corruption with these folks that you're in conflict with. Are you struggling with envy or jealousy? Are you Do you not have your anger under control? So far, I've really just been talking about do you have is cane, the cane part of you, is it prevailing? Because Cain had all of those things, envy and jealousy and anger and wrath, and it erupts into murder. So we would want to ask ourselves the question, is there a log within our eye? In addition, we said it's important not only to uh to be educated uh about conflict ourselves, but as we're raising up the children of the church in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord, we want them to know about conflict also And therefore, we would want them to know that conflict starts in their heart. And so we have a set of questions that we went through last week, which were five. And these five questions are framing the child's life so that they may begin to see a pattern of how things work. What was going on? What were you thinking or feeling while this was happening? That gets to the heart. What did you do in response? Those are the actions that are coming out of the heart. What were you seeking to accomplish? This is another part of our heart. It has to do with the motives and desires and the purposes. And what was the result? Here we are to take responsibility for the harvest, recognize the principle of what you sow, you reap, and this corresponds to the seeds that were sown in 2 and 4, which were in the heart. So we would, in addressing our children, we would, this is just one way to frame life for them. And then lastly, in terms of review, we began to look at the seven A's of confession If conflict starts in the heart and you do discover a log in your own eye, well then it's you in most situations you'll move forward with confession. And so in your pamphlet, you have the seven A's of confession. If you just want to look at that really quickly, just to have your quick review, is that you're to address everyone involved? You're to avoid if, but, and maybe, which means you're going to actually take responsibility. You're going to admit specifically. You're going to acknowledge the hurt. You're going to accept the consequences. You're going to seek in the grace of God to alter your behavior. And you are going to ask for forgiveness. Now, whenever we see something like the seven A's, it feels a little gimmicky to us. I get that. But I tell you, whether I use seven A's or if I just relay these things conceptually to people, if a person confesses like this, if they go through the process in their own hearts and minds, To be able to confess like this, and if they confess like this, I'm telling you, so far in my experience, it goes much better. It really does. It makes you you can have you can literally see people changing in front of you by the power of the Holy Spirit. And that usually, for whatever reason, in my observations when I watch people confess one to another, when I'm mediating It happens primarily, it happens by the time you hit the third A, which is admit specifically. And then when you if you do the fourth A right, man, does that really change things? And I think one of the reasons being is that when you're confessing to a person and that person is listening to you and you start to admit specifically and you've taken the time to know how this would have hurt them they actually begin to see that you care. And then that starts to really make all the difference. If you're just speaking in generalities and It it tells you di it it just communicates you weren't very thoughtful about this and you don't really know what I went through and you don't even know what you did. So I'm gonna forgive you because That's what create you know it's a lot of the times it's I will forgive you. It's like an act of grace towards them. And then they in their minds are praying, please help this person to mature. You know. Um but sometimes in certain situations if I were to watch that as a mediator, I would stop the whole thing and say you're not allowed to forgive them yet because they haven't done the work they need to do So I need you to go buy a sandwich while I talk to this person again. And we're going to keep working through this and see what is going on with your soul where you can't admit specifically or acknowledge the hurt. It'll mean there's some kind of little demon in there. Or pain. So suffering or sin. Okay, so that's the review. Obviously I have a lot on my mind about all these things, and we're just flying through this. So that's a good introductory course though. Alrighty. So let's go ahead now and finish out this section with the getting the log out of your own eye We can do that pretty quickly here this morning. The first thing I want to point out to you is Matthew chapter 7, 3 through 5. This is a powerful passage. in terms of getting the log out of your own eye before you head off to meet with someone else to talk to them about how they have contributed to the situation. So let's open our scriptures to Matthew 7, 3 through 5. I'm just going to read it to you so that you can see this is just a plain teaching of the scriptures. It's a plain teaching from Christ. Beginning in verse number three. And why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye, but do not consider the plank in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, let me remove the speck from your eye, and look, a plank is in your own eye. Hypocrite? First, remove the plank from your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. So here's that transition point that is captured perfectly in Matthew 7, 3 through 5. We see that there's all kinds of work that needs to be done. with the log that is in your own eye, so that you're not just another hypocrite. But then you see the shift in the very last verse. that Christ is the the presumption the pre presupposition here is that you will be doing this work in part at least to be able to go talk to the person about how they have contributed. And that's that last verse. It says, then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. So it's not only a kind of reconciliation that's going to happen between you and God as you discover your own logs. And a c a certain kind of progress in your sanctification. But you're also, God is also making you clear-headed and clear-hearted. so that you can interact with another person in a constructive way and not go like Um I just watched Beauty and the Beast the second time because I needed to see the cartoon and then I needed to see the remake with Hermione. And all those peasants get their torches and they head to the castle to destroy the beast. We can if we don't clear out those logs, we can think that other people are beasts and we can go storming towards them um with torches and just ready to string them up. And don't fool yourself. It it can take a while to get to yourself to a place where you can approach another person. Yes. Yeah. Sure. Right. And so you you actually can't even get to the person. Because you've got this plank in the way. And if you do get close enough, you're likely to smack And hurt them more. So I mean I know it looks a little amusing, but but yeah, if you've got a finding rod, you can do it, but you only do it far. Yeah, I th I like that you're playing around with the image like that. I think that's true. I think there's a lot of truth to gain from the image. Uh the purpose of the image usually is that there's a lot of truth that will fall out of it. And that's the that's both the the the beauty of an image like that and also the trouble. Uh because people get things out of images you're not supposed to. But the image generates a lot of thought. And that's why he puts it that way. I think he He's he's the best teacher that has ever been. So Yeah, so that's great. I like that. I actually remember seeing a skit where I think somebody tied a stick to their face and then were trying to interact with the people in their life and the stick was out here and every time he moved it kept hitting people and he couldn't see and so it was a good it was what you're saying. Yeah, very good. Alrighty, so that that marks the transition for us. We did all that work in terms of getting the log out of our own eye, and we can see that Jesus thinks it's fine for you to be able to go and talk to other people about their contribution. I think that's very important for you to hear within particularly our culture, sometimes in the church and in the culture abroad. People speak as if it's not okay for us to go and tell people that they've done something wrong. And they usually put that under the title of compassion or empathy And it really depends on the situation. Sometimes we do overlook and we don't go to the other person. I'd say most of the time, if you're healthy. And then but it's o it's okay also to go and talk to people. And that's what we're gonna look at now. And what kind of spirit should we go and share with people that uh they may have sinned or could contributed to the situation. What uh what are our goals when we try to do so? And uh how could we talk to them so that maybe it would go okay and you wouldn't just put everybody on edge. So let's go ahead and try to answer some of those questions. First thing I I wanted to ask is when should we not overlook an offense? Now again, you're going to need to grow in Christian wisdom to determine this. And sometimes we get it wrong and we have to back up and do it right again. Sometimes we get it wrong and we don't get a second chance with that person, but you can do better with the next. God teaches us through his word and and through our experiences for sure. So when should we not overlook? Number one is I would say, although this, I didn't see this exactly in the book, I would say that it's very important in most cases that you're seeing a pattern. It wasn't just a fluke. But sometimes even if it was just a one-time event, the event could be so serious that you need to say something anyway so that it's never really repeated by God's grace. And so, well what uh what about those times um that maybe we do see a pattern we would ask the question is this dishonoring God God's name is very important to us, and so is his reputation. If you look at the argument from Paul in Romans He starts off by pointing out in chapter two that one of the most tragic things that has happened among God's people is that they've conducted themselves in such a way that all the nations around them um think poorly about God. It says it says in in Romans two, they blaspheme your name your name or God's name because of you. So we don't want that to continue. It's very important for us that the Lord's name would not be held in vain. And when we talked about that in terms of the Ten Commandments, it was more than just using his name in an in an appropriate way. It was it was about bearing his name in such a way to where When people see how we conduct ourselves as individuals and as a community, they can see what kind of God he is and that he's excellent. Just based on on his society. The second question you could ask, besides, is this dishonoring God, and therefore I really need to say something, is is it damaging your relationship with them? And like I said, over time you'll get better at this. But if you if if something happened between you and another person and you can't shake it, You're probably gonna need to talk to them about it. Now, you might two years after that event look back and say, oh man, I can't believe I even brought that up. I was so immature then to have to talk about it But that's okay, that's where you were. You know, what else are you gonna do? The the danger here is that if you can't shake it, it's gonna go somewhere. And I'm telling you right now it's going to go down usually down into your heart and create bitterness and it's going to create a lens And and an obstruction to where you're not able to ever really get close to that person. That's the way that it will work. Even if it looks like you're close and you laugh when they tell a joke and all that kind of stuff There's going to be something that there's a barrier and you're never really you're never really becoming vulnerable and moving into a uh a significant relationship So is it damaging your relationship? If you can't shake it, you're gonna need to talk about it. Okay, and we shouldn't be ashamed about that. That's healthy. Communication's good. Okay, another one would be With what this person is doing, is it hurting other people? Is it hurting others? We're going to need to talk to them about that if it is. That one's pretty self-evident, right? Yes, it is. Thank you. Okay. And then also, is it hurting them? I like the image of the path just because I'm a visual learner and also it's in the Bible a lot. So the path is especially seen in the book of Proverbs, and you could ask yourself the question, has this person gotten themselves on a path? And if they ha a path that where they're hurting themselves and they're hurting other people. That's one of the things about bad paths. Right? They start to and you could even think of of the path and them hurting themselves as a kind of descent. They're they're moving towards hell. Right? Every path has a destination. And the destination for that kind of a path is hell. And there's another path that we want them on, which is going to be the beatific vision Right. We want them to ascend and not descend. So we want to ask the question, is it hurting the offender? And if you answer yes to these questions ordinarily, we cannot overlook the offenses. We need to go and we need to talk to them about it. Now, how does that make you feel? Do you feel a little nervous that I'm wondering actually right now, I'll just ask this, because you know me, I like to ask questions. I wonder if some of you have certain people on your minds. And you're realizing that if you're going to be a responsible of the kingdom of God, that you might need to go and talk to them. And that you dread it. Yeah, that's pretty normal. Uh I don't really enjoy going and talking to people about their offenses. You if I offended you, you can't talk to me about it right now. Is that first of all you have to be right. Yeah, right. You gotta be right in your heart. You because that person will know. Yeah. If you're not. Yeah. You know Well and then you have to go to them for reason. And they have to be ready too. So there's all kinds of little pieces of Yeah, that's right. Yeah, very good. Good summary. Yeah, that's right. So um so now we can talk a little bit about what w well well the first thing I'd have to say is you're gonna have to ask Um let's go ahead and turn real quickly to Acts chapter four. Being in the pastorate, I've had to do all kinds of things that I d don't like doing. And I was sharing with a mentor early on, it was my first year in the pastorate The pastor is such a funny thing because you don't know everybody like they're your best friend, but you still have to show up at their house and tell them things about themselves. And then they also just show up in your office and tell you things. So with no preparation. And you just have to kind of get used to that. And so I asked my mentor, how I mean I feel like every time I have to do this I'm being electrocuted So how can I be a good pastor if every time somebody comes to me they look I look like I'm being electrocuted or every time I have to go to them. And he said, Well you need to pray Acts chapter 4 I said, well okay, well thanks. What does that mean? So then he pointed out to me, this is a pastor uh in uh New York, by the way. He was also one of my professors. And in Acts chapter 4, starting in 23, the new the early church prays a prayer for boldness. And he said that I need to pray for holy boldness and what that specifically looks like. It would be spiritual courage. So let me read it to you real quick. And being it's this four verse twenty-three. So being let go, they went on their way there I'm sorry. Where am I reading? And being let go, they went to their own companions and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said to them So when they heard that, they raised their voice to God with one accord and said, I love that they just immediately go into prayer. I just think that's great. Yeah, that's really nice. Okay. So when they heard that, they raised their voice to God with one accord and they said, Lord, you are God, who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them. who by the mouth of your servant David have said, Why did the nations rage and the people plot vain things? The kings of the earth took their stand, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. For truly against your holy servant whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together to do whatever your hand and your purpose determined before to be done. Now, Lord, look on their threats, and grant to your servants that with all boldness they may speak your word, by stretching out your hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may be done through the name of your holy servant Jesus. And when they had prayed, the place where they were assembled together was shaken, and they were filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness. So this situation doesn't exactly fit your every one of your situations, so we can't say that fellow members in the church are exactly the Sanhedrin who are trying to crucify Christ. But if there is something inside of them that is sin, you are dealing with something pretty similar, or at least the seed of of of what goes on in human beings. And just in general, I think you could take from here that if you need courage, you need to ask God for it. And he gives it. I find it pretty interesting that in Acts chapter 4, verse 23, and following The Lord answers this prayer and tell me that it's not true, that the prayer is still being answered today. I mean, why is it that missionaries go out? Or preachers preach, or you share the gospel with your friends, I think in part you'd have to say because God is still answering this prayer. That's awesome. That's really awesome. So I'd encourage you to even pray the same prayer that they did. They're drawing on Psalm number two. Maybe you could find another psalm that could that you could um pray to God. Okay, so um the first step would be to have a holy boldness because it will take a little bit of courage to talk to other people about how they have contributed to the conflict for m for a lot of you. That will be the case. Okay. Then I'm now going to step you through a few things that the book actually says, but I just want to follow up with it. So now we can move into this title in your book and that's called Speaking the Truth in Love. Being quick to listen and bringing healing. Those are the three main sections. uh of this first section in gently restore. So let's talk about speaking the truth in love specifically. And I really like how Ken Sandy frames how you should go to people by saying your job is first and foremost to frame everything and to have have the resonance and the tone of your words as a bringing the hope of the gospel You're not showing up to just condemn them. You're not showing up to just destroy that to destroy them at all. You're showing up to bring the hope of the gospel. Well, this reminds me of two things that we've already studied together. Number one, one of the purposes of the law One of the purposes of the law is for you to be able to know yourself and to give to other people God's good vision for the life of his creatures. The way that we talked about that in the last Sunday school was is that although the commandments are often given in the negative, they are pushing forward a positive vision of life. And when we look in our larger catechism, we therefore see it developed this way. We see that they look at the positive duties And then they look at the sins forbidden. So let me just give you an example of the positive duties from the sixth commandment. The duties required in the Sixth Commandment are all careful studies and lawful endeavors. Anyone know the Sixth Commandment before I launch off on here? Yeah, okay, right. You you sh shall not murder. Yep, very good. Right. Okay. So then as they unpack this, listen to this. This is what it would mean positively. To think about this for yourself and other people. The duties required in the Sixth Commandment are all careful studies and lawful endeavors to preserve the life of ourselves and others. You see how it's not put in the negative? You're studying and you're figuring out a way for the people around you to be able to flourish. Now, how are you going to do that? Well, it goes on and it says that you're going to accomplish that by resisting all thoughts and purposes, subduing all passions, and avoiding all occasions, temptations, and practices. which tend to the unjust taking away of the life of anybody. You see that? It's beautiful. And then it's gonna go on and to uh talk more about that. So what would the life look like in fact where we if we were to cultivate a spirit that was concerned about making sure the people around us thrive They they say we would defend other people against violence. That's the first thing they list. The second is that we would patiently bear the hand of God We would have a quiet mind. We would have a cheerful spirit. We would soberly use meat and drink and physic and sleep and labor and recreations. Now that's a self-controlled life. That there's, you know, in that list, you you're not every day having ultra-processed foods. Right, you see that? And then it goes on. Um and you're not abusing over-the-counter drugs or drugs that are not over-the-counter. I don't know what what are those called. What are the different kinds of drugs? Over-the-counter drugs, that means I can just buy them. I can walk in and buy them. And then there's a prescription, and then there's things made in the jungles of Nicaragua So we wanna like just don't abuse any of those and this one over here is just an abuse period, so leave it leave the coca leaves alone Okay, and then it continues on and it says that we would have charitable thoughts, love, compassion, meekness, gentleness, kindness. Anybody know where that comes from? No, not Philatians. Philippians. Chapter four. And then we would have mild and courteous speech and be what? Oh well you know it's in all the places. Yeah it's there's a lot of patterns in the Bible. So that's pretty good. I like it. Okay. Where does it talk about love? That's great. So we would also have charit this is all still just the tools that we use and who we are in order to that people around us would flourish. We have charitable thoughts about them. We work on loving them. We have compassion, meekness, gentleness, kindness, peaceableness. We're mild and we're courteous in our speech and our behavior. We have forbearance. We have a readiness to be reconciled. There's a patient bearing and forgiving of injuries. I'll be quitting good and requitting good for evil comforting the distressed and protecting and defending the innocent So there, if you are a posture towards other people that they would thrive and flourish, that's a gospel posture because the good news about Jesus Christ in part is good news because of what he's accomplishing. He's not accomplishing your destruction. He's bringing life. So we want to bring life also. Second thing I'd say in terms of the approaching people with the hope of the gospel is to just make a basic observation about how all the New Testament letters are written. They begin with the statement and the facts of and the observations of the hope of the gospel And then there's usually a point just about midway in the letter where it says, therefore, live like this. And those are the two halves. You can read the letters that way So I'd encourage you to approach other people in the same way or by way of the example of the Apostle Paul, where he reminds them of who they are in Jesus Christ. and their inheritance in him and the hope of their future. And and then with all of those good things, he then is able to talk to them about how they need to get in line with the gospel. And you could even sandwich it. You could start with the hope of the gospel. Bring up the part that no one really likes to talk about, which is how you have sinned, and then you could end it, here's the other slice of bread, with the hope of the gospel again. And maybe you could even do that just by praying with them Okay, so that's the first thing we want to do is approach people with the hope of the gospel. I really liked, did you notice that Ken Sandy, when he was writing the book He has a whole paragraph and he says, I didn't used to do this well. Did you did you see that? He says, I had to figure out how to do this. That wasn't his natural way of relating to people through the hope of the gospel, but then he made a um an intentional decision and entered into prayer, I suspect. to be the kind of person who can approach people in the hope of the gospel. I've met a couple people that do that. And I'm telling you, it's a nice fresh breath of air Do you have anybody in your life that approaches you with the hope of the gospel, even if they have to tell you something ugly about yourself? And you're just ready to receive it from them because you can see their heart and why they're bringing it to you And they have a lot of hope for you. I hope you have at least one example in your life. I have a couple. And I think it's a good aspiration. So uh I encourage you to be be that kind of person The second one as I'll I'll say is that we want to be quick to listen. I was speaking with a member here at the in this congregation early on when I started to lecture on this book and they said, I really hope you talk about how important it is to listen. And I said, we will. And so here we are. It is important, and this is uh anybody know where the phrase be quick to listen is from. James, yeah, really good. So he's trying to get that society to stick together. And one of the ways that we can do that is we can be quick to listen. Very important. And very difficult. Especially if you have been offended. Okay. But hopefully, now that you've done your heart work, you're ready to listen And now I just want to go through a few of the attributes of what it would look like to be a good listener that are brought up in your book. The first thing is that you're the kind of person who can wait That you wait patiently while others talk is a key listening skill. I have told you this before, but human beings, for many different reasons, just and one of them is like basic survival, is they are always sizing you up. They're trying to figure out where are you coming from? Why are you relating to me? And they're doing so in part, especially in a situation where there's a conflict, they're doing so in part for survival. Alright, that's like a base need that we have. Uh we don't want to be annihilated. We have an instinct against it actually. And so they're going to be reading you. And if it looks like If it looks like you are not really listening, they're going to pick up on it and it's going to affect the relationship. Without this skill, you'll often, in addition, fail to understand the root cause of the conflict. At this point been all my experiences where when I go into the situation and I have to finally share with a person how they have contributed to the conflict. If I start off by listening, I will have to rearrange how I thought about it. Because it will have been different than what I thought. And if I attend long enough, which is another mark we'll talk about next If I attend long enough, that is usually the case. So I try now, uh there's a there's a um a counselor in Annapolis that is a good friend of mine. And he says when we are interacting with people, we should always view them as that they're precious. And that they are competent, and that they are broken Those are the three lenses through which he looks when he counsels. And he has had a lot of success in helping people. And I and I think that we would do the same thing if we're going to be good listeners. Is we'd have to actually believe that this person is competent and precious enough where they're going to I have something to learn from them. If you show up in a situation and you think you don't have anything to learn, you're arrogant. Yes, my friend. I I think that we have to consider that about ourselves as Well, not just the other person, right? So me for example, I think I'm a good waiter, but if something offends me I'm not always a good listener like you. Right. You know, so I have to I have to tell myself to wait. Yes, you do. I have to talk myself through it. I have to pray about it. Sometimes I gotta sit back And I gotta I gotta stay in prayer before I can actually go to that other person. Yes. And uh that's not my human nature. I do know what you mean. So I try to go in phases. I try not to really think about what the person is saying. I just try to hear what they're saying So that I can picture, again I'm a visual learner. I try to picture what are they saying to me. And then I can move into a second phase, which might be, well, what do I think about this? Yes, Raquel. Why is it uh um someone really close to you saying words that are very hurtful? They're offensive. It's like the chance the college approaches for if they're if they're going to attack you when you start to talk to them. very purposeful word about Jews being everything with spiritual. How would you go back to the Jews and look at it? Yeah, I'm not there are people out there, there are Public enough, pumpkin enough, and you can use the word of God, you know, for their own benefit, but they can cool with it Maybe from their own background, I don't know. Yeah. How would you yeah? How would you be like, okay, I have That's a great question. I really appreciate you asking that. I keep I keep trying to bring up situations like that now and again, but I'm going to call what you just described as an extraordinary situation. This book is addressing ordinary stuff. You just described a dragon. In s in in some sense. And you're asking me, well, how do I interact with the dragon? And I would say, well, sometimes don't get near it. Because it breathes fire and burns people alive. And then other times if you're sent into it then you you're gonna have to really prepare for that. And But I think the time is we need to still kind of try to pass as fast as possible. And to glorify God, you know, maybe to be like maybe for um forgiven or just not Yeah. Yeah. It really in those extraordinary situations, and I'm not gonna do anything else with this one. I gotta move I got a list of stuff. But with those extraordinary situations, you're gonna need to really prepare. Sometimes we don't enter into those conversations. We avoid them. I know that's on the the scale there, but I don't mean it in a negative way. It's just sometimes we have to stop Now there are people that would just want to eat you alive. And you have to stop. You can't just keep putting yourself in there so they keep stabbing you. So okay, but that's a little different. I'm really hoping that nobody at the church is doing that. They might have a little dragging in them every once in a while, but it's not really them. Okay. Okay. So Okay, very good. Okay, so waiting Um don't so I can tell if you're if you're having your own conversation in your head when I'm trying to talk with you. I feel like we've disengaged and I just wanted to end. We're not relating very well. If you if you answer me before I finish my sentence, that doesn't go well either. Uh most of you are ver all not most of you, all of you are very what I'm gonna say before I Say it. And Bill's like, yeah, I already have right, but just you know, w why are why are we in a rush? Like Make some time to deal with me. Okay, attending. There are stuff so not only waiting, but attending. There are several ways that you can show that you're paying attention to what others are saying. You can maintain regular eye contact You can avoid negative body language such as folding your arms. Sometimes in my office, like I'm cold. So I'll fold my arms because I'm cold, but then I drop them because I'm like, well, that might they might think I'm Avoid negative body language such as folding your arms, tapping your foot, or looking around. Um if you're in a mediation and you're a mediator you're paying attention to all of these things. Uh people when they're starting to not really listen anymore, their foot's gonna start going or they start to shuffle in their seat like this, or they're moving around their papers or whatever it is and it's all like, no, you're not listening really. You're you're off on your own thing here. Uh besides waiting and attending, there's also clarifying. I find this a really Enemies well. I told you the story, and I'll just tell it to you again. is that I was listen I was trying to understand different schools of apologetics or different ways to defend the faith. Call it presuppositionalism. He lectured on it and I thought, man, that's my way. That just sounds so good. And at the end of the lecture he said And this is presuppositionalism, which I don't hold. And I thought, you just represented it better than anybody that I've ever heard who's even presuppositional Man, and the overarching principle here is that we steel man people, we don't straw man them. We steel man them. We don't straw them. So a way for you to make sure you're really understanding exactly what they're saying is asking clarifying questions. Are you saying Tell me more about. Can you give me an example I'm confused about? Let me see if I understand. And now this continues on in the in reflecting. So you not only have waiting, attending, clarifying, but also reflecting. Reflecting or paraphrasing is the process of summarizing the other person's main points In your own words, and sending them back in a constructive way. Reflecting may deal with both the content of what the other person has said and the associated feelings. For example, you believe I didn't take time to hear you out. Is that right? From your perspective, I was wrong when I said that about you. The way you see it then is that there isn't much hope, is that right? Yeah, I know. You have to be careful with that one. You're gonna have to be pretty good in the relationship. to be able to put it that way. Otherwise it looks like you're you're blame shifting. Yeah. Um good catch. I felt it in my body when I said it. Yeah, okay. So um this situation has created a lot of problems for you and your family, hasn't it? You seem to believe I was being dishonest about this. You must really care about this project. I get the impression that I have really disappointed you. You were really hurt by my comment about you in front of the class, I can tell. Am I right about that? It sounds like you are upset because I gave John the job instead of you. So that's reflecting back and we can We can s see. You'll notice their body language and their countenance shifts if you get it right. Usually if you get it right, they'll say a very magical word. Exactly. If somebody says that to you, man, you're doing great. Exactly. Because um a lot of the times what's happening in that moment is you just said it m m and solidified everything more clearly than they had ever thought of it. And they're like, yes, that's the thing that has just been buzzing around in me. Okay, then besides waiting, attending, clarifying, reflecting, there's also a green. This can be difficult because we don't want to look like we're complicit or that we approve of certain things. But wherein you can agree, I think it's important to do so. Agreeing is especially important when you have been been in the wrong, and that happens to me all the time. So when I go and I go to talk to somebody and I start to listen carefully and I I hear how they viewed it, I often find I have done something wrong. So then I need to agree with them, you know what I I didn't see that before because I was hiding it from myself because I'm self-deceptive little rat. And but you're totally right. I need to ask for your forgiveness before you say another word. And I'll go through my sevens A's. Okay, so it's important I think to agree in moments like that. You're right, I was wrong when I said Or you know a lot of what you just said is true. I do not deal with my attitude. I did not deal with my attitude. Or I do need to deal with my attitude. I can understand why you would be upset with me Now that I can see what you know what you're pointing out, man. Okay, so agreeing I think is very important. I try to have my heart in a place where I'm able to agree If someone points out a wrong. If it's not, I probably went to the person too soon and haven't done the work. Now sometimes that happens. We are so we deceive ourselves. I am just amazed at how much I deceive myself every day. It's amazing. Um It is amazing. Even if I like look in the mirror and I'm like, yeah, you haven't really put on that much weight And then I get on the scale which doesn't lie, I'm like, that mirror It's a weird how we how our perceptions can be so off. And that is true in all areas of our life. So Sometimes when I'm in the midst of a conflict and then someone shares something and I realize I have been deceived, sometimes I respond poorly in my soul. I get very angry because it's another thing that I have to deal with, for example. Or I feel like once again you're going to get the upper hand here. When are you ever going to look at what you've done? Those are the when those kind of thoughts are starting to go into my head, I'm in a bad spot. So sometimes I will say, you know what, I appreciate what you've just said. I'm struggling Probably mostly with just myself. And I need to take a break. I had a friend who, when he was in a situation like this, asked to be excused to go to the bathroom. And then never went to the bathroom. He just went in the bathroom and like put water on his face and was like, Lord, help me, help me, help me, help me, help me. And then if he couldn't get his act together, by then he would just ask if we could meet another time. Which I haven't done, but I have asked to meet another time. So you might need to do the same thing if you find yourself in that situation. Okay, so that's agreeing And then the third category in terms of being able to go to other people and just kind of keeping the art of talking to people in mind is that you must remember that you're going there to bring healing You are to be therefore to make charitable judgments about people. I'd encourage you to read that section in the book. He does a great job of showing. that our main posture should be to think charitable judgments unless we have evidence to the contrary. Talk from beside and not from above. That can be very difficult, but I do appreciate the line We are speaking to each other beggar to beggar. You're a sinner just like they're a sinner And in Galatians chapter 6, verses 1 and 2, it says very clearly, you need to recognize you can fall into these same things. I know who you are. So don't approach people thinking you're better than them. You can approach them side by side. We all need redemption in Jesus Christ. Even if you're a leader. In extraordinary situations, we might need to do something different. Sometimes if you go side by side with certain people, it will move in the wrong direction. Okay. Um you have to choose the right time and place. Sometimes we can be so excited that we finally have worked through the log in our own eye that we're just gonna You know, we see them in the Narthex and they're just trying to get a muffin and they haven't had any coffee yet and you just, hey, I need you to know how you contributed to a conflict. And then and they're like, what I just wanted a muffin. So bad time, bad that's a obvious example. So make sure you're choosing the right time and the right place. Never before coffee is a general rule that's going to do well for you. I would encourage you to talk in person. Uh someone comes to me and they say I've been in a conflict and it hasn't gone well. I say, well have you talked in person? And they say no, we've just been texting. I say, okay, well that's why. There you go Um I have in text or if people aren't really using email anymore. Uh the at least the newer generations don't use email. If they receive an email, they think it's the weirdest thing that's ever happened to them So they just work in texts and then it's funny to me because they miss the intonation of just about every word. So uh they read the text and by the time they're done with it they're filled with shame and anger and and um I just would encourage you to talk in person. Next is that it was before before you go into too much Can you unpack um what it means to have a chair of the philosophy? You said that a little quick and I'm I'm starting to think about it. I'm just gonna can you in fact have a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little Let me see if I have time at the end. I'm I'm I'm that's something that I'm I'm not fully I don't quite fully understand. Yeah, and I think we would need some time to I need to hear what you're thinking, so it's gonna take a little bit of time. Alright. Uh people run up against that in different ways. Yeah. And I and So during the review next week, will you just say, hey Jesse, would you mind talking about charitable judgments? Yeah, that sounds good, except I won't be there. What? Going to San Diego. Okay. I'll catch you later. Okay. Very good. Yeah, well yeah, you can catch me later. That's cool. Okay, um thanks, Darren. So um plan your words. It uh it can be good to write out what you want to say and then um For people that are nervous, I usually have them write out a letter, and then if they get too nervous in the meeting, they can read the letter. And then that can go better. So you would plan your words. And then I do think it's very important for you to be concrete and specific. You haven't done very good work in your own heart and preparing for a meeting to talk to somebody. If you're not concrete and specific. If you use words like always and never, not a good place to be. And you really want to just focus on a particular event. If there's been like 20 events and so a pattern, just pick one so that you have a very specific event you can reference in time and space and tell the story. That's what you need to do. You need to be concrete and you need to be specific. We don't want to talk to each other in generalities. If you're concrete and specific, remember the purpose is healing So they can then register or think about the event with you, and then they'll be better prepared to figure out what does it look like for me to repent. and to not have a reoccurrence of that event. Well it gives them uh something to be able to meditate on. Generalities aren't helpful. usually. Okay. And then um let's go ahead and end there because I don't want to rush through the take one or two others along, which is the next section. So next week we'll deal with the Matthew 18 process, where you would also go along to another person, and if they don't listen to you, what do we do? And so we do have two minutes, Darren. You want to help me understand what you're thinking about? Yeah, I just probably a an outlier up here, and I know that doesn't surprise me But uh as in my understanding of uh okay, where'd it start? Jesus didn't give himself over Uh huh. Right. So there's that and what did he know about the hearts of men? He knew that they were deceitful and wicked and and above all things They insult an email. And so I think sometimes we say have charitable thoughts towards people. Is that a right way to understand men It's different to say love people, move towards them with grace, move towards them with mercy, move towards them with kindness, and do that sort of thing. But don't be deceived about the heart of men. Everybody and we and everybody at the minute apart from the grace of God are probably doing something that you said earlier. Self-ish, self-centered, uh blah blah blah. You know, all of these So when you say terrible, sometimes that feels like naive to me sometimes. So I'm I just would love that unpackable. Okay, well thank you so much for sharing that. The um I would just let me just do two things here. Um the first is in Philippians chapter four it says You brought up some scripture which has to do with Jesus not being naive, but knowing what resides within humanity. Okay. Well also we learn something else from Scripture, which is that um in chapter four, the Apostle Paul encourages us all, whatever things are noble Whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report, if there is any virtue and if there is anything praiseworthy, meditate on these things. And he's not asking you to enter into some weird philosophical meditation. He's talking about about people, these things in people. Right? So there's another verse, and I think part of what you're gonna have to do is figure out how can these two things live in the same universe. I think that's the problem And that's where the wisdom is going to come in. It's because in some situations you will need to keep more in mind that this person is deceitful. And in other situations, you you're more on this end, right? It can depend. Charitable judgments though, even when you're with your enemy, you would not villainize them in such a manner manner to where there's nothing good left and that they're worse and that they're no longer human. We can't dehumanize them That's very dangerous. I don't I haven't dealt with someone who's completely lost their humanity ever. So I still figure out a way to treat that my enemy with respect And if in order for me to do so, then I I end up having charitable judgments. I'm not being naive, however. If a person has revealed themselves to be a particular way, then I judge them to be that way. Right, so I do think that there's two different principles given, and it's actually more than this, and you would need to figure out when is the which principle is applicable when That's really what's going on. In other words, to put it the same put it in a different way, is if you think charitable judgments is the only tool in your toolbox, then you're gonna not have a good life There's a bunch of stuff that's supposed to be in the toolbox as you're figuring out how to work on this particular project. Alright? Jesus doesn't say, hey, listen, man, true Christianity is just have charitable judgments That's not what he does. It's not like that. It's w way more complex complex to live in life. And um You could actually in misunderstanding what Jesus is saying about charitable judgments, you could apply that in ways that you're actually sinning. Uh I'm gonna keep having charitable judgments even though this person is destroying everybody around me. Okay, well I will have a charitable judgment because I'm gonna in order to maintain love for my enemy, but I'm also gonna have a bunch of other judgments. Two, uh, so that I know what I'm dealing with. So so Jesus does say about the heart of man when he's around Pharisees. That's important for him to think. But when he is with that woman who anointed him for his burial, he didn't talk about her heart being corrupt That's not what that's not what was the right focus. Does that help at all? I know that I'm not giving you like the answer No, that's great. But I'm trying to show you with the principles at work as to why people get confused about it. And so I'm backing out and I'm saying, well let's just approach this as any ethical problem. No, I think it's great. I think and that's what I might say I do think that some people unbalanced at times. Yeah. One way or the other. Correct. One way or the other. And so we we that what you says perfect. We gotta we have to have all of that Yeah, we need to be like Christ. No, it is right. And vice versa, we see things that ought not to be seen because we have a view that's uncharitable. Yeah, if you want to see a good picture of charitable judgments and recognition of the of the the terror that's inside of a human Look at Jesus' restoration of Peter at the end of John. He has both Jesus is operating in both worlds. Yeah. Okay, let's pray. Thanks everybody. Oh Lord, we thank you that you're here and present with us and that you give your community, your people, wisdom. Lord, please help us to grow in this wisdom. It's like a craft and it takes a lot of work and practice under your supervising hand. We are all apprentices in your school, our Christ. And we wouldn't want it any other way. We thank you and we ask that you'd now give us hearts ready for worship. In your name. Amen.