Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. After his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take you marry your wife, do you marry your wife For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated, God with us. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took to him his wife. And he did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, I pray for your congregation that you would by your spirit reveal yourself to them here this morning. I pray that you would grip their attention. I pray that you would become their vision, their all That they would raise their heads from other things, that though may have a sparkle or a glimmer, that they would raise their eyes to you from whom all light and sight comes. I ask that you would do this through this humble means of the preaching of your word. In Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we dared to look And not even look, we we heard preaching on the first part of Matthew, which is somewhat rare. Because of it being a genealogy. As I mentioned, a lot of us begin Matthew in verse 18. But we went for it, and you were very patient as I worked my way through those names. And in the end, I believe it was worth it, because in closer examin examination The genealogy tells a story about where we come from and where we are going. Not just us, but everything. Where everything comes from and where it's going. Where everything is going is where God had promised it would be going. It all would all find its meaning, its relevance. It would all be placed under his one great Davidic King, who is Jesus the Christ. And it is in him that we hope. Now this week we get into where most of us would start with Matthew in verse number 18, and Matthew does not waste any time. You'll notice he moves from what was actually a pretty complicated literary structure in that genealogy and what he was doing to verse number 18. Take a look at verse 18. He's really just going to go for it. And he says, now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. And so we're immediately into a birth narrative here, which is, I find, uh inherently interesting. I find all birth narratives interesting, including your birth narratives. I love hearing where you came from, how you were brought up, the different things you had to face. I love receiving on my phone a little text of a baby. And it has all the the how many pounds and ounces and the uh it was born with all this hair. It's really not three month old or whatever whatever it is. And uh I I enjoy birth narratives except my own birth narrative. To this day, if w we are at a a Christmas party or just meeting strangers on the street My mother will introduce me as, this is my son Jesse. He's a pastor. When he was born, he was ten pounds. It's inevitable. If she visits she'll tell you how much I weigh or weighed. But there's one thing in birth narratives that I've left out, which is really Matthew's focus here. We don't have the weight of Jesus when he was born. But we do have in the rest of this passage everything centering around names. It's something we love to hear also is, well, what name did you give the child? And when I'm doing the baptism here, I say, what name did you give this child? And that's the focus of Matthew here in this passage in the announcement of the birth is he gives two names, if you have noticed. And there are names that we're going to go through towards the end of the sermon because I need to lay down a little bit of a foundation. In order for us to be able to understand what is going on there. The one name is going to look forward to what Abraham was talking about. So too would the other. There was a quote from Isaiah. His names are Jesus in verse number 21, which we'll get to later. But you can go ahead and glance down and see I'm not crazy that this whole passage is about names. Jesus, right there, and then it gives the interpretation of what that means. And then Emmanuel in verse number 23 and it gives the interpretation of what that means. These are the names that are the focus of this birth narrative as is handed down to us by the Spirit. But there's a couple foundational points that I want to lay first. So I want you to picture. Last week we pictured a tree where we moved from the bottom to the middle to the top, and Christ is the star. And this week we're going to begin with laying down a foundation. of seeing what was the foundational problem that Joseph was facing. And then I want you to see that Joseph and Mary are foundational figures. Once we have that concrete foundation laid, you can picture me putting down two cinder blocks to build upon. Then we're going to go ahead and address those names. But first we begin with the foundation. And you can see in the passage the foundational problem that Joseph is facing. I don't need to talk about this long because it's obvious. The foundational problem is that Joseph is betrothed to Mary, which is in fact a legal relationship, is betrothed to Mary, but before they consummate their marriage, he finds that she is already pregnant. Now in a normal situation that's not a that's not good news. That means the relationship has fallen apart. But this isn't a normal situation and the relationship hasn't fallen apart. If you look at Matthew 118, you can see where this story says these things. After his mother, meaning Jesus' mother, Mary, was betrothed to Joseph Before they came together, she was found with child. And of course Matthew tells us something that Joseph doesn't know yet, and it's of the Holy Spirit. Now he's a just man, it says, and he's not yanking her in front of the public Sanhedrin in order to embarrass her before the community, but is in instead he's going to figure out a way to divorce her or to end the betrothal Quietly. Now go ahead and take a look at verse number, continue with 18. He says he decides in verse 18 not to make a public example of her. And I've and that when you move into verse number twenty, it looks to me like he needed some time to think about how to do that. Because that's what it says It says he's he's basically pondering these kinds of things to figure out what's going on. And and you can see according to verse number 20 that that is the case. But here, within this foundational problem, God sends an angel in order to give him some help. Because I don't care how long he pondered it, he wasn't going to figure it out. Exactly what he's supposed to do. And so our God sends this angel and he says, this, while he thought about these problems, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream. And that's important. We've now moved into a dream, which brings us into a kind of a heavenly vision or moment as we see throughout the history of the scriptures. And he says this, Joseph, son of David. Do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. The angel, still in a dream, goes on to explain this in terms of the name Jesus And the prophecy of Isaiah, which then gives the name Emmanuel. And that's the foundation here for us to be able to understand what's going on and why is it that Joseph takes the action that he does. How is it that he reconciles this in his mind? And he you'll notice in that next verse, he wakes up from the dream and he takes her as his wife. Everybody sees that, right? Now when we see that, when we say, when we see in what Matthew is doing here that he is he wakes up from that dream and he takes her as a wife, this moves us into that second Cinder block that we're going to build on with the names. The first is that foundational problem and how the angel solves it. And the second is that we can begin to see now that Mary and Joseph are in fact historical figures. You'll meet them one day. But they are also uh foundational figures. They're this is a funny way to put it perhaps, but they're hyperlinked. Do you know what a hyperlink is? Hyperlink in a document, it usually shows up as blue on my computer and you would click it and it would take you to some other web page or another part of the document. And what Matthew is doing here and crafting this particular account is he wants you to see not only Mary and Joseph, but to see who they figure. That they stand for other characters in the scriptures that are more foundational or basic in order for you to be able to see the message that he's seeking to give here. Joseph and Mary, don't get me wrong, are in fact real people, but they are linked to other biblical figures from the past in order to make a meaningful point. Now I want you to notice again in verse 24 for yourself, then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and he took to him his wife. Now let me go ahead. Everybody awake? Okay. When is the last time you saw a man brought out of sleep and then take to himself a wife? I I don't mean in your your life. I don't know I don't know what experiences you've had. I'm just talking about in the Bible. Adam. Adam. Adam. So there's the hyperlink where we have Adam now awaking from his sleep and taking to him his wife Eve. Now, some of you might be saying, you've started on the Christmas eggnog early. But I'm telling you that that's not the case because if you go if you were to pay attention to especially the original language in the two paragraphs that are Here in the beginning of Matthew, you would see that that creation account and Genesis has been on Matthew's mind from the beginning Genesis 2, 21 through 23 records the account of the man waking and taking to himself a wife. You can look at that another time. But if you were to look at verse 1-1 of Matthew and 118 of Matthew, this is how it literally reads. And you're welcome to go ahead and look at interlinear translation or something. on your own time, but it literally reads this, verse number one one of Matthew, this is the Genesis of Jesus Christ. Verse 18 of chapter 1, now the genesis of Jesus Christ was as follows Now if you think that's silly for me to go ahead and make these connections, then I would just say back to you, let's meet and learn how to read the Bible together. Because this is how these authors operate. They operate in a little bit of a different way than perhaps you were taught in school But there are these points that are now starting to show up where Matthew wants us to go back and think of the creation account while we're reading this. He's told you what you need to pay attention to and what are the comparative verses in order for you to be able to understand this verse by way of the analogy of the scriptures. Because Matthew is still focused on the promises of God. Do you remember that that was the whole part of the genealogy is for us to see promise to Abraham. promise to David, promise fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Well here within this birth narrative, we're going to go back even further and see that the promises actually began in terms of a revelation uh historically in scriptures would have begun in Genesis chapter 3 verse 15. Many of you already know that. It's called the first gospel, the Proto-V-Evangelium. In 3. 15 it says this in Genesis, and I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. And that ends up being a comprehensive summary of all of human history and what God is seeking to do in the Christ. Paul in Galatians ends up connecting these dots for us. Did you notice the seed language again? That seed language that we heard from Abraham last week. That that ultimate seed is going to be Christ. And Paul points this out in Galatians 3, 16 through 17. Now to Abraham and his seed. Were the promises made. He does not say, and to seeds, as of many, but as of one, and to your seed, who is Christ? Abraham knew that, read Hebrews chapter 11. Moses knew that. David knew that. They all foresaw. And awaited for the day of the Christ that they might be ushered into their heavenly city. And that is what is going on here within these foundational terms. There's a foundational problem. Joseph is betrothed to Mary, Mary is pregnant, but in a dream, an angel reveals to Joseph the truth of the matter And through this, Matthew reveals to you that Joseph and Mary, though historically real, are hyperlinked to Adam and Eve. Why? So that he, Matthew, can show us that their child, Jesus, Emmanuel, is the long-awaited seed of Eve. who shall crush the head of the serpent. And now we're ready to take a look at the names. We've got the two cinder blocks in place so that we can begin to see the kind of intersection our thought needs to have. And that is these names need to intersect or cross lines or share stories. with what happened in Genesis in 315. And so let's take a look at these two names in light of Genesis. The two names you can look and see for yourself, which you've probably already done. In verse number 21, we have the first name. It's Jesus, and then it's translated for us. It's usually it's throughout the scriptures known as the one who saves. Uh the even the name Joshua is the same name. It's the one who saves, and it can be a saving from all kinds of things. You could be saved from Philistines or from a pharaoh or lots of different uh uh things to be saved from in this world, you can be saved from a lion. Uh but here, because we're intersecting with Adam and Eve and their problem, it's going to help us to understand why he gives this definition specifically here. Jesus, and then he interprets the name, he will save his people from their sins. You see that. And then we have the next name, which is Emmanuel. And that's God is with us. That also has to do with saving. God is with us. That's why we'll be saved. But it is also telling us who Jesus is, that Jesus is God, having taken upon himself human nature. And after I'm done preaching to you this morning, we're going to sing about that. in my favorite Christmas hymn. Let all mortal flesh keep silence. Now I think a good question for you to ask when you have these two names in front of you and the meaning of the names is: why do we need, number one, God to be with us? In order to solve our problem of sin. Why do we need Him? Why do we need God? Why do we need Emmanuel? Why do we need Him to take upon our nature in order to solve what we see here in this text as Jesus has come to save you from your sins We all know that sins are a problem, but what kind of problem are they to where you would need God to come and to do that? I think that's a really good question for you, especially as a kind of modern and postmodern people. Number one, when you see the word sins on the pages of scripture, usually you check out and you don't pay much attention to what we're talking about because you've just heard this a thousand times. And then if you do hear the word sins, you'll think of like some ways in which you were a little short with people, or maybe some things that still haunt you a little bit from your past. And I'm I'm I'm sure those are sins, but uh but we can actually take a little bit more f further of a step here in this passage. And ask, well, if it's just a little behavioral thing where I I was a little short and I n now I need to go to anger management If it was just that, why is God being sent? Do you see? We're going back to a kind of um physical science reasoning here in the sense of you're gonna you see the You see the kind of solution that is necessary, God descending and being taking upon himself human nature to solve humanity's problem. If the pr the problem has to match that Otherwise, why not just get a self-help book? Or meet with a mentor? And being able to see that Matthew takes us back to Adam and Eve tells us the problem is bigger than just a couple things that you've done, or bad habits that you've had for a while. There's actually something going on with humanity that's very important for us to realize It's very important to realize again in those same the same sense in which we talked about the importance of our passage last week, I keep announcing to you, because you need to be aware of this, that there is in fact in the United States of America a meaning crisis. People do not know the basic things any longer. There are the stuff that used to be taken for granted that you could build your life upon and be successful. You don't take those for granted any longer. You are officially wondering who is more valuable, human beings or robots? AI. These are foundational questions Is there really such thing as the sex of male and the sex of female? Or are these socially constructed? These questions are being taken up, and there are many people that don't know the answers to those things. And in order to be able to have meaning in this life, you've got to have these foundational questions and answered. And another one here is: well, what in the world is going on with humanity and their problems? If you can start to have an answer to that, then you're well on your way to having meaning within your life. And I find it interesting Now, whatever the problem is with humanity and the solution that is needed, it takes God Himself, clothing Himself in your nature, in order to solve the problem. That's not how it's usually looked at though. We usually come up with the understanding of our human situation by things like Explaining them through psychology like behaviorism. Do you know what behaviorism is? That would be looking at the behaviors of a a person and figuring out what has influenced them to act that way and then conditioning them with other external influences so that we'd act a different way. That's largely what you'll read today on blogs or see on YouTube as a kind of behaviorism. But God didn't come to just solve beh He's not a behaviorist. That's not how he views the world. Matthew has taken us all the way back to the beginning of the world, Adam and Eve, in order to show you that your problem is an ancient problem if you really want to understand it. And it goes all the way back to the beginning of the world. And that is why you need Jesus Emmanuel. It's not just a problem with some behaviors. This was brought out in a novel, which I don't encourage any of you to read, so I'm not even going to quote what the novel was. But there was a novel that there's a main character who is a female psychologist She works for the FBI and she's trying to track down someone who is a a serial killer. So she meets with another serial killer in order to try to understand the psychological profile of this of the serial killer that she's hunting. She meets with this person. She hands him in the novel a blue survey form for him to fill out. So that she can quantify him and understand his psychology from a behavioral point of view and therefore solve the riddles. She slides the blue paper over into his cage. And she says this to him. She says, uh, what happened to you? I mean, this guy has done some bad stuff. I don't even want to talk about it. She says to him, What happened to you? And then he replies, Nothing happened to me, Officer Starling. I happened. And now in the novel, the I is italicized. I happened. I happened. You can't reduce me, he goes on, to a set of influences. And now if you were to unpack that, it's not because my mom and the way she raised me. It's not because I want the public school versus private school. It's none of these things. He continues, he says, You've given up good and evil for behaviorism. You've given up good and evil for behaviorism, Officer Starling. You've got everybody in moral dignity pants. Nothing is ever anybody's fault. Look at me, Officer Starling. Can you stand to say I'm evil? Now this inmate has more insight as to what is going on with humanity than the behaviorist. And if you were to face the atrocities of what humanity is capable of studying different world wars, for example, you would find that behaviorism is not a sufficient cause for what we see going on within humanity. It would take Jesus Emmanuel, God with us, to solve our problem. There's an evil which is fundamental to humanity since the fall of Adam and Eve And it is not just an evil that inmate was in there because of the way that he related to other humans. But there's something going on not just in the way that we relate to the people around us. And what we are capable to doing to unborn children, children, adolescents, men, women, adults, the old, the aged. The evil doesn't stop there. Actually, the most fundamental evil that especially this passage is addressing is that there is an evil that we have, or we could say it is a kind of enmity that we have towards God Himself. Now when I say that, I expect at least 70% of you not to actually believe that. You think, well, God's an okay guy. I don't really have any enmity with God But that's not how it bears out. I find this r this passage really interesting from Jonathan Edwards. Does anyone know Jonathan Edwards? Are you aware of him as a Puritan preacher from the Northeast a while ago? He's also a scientist. And he was influenced by different philosophers like uh Francis Bacon and John Locke and and a few others He was very interested in scientific experiments and being able to understand the world that way. And he says in one of his sermons on Romans chapter 5, that the sermon is about uh that the humanity is naturally at enmity with God. Naturally at enmity with God And he sets up this section in his sermon where he says, as if we were Baconian or locking in philosophers, conducting experimental science, let us hold an experiment. Let God come down from his throne and let us observe with our senses what humanity will do with him. He says, there can be no other experiment. Why, when once God became man and came down to dwell here Among such vipers as fallen men, they hated and they persecuted him, and never desisted till they had inherited their hands in his blood There was a multitude of them that appeared combined in this design. Nothing would do, but he must be put to death. All cry out, crucify him, crucify him, away with him. They had rather Barabbas, who greatly deserved death, should live than he should not die. Nothing would restrain them from it, even all his preaching and all his miracles, but they would kill him. And it was not the ordinary kind of execution that would satisfy them, but it must be the most cruel that they could invent. And they aggravated as much as they possibly could by mocking him and spitting on him and scourging him. And then he concludes, and as Jonathan Edwards does. This shows what the nature and tendency of man's enmity against God is. Here it appears, you appear in your true colors. The ancient problem. You think about it, a lot of us think the ancient problem is the problem between Cain and Abel. A problem with other human beings, and certainly we have that problem. But before that problem came, there was a problem where they ate of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and it was First and foremost, a rebellion and a turning of their back from what God had specifically said to them. It's fundamentally a problem with God It is that ancient problem of Adam and Eve, and the only one, therefore, who can save us is Jesus, who is Emmanuel. Let me put it this one other way so that you can you can see. Here's another passage from Jonathan Edwards. He says this about us and our problem. The enmity that is in Men's hearts against God, meaning humans, is like a serpent, which, if it be let alone, lies still. But if anybody disturbs it, it will soon hiss, it will be enraged, and show its serpentine, spiteful nature And that is a description of me, and that is a description of you. You and God are fine as long as He doesn't disturb you. And your autonomy. But the moment that He places a loyalty on you that binds you to Him and His will, you rage. That's the ancient problem. And to be able to solve that problem, to be able to discover your true meaning, to be able to be realigned with that one in whom you would find any meaning. You can begin to see why these two names are given. Jesus, because he will save his people even from the greatest sin, which is enmity towards God Himself, and He is the only one that can do it. Why? Because He is Emmanuel. He is God who is with us. There is a problem so deep that only God Himself can solve it. Today, brothers and sisters, here on Advent, we stand in awe of the glorious birth narrative. in one eighteen through twenty-five. And it is a story that announces a baby But this baby here is the Savior, he is the King, he is the one in whom all God's promises find their fulfillment. In these verses, the two names capture the very heart of the gospel that you must remember during this season. Jesus, who will save his people from their sins, and Emmanuel, who is God with us. These names are not mere labels, but they are profound declarations of who Christ is and what he has in fact come to do. From the very beginning of creation, our story has been marked after the fall by sin and separation, going back to Adam and Eve who first turned from God. And that ancient rebellion lives on in us a problem far deeper than external influences of behavioral failures. It is enmity with God Himself. There is a viper that naturally lives within us, full of poison, especially towards God. And yet into this darkness, God sends his son Jesus, the promised seed, who crushes the serpent's head. And this is the one who saves you from your sin. This is the one who bridges the chasm between you and a holy God. This is the one in whom you will find your meaning. And so I asked this morning that you would hear this good news, especially in light of our theme. Jesus is your peace. He is your Savior. He is Emmanuel, God with us. Amen. Let us pray