It's good to see all of you. We are going to over the next eight weeks go over the book The Peacemaker by Ken Sandy. And towards the end of that eight weeks, I'll announce the next book we're going to go through together. But right now we're just focused on this one. Let me go ahead and pray Then I'm going to let you know what your homework is for next week. I'll let you know how we're going to conduct the class, and then we'll go through all of the material. Okay? So let's start with praying. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have done what is necessary through your Son and His Spirit, that we would be reconciled. We thank you, in other words, that you have sent us the Prince of Peace. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, for being our mediator, for uniting us once again. uh to the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. I ask uh Christ that you would Commune with us by your Spirit this morning. Help us to grow more and more into your image and to glorify you and to love one another. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Okay, so if you have a place where you'd like to take notes, I um I imagine that this will also go out in the email on um But it doesn't go out until next Friday, so that's uh so it's a little late to get your homework done. So the next um required reading is uh pages if you have the physical book, it's pages forty-three through fifty-eight. If you have a Kindle version and it doesn't have those same page numbers, then you're going to be reading the section entitled Live at Peace. And you're gonna answer the twelve questions at the end. Did everybody catch that? Alrighty? So make sure you pay attention each week to the page numbers because in order to divide it up into eight even teaching lessons, I had to do two and then one, two and then one, two and then one. So next week you only have live at peace and answering the twelve questions. Okay. So then that's the homework for next week. Let's talk about how the class will be conducted. The class is going to be conducted first in that it's very important that you complete your homework. The questions are, I'm not going to ask you too much about those questions at the end because they're pretty personal. Uh yeah, they're actually very personal and I don't think it would be a good idea to to talk about it in front of everybody. So But it is very important that you answer the questions because as you're going through the book, you're going to be through those questions applying the principles to a specific conflict that you have chosen in your life. Okay. If you don't have a conflict, congratulations, number one. Number two, you probably do, and you just need to talk to me so I can point it out. Or number three what's that? You're fleeing. You're probably yeah. You're probably fleeing. And then third, if you really don't have a conflict, what we could do, and that has happened before. We could just look at um we could look at a movie and see a conflict in a movie and then work out the questions that way. But that's last resort. So the first thing about how we're conducting the class is that it's very important on your own time that you're getting those questions finished The second thing is I will, if there are general principles in the questions, I will ask you about those things, but I'm not going to ask you personal questions The third thing in this class is that I'm going to try to not repeat the material that you read. So you can't show up here thinking I'm just going to use the book as my outline. I'm definitely going to talk about the same stuff, but I'm going to try to use different examples, different scriptures, so that it's not just a c a copy and paste. So you may want to take notes here this morning. And then the other thing is I I will primarily just be lecturing And then I'll give you one one and a half to two minutes on certain questions that I'll ask you. But it's not going to be dominated by just a group discussion. I think that will be too difficult in this case. And then lastly, the class is being recorded. So if you want to watch this at a later date or share it with your friends and family, it'll be on our sermon audio site. Is that correct? Yes, it is correct. Okay, and also if you just being aware of that, if you decide you want to stand up and stand right there Well just know that everyone's gonna be watching you from now on because you're being recorded. So Um okay I think that's all that I had to say about the uh the homework I gave and then also how we're gonna go ahead and and conduct the class. The other, the last thing I'll just mention is that there are these pamphlets in the back basket. Does everybody have one? Okay, you'll need y you're gonna want this. It's just a nice and neat and easy and handy way. for you to follow along or make some notes. I'd encourage you to keep this in your Bible or in a in and if you want more, we're happy to print more for you. You can keep some in your glove box. Do they still have glove boxes and cars? I feel like I'm being outdated. Yes. Okay. Uh that kind of stu that kind of a thing. Um So you'll you'll you'll need this. My hope is that throughout the class, starting as early as next week, I will do some role plays in front of you I did check with Brad to see if he would be my guinea pig and he said sounds exciting. So So we'll probably set up a little table and then he I'll he'll pretend that he has a conflict and I'll try to coach him through it and you two can you you all can watch how that works out with the pamphlet. Okay. All right, very good. So let's go ahead and begin then. I'm going to go ahead and proceed to talk just by way of uh I'm going to raise a question. It's for you to consider And I'll talk to that question just a little bit. Okay, the very first question I have with regard to this book is how should we approach the book? How should we approach this book? Um This book is supposed to be a help to you. In dealing with the conflicts that are in your life. There are a lot of different conflicts that you have. You've already had some this morning. You had some last week that you're still thinking about today. You'll have you'll continue to have conflicts this upcoming week. It'll be with family, it'll be with friends, it'll be with people you do not know from the safe way or whatever. Uh it'll be with people you work with. And this book really does help. If you follow what it says, it definitely helps. It is a help to you. But it is not a substitute for Christian wisdom. This is not the kind of book where it's you now officially for all of your conflicts you just have to go to the subject, you don't have to just go to the back and then look up a keyword And then you go to the page number 75 and then you just follow those instructions. Page number 75 might have some concepts that are helpful to you in your particular conflict, but you're also going to have to keep growing as a as a Christian and figuring out what is the best way for me to handle what's going on in the particular case that is facing me So this is not a substitute for Christian wisdom. So for example, let me just give you a very I think a clear example of how this is the case. If you were to if you open up your pamphlet And this is a summary of the entire book. If you want cliff notes, here they are. Well it has the what they call the slippery slope right there in the center. And the way that they talk about this in the book is that you want to stay away from the slope on the left, and you want to stay away from the slope on the right And you want to stay in the center of the slope. In fact, the way they even phrase it is that on the left we have basically escape responses On the right we have attack responses and then in the center peacemaking responses. So which responses do you think are the good ones? Right, so the way that they framed this. Now, if you were to use this as a substitute for Christian wisdom, you could really hurt people. Because let me ask you, on the slippery slope, what should the eleven year old girl do who believes that someone is um Inappropriately relating to her sexually. Should she overlook it? No. Should she reconcile with the person just by herself? No. Should she negotiate? No. Yeah, and then you could just keep on going through. Maybe there will end up being mediation and arbitration and that kind of stuff and accountability. Maybe those things will happen later, but I'll tell you right now, one of the first things she should do is either flight or assault. That's what I would tell my daughters. And I have. So we so you have to just you have to be careful. This is a compressed version This book is basically a compressed version for our day-to-day conflicts that we experience. All right, I think the book even lets you know there are going to be certain situations that are going to be over your head and you need help. And that's when we start to get into opportunities like mediation and arbitration. It's just beyond you. So let's reach out. So so that's the first thing that I wanted to point out to you is that we want to approach this book as a help and as an aid and not as a substitute for exercising wisdom And the main point there is just this is going to give you a ton of if you picture yourself as having a tool bag or a toolbox, it's going to give you a ton of tools that you might not have. And if you do have these tools, it's going to help you to sharpen them again. But this doesn't have every tool. Okay, there are some real doozies out there. Okay. The second question I have is um given uh this book and the readings that you have done My question to you is, stepping back for a moment, what should our basic orientation toward life be? As human beings, how should we be oriented to the environment that is around us And the environment that is inside of us. So you can think of your psychology or your interior life. People have And then there's everything that's outside of you. What's our basic orientation to that? Anybody want to try to answer that? Give you like thirty seconds? Yes. Supposed to be. Should be. Should be. Okay, we should be trying to glorify God. One other answer? Anyone have a different one? Yes. Okay, curious? I'll give one more, because this is going fast. Bob? Think more highly others than you do it yourself. Okay, that's that's that's true. And I think each one of those that you've mentioned in different situations um works. The more overarching orientation that we're to have is given to us in the creation account. It's it's broad enough to catch everything. And we often refer to that as the dominion mandate, or that we are to have an orientation toward the world of dominion Under God, we are his representatives in the ordering or the continued maintenance, lowercase p Providence. the continual maintenance of our inner lives and the environment that is around us. So if you have a Bible with you, please open So Genesis chapter 1, 26 through 28. And if you don't, you can just listen because I'm going to read it. I will give you just a couple seconds to open your Bibles so you don't feel like I'm moving too quick here Man, you hear all those pages turning? Makes me feel good. I don't hear any swiping. Oh that's right too. I hear no. I'm okay with swiping these days. I real I just you know. Okay, so Genesis one twenty six through twenty-eight. And here, my argument to you is that this is given to us for different reasons, but one reason that God has revealed this through Moses is that we would know what he intends for our for us to have as our basic orientation toward life. He says, Then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over the cattle. Over all the earth, over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them Then God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply. Fill the earth and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air and over every living thing that moves on the earth. So just a couple observations here of this passage There is the explicit mentioning that they that human beings, according to God, are to have dominion over these various domains, let's say, over the fish of the sea. Notice how it states the thing and then the place that the thing was in. So you have the fish of the sea You have the birds of the air and over the cattle and over all of the earth and over every creeping thing that is on the earth. Right? So you have these different domains And it mentions explicitly that we are to have dominion over them. Now, how are we supposed to understand that? Well h the uh Moses ends up rooting that by way of God revealing this to him. He roots that idea of dominion down a little bit further, and if you follow it, right there is something called the image of God There's something about imaging God wherein we are to have dominion. Now, there are- I mean how many volumes out there are there on the image of God? Uh there's just a ton. So we could really get lost at the we could really just, you know, talk about the image of God of the rest of this class. But in terms of this specific passage, it seems reasonable to me that we would understand the image of God based on what has already been revealed around this passage. And one of the things that we see about God that we then end up being an image of Is that God took what was chaotic without form and void, and then in his goodness and his creative power By the word of his power, in the space of six days, he took that which was chaotic and he ordered it. And he ordered it into these different domains. And he ordered it in such a way that whatever he placed in those domains was able to flourish. And to do well. The fish flourish in the sea, and the birds flourish in the air, and the creeping thing in the cattle and human beings flourish on the earth. And we are to be like God, and those things which are uninhabitable, spaces that are like a wilderness or like a desert, we're to make them like a garden. Like he did, to where whatever exists within that particular domain is able to flourish That's one of the ways that we talk about being in the image of God, and that is to be our basic orientation to life. So if you were to summarize, you'd say that we are to have dominion. Dominion is rooted in us being made in God's image. If we understand who God is in this specific context, God is a um God is is is um A person's I don't want I'm trying to get the trin trinity doctrine in there too, but I'm not going to do that. Okay. God is one who Make situations and places in such a way to where Everything can flourish. That would be a good way to talk about that initial creation account. And it is what also defines what it means for us to have dominion. Now after the fall, what is a word that arrives in the vocabulary of the human race that is related to dominion? What after the fall, what is a word that arrives in the vocabulary of the human race that is related or sounds like dominion? Domination. Domination. Now there's if you were to look at the history of the word domination, I think it's probably just the abstract noun form of dominion or something like that. But within our culture, we usually think of that as a negative term where we're not considering other people's interests, we're not interested in them flourishing, we're interested in using them so that we can get whatever our desires are. We tend to talk about domination that way. So uh we were given dominion. After the fall, dominion now becomes even more difficult because there's a domination element, but we're still responsible to order this entire earth by way of the multiplication of humanity onto the glory of God and the flourishing of all creatures. Another way to talk about that is lowercase p providence. Of course, God is in charge of not only did he create everything, but he maintains everything But we as his vice regents, or the little kings and queens, uh who have been given dominion by him, we are responsible in a a small way of that of the maintenance of those things also. Okay, so I've said the same thing several different times. Another place where this teaching about that our fundamental orientation is towards dominion of the earth, this may surprise you, but another place this is taught is in Matthew chapter 28, 18 through 20. So let's take a look at that. I'll give you just a moment to flip your script flipping your scriptures to there. Matthew 28, 18 through 20 We're still looking at our fundamental orientation. Now, an assumption that I have is that because of the fall of Adam and Eve. The human race is now not going to be able to fulfill the dominion mandate. So what we end up seeing is that instead of leaving us in our sin and our misery, God instead sends us a redeemer. And we read in several places that he is called the new or the second Adam. So we are invited by the authors of Scripture themselves to think of Jesus in terms of Genesis. Jesus is a second Adam, and here he is in Matthew 28, 18 through 20, having been given all authority in heaven and earth And notice what it says here, beginning in eighteen. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you And lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Amen. Okay, so let's just take a minute and 30 seconds or something like that And let me just ask you, in that passage, do you see, perhaps not in words, but at least in concept, do you see dominion? And if so, how? Do you want to speak? Okay, within Christ himself is what Ashley says. Did you want to say anymore? And so then Okay. So Ashley said uh quite well. that Christ has been given dominion and then he is distributing his authority or delegating or I'm not sure the perfect word for that, but he what's that? Elizabeth? A sign something like that. A sign to uh his disciples to carry out that that dominion under him. Do you see anything else in there that lets you know that this is a dominion passage that is meant to be understood by Genesis 1, 26 through 28? Any other analogies? Similar to the prop the prepositions you talked about in Genesis 1. Okay. On the earth. Okay, very good. Very good. Thank you. Yep, yes, Therese. Yeah, all yeah, very good. All authority. Anything else? Michelle? Making the disciples, so Multiplying! Yeah sometimes we don't see that, but there's a multiplication in Genesis by way of natural birth. Now there's a multiplication by spiritual birth, even though you also may have either adopted or you have natural birth. But there still needs to be a spiritual birth. Right? So there's all these different parallels. They act as kind of like bookends where you have the one atom and you have the other atom. And it's it's very important for you to see the continuity that God had always intended for humanity to have dominion over the earth, just because they fell does not mean that God gave up on that goal. What he has done at just the right time was to establish the new Adam in a place of dominion, as we read in Psalm 8. Who shall be over all things, and order all of the earth unto the glory of God. And Christ being entirely faithful to the Father shall multiply, and all of his children will likewise contribute to the glory of God and the maintenance of the order of the earth. See that? It's pretty cool, right? So this is a fundamental orientation. These are two passages that are talking about fundamental realities. fundamental ways in which we are to be situated and postured toward our inner and our outer environment. Okay. Now, what does that have to do with the peacemaker? It has this to do with it. Here's the next question. Should we be using the doctrine of the Dominion Mandate in terms of our conflict? What would you say by the way? And and if you say yes or no, please explain yourself. Should we be u understanding our conflicts through the lens of dominion is another way to do it. Elizabeth, then Raquel, then Michelle. Well, if you have the all authority over everything, it would be encompassed. And if your desire is to have others flourish, then you it would be the logical next step. Okay, very good. Raquel. I think she said that we always think about through the conflict, you always guiding them back to the will of God, like we Oh okay. Yeah, very good. Okay, that's excellent. Very good. Michelle. design if God calls us to um have dominion and to and God's thing what he He wants everything to flourish how this could work in that is that we are called in conflict to work towards flourishing the situation, the people, the church. Yes, very good. And that um causing uh disruption or in that kind of way. Okay, very good. I think we could summarize each one of you by saying that we are to ha exercise dominion over the conflicts in our lives also. Our conflicts are not a mistake. They're not a coincidence. They're not an accident. They are also under God's providential supervision of your life. They're there for a specific reason. Does anybody remember in the book the concept that Ken Sandy uses to talk about this exact same thing that I'm talking about We are meant to have dominion over our conflicts. But what does he call that? Begins with an S and it rhymes with rured rip. Stewardship. Good job. Excellent. Man, that was a tough one too. That was a deal better. Yeah, so he talks about that in terms of stewardship, and that is a little less abstract than the concept of dominion. Now if you were to start telling stories about having dominion over specific uh situations As we see throughout the scriptures, it becomes less abstract. But the stewardship one is a great one because you can you can um see different parables, for example, of what stewardship is supposed to look like. And it's basically stewardship, even in the parables, is set up just like the creation account. Adam and Eve are given responsibility over the house of creation, and they are to have dominion over that house of creation by way of their household. Right? Okay. And then the same thing in those parables is that a steward is given charge of his master's house or vineyard or property or whatever it is, and then he is supposed to exercise that stewardship in such a way to where each of the different servants are flourishing, the grapes are still growing, the uh animals are taken care of, the money's not misspent. The basic idea of stewardship. And so, as you've read in your book, one of the beginning concepts to orient you to conflict is that you are to recognize that you are a steward of the conflict That God has brought into your life. I'm backing up a little bit further than that. I'm saying that this is a part of an overarching orientation toward life and that you're to have dominion even over the difficult and troublesome conflicts that enter into your garden. So if you wanted to, you could picture yourself as in a garden. And you're just, you know, having a cup of coffee in the morning. But then this weird little animal called conflict, called um, I don't know, family conflict comes in. And every time you cut off a head it grows three, or whatever it is, you are still responsible for the presence of that animal within the garden. And you're supposed to be doing different things in order to make this to work out. And that'll be on a case-by-case basis by way of the the judgment and the wisdom that the Holy Spirit gives to you over time Okay, so does our dominion include conflict was the main question. And the answer is yes. But here's the thing. Let me just, don't answer me How many times during the day over the last several years have you said, no? It doesn't include conflict. This is something different than I'm not supposed to be stewarding. Well, when we say no, we usually say no in very specific ways. that are captured by Ken Sandy and his team that wrote this in the slippery slope of peacemaking. So let's take a look at that together. How should we approach this book? As a help, not a substitute for Christian wisdom? What is our basic orientation toward life, dominion, and stewardship? Do we view conflict that do we see that that we're supposed to steward conflict? Sometimes yes, mostly no. What are the ways in which, if we abdicate our responsibility, what are those ways in which we do so? Now we're looking at the peacemaking, the different peacemaking responses. On the left-hand side are considered escape responses. The bulletin is set up. I'm colorblind, but I'm pretty sure that on the left is a green box. Is that right? Am I doing okay? Cool. Hey, what a col what color is on the right? What would you say that is? Is it not a like a Therese, help me out here. Is it a very special kind of pink? It's a red and redush. It's what? I would call that a red violet. Red violet, yeah. See that's my problem is I say I'm colorblind and then I'll go in for a test and they'll say what color is that and I say well they say is it brown? I said no it's more like burnt sienna you know that's my that's my issue. So so this is a what? Okay. I like that. That's good. Okay. So on the left hand side in the green we have the escape responses, and I'm going to go w just read through those with you. Then on the right hand side are the attack responses. One of the names that Ken Sandy gives in the training for the left-hand side is what he would say are peace-faking responses. So we could be a peace faker. And this can get pretty complicated because you're human beings with original sin. So you um you would not label your actions as denial. You would label them as tolerance and grace. Right. And then the question mark. So peace faking. And then on the right hand side he ha had called them peace breaking. Did he use that language in the book? Okay, yeah. So peace breaking. Peace faking, peace breaking, and then peacemaking. So let's go ahead and start with the peace faking. And I'm just going to go ahead and read these and you can follow along. People tend to use escape responses when they are more interested in avoiding unpleasant people or situations than in resolving differences. The first is denial. One way to escape from a conflict is to pretend that a problem does not exist. Another way is to refuse to do what should be done to resolve a conflict properly. These responses bring only temporary relief and usually make matters worse. And you're welcome to look up that scripture reference at another time. We also have flight. Another way to escape from a conflict is to run away. This may take the form of pulling away from a relationship, quitting a job, filing for divorce, or changing churches Flight may legitimate and it may be legit legitimate what? Flight might be legitimate in extreme circumstances, but in most cases it only postpones a proper solution to a problem. Suicide. When people lose all hope of resolving a conflict, they may seek to escape from the situation, or make a desperate cry for help, by attempting to take their own lives. Suicide is never a right way to deal with conflict. That's a very sad way. Um okay, so those are some escape responses that we see there and it's a spectrum that he's making. And so you might find yourself even in between some of those things. The other observation I'll make for you is that sometimes your escape responses look different depending on the person with whom you have the conflict. There's some people where you feel quite confident And you'll move toward them in the conflict. There are other people you're intimidated by, for example, or situations, and you'll move into other modes. So that would be peace faking generally speaking as an aid. We also have peace breaking on the right hand side, which is a warm color. People tend to use attack responses when they are more interested in controlling others and getting their way than in preserving a relationship. The first is assault. Some people try to overcome an opponent by using various forms of force or intimidation. such as verbal attacks, including gossip and slander, physical violence or efforts to damage a person financially or professionally. Such conduct always makes conflict worse Litigation. Although some conflicts legitimately may legitimately be taken before a civil judge, that's an important distinction that we should recognize in this community. Lawsuits usually damage relationships, diminish our Christian witness, and often fail to achieve complete justice. This is why Christians are commanded to make every effort to settle their differences within the church rather than in the civil courts. Now that one specifically was at the heart of um Ken Sandy and his team with the Peacemaker Ministry because he had He I think might still be a practicing lawyer. If he's not, then he at least was a practicing lawyer. And in the adversarial model of the typical court, he became quite dissatisfied with the results. Money and property could be split, but human relationships were destroyed. So he was wondering, is there a better way to do this? And um I don't know if he discovered or if he founded, Doug you pr might know, but he I don't know if he discovered or if he founded a Christian conciliation uh institute, basically, to where Uh ma actually many lawyers have joined that s trying to seek out a better way. Um they c usually call themselves recovering lawyers. Serious, every time they'd introduce they'd say I'm a recovering lawyer. So um that litigation one was really on his heart. And then lastly we have murder In extreme cases, people may be so desperate to win a dispute that they will try to kill those who oppose them. While most people would not actually kill someone, we still stand guilty of murder in God's eyes when we harbor anger or contempt in our hearts. toward others. Now, um let me just ask very quickly if you're willing to share, you don't have to give any specifics, but uh is there anyone Who knows are is anybody here on the left or the right side? Anybody prefer escape responses? Okay, I'm seeing a couple hands. Yeah, yeah, yeah, right. Okay. Very good. And see and it's like um it's insightful to know that about yourself. You'll know what your inclination is Uh sometimes when people are in conflict who are on the escape response side, when the conflict starts to arise, even in the body language of another person, usually you're very good at reading body language by the way, if you're on this side. you will start to feel like you're being electrocuted and that you need to somehow get out of there. And then if you can't get out of there, it can get really weird for you inside and your your body starts to do weird things And an interesting trend is that you can flip from escape to attack because you feel attacked. Right? So that's an interesting trend that can happen there. Who would this is a difficult thing to admit, but uh who's on more of like the attack response? Very specific people. Just with specific people? Okay. Alright. Yeah. Yeah? Yeah. Depends on the situation too. Yeah. I think everybody in here pretty much has attacked me, so no, I'm just I'm just kidding. That's a that was a joke. That's not true. You're all lovely. No I probably attacked you. Yeah, I find the same thing that sometimes I'm on the escape side, sometimes I'm on the attack side. It kind of depends on the person and the day and all that But we can swing on either one of those and and on either one of those sides it can be really unproductive and we can make things a lot worse. So the person on the left stuffs until they blow up. And uh the attack responses, how do they back how do they end up going over into more of a escape side? Yeah, but that's still through that's still through the attack mode. You can be in the attack mode and then after it's all said and done and you cool off you feel horrible and you move over onto a different Yeah, you can switch over. Uh you can move into denial, but you could also move into a more of a peacemaking response, trying to be reasonable and that kind of stuff. But it's but it's because you I forget the name of that. There's actually a name for it where after you do that you then move into No. Do you remember, Carol? You don't remember It's feeling bad about it, you're remorseful for a moment, and then you any well anyway, you get the picture. Okay. Yes. Since I come from the escape response, when I when I attack respond I feel guilty. Yeah. And that's what takes me back to the case. Yes. Yeah, right. Um now let's uh not be We don't let's not do anything that would violate our consciences. But what does anybody hear, if you think of it, can anybody think of either the escape or the attack response that they may have inherited from their family. Yeah? Nature or nurture no you remind yourself as your mom or your dad or your grandmother or something in the way that you handle conflict? So since I had both my mom and my dad were opposite I ha I have both. You do, okay. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of the time we continue something that started earlier in our families. And there's a little diagram that you can you'll see in some counseling classes where there's a um What's the big piece of ice in the water? An iceberg. Okay. Thank you. There's an iceberg and then there's just that was funny. And then there it's just a little bit at the top, which is you And then underneath would be all of these things that have accumulated in your families that have been passed down to you that you also will need to work through. You'll have to decide whether you want to continue those responses that your family handed down to you or if you want to take a different path. with Christ. Okay, so that's escape and that's attack. And you're locating yourself there in those places. But we also have a center which is the peacemaking responses. So let's go ahead and take a look at those. Some of these might be new to you actually. Peacemakers are people who breathe grace. Inspired by the gospel, they draw continually on the goodness and power of Jesus Christ, and then breathe out His love, mercy, forgiveness, and wisdom to dissipate anger, improve understanding, promote justice, and model repentance and reconciliation. I really think that's an excellent summary. It actually summarizes a number of the petitions that we have in the Lord's Prayer. uh particularly for giving others that petition. I think it's four or five, I forget. And um that it is because of the grace of God that has been given to us that we are then able to give grace to others. And the way that they talk about it here is a breathing in of God's grace, and then we're able to breathe out grace to others. And then look at all of the good things that peacemakers are accomplishing. Mercy, forgiveness, dissipating anger, improving understanding, promoting justice. I mean, wow, that's great. Those are aspirations we should all have. Okay, so let's take a look at the two columns. The first column is personal peacemaking. There are three biblical ways to resolve conflicts personally and privately just between you and the other party. The first is overlook an offense. This should be the majority of your life. Many disputes are so insignificant that they should be resolved by quietly overlooking an offense. A man's wisdom gives him patience. It is to his glory to overlook an offense. Proverbs 1911. Now if you look that up, Proverbs is a really tough book. It's one of the toughest books in the Bible, in my opinion When you look at this proverb, the author, Solomon, is seeking to lay before the youth of that community, but everyone in that community Who are the kind of people that contribute and bring health to our society? It's going to be, one of them is going to be named, and it's going to be a person who is able to overlook offenses and who is thick-skinned. Who's not always the one bubbling up and causing problems and the drama. So they recognize this person as a person who keeps the community together. In part because they overlook and they're not um nitpicky and then my grandmother used a different word, I forget what it was, but nitpicky on all these things. But instead, not a lot of drama around them And they're thick skinned. Okay, so that's uh overlooking an offense is a form of forgiveness and involves a deliberate decision not to talk about it. Dwell on it, or let it grow into pent-up bitterness or anger. So notice those qualifications. You're not overlooking an offense if your heart has become contaminated and is growing more and more corrupt in bitterness. That's not an overlooking. That's a denial. Or something like that. Yeah. Until murder. Right, yeah. Okay, so th that's the first one. Overlook an offense, and that should be the majority of your lives if you want a society to last. Um overlooking an offense um is the does that come with forgiveness? Yes, it's a form of forgiveness. It's a form of forgiveness, and the nature of the conflict itself is of the the conflict itself is of such a nature that we don't need to talk about it. Okay. There are conflicts that that's not true. We've got to talk about it. Right, right. And we ha we'll have some criteria a little bit later on which ones we should talk about. Thank you. Thank you. Is that it? Yeah, okay. Driving every day would be an example of Driving every day? Yeah. Your experiences while driving, you should overlook Yes. Yeah. Yeah, I would say you would overlook it and then you would get to the point where there's nothing to overlook because you're not bired bothered by such trivial things as people cutting you off. Yeah. That'd be the goal. Okay, very good. So that's overlooking offense. And uh I like the question that Mike asked because and then that Ashley was going to talk about it because There are questions that go along with these rules, right? Well should I which one should I be overlooking? That's the question. Well, that's why I said this is a help, but it does it is no replacement for Christian wisdom You'll have to decide on certain cases, even from one day to the next, whether you can keep overlooking something. Right? Okay. So then reconciliation is the second personal peacemaking. Personal peacemaking, just to put a fine point on it, we're trying to keep everything personal and private. We're not looking to escalate this. We want everything in the green zone. Alright, so the second green zone is reconciliation. If an offense is too serious to overlook or has damaged our relationship, we need to resolve personal or relational issues through confession Loving correction and forgiveness. And here are some scriptures. If your brother has something against you, go and be reconciled. Brothers, if someone is caught in a sin, you who are spiritual should restore him gently Forgive as the Lord forgave you. So you can see there that's uh following the Matthew 18 and some other passages. The next one is negotiation. If we successfully resolve relational issues, we may still need to work through material issues related to money, property, or other rights. There's a distinction that he's introducing now, which is the uh did he say spiritual? Material and personal or relational. So we have relational issues on the one hand and we have material issues on the other hand If it's a relational issue, the way to solve these things is through confession and forgiveness. The material issues often have to be handled through negotiation. And that will end up working out in specific terms. You'll see a lot of material issues over here if we were to be involved in a business dispute, for example. Because it actually it actually matters. The property distribution, who's going to fix what machine, uh, uh who is getting what amount of the total profit for the company. That still needs to be talked about even after we've talked about the relational issues over here. If you work on the relational issues first, however, the negotiation tends to go better. If the negotiation is not going well, it is an indication that there's still a relational issue that hasn't been dealt with. And I think we're all familiar with that in life. So um This should be done through a cooperative bargaining process in which you and the other person seek to reach a settlement that satisfies the legitimate needs of each side. Each of you should look not only to your own interests, but also the interests of others. Now let me just point out something to you very quickly If you flip the pamphlet over, we'll get into this another day. But if we were working on the relational side of things, we would want to consider the wisdom in the seven A's of confession. We'll go over this another time. We'd also need to work on the four promises of forgiveness, and we'll work on that another time. And then if we're negotiating, we want to enact the pause principle. And we'll go over that another time. Okay? And you just see how these things play out. Okay, and then we have assisted peacemaking. When a dispute cannot be resolved personally, God calls us to seek assistance from other believers. And the first step is mediation. If two people cannot reach an agreement in private, they should ask one or more objective outside people to help them, to meet with them, to help them communicate more effectively and explore possible solutions. If he will not listen to you, take one or two others along. The mediators may ask questions and give advice, but the parties retain the responsibility of making the final decision on how to resolve their differences. Now in my opinion, that is a necessary consequence of Matthew 18 and not an explicit statement. Matthew 18 explicitly says, bring one or two other witnesses along. And that is your in other words bringing uh evidence Could be testimony, could be artifacts. You're bringing it along so that the person who is presumably being stubborn begins to see that they shouldn't be stubborn, they should be repentant, and then they start, and then we can restore them, which is the whole point of that passage. But by good and necessary consequence, sometimes you want to bring someone along who can help them not be stubborn in other ways, and maybe you're a little stubborn too Right? So we have a mediator who can help to work those things out, not just witnesses. Okay, so that's a mediation. I do a number of mediations every year And it's a real joy to see the Lord working in mediations. I I would say I see the Lord work most often in mediations. He's all he just shows up and boy does he melt human hearts and turn them to his image. It's really a delight for me to watch. Arbitration is one that perhaps you're less familiar with. That if you take a look at the scriptures, the church actually practiced arbitration. I would love to see that uh picked up more often in churches uh here in other churches. When you and an opponent cannot come to a voluntary agreement on a material issue You may appoint one or more arbitrators to listen to your arguments and render a binding decision to settle the issue. If you have disputes about such matters, appoint as judges even men of little account in the church. In that context, the 1 Corinthians 6. 4 was specifically like a small claims court to where arbitration would be entirely appropriate. The Institute of Christian Conciliation does have an arbitration procedure that churches can follow forms to sign so that whatever the decision is that is rendered, you bind yourself to it, all of it's out there and it's ready to be used. Arbitration uh could be used for a lot of different things One of Paul's main concerns there in 1 Corinthians 6 is the way that we conduct ourselves towards each other, even in things like that would be picked up by a small claims court. That if we do take it to a small claims court, the bickering going on between the Christian community ends up being a terrible witness to the surrounding community that God has done anything good in the world. And so you would handle things in your own house, so to speak, and not air your dirty laundry. And then lastly, accountability. If a person who professes to be a Christian wanders from the Lord by refusing to be reconciled and do what is right, Jesus commands church leaders to lovingly intervene, to hold him or her accountable to Scripture. and to promote repentance, justice, and forgiveness. If a man owns a hundred sheep and one of them wanders away, he will not Go to look will he not go to look for the other that wandered off? If he refuses to listen, tell it to the church. And that's a continuation. of the Matthew 18 principle. Okay, so let me just review for you quickly the entire lecture. Number one, how should we approach this book? As a help and not as a substitute for Christian wisdom. Number two, what is our basic orientation toward life? Anyone Dominion. Very good. Dominion, that's right. Are we also to have dominion over our conflict? Alright, and What is the main concept that we were using in the book to express that rhymes with rural rep? Stewardship. Stewardship. Okay, very good. And then what are the three uh main ways in which a person may approach conflict. Okay, very good. And then the dominion, this the proper stewardship is largely located in the center category in the peacemaking responses. So now you in that center category with just the ones that they listed, which is a comp which is is a compression of real life. But overlooking an offense, reconciliation, negotiation, mediation, arbitration, and accountability are now tools that you want in your toolbox or your tool bag in order to have dominion over conflict. I've also asked you where are you on the slope so you were able to do some personal reflection. And we are now at 1030. Cool? Okay. Yes, I can repeat the homework. Very good. So repeating the homework, um if you have the physical book You're to read pages forty-three through fifty-eight and answer the twelve questions at the end. Forty-three through fifty-eight and the twelve questions. And then if you have a Kindle or whatever, then you're reading the section entitled Live at Peace and you're answering the twelve questions at the end. Is that right? Cool. Okay. All right, well I'll pray and then you all can be excused to the narthex and and um be at peace with one another. Okay, let's pray. Lord, you are the Prince of Peace. You have all authority in heaven and earth, and you are exercising dominion over us. You have sent us your spirit, and it is by your spirit that you are conforming us more and more into your image. We thank you. And Father, we thank you that you did not leave us in sin and misery, bound and enslaved to corrupt desires and passions, stabbing each other in the back. But instead you have sent us your son, the great reconciler, who is restoring us We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, for the honor and the glory of your name that we as your church here and all of the churches across the globe would be known As peacemakers. We ask these things in your name. Amen.