Um okay, so those of you who just walked in, know a Sunday school till January after this one. And then we're also taking a guided tour through Pilgrim's Progress in the next Sunday School class, and we're reading the Penguin Classic version. If you if you're thinking in your mind, oh I already read that and I read it like three times in school, just you're gonna get it'll be different. So show up and I think you'll benefit from it. It'll give you the opportunity to think through all kinds of stuff like archetypes and it's gonna be cool. Okay, so then this morning what I would like to do is focus primarily on forgiveness I'm going to begin, however, with a review. Then we'll go into the promises of forgiveness, the two-steps of forgiveness, or a two-step process And then I want to read to you an opening scenario. And then um I'll I I do want to um go over a little bit of the, just pointing out in the booklet the pause principle for negotiation, which is the final section of the book. And then I'll open it up for questions. I'm hoping I'll have about 10 minutes left where if you have certain questions about the entire book, we can try to answer those So let's begin with a review. Last week we really focused in on taking one or two others along And so we eventually looked at Matthew chapter 18, verses 15 and following, which has been known as the Matthew 18 disciplinary process. Before we got to that process, we were looking at the surrounding context to better understand in what spirit is this process given? What are Christ's intentions? in giving this this teaching. And there were a few observations that we were able to make. Is that number one, he was really trying to show us what does it look like to be a serious responsible disciple uh of being a uh one of his followers. What does that look like? And the second thing was, and they gave us the image of a child The second thing was, what does it look like if you end up in leadership by his calling? What does it look like to serve his children well? So what does it look like to be a a disciple of Christ as a leader? And all of us are leaders in one way or another here. And he gives a couple different images. One is he gives the image of a good shepherd that goes out and finds the lost sheep. Another image he gives is someone who knows that they have been forgiven and by that grace forgives other people. Or is looking to forgive Christ's disciples and not destroy them. And when you start to pull those things together, it's We're I was saying that basically the portrayal is where we're looking at when people uh wander off on a path of sin That we go on a rescue mission seeking to restore them to God and to the community by way of confession and forgiveness. That's what we do. And we really go out of our way to do it. And I think that's part of the reason why we see so many different steps in the Matthew 18 process. So don't read the Matthew 18 process as Oh well I only got four steps, you know, no big deal. He really is trying to give you the idea that we need to take our time and work on restoring Now let me ask you a quick question. Why do you think the two the one or the two or more witnesses are given in the second step? They didn't hear you in the first step for whatever reason. Why do you think two or three witnesses are given in the second step based on the spirit or the context of the passage? The intention of the passage is what I mean by spirit, by the way Why two or three witnesses? How does that function within God's economy? Yes. Well, Matthew A is to uh restore fellowship, not to punish someone. Okay. So the purpose is my view to bring in a second witness is so that the um would just say the offender is able to hear things differently through a different presentation, through different eyes, from someone else. that might not be as affected by the situation. Yeah. So prayerfully be able to restore it. Okay, that's great. And so it really goes back to the phrase in the first part, which is let's win them over Let's win them over. And that second part with the two or three witnesses can act that way. And Dwayne said specifically, it could act that way in just being able to hear from a different person. Sometimes we respond better to certain people. Uh any other reason why two or three witnesses is important? Yes. The thing I'm thinking is it could be also protection for the offended one because at some point your emotions might start becoming escalated. And so having another person there I think is also somewhat calming because you are in front of a brother or sister. Yeah, that definitely is a very practical way to view it. It certainly happens that way in real life. Yeah, thank you. Yes. Um perhaps also to be not Okay, yeah. Yeah we're trying to we're trying to get out to what is the truth, right? Not just how we felt about something. Or what we saw, but maybe it didn't happen that way. Alright, I saw one over here before Mike. Was there somebody? Carol. Yeah, so I'm looking at the passage and And that section Jesus is ends with for where two or three are gathered together in my name, I am there in the midst of that. Okay. So Christ is present in the process, and there's actually a promise that com comes along with that, which is beautiful. I find that if there's any time we need Christ, it's during those times. Mike. I don't know if there's any kind of like protection behind it, but to to verify that you said what you said you Yes. You know what I mean? Yep. Yeah, you definitely want to establish it as and it says establish there in the passage that it would be established by two or three. You know what could happen is it's not established. And now that person who thought they were offended has to realize you've been reading this situation wrong the whole time or whatever it is. But those other people that can be there who are also present one way or another can help us to get to the truth of the matter. Yeah, because that's what we want. We want justice. And it looks like he might be quoting Deuteronomy 1915. Oh yeah, he is. Definitely. So it's uh definitely falling into line with how the Jews were to do that Oh yeah. Yep. Yep, Deuteronomy and a bunch of other places too. It's actually quoted throughout the New Testament also. the that section from Deuteronomy on the we could call it the law of evidence or w witnesses, what's required to establish the guilt of someone. Okay, so um that's the Matthew 18 process and its context, and the basic shape was personal and private. Then we're bringing in two or three witnesses. You didn't mention this, but one of the reasons, another way to explain the two or three witnesses is that it works on the conscience a little bit differently. And that's what we're trying to break through to because if a if they truly have been sinning and they're still denying it, there's a hardening or suppression of unrighteous and unrighteousness and the two or three witnesses begins to testify against that suppress suppression and the conscience could break out and re and Admit it finally. And that's the that's the same thing as the shepherd going out and bringing the sheep in Um then we see that uh because the conscience is still hardened, even with two or three witnesses, we're going to need to have a bit more formality and and authority in the church and then it m can move to excommunication. But given the surrounding context, when they move into being a tax collector uh or treat being treated as a tax collector, that's a time for us to be able to deliver the gospel to them, telling them their need of Christ and his forgiveness. In most cases, that's what we'll do, though we do see some cases in the New Testament, especially and the Old, where the person has become so influential in moving the congregation towards evil that they are you're they forbid you to even have dinner with them, basically Uh as is a practical step to keep the the leaven from leavening the whole loaf is how Paul puts it Okay, so now we move into forgiveness. So hopefully your meeting went well in the Matthew 18 process, and the person said, you know what, you're right. I need to confess my sin to you. Let's very quickly open our booklets and just remember, if you have your pamphlets. You should always have your pamphlet on you. Always have your pamphlet on you, no matter where you are. Dwayne has his on his phone. All right, and so what we what you could do, just to remind you, is you would move then into the seven A's of confession You're going to address everyone involved, avoid if button maybe, admit specifically, acknowledge the hurt, accept the consequences, alter your behavior, and ask for forgiveness. Now we've been through that. Then I want you to write right below that there are the four promises of forgiveness. And now these correspond to the larger readings that you did within the book So I hope that there's some real meaning behind these specific sentences, but we'll review a few things. Alright, so number one, based on Matthew 6. 12, 1 Corinthians 13, 5, and Ephesians 4. 32. We have one, two, three, four promises of forgiveness. I will not dwell on this incident. I will not bring this incident up and use it against you. I will not talk to others about this incident. I will not allow this incident to stand between us or hinder our personal relationship. Now, depending on what the circumstance was, or what the sin or the offense was, these promises can be very difficult. I mean very difficult. And It can require you you waking up every morning and making the promise again to carry through with this. It can require it can it can be a situation where you mess it up And you don't keep your promises. And you need to repent. And you and you need to repent because you're not walking in forgiveness like you said you were going to And you need to look back at what is going on to where you're you're not able to do this And that can require um help from others, and of course, all of that in Christ's hands by the way of his spirit. Now, uh, I do want to look at this as realistically as possible. You see those promises of forgiveness, and there's a lot of questions that arise when we start to to look at these four promises. That's one thing. There's a lot of questions, and I think we can start to address those questions if we look at Ken Sandy's teaching on a two-step process of forgiveness. And then number two, I don't sometimes um this is a not this is not abnormal for someone to tell me that they have forgiven But then when we look at what real forgiveness looks like, they they're still hedging their bets. They didn't really. They didn't go all the way. And so I want to look at the opening scenario in the book, the story that he gives, so that you can see a good picture of what that looks like. So let's begin on page 210 of the Peacemaker. And I just want to read this to you and to remind you of it in terms of the two-step process. Now this is put so well that I'm just gonna go ahead and and uh read this for you. What chapter is this Uh page n uh number two ten and then it's in part four, go and be reconciled. Chapter ten. And what more of that? Is that chapter ten? Yeah, chapter ten. Thanks is that uh for Kindle readers? Yeah, okay. Oh okay. So it's in ten. And then um Did I choose I didn't choose the wrong one, did I? The two step process. Yeah, so it's it's under it's in chapter ten under the subtitle When Should You Forgive? Does everybody see that? Okay, so let me go ahead and Brad, you got that okay? Ten. Yeah, you got it? Okay, cool. You're welcome. Okay. When should you forgive? Ideally, repentance should precede forgiveness. And then they quote Luke 17. 3. So let's take a look at that. Alrighty. I'll start at verse number one. Then he said to the disciples, It is impossible that no offenses should come, but woe to him through whom they do come. It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea than that he should offend one of these little ones. Take heed to yourself. If your brother sins against you, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him And if he sins against you seven times in a day, and seven times in a day returns to you saying, I repent, you shall forgive him. Okay, so there's a d there's a repetition there of there being repentance as a part of the picture. Alrighty So that's why he quotes Luke 17. 3, as you can see. So let me keep going. As we saw in chapter 4, however, minor offenses may be overlooked and put away even if the offender has not expressly repented. Your spontaneous forgiveness in these cases can put the matter behind you and save you and the other person from needless controversy. Now what scripture verse would you use to Say to your conscience, I should overlook an offense. Turn another cheek. Okay, maybe turn the other cheek. Stephen said that. Yes. Uh good morning. shows that it's valuable if you can overlook other people's offenses as opposed to always bringing something up. Okay. Yeah, no, that's good. Okay, yep. Uh got as God has forgiven you, so too you should forgive others. Okay. Any other ones? Uh Barbara and then Austin? Proverbs to a man's glory to overlook an offense. Yeah, it's to a man's glory to overlook an offense. And love over and then Austin? last week is first Corinthians six six or seven. Uh why not rather separate Yeah, why not suffer wrong would be another one. And specifically the proverb one, if you look at that proverb one, it is two uh it is two Uh oh. It is let's just put it this way. There's a i is to the person's high esteem To overlook offenses. A person is valuable, the kind of person who can overlook offenses is extremely valuable to the community How about that? It's something along those lines if you look at the context. Because they're interested in healing the community and not always bringing up grievances because they're extra sensitive about everything. Do you know anybody in your life that's extra sensitive about everything and therefore it really hey well you're not yeah We all do. You raised your hand for all of us. Matthew 1014. What say that again? Matthew Divarteen. Do you have that in front of you? I do. I'm Jesse. Hi, it's nice to meet you. Thank you. I'm I'm going through a lad So Matthew six fourteen for if you forgive others their trespasses, is it not? No, this is good. Yeah, so it puts a real premium on the kind of person who is able to forgive and overlook offenses. They're a real valuable member of the community who's looking to heal as opposed to always trying to get Right, so it's better to g to give than to receive. Okay, so I think we have that picture. So then um And that's that first scenario that he gives to us, instead of having needless controversy all of the time, we're able to overlook. Well you can't overlook everything Right, there's some things you gotta talk about. So that's the next paragraph. When an offense is too serious to overlook and the offender has not yet repented You may need to approach forgiveness as a two-stage process. I knew it said two-stage process. I found it. Alright. I have not lost my mind The first stage requires having an attitude of forgiveness, and the second, granting forgiveness. That's r I really like this distinction. This is a real practical way to walk through life. That's what he's focused on is how should we walk through life Having an attitude of forgiveness is unconditional, and it is a commitment you make to God. And you can take a look at those scriptures By his grace, you seek to maintain a loving and merciful attitude towards someone who has offended you. And this requires making and living out the first promise of forgiveness Which means you will not dwell on the hurtful incident or seek vengeance or retribution in thought, word, or action. Instead, you pray for the other person and you stand ready at any moment to pursue complete reconciliation as soon as he or she repents. This attitude will protect you. This is very important here. He's speaking from experience. This attitude will protect you from bitterness and resentment. Even if the other person takes a long time to repent. If you let the bitterness and the resentment take hold, It will be very difficult to come to any kind of reconciliation. And you granting the promises of forgiveness, the probability of that becomes lower and lower and lower the more you let this monster or dragon inside of you get really, really big and destroy you, you will become, you'll be overtaken by a spirit that is more like Cain and not like Christ. Got that? Yes, ma'am. Um I don't know what we use up to that I love it and that I know this is of that wasn't here. Um and Raquel's gonna give me the photo. Um I'll work. I have extra copies too, Raquel. Okay. I would love to talk to you afterwards, but we um for work where you have to make a um a living for yourself and you're surrounded by possibilities and hostility. The bitter the resentment of these trades. When you stay a place too long in that sense you what do you do? Did you quit your job? It really it really um I'm sorry you had those experiences number one. And number two, I was can we talk afterwards? Yeah, because I'd like to hear more about what you're thinking and I think I can I want to be as useful to you as possible So we can talk afterwards. And we have coffee out there and that kind of stuff. And they can be great So we have water. Well thanks for sharing that. Yeah it's uh a lot of people have the same experiences. So thank you for sharing that. Um All right, very good. And I'm not the only one that you can talk to too. There's a lot of really cool people here I really like. Okay, so um we want to have that attitude of forgiveness and you can see some of the practical reasons why you would want to approach it that way. But notice that it's an attitude of forgiveness, that we haven't moved into all of the promises of forgiveness because at this point the person hasn't repented. So we can't move forward in the relationship like that because the although we have removed the log from our own eye, they've still got the splinter in theirs and they're not willing to address it, which means that the thing that had cause the problem, the relationship is still present. There can't be how you're supposed to work around that. They can't see correctly So we need to be patient with that, however, and not allow the dragon to grow. Yes. Okay, so then we move into the next part here in this next paragraph. Granting forgiveness is conditional on the repentance of the offender and takes place between you and that person. Luke 17, 3 through 4. It is a commitment to make the other three promises of forgiveness to the offender When there has been a serious offense, it would not be appropriate to make these promises until the offender has repented Until then, you may need to talk with the offender about his sin or seek the involvement of others to resolve the matter You could not do this if you had already made the last three promises. But once the other person repents, you can make these promises Closing the matter forever, the same way God forgives you. Both stages of forgiveness were vividly demonstrated by God. This is the most important part It just occurs to me within my own heart, and then I want when I watch your heart is we sometimes don't give God full credit for what He has done, the kind of forgiveness he has given And then like last week's sermon, he's saying, Imitate me in how I forgive. Now listen, folks, that is a very serious calling. To imitate him in how he forgives, that's, I mean, he's a forgiver. You know, he knows all your private stuff you did too. And that and that you still do. So and he forgives you. So and he doesn't bring it up in your face all the time. Okay, so when Christ died on the cross, he maintained an attitude of love and mercy toward those who put him to death. Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. Luke 23 34. At Pentecost, the Father's answer to Jesus' prayer was revealed 3,000 people heard the Apostle Peter's Pentecost message and were cut to the heart when they realized they had crucified the Son of God. Now has it dawned on any of you that the very people that crucified him were the very people that received the first gospel message? Of forgiveness? I mean can you imagine somebody doing that to you and then you figuring out a way to make sure they're receiving forgiveness? That's a pretty high calling So, as they repented of their sin, forgiveness was completed, and they were fully reconciled to God. And that's another really important piece of evidence that repentance precedes. If you look at Peter's sermon in Acts chapter 2, 36 through 41, you don't see Peter saying, well, you're just forgiven. He says, repent. And believe. And this was after they were already cut to the heart. So you're seeing this is how it works. This is how the Spirit works. This is exactly the pattern you should follow from Ephesians 4. 32, forgiving each other just as in Christ God forgave you. Man, that is a high calling. So to get that across, Sandy opens up this whole section with a story That I believe is a beautiful picture of what real forgiveness looks like. And I'm telling you, this is going to be serious for you. And it's serious for me. So let me go ahead and read it And now I'm on page 204, which is the first page of chapter 10, and it's titled, Forgive as God Forgave You, and there's a verse at the top, Colossians 3. 13. Does everybody see that? 204, first page of chapter 10. Okay? So Colossians 3. 13. Bear with each other and forgive whatever grievances you may have against one another. Forgive as the Lord forgave you. Christians are the most forgiven people in the world. Doesn't say they're the most forgiving. It says it's their most forgiven. They're the most forgiven people in the world. Therefore, we should be the most forgiving people in the world. As most of us know from experience, however, it is often difficult to forgive others genuinely and completely. We often find ourselves practicing a form of forgiveness That is neither biblical nor healing. Perhaps you have said or thought the same thing Rick said to his wife. Now here's the scenario. I forgive you. I just can't be close to you again. Think of this statement in light of the prayer you have prayed many times. Forgive us our debts as we have forgiven our debtors. What would happen if God forgave you in exactly the same way you are forgiving others at this time? If I were you, I would write that down on a piece of paper. When you're checking your heart on whether you're forgiving and really working through that process, it's not an event, it's a process, you could ask yourself that question What would happen if God forgave you in exactly the same way you were forgiving others at this time? To put it another way, how should you feel if you had just confessed a sin to the Lord And he responded, I forgive you, but I can't be close to you again. Like Rick, you probably would not feel forgiven. That's a great example. That's a great way for you to check your own heart. Now I want to jump back two pages and let's look a little bit more in depth at Rick. So this is page 201. Since we all have different what's the heading line? Yeah, I'm getting ready to give that. 201, part four, go and be reconciled. It's literally the part four. It's that first page. How can I demonstrate the forgiveness of God and encourage a reasonable solution to this conflict? Does everybody see that? First go and be reconciled to your brother, then come and offer your gift. Matthew 5, 24. Okay. Now here's the story. I just can't forgive Pam's adultery, Rick said. She says she's sorry and she's begged for forgiveness, but I can't forget what she did. It's like a huge wall between us and I can't get through it. So you think divorce is the answer? I asked. I don't know what else to do. I told her that I forgive her, but I just can't be close to her again. She's depressed and has withdrawn even further from me. I'm afraid she's gone to look for intimacy with someone else again. We're both in agony, and it seems like we'd be better off divorced. I could see the weariness in his face. I'm sure both of you are in terrible pain, Rick, but I don't think divorce is going to end it. You'll just trade one kind of pain for another There is a way to keep your marriage together and to truly put the past behind you, but you won't find it with the empty forgiveness that you have offered Pam. What do you mean? Empty forgiveness? Rick, imagine that you had just confessed a serious sin to God, and for the first time in your life he spoke to you audibly. I forgive you, Rick, but I can't ever be close to you again. How would you feel? After an awkward pause, he replied, I guess I'd feel like God hadn't really forgiven me. But isn't that exactly the way you are forgiving Pam? I asked. Rick looked at the floor, wrestling for an answer. In a softer voice, I continued, imagine instead that God said, Rick, I forgive you. I promise never to think about your sin again, or to dwell on it, or to brood over it. I promise never to bring it up and to use it against you. I promise not to talk to others about it, and I promise not to let this sin stand between us or hinder our relationship. After a long silence, tears began to fill Rick's eyes. I would know I was completely forgiven. But I wouldn't deserve that kind of forgiveness after the way I've treated Pam. Would you ever deserve it? I asked. God's forgiveness is a free gift purchased for you by Jesus' death on the cross. He doesn't forgive you because you've earned it. He forgives you because he loves you. When you truly understand how precious and undeserved his forgiveness is, you will want to forgive Pam the same way he has forgiven you I know I should, but how could I ever keep those promises? I can't imagine forgetting what Pam did, and I just don't feel like I could ever be close to her again Hold on, Rick. Where in the Bible does it say that forgiveness is forgetting? Or that it depends on feelings? Forgiveness is a choice, a decision you make by God's grace in spite of your feelings. Of course it's hard, especially in a case like this. But if you ask for God's help as you make those promises to Pam, He will give you the grace to follow through on them. We talked another 30 minutes about God's forgiveness. As Rick reflected on how much God had forgiven him, he discovered a longing to do the same with Pam. We prayed together, and then I called Pam and asked her to join us at my office. When she came in, doubt and fear were written all over her face. As soon as she had sat down, Rick began, Pam, I need to ask for your forgiveness. I have sinned so terribly against you. You asked me to forgive you, and I wouldn't give you real forgiveness. Instead, I have punished you with my bitterness and coldness. I have been so wrong. Will you please forgive me? Pam dissolved in tears. In between sobs, she poured out her own feelings of guilt and shame, along with her fear that Rick could never really forget what she had done. Reaching out to take her hand, Rick responded I can understand your fear. I haven't handled this the way I should. I forgot how much God has forgiven me. But He has helped me today, and I want to forgive you the way He has forgiven me. With his help, I promise not to dwell on this anymore. I promise not to bring it up and use it against you. I promise not to talk to others about it. And I promise not to let it stand between us. Rick wrapped his arms around Pam and they cried together for several minutes. By offering her the redeeming forgiveness modeled by our Lord, Rick had brought life and hope back into their marriage. Although they would spend many hours of pastoral counseling to address the root causes of their marital problems, forgiveness had cleared a path through the rubble of the past. By God's grace, they can now deal with those problems in a way that could result in a completely restored marriage and a powerful testimony to the reconciling power of Jesus Christ. I think that captures the whole thing very well, and I have seen that happen several times in mediation. That is beautiful when real forgiveness is actually given. But I'll tell you that most of the time it's not not most of the time, but sometimes it's not. So this is a good opportunity for us to take this chapter and especially this story. I would just encourage you to keep reading the story and use it as a mirror to show you your own life and how you're working with people. Have you essentially said to them, uh I forgive you, but we could never be close again. And then can you imagine God giving you that kind of forgiveness? It would be worthless. That would be worthless. So yes, Christina. Um So let the questions begin. Well, so there are certain sins for which the pastor is disqualified for minister. Yes. His relationship to the church changes irrevocably because of that sin, regardless of his act of repentance. And his standing before God does not change because of his repentance, but how he interacts with the church in the ministry, there's a a change in the relationship that he has in the church. Uh there can be, yeah. Yeah. For certain things You know, that's the way God has worked it. Or when someone is under church discipline, the minute they repent, that doesn't mean they're immediately, if they're excommunicated, they come back to the pain Like right then. There are processes and changes to the relationship that people have with the church and in some ways God, even though they're standing before Him as just Justified does not change. Uh-huh. That seems how so when we say, well, God has forgiven us we need to forgive others. How but those examples seem to be examples of Forgiveness, but the fact that the issue is there is still acknowledged. When you say I'm never gonna I'm never gonna bring this up against you. I'm not gonna dwell on it. I'm not gonna talk on other people. That's not always how the relationship between God and sinners So is that always what complete forgiveness is always supposed to look like? That doesn't seem to follow them. Okay. So that's not always what forgiveness looks like. Mm-hmm. What he's done as a good teacher is he's given you a case that is clear to understand the principle. Okay. He has not given you something complicated. But he does a little bit later in the chapter, and then he brings up specific moments when you need to bring the sin up again and talk about it and think about it. So I think that's important to remember that as a teacher you're oftentimes making things simpler than they actually are in reality for us to just be able to start thinking about something or to introduce a concept. And then throughout life, however, with the Spirit working on you and making you wise, you start to learn how to take those basic things. I don't ever think you leave the basics. Take those basic things and see how they fit with more complicated issues. So when we were doing the law before, we would complicate it, right? And he's just not complicating it now. But he does a little bit later. Does that now that that just tells you the framework in which I think he's working and that he's not ignorant Sure. That there's a lot of different ethical decisions that need to be made to where we're going to make qualifiers on these promises. Does that make sense? In certain circumstances, I will need to bring up this sin again. Yeah. Like let me give you an example with Rick. What if he's saying, you know Pam what's her name Pam? Pam. It's been six months. We've we're we just enjoyed a lot of great time together in Bermuda and watching birds. This is the best Armarias has ever been. For whatever reason The last three days I've really been struggling with remembering our past. I don't want to bring it up against you. I just want you to pray for me Or something along those. If they have that kind of relationship, he's bringing it up again. But it's different. He's not really breaking the promise there Mm-hmm. Are you just wanting to think about the anomalies? Well, I think it feels like it's not anomalies, it's actually much more of what it's really like. Okay. And so those four rules I understand what they're asking I understand it as a good pattern, especially for really simple, smaller, everyday things, but we do experience bigger things all the time. Okay. And it just feels I don't know. So which of the promises would you not make? Well Which one do you want to take away? Would you like to talk to others about it? Yeah, sometimes. Yeah, but in the way that he means in the sentence? Is he always talking about these are I will not do these things Okay, so that is the that is the context of not doing Definitely. Okay. Yeah. That felt good. Okay. We made it. It was good it was like two paths we could have gone down. Yeah, very good. Yes. I appreciate that though because you read books like this and I'm the same way as you. I'm like, well wait I'm like thinking of every situation. I'm like wait, it doesn't fit. Uh but when we get the right context, I think it does. And that's it's the same thing when people well w when folks will come in and talk with me as a pastor, they'll be afraid to talk about other people because they don't want to gossip. And then I have to make clear to them, you're not gossiping, you're trying to tell me what's going on with you, and there's other people involved. So you gotta talk about it. Gossip is different. Gossip is you talking about another person in order to destroy them. And that's not what's happening here in this office. I'm not gonna let you do that. Right. So I think the context is really em for how we frame it. So I'm really glad you asked it, because I guarantee everybody else here has the same kind of question. You're the you're their um tuning for it. Oh I didn't want to say not bringing these up again uh is different And i the scenario that you gave was he talked to her and said, Hey, I I've been really feeling this way yet. Mm-hmm. He might. Yeah, but go I think it would be better for him to go to a big accountability person for his pastor and bring it up again. But he's not bringing it up to gossip. Right. He's bringing it up to work through these things, these things that he's feeling. to say, hey, help help me see through this. I've got to get through this. Or him bring it up to her. Yeah. Because you know, trying to use it use her as a sounding word, um Yes, that's correct. You have to be not doing it. Yeah. Not bringing it up again to be hurtful. in cost of but it's different you know to go to a pastor or your accountability person or maybe in your case to the back to her. And the e and the evidence for that are the scripture verses that he cites. If you look at the scripture verses, that'll give you more context as to what is the intention, what is he trying to accomplish here, and that'll give you the appropriate qualifications so that you're not blindly following something. Um I think actually hold on Christina. Jen, I think you were first. Did I miss somebody else? Cheryl, did you have your hand raised first? Okay, Cheryl, then Jen, and then Christina. I said your name correctly, by the way. I'm working. Um kind of piggybacking off of what Christ Christina was talking about there is a clear distinction When an offense has happened of fellowship and broken fellowship. And it has been brought to my attention that It is important to me that when repentance has happened, confession has happened, and forgiveness has been act I instinctively very quickly can move to when things have been done, I will grant forget Fellowship is restored and that channel of like being able to show one another love, peace, right? Different feelings And and I don't mean like necessarily emotions of fellowship and broken fellowship. And so when we have done the work to restore fellowship, I want to make sure it is clear And it is fell. Fellowship is best. But it's been brought to my attention that um You can do that so quickly that sometimes it can teach the other person that they're uh almost trivialized the offense. That it almost removes the weight of the offense. And I don't I don't know how to I don't know how to be wiser in that 'cause I think, well, it it would sear my conscience to behave toward that person in a way where fellowship isn't restored. Be because I think of how the Lord grants us forgiveness. So I don't know if you can speak And I thought of it when Christine was talking about it, like there are actually situations where that work has been done, but there is something different moving forward in a relationship Yeah. And so I think Let me try to repeat what you said just so everybody can hear. Cheryl was saying that Uh if we are following the way that normal relationships go, there can be a break in fellowship, but then if there is confession, uh level of repentance And then the granting of the forgiveness, you can move from a broken fellowship to a restored fellowship in that they both have a very different feeling. But someone recently or in the near past has brought to her attention that we have to be careful about how quickly we go rushing back in to restoring fellowship as if nothing ever happened Because there can be different consequences that are negative, like trivializing the offense and enabling people, or something along those lines. And I think that's insightful. Whoever said that to you has real experience. in trying to walk with Christ. My husband. Oh, okay. Yes, uh um and that and Sandy brings that up under the concept of uh um we don't forget Right. And when an offense has taken place, there does need to be forgiveness given, but depending on the l kind of offense, the relationship could have be changed forever And never go back to the way it was, though you could be in fine fellowship insofar as the level of fellowship you're gonna be allowed to be in at this particular time. Take a obvious example, and let's say that um Well, I don't want to give an obvious example. Let me keep going. And then I'll give some examples later. And I think that that the answer to all of that is really going to be Christian wisdom. on what does it look like for us to relate to each other now, though all the ways I'm relating, is undergirded by the forgiveness that I have granted. So I still don't bring those things up and punish you and throw those things in your face But until I see that you're not going to bite again, there's going to be some patience here. We're going to see that a foundation is laid to where I can then move into a relationship with you with a person that I could trust. If you just in normal human relationships, do you just go running headlong? Let's say they've never offended you. But let's just say they're crazy and they're not trustworthy. Do you just go running headlong into the to the relationship and you trust them with everything and they're gonna be there to pick your kids up at school even though They can not drive five miles without a DUI. You know, it's like, no, hey, I love you, even when you get a DUI, and you didn't offend me exactly, so I don't have any forgiveness to offer you But you're not picking up my kids. You know? Not until I see like, I don't know, few years of sobriety under your belt and then we can talk. Have you have are you are you not kind or compassionate or loving in that relationship? I think you are. I think you're just relating to the person insofar as they're you're allowed to relate. The Proverbs talk about different people Um choose different things in life, and based on their choices, you're forced to relate to them in certain ways in order to be wise. Some people choose to be like porcupines And you can never get that close to them. You can't ever really I mean you're always going to kind of be at a distance. The proverb that that proverbial situation that that talked about was a person who becomes consumed with envy They see that you gain something, they're never happy for you. They're just angry that you get things that they don't get. They don't even want the things. They just don't want you to have more than they have And that ends up being like these spines that go out and you can't ever like ah one it's so bad for us to be good friends, but you won't let me get there because of your quilts with uh not having envy under control. And you're kind of stuck on the outer orbit there, even though there's nothing between you two. You have you're not won't have exactly broken fellowship Though the fellowship isn't perfect because of who they are. Does that start to answer? It's another way of me saying it's case by case again, and that's another way of me saying Christian wisdom needs to be in effect Um I think that there are scenarios where you can offer forgiveness to somebody and never talk to them again. These yeah, these scenarios aren't that serious. Yeah, I know, but I'm just letting you know there are certain situations where I would vi advise because of what somebody has done to somebody else I'd say, let's work on granting forgiveness, especially before God, having a clear conscience about it, but I don't want you talking to him ever again. Because they eat that person is a is a dragon and they and they they it just the dragon keeps popping up and it eats them alive. So you you gotta have the put the pause button on certain there's j there really are evil people in the world. Yeah. Did I hear a bell? Okay. Well we got two we got two questions. I didn't get to Jen. Jen, I'm sorry. Okay. I think you kinda It's r and the way I'm putting it is that it's r it's restored as far as it can be. And it's not a matter of like I haven't forgiven you as God forgave me. I mean you probably haven't because we're sinners. But insofar as you're able, you've given the forgiveness. that you can, but there's still something going on with the person where you can't just relate to them like they're anybody. You do have to know who a person is and that changes how you relate to them. Right? Isn't that like common sense? Okay. And and the only other thing is like sometimes that person may never repent. They may but you can still stand. And that's a that's an attitude of forgiveness to where you're not consumed by the dragon of bitterness. But you still they haven't repented, so be between you and God. And that's between you and God. Yeah. Oh you know, and so you know, sometimes you're Other times you can fire them. I'm just letting there's a lot of tools in the t in the bag across all of the scriptures. Look at the different tools. And and study, like we did last week, study the characters that God commends. How did they walk through their life? Look at Abigail. That woman was awesome. She was awesome. And JL. I mean she throws I like her. She's cool. She's she's like been I've had her as like a poster on what I'm trying to do with my daughters All right, let's end there before I get in trouble. I just need them to know when to take charge and drive a metaphorical stake through somebody's telephone. It can't be Victorian wastes. Got it. Okay. Heavenly Father, we do thank you that your spirit is with us and we don't just have to figure these things out on our own. We know, Christ, that as our King, you are ruling over us and you're showing us the right paths to take and what it looks like to become more and more mature. I pray for your congregation, therefore, that you would make them mature over time and by the ministry of your Spirit and speaking into each other's lives, that you'd make them mature peacemakers. Lord, it is the ultimate task, and they are called your children who are peacemakers. And I pray these things for your people, and I pray that you would now lead us in worship. Amen.