Stand for the reading of God's Word if you're able. And this morning I'll read to you Lamentations chapter 3, 25 through 36, as a continuation of our work through Lamentations from last week. Please follow along. The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him. It is good that one should hope and wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. It is good for a man to bear the yoke in his youth. Let him sit alone and keep silent because God has laid it on him Let him put his mouth in the dust, there may yet be hope. Let him give his cheek to the one who strikes him and be full of reproach. For the Lord will not cast off forever, though he causes grief, yet he will show compassion according to the multitude of his mercies. For he does not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men To crush under one's feet all the prisoners of the earth, to turn aside the justice due to a man before the face of the Most High? Or subvert a man in his cause? The Lord does not approve Let's pray. Lord, the most gracious thing that you can do for us is to reveal yourself. To give us faith to receive you. And we ask that from this both hope and peace would result. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Last week we began our Advent season with Christian Hope. The Lamentations passage, just as Jesus said it would, led us from the shadow of the man that you see in Lamentations uh the man. It led us from that man to Jesus Christ as the man, moving from shadow to reality But there were particularities communicated in our movement. The Spirit led us to what the incarnate one said on the cross. Wherein we could see a picture of hope and not just hear the words. Jesus cried out with a loud voice, and he said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit And having said this, he breathed his last. In Lamentations, there are words of hope in contrast to a surrounding sea of darkness. But it is still but a shadow. We move into the same, but in the reality, by seeing Christ the man, the light of the world. Surrounded by the shadows and the darkness of what brought him to the cross. And as we see him placarded before us, what is revealed is the man Revealing Christian hope to all men, meaning humans. Now this week we move from hope to peace. It will be peace that is before us. And to see peace, I ask that we continue to look at Christ on the cross. I want us to think further of Christ's response on the cross and his response leading to the cross. Oftentimes, when we think of Christ on the cross, we think of our sin, we think of our guilt. We think of our justification, and of course there's no shame in that, but there is so much more to see than just those three things. There is a whole world to see in Christ as the man crucified and resurrected and ascended. It could be endless just considering him. I want you to think of his responses on the cross and before. Before the cross, we see Christ grieving in contemplation of the terror of the cross. We see him sweating blood in the Garden of Gethsemane. We see true anguish, perhaps the anguish in a sense of the whole world. We And yet, once the hour had come, even in the garden, he rose and rebuked one of his disciples for chopping at one of the soldiers. And he acted in a kind of peaceful confidence with the soldiers and a peaceful resolve in the path that is laid before him to walk, the path that led to the cross. When he was on trial, did the peace and the resolve stop? Christ did not desperately claw with anxiety. He did not plead his case before men. He did not, to use the words of the Spirit from those passages, call down multitudes of angels. Though he could have with just a word. Instead, the Spirit records this from Peter. For to this you were called because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow his steps. Who committed no sin, nor was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but he committed himself to him who judges righteously. It is a peek into the reality of the Christ. In his agony, how he can still have a peaceful resolve that we see in the presence of him before the cross, during the cross. Surely anguish was present in the crucifixion. There's no sense in making Christ two-dimensional and denying suffering. It doesn't bear out. It's not the truth But nevertheless, in the face of the anguish, in the face of Christ, is still a kind of holy contentment, a peaceful resignation to the Father's will. And we all want to know how in the world can we have that kind of peace? The question that naturally arises for us is: how did Christ hope in such a way to where he would have such a peaceful resolve and still not neglect the seriousness of human suffering? While Christ was waiting for hope fulfilled, how did he wait in peace instead of anxiety? What does the one who took on flesh have to teach us about this? This is the question that I want to pose to the cross. It's the one I want to pose to Christ in his ascension. And I believe he answers us in his ascension by teaching us through his word by his spirit in this passage the answer to that. What does the one who took on flesh have to teach us about having peace while we wait for our salvation? Well, I want to make a couple observations first about this passage just so that we can become oriented. I want you to notice first in your Bibles, verses 25 through 27. I want you to notice that the passage is speaking about the kind of peace that we do see in Christ. In verses 25 through 27, notice that there is a repetition of the word good. Did you notice that before I mentioned it to you? Good, good, good. It is good, it is good, it is good. And in that repetition of the word good, we discovered that because God is good, it is good for us to wait quietly and peacefully for the salvation of the Lord. And we see this pictured in the Christ. as he waits for his salvation in his resurrection and his ascension. You see, this is but a shadow leading us. To that ultimate moment. That's the first thing I want you to see. I want you to see that this picture gives us a shadow of what we see in the reality of Christ waiting for salvation. And it helps us to understand. Why would he have such a peaceful resolve. But I want you to notice something second also in verses 30 through 36, and that is something most exciting. In 30 through 36, we gain an inside look into how Christ hoped in peace. The Spirit reveals to us by way of a wise sage what one must do while they wait in hope for salvation. To have peace of heart, to hold their peace, to put it in a way that we understand. And what I want to do really this morning is just look at 30 through 36 with selections and ask. In the midst of a cursed world, in the midst of a God who disciplines his people, in the midst of that kind of misery, how do we wait in blessedness? How do we wait for our salvation in quietness? In other words, how do we wait in peace? You could pose the question in another way, what does hope look like? What does hope look like without neglecting the reality of misery? Well, there's a few answers here, and let's just go through them. The first answer is in verse 28, and it is the answer that sets the stage for all of the other answers. If you get this wrong, you can't have any of the other answers. This is the gateway by which you would enter into any other answer, and this is what it says. Let him sit alone and keep silent, because God has laid it on him Now, I want you to think about that. He's talking about all of those things. If you've had the opportunity to read through Lamentation, all of those things that have been laid on them, he's saying, God has laid these things on you. Now, notice that the warrior, the man of valor, the Gever, has turned into a kind of wise sage. He's no longer wailing or seeking some kind of solace. Here he's moved into giving instruction. Out of the suffering there has been born wisdom because the Spirit has been working with him And he seeks to offer you instruction here. And the very first thing, the insight into reality that we must grasp is that God has laid it on you. That's the first instruction to never forget is that God is the one who permits the hardship to cover his people. The people of Lamentations were trying to understand their misery just like people do. This is an extreme situation that you've never faced. You have not faced what these people faced. But you have faced a kind of thing like these people, and it falls under misery. Don't you, when you are miserable, try to find some kind of explanation as to why it's happening. Maybe not at first. Maybe you think you can just Bear it. But what happens when it becomes unbearable due to the duration of time or the intensity of it? Or one thing on top of the other? Well, they're the same way. They want to be able to understand their misery. And so they look for something to focus on. But the interesting thing about people is that we only can focus on one thing at a time. Have you thought about that? I mean you could do a little experiment because this works with the mind too, is you can hold your hand out in front of your face And if you look at your hand, if you were up here looking through my eyes and focusing on my hand, you would realize that the piano brad, and I think that's Miss Dorfel. Yep, it is. Marilyn Dorfell They're blurry to me, and only this is in focus. And now when I look to Brad, my hand is blurred. And the same thing happens with us in our the way that we perceive life. You focus on one thing at a time. When they focused on things, when they were trying to make sense of their misery, maybe they focused on their leaders. Maybe they said, It is because of our leaders that we are experiencing these kind of things. Have you ever said something like that? Has that been your focus? Maybe they said it's our forefathers. If they had not been the way that they were, we wouldn't have inherited the stuff that we've inherited today. And I've heard us say similar things. I didn't say this, but I have heard people say that we've inherited all the stuff of the boomers. I never said that. Don't jump me afterward, boomers. I know you still have a lot of strength in you Maybe they were focused on a foreign nation. Maybe that was going to help them to make sense of their misery and to be able to go forward in hope. Maybe they focused on things like the weather or the land or whatever it is. You see the point though is that you can only focus on one thing at a time and it actually makes a difference what you're focusing on Which is why the sage, going through it all, perhaps having focused on all of those different things, arises with the final thing that should be focused on, and that is God Himself, and he says Forget about all those other people for a moment. Let them move into the blur and recognize there's one person that should be on your mind because it's God Himself that has laid this on you And that is so important. He's not asking them to forget about the nations or the weather or the lands. They're still there. It's a reality. Suffering doesn't evaporate. People hold responsibility for what they do. But God is saying at this moment, if you want to wait in true hope, you need to focus on me and recognize I laid this on you. We must take upon our shoulders the burden of this kind of existence and go right to the top and recognize who the ultimate cause is. God has laid this on me. Maybe at other times the sage will encourage the people to see how they laid this on themselves. Actually, he does. Later, he will also show that it was incompetent and irresponsible leaders that are partially the cause. He will also talk about the injustices of foreign nations. But in this moment of seeking quietness and contentment, they and we must remember that God is the cause He is the one that lays it on us. I want you to think about your current misery. And you have to think about this in a very particular way. We don't want to overstep the book of Lamentations. The unpleasantness. Unpleasantness present here is them facing an act of discipline of the Lord because of their sin. Now we've gone through Deuteronomy together. Is there a way in which you are being disciplined? That is something you have to answer. I have answered that for myself when I put on my mask, when I I can't see my family. I do see this as an act of discipline. I'm not saying that for you, I'm saying it for myself, because there is so much that has been revealed to me during this time of the vi the virus. My ignorance and my laziness and my sin. And I take each time as a rebuke from the Lord. And what about you? I just wonder when you do, if you feel the unpleasantness, if you believe that it is a kind of discipline, where is your focus? And what's in the blur? Is your focus on your family? Is your focus on your friends? Is your focus on your government? Is your focus on local government? How many people have said, Stuart Pittman, I can't believe you laid this on me And I'm not asking you to negate that. I'm not trying to get you to say the opposite, whoever the person is. I'm just saying the focus is something different here in the passage. Have the boldness to say, no, God, you put this on me, if it's in fact an act of discipline. Because that's what he's asking us to do, to take this first step. God, you laid this on me. Forget all the others And now we are prepared when we do that to start moving forward where our soul can move into a kind of stillness. It doesn't move into chaos, it moves into a kind of stillness. And so I direct your attention to the next set of verses, which is 31 through 32. You can think of this as a kind of stair-step reaching to insight and illumination. 31 through 32. Here we begin to see the real difference of the perspective. If it is God and not human beings, this is what we get to say. For the Lord will not cast off forever, though he causes grief, yet he will show compassion according to the multitude of his mercies. You cannot say that if you make the cause anything or anybody else. That is what is so key to this. Think about how important this was originally. What were they to do? How were they to reason if the people of Lamentations thought that a pagan nation Or any human government laid it on them ultimately, then what hope would they have? They would be tossed to and fro, back and forth like wind and waves on the spontaneous decision-making of human beings, of how a person felt that morning Will those pagans have mercy? Will they finally end the pain? Will their own leaders and their government come to their senses? But here's the difference. If it is the Lord who lays it on you, think about who he is. That's really what's going on here. It's an exercise of faith going deeper. Earlier, when we were talking about hope, we said we can have hope because we turn and we recognize that it is the Lord. In whom we must have hope. His mercies are new every morning. Well, here we get to go deeper and we get to ask the question, okay, well then who is the Lord? Well, we're learning that He is the one that has laid it on us. He does cause grief, but He's compassionate and merciful, and this will not last forever. He is the same as he was yesterday and today and tomorrow. And all of these things by faith we get to count on. And it helps our souls to be still. That we recognize who is the one bringing these things into our lives. It's the one who is supremely competent to do so. It is the one who is supremely compassionate to do so. It is the one who is merciful. If you were to question his motives and his intentions, If you were to put him before the highest court in the land with a thousand interrogations and cross arguments, you would find that in the end, God's heart Is pure in everything that He does for you. And we get to count on that. And that helps us to move into a kind of stillness. That's what he's saying here. God does cause grief, but he knows when to enter back in with compassion according to the multitude of his mercies Now, I've labored on that point a little bit with some enthusiasm. I feel enthusiastic. But this is why. Because as we start to move into the next section, Well, in verse 33, where this thought is further developed that we're really relying on the Lord here, which is why we can move into a kind of stillness, this is very difficult for us to accept. For some reason, I bet you the reasons are multiple, and I'd love for you to think about this and then to let me know. But for some reason, Christians tend to think of God when Christians are in pain, when God is not giving them what they want. They tend to think about God as an erratic, relentless, hothead Now they hear from the ancient church that God is love, but they do not know that from experience. God is a God of wrath. God is a God that always holds me accountable. God is one that never lets anything go. God is the one that exercises the full rigor of the law within my life That is who God is to me. And so it becomes very difficult for you in a moment like this to have a still heart because it just looks like you are owned by an abusive father. Now that's difficult. And so I wonder if the author, knowing that about us, knowing that it is the most difficult thing for a human faith to actually believe in God and who he is, that he says he is love. In the face of agony And misery, he still declares that he is a God of love. I wonder if that's why he drops into this next section in 33 and he says this. This is the deepest reality God does not afflict willingly. He does not grieve, nor grieve the children of men. That's it right there. It's as far down as you can go. And I wish that you were a Hebrew congregation. Because if I could read this to you in the Hebrew, if I would have just read that to you in the Hebrew, you would have gasped. There would have been a kind of stillness that would have fallen over you if you could see the words here, because it literally says something like this: God does not afflict or grieve the children of men from his heart. That is not his heart. He does not love to do it Now the author of Hebrews tapped in by the Spirit into this reality. Now I know you've read this passage before, but I hope that you can hear this differently because Before you're focused on your pain when you read the book of Hebrews, here I want you to focus on God. Who is he? Who is God? Who is Christ trying to reveal to you? We have had human fathers who corrected us and we paid them respect. I want you to think of a good human father. Even if you didn't have one, I just still want you to think of a good one. Because that's what's in line here. We have had human fathers who corrected us and we paid them respect. Shall we not much more readily be in subjection to the Father of Spirits and live? For they indeed for a few days chastened us as seemed best to them, but he, God, for our profit, that we may be partakers of his holiness. Now, no chastening seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterwards it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Do you see the vision of the Father? And of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Do you see who God is in this? Is he an erratic father who loses control in his passion because of what you have done? And then he lashes out at you, and then there's the honeymoon period with an abuser. After he lashes out, he starts to say nice things to you all the time. Is that really who you think God is? Because that is not how He is presented for our faith by way of the scriptures. He is presented as one who actually does not pursue you, Christian, with the rigor of the law. He is very gentle. He is here seeking your benefit that you may be like him. Which could be n there could be nothing better than to be like God. There is no one more blessed. And so He wants blessedness for you. Which is his own glory. As his child, he lays disciplining hardship upon you. That is true. It will not last forever. That is true. That is a reality that the sage is revealing to us. And no matter how long it does last, God does not afflict you or grieve you because he loves to bring you affliction and grief. That is not who he is. It is a means to an end in his good ordained will. Instead, he is a good father seeking your prophet that you may be trained into blessedness. Now, I think once we start to work through these realities, and we begin to see who the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, who the Godhead is. We can begin to see that we've got some work that we've got to do that we don't really know what it means when God says that God is love. That we are are lacking in our faith in that way, especially when we're in pain. But there's another reality that starts to pop up when we start to have these thoughts too, and that is, okay, fine. Let's say that I go ahead and I accept these things. Are you telling me that I need to forget about all of the merciless, incompetent, and cruel people that have caused my misery? It's as if they've anticipated our question in verses 34 through 36, because it is a question that humans have asked from the beginning. It is a question that, if not answered, the stillness would be disrupted and we would lose peace. Is God really saying just forgive and forget with the greatest offenders? Once I become absorbed in his love, I don't no longer see misery and agony in human life. Never Only God could do this. Only God could acknowledge the reality of the suffering of human beings and at the same time give them a kind of peace that is different than the peace that is offered to you from this world. The peace that is offered to you in this world is wipe your mind clean. There's no suffering. Focus on your yogamat. Lose yourself in the fact that the cheeseburger booger boo booger the cheeseburger tastes so good on the dollar menu. That was a Freudian slip, that was probably appropriate. Stay away from McDonald's. Yes, though I can see how looking to God through suffering stabilizes me in a kind of contentment. What about all the others involved? Should I just ignore the injustices and the incompetence of the people causing my pain? Do they not bear a responsibility? What about my local government? Are they not responsible for their actions? And the answer is yes, they are. And the sage addresses this in 34 through 36, and he says that God is aware of every injustice that is done to his people. To crush under one's feet all the prisoners of the earth, that's what was happening to them. To turn aside the justice that is actually due to a man That was also happening. And they're doing all of this before the face of the Most High. He sees everything that is done. Or to subvert a man and his cause, what's the final conclusion? Just know this: the Lord does not approve. And we see this in each of the psalms. When the psalmist comes and brings his case before God, as if God has not seen the case before and pleads with him: please see the case. Please see what is happening here on earth. And then by the time you get through the center of the psalm, the psalmist realizes you have always seen. You've heard the cry of your afflicted people, and you will act And then he says something like this, for example, in Psalm 4, which we didn't read earlier, but you can read it in Psalm 4, I can now rest and sleep. I can sleep in peace and quiet, is what he says. That's what's going on here. That's the final part of this puzzle. God sees all, he knows all, he hears the cries of the afflicted, he does not forget any injustices that are done to his people. It's just amazing when you can finally step away from all of the junk that is surrounding us in this world and step toward the scriptures and actually be offered some kind of substantive wisdom. It is amazing what you find. It is nothing like you find on the earth. Lamentations is a book filled with agony and weeping. It is a stormy sea of tears, presenting the reality of the cursed human life. And yet, without neglecting or denying any of that, in the midst of the storm, God rises up in Jesus Christ and he says, peace, be still. And the wind and the waves, they're gone. The question that we're just asking this morning is: in this time as pilgrims, is there any way that we can start to have any of that? Can we say, is there any way for us to say to our own souls, peace, be still, while we wait for our salvation? And in short, we have learned From the wisdom of the incarnate one, remember this is just a shadow pointing to Christ. From the wisdom of the incarnate one That we are to be like him in a sense, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. And now we can start to flesh out what some of that kind of means. Though in great agony, Christ kept his peace, entrusting himself to the Father. You want to know why? Because he knew who the Father really is. Christ could see the agency of Herod, he could see the agency of Pilate, he could see the mocking teeth of his own people saying, crucify him. Crucify him. He acknowledged all of that, but they were in the blurry area because his focus wasn't on them. Jesus knew that it was his Father who laid it on him from the foundations of the earth And that made all of the difference because he rested in the knowledge that God would not cast him off forever. And three days later, there's the resurrection and the ascension. And John captures that well when he brings the crucifixion and the resurrection together within a single sentence. And he also recognized that his father did not afflict him from his heart, which is why he in hope could say, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. Not into your hands, O erratic and abusive one, but into your hands, my good father, I commit my spirit. And he knew that his father did not approve of any of the unjust treatment that he had received. He knew that all of those faces that were mocking him, if they did not repent And exercise faith that the Father would remember every word that they said to the guiltless one, and that they would receive their own in judgment. And that therefore puts us in a position to be like Christ this Advent season. And to discover perhaps what Paul had discovered as he sought to be like Christ. He says, as Elder Mark gave us this reality earlier in the confessional, Be anxious for nothing. But in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. May the reader understand Let's pray.