Here we are. Morning, Sandy. You can turn this down a little bit. Okay. So let's go ahead and open with prayer and then I'll tell you what we're going to do today. It's going to be super fun. Lord, we thank you for this day that you've given to us and the promises that come with it. We do pray that we would believe your promises. Pray, Lord, that you would use this time for us to see how you're bringing your promises to come true in each of us as we are conformed more and more to your image. in how we deal with the difficulties of our life. You are giving the people here wisdom. Thank you for that. And we thank you that you've sent your spirit to accomplish just those things. We pray that this would also prepare us for our worship of you. And we ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay. So first things first, I'm going to give you your homework for this coming week. You know, I'm really torn with the homework. And what do I mean by that? I mean what I mean by that is that I don't send out a reminder in the Friday email. I tell you the homework today. And my and the reason why I'm torn is because if you're starting your homework on Friday, I feel like it's too rushed. You should take the whole week to really reflect on what's going on in your various relationships. So will I eventually break down and send out a reminder so that you can very quickly pretend that you actually did the work by skimming the pages? I'll probably break down. Oh, I'll probably break down. Okay. Oh, okay. So next week, um you'll notice you have a week of shorter reading and then a week of longer reading. You just went through your week of longer reading. So this upcoming week is a little shorter. It's pages 162 through 200. And if you're in a Kindle book, it's sections eight and nine. Isn't that right? Yeah. Eight and nine. All right. So make sure what's that? I have an e-bolted sticker thing. Yeah, so that's why I say eight and nine. Sections eight and nine, chapter eight and nine should tell you that should still tell you. So these are two different ways to figure out where it is. I like to give you all different kinds of identity markers. It's the kind of guy I am. Last night I went to a party and not only they had brats and they had hot dogs. And there are two different ways to tell the difference between the brat and the hot dogs. You could look at it and you could say that's a brat That's a hot dog. Or you could see that they turned one hot dogs vertical in the dish and they turned the brats horizontal in the dish. So you th and they did that on purpose, to have two distinguishing marks. I'm doing something similar for you because I love you, Dwayne Thank you. Eight and nine and one sixty-two through two hundred. Well it was dark. These were ultra processed brats. They would look just like hot dogs. Mm, there is, yeah, it's ultra process. That's right. Yep. Okay. But we're all gonna be healthy again. Okay. Avoid them both. I couldn't. Alright, so that's what the homework is. So I really hope that you're benefiting especially from the questions at the end where you're able to apply uh the different things to a specific relationship Alrighty, so what we want to do this morning is we want to cover, uh I still am going to be focusing on conflict starts in the heart. I want to do a very quick review And then I'm going to develop what we started last week with conflict starts in the heart. And then that'll take up most of the class actually. And then I'm going to pop over into the lessons that you just read this past week by talking about the seven A's of confession and just between the two of us. I want to ask the question, well when should we not overlook? And maybe we can have a little bit of discussion. At the end, I might even ask you, what is gripping your attention in the book so far? I actually am very interested in what people pay attention to. Okay, so let's go ahead and we're going to begin then with a continuation from last week with conflict starts in the heart. Last week we looked at James chapter 3 verses 13 through chapter 4 verse 2 That chapter is what Ken Sandy cites in the book to seek to establish for you that conflict in fact starts in the heart. And I was trying to broaden it out a little bit so that you could see what was underneath of what James is trying to push forward for you to be able to understand about human life. James is trying to give you not just uh the like uh things that some people struggle with. He's trying to show you a universal law of about how human beings work. Even when you're a Christian, it still works this way. It is different, but it still works in these basic ways. And so let's just go over that again on that what those universal laws are. In James three, nine through ten And following, let me just put it this way. In fact, if you want to open your scriptures and just look at that section, I will I'll I'll announce which verses I'm going to read, and you can look at them with me. Maybe that will help you memorize a universal law. Universal laws are really important because you don't learn just about one thing, you learn about everything. It's really awesome. Drad. We were in the eighties, I'd say it's rad. Okay. So the so The basic observation I want you to make in order to be able to see clearly in the passage is that James is really interested in giving you opposites. He wants you to see that there's something going on in the world. If you want to see the world for the way it really is, you need to see that there's some opposites that happen down through history. And so if we get begin in James 3, 9 through 10, here's the first opposite that I wanted to show you. He's speaking about the tongue, our words, our mouth. With it we bless our God and Father, and with it we curse men. So what are the opposites? Let's just get warmed up Blessing and cursing, okay? And who have been made in the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceed, as Marilyn said, blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not to be so. The two opposites shouldn't be a part of the same person. It means Jesus talks about this in a in a certain way when he says, No kingdom will stand that is against itself. And that's what you end up having here. If you move on to verse 11, there's another opposite given in another metaphor. Which is, uh does a spring send forth fresh water and bitter from the same opening So the opposites are the fresh water and the bitter water. Then we have James 3. 2, another opposite, can a fig tree, my brethren, bear olives? That's an interesting one that I'd like to keep looking into of why does he why are those opposites? Opposites have to belong in the same category. It's like the apple the opposite of of like an apple is not a train So they have to be in the same category. So this one's uh I wonder about this one. It's very interesting. James is wiser than I am, so I need to keep reflecting on it But can a fig tree, my brethren, bear olives or a grapevine bear figs? So that's all interesting. Thus no spring yields both salt water and fresh. So here we are where he's laying out these opposites for you, going all the way down. that where he's exposing a universal law about your nature. And then when we get into James three fifteen, he's gonna be coming he's comes even closer. just saying exactly what he wants to say about his community and about our community. He says this, this wisdom does not s uh descend from above But it is earthly, sensual, and demonic. But the wisdom that is from above is pure, peaceable, gentle, willing to yield, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. So there's that final set of opposites for you, and he's saying anything that's going to come down come from here is going to be the kind of thing that destroys your communities. Things like acting demonically, self-seeking, bitter envy, etc. But then there's this thing up here And if it and if you act in in this part of the world, then it's going to be what brings your community together. And then actually other authors will call that different things. Paul will call that walking in the spirit Jesus will say that the way that this happens is that you're born again. There's a number of things where you can see these these two things interacting And then because I was aware of the opposites, I gave you two kind of archetypal opposites that are at the fountainhead of all of these things, which are Cain and Abel. Right? So I think that the point of all of the opposites is to show you that not only do we see this in different aspects of nature. different aspects of society, but there's also, if you were to look inside of yourself, you are constructed like this too That there can be a bitterness in you and there can be a sweetness in you. There can be a a cursing and there can be a blessing. Now, I know that about myself That I have the capability to do both. Should both come out of me? Should only blessing? Absolutely. But but the fact that James even wrote this tells you that he knows that that's not always what happens. Now have I seen you have these opposites? Yeah, I have I've seen all of you have 'em both. So not except for Natalie. Yeah. She's only done the cursed thing. No. Just kidding. You walked right into that. Just kidding. Yeah. Just kidding. Yeah, so so this is getting at eventually that conclusion where there's something that goes on within our hearts. And we have to be aware uh that like I said last week we all have a little bit of cane still that is a part of us. But the difference now if you are a f um if Christ has sent you his spirit is that those that Cain part of you is not in a dominant place any longer It can change. Now it could be little uh little bit after little bit. It's a progressive thing that happens and you never have reached perfection in this life But nevertheless, there's not a kind of sin does not have dominion over you in the same way. So you're not a cane. You just struggle with the cane part that still is remaining. So hopefully it's helpful. And and um but so the point of all of the opposites is to show you that we have the potential to seek evil. We do have the potential to seek evil. Conflict, war, destruction, murder are all possibilities for you. And Jesus, therefore, knowing that about us, wants you, when you're in conflict, to check yourself. And to at least ask the question, this is just a paraphrase of getting the log out of your own eye, what have you contributed to this? Because you know this about yourself, it's a universal law, you get to ask the question, well how might have I contributed? And that's he's and they're telling you that that's going to be helpful. So in normal situations, he wants you to look at the log in your own eye before pointing out the speck in the eyes of others. So let me just ask you very quickly, I'm only going to take like a minute and thirty seconds on this, but why do you think um I'll I'll leave it pretty general. Why do you think Jesus believes that it's wise for you to look at the log in your own eye first, in in most situations Any ideas on why that would be considered wise? Natalie? We can't even we can't either even help our brothers our goals or just can't just we can't either Okay, so you're really so Natalie said if we have a log in our eye we can't see clearly. So she's really looking um In some detail at what Jesus is saying and saying, well, there's not just a log, there's an eye. And so maybe what's going on here is that our perception is severely debilitated if we've got a log in it. We're not able to see well. We can't see the right things. We don't know what to pay attention to. And so when we remove the log, maybe we'll have the kind of clarity that we need in order to accomplish something that's good. And not just destroy people. Okay. Yes. Yeah. And I I I agree that such a thing is part of it, but also it's like an attitude that recognizes that you yourself are uh be if not greater up greater say even than the person here. So um d would you say did everybody hear Darren? Could you say it just a little I I know, it's like your first time in life. Just that uh we need to recognize that we are sinful as well. And so I think of the servant who was a wicked servant who was forgiven much and then was quickly ready to go and to beat up someone who had a very wicked And so there's the principle of perception is there as well, but also this attitude of when you approach someone because with their sin is not an awdy and arrogant about it because you yourself have been forgiven much. Jesus even says that right. And that's what we pray in the Lord's Prayer. So there's all of that seems to be going on. Okay, very good. Yeah, would you say that the attitude is a log Sure, absolutely. And then we always we do talk about how your attitude shapes how you perceive things. So maybe that's part of this too. Okay. Carol, I'll do you as uh one last one. Um I know there always comes out. Um, and if you back up in look at the next chapter, Jesus Christ is age by saying disciples ask who is the creatures of these if he takes a child it's a very visible example unless you come to to me as a child and I would respond So it's a sense I think the humility has to be if you're uh going into conflict thinking you're gonna fix somebody and you're gonna point out their defects of character and your your motivation is that you want to help them, I think that can then send you in the wrong direction. Um so acknowledging your own part And humbly considering ways that you have contributed puts you in a place of humility. And then when you get You're willing to listen and ask questions and draw them out rather than assuming you know what they they intended. Yeah. Okay, that's good. Now when I hear you three speak, I hear experience behind your words. Like there's human experience that testifies that if you don't do what Jesus says, it does not go well. Is that right? I mean I'm connecting with you on an experiential level. I'm thinking, generally speaking, of examples in my own life where I'm like Yeah, when I didn't get the log out first that really didn't go well. Uh that relationship still isn't working out. So, okay, that's great. Very good. So there's some definite wisdom here. And the things that Jesus tells us that are wise when we when we practice them, we should see that they they are wise. Uh that's one of the ways to see the truth of it uh over time. Okay, so um all right, very good. So uh in normal situations he w Jesus wants you to look at the log in your own eye before pointing out the speck in the eyes of others and you can see some of the reasons why. One, he takes into account who we are by nature. There's something profound going on here. Two, he takes into account our experiences and how things work. And you just heard a couple of experiences. Okay, so let me just take the next step with you and just ask you, I want you to answer this in your own mind. How do you practice this? How do you practice getting the log out of your own eye? How do you practice the knowledge of The universal law that conflict starts in the heart. How do you practice it? What are the things that are going on with you? It's actually really, really complicated because human life is complicated But I want you to think about how do you practice it and can these opposites of fig trees and olives and bitter water and sweet water And heaven and earth, can these help you to be able to practice it better and better Let me ask another question, which I haven't touched on yet. And darn it, I forgot some material. Dang. Okay. Here's another question for you. How are you helping your children practice this? Or helping other people's children practice this. Because if it's a universal law that conflict starts in the heart, then guess where conflict starts in the heart of the four-year-old? In their heart, that's the answer. Because it's a universal law. So how are you helping your children practice this? And that is a point I want to make is that by the power of the Holy Spirit we must seek for our children and the children that are around us. So just children in our community, whether they're yours or not. in in that in in you in the sense of you being their guardian or parent. By the power of the Holy Spirit we want to seek for our children to not be Cain But it is said to be like Christ. So there's certain patterns out there. Holly and I were talking about patterns yesterday. It's a really interesting conversation. I'll tell you about some other time She really helped me think through it. But there's different patterns out there. And we don't want to be the pattern of the bitter. And we don't want our children to take up the pattern of the bitter We don't want to be the pattern of the tree that's called a fig tree but gives a different kind of fruit that's not appropriate. We don't want to be the kind of pattern that is earthly. And we don't want our children to be that pattern either. So there's all these different earthly patterns if you read throughout the scriptures. There's Cain, there's Jezebel, there's Herod, there's the Pharaoh. There's the Judaizers. There's just all these tons of patterns. And you don't want your children to to you don't want their souls and psyches to develop in such a way to where they start to look like those patterns. So what are you doing in order to help your children to practice this or the children of the church? Are you letting your children harden into, are you letting the children of the church harden into peace-faking patterns? Now that can start very, very early. I've seen it very early in children where they move into a pouting mode. Uh are you are you letting your children or the children of the church harden into peace-breaking patterns? They're allowed to take the Tonka truck and smash it on top of their brother's head. And nobody really deals with Johnny Now you John. Said Johnny. And it's been a while since you smashed anybody on the top of the head with a truck. As far as I know. Although your sister's face is like not too long ago. No. Just kidding. Yeah, that's true. You were the youngest. You probably got smashed a lot. Sorry, buddy. You're stronger for it. I can see. It was an opportunity. First lesson of the class Okay. So uh we don't want our children to harden into that. So um So in dealing with conflict starts in the heart and then intersecting that with the idea of a pattern. Um there is a gentleman, I think he was more pop his name was Paul David Tripp. Has anybody ever heard of him Paul David Trip. He was pert he's still doing a lot. He's on like boards of things and um uh but he I think in my mind he used to be a lot more popular Uh he was out there t like giving conferences a lot in like the earlier uh two thousands. He's had health issues. So it has a time. So some of you may have been familiar, for example, with a book you wrote called Instruments in the Redeemer's Hands. That was pretty popular for a while and he was giving tr uh conferences on that. He also wrote, I think, it's called Shepherding a Child's Heart. Is everybody familiar with that one? That was Ted Trip. He wrote Age of Opportunity. And he had a great devotional out. Okay. So you're aware of him, so I don't need to give him an introduction. Okay, well when I wa when Holly and I were first starting off with the parenting thing, we were really helped by looking at his material. And I just want to remind you of a few things that he has he had said. I don't actually remember where this was from. This is from my memory. and how we actually worked with the kids. So I wanted to share it with you. This is a pattern. And it helps the and it helps you to show the children of the church a pattern. that that that we see within the Bible so that they can start to conform themselves and be aware of themselves in terms of this pattern. And is this the key to parenting? No Jesus is the key. This is the t this is like something that works sometimes over time. It like does something. I think that it can bear some fruit. Okay, so I don't want to over support this, but I do want to say that there really is something to it. I I think it has been helpful as I look back and as I look at the kids today Okay, so he points out that when we're working with children, this is still in relationship to the conflict starts in the heart, when we're working with children, we usually reach for three main tools When there is a conflict, when there is an argument with a sibling, when there is what whatever is going on, one of the first tools that we reach for is to make them afraid of us. So he points out that one of the tools that human beings use is fear. And What fear will do is the fear will definitely in certain situations get the behavior to stop I think that's true. And I actually think there is a place for just fear. Like you're gonna run out into the middle of the street, I'm gonna make sure you don't. And then we'll talk about it later, depending on your age. But the problem with fear as being the only way in which your children conform to the pattern is that one day they don't fear you Like for example, uh Jack and I are in this relationship at this point where I don't I'm not interested in wrestling with them. I don't want to get into a fight physically. I just all he's gonna do is take out my knees and then I'm gonna plead with them like I'm your dad, stop. You know, so And he's like right on the verge, if not already, he's taller than me. And it's just bringing fear into someone that's taller than you is difficult. So Okay, so that so that's one tool, and I don't want to say that fear is uh never right. I just want to say that if it's like your only the only trick you have in your bag. then you could set up where well what is what what are what are the children of the church learning that the reason the reason why I conform to the pattern of Christ is because I'm afraid I don't mean reverence. I just mean I'm afraid. Okay. Second tool we often grab is reward that he he uh again Paul David Tripp points this out is that we we uh we grab reward and we try to buy their behavior. Now Paul David Tripp gives an example of a younger Um the the old little bit older brothers constantly fighting with the younger sister. And the The way that they try to solve it is that the dad is pretty exasperated by the whole thing because every time he gets home from work, he keeps hearing reports about how the young man tortured essentially the younger sister and was just relentless about it. She he would do things to push all of her buttons all day long. And the mom was at the end of her rope. Does this sound familiar to you by the way? So then he says, Listen, if you could just for four very small weeks Treat your sister with some respect, or maybe just stay out of, just stay away from her. Just you stay in a different room. And when she goes into that room, you go to a different room. And if you can do that for just one month, one measly month, I'll buy you that mountain bike that you've always wanted. Now, is reward wrong? Always. No. But in this particular case, if it's the main tool that you use within your bag, as Paul David Tripp points out, is that what are you teaching this young man about why we do things. Yeah. Does he love his sister at the end of the day? He loves He loves if his name was Billy, he loves Billy. And if he's Billy Smart, as Paul David Shripp points out, Billy will start to negotiate So that he can get the highest prize for his behavior. Now rewards aren't wrong always, but here is another example of this is how we're going to deal with the conflict, Billy is that you don't have to learn anything about the pattern that Christ wants you to move into. You're just going to become an entrepreneur. A gre a corrupt one. Okay, and then the last pool that you can grab in your bag that again is not always wrong, depending on the situation, is shame And so we want to be, we want to be careful of dealing with our conflicts and helping our children to learn how to deal with what's in their hearts. solely by shame. So those are three power tools, so to speak, that we tend to use. Fear, reward, and shame. Now Paul David Tripp goes on to give five different questions for us to have a different set of tools that take into account what Jesus teaches us about how we work If conflict starts in the heart and out of the overflow of the heart are all the issues of life Then however we're interacting with each other and with the children of the church, we're going to want to start teaching them and the questions that we ask them to to start seeing a certain pattern of how this whole conflict started and went forth inside of themselves. And we can do that By asking them five questions. So I'm going to give you the five questions, and you can write these questions down, and I hope that you actually start to use them. I have used these questions on my own children Uh from when they were able to understand the questions. So there was a point too early on where it's like, I'm asking these questions and this is not the right time. They don't know what's going on So the first thing I want to say before I give you the five questions from Paul David Tripp is that one thing that I have always liked about these questions is that they're questions. So you're getting a human being to start doing some of their own reflecting on what is going on inside and outside of them. I have found that there is a place for lecture. But I would say that being in questioning mode with my children has been more effective for me at least. As opposed to just lecturing them and lecturing them and lecturing them. And if you keep doing that when they turn into a teenager, I have found that really doesn't work. They can even see your body posture that they can see your mindset re as teenagers. You know this, those of you who have teenagers and beyond. They can see your mindset of lecturing in your body posture, and before they even you even say one word, they turn off and are not listening to you because it's just another stupid lecture. And I am going to to, out of some sense of civility and respect, stand here while you continue to let This continue to come out of your mouth as a lecturing parent. That's the inside of a teenager's mind. There you go. Anybody have any experience with that? Either as parents or as the teenager? Do you remember thinking that about your parents? She's like, yeah, great, here comes the lecture. It's like and you would actually start to c change your behavior a little bit just so you wouldn't get that lecture. To make it stop. Yeah, that's great. That's uh m inside your head. Has any have you ever said that? Just make it stop Lord, I'll never do this again. Just make them stop. Yeah, that's pretty good. Okay, so number one we're in a questioning mode instead of a lecturing mode. And uh the other part I like about that is they're s having to now think through things. uh of what's going on. So then the very first question is what was going on? What was going on? I mean life happens in the real world. There's all kinds of specifics that are happening. So we it would be good that that's where the that's where everything starts is just like what's going on. That gives you a concrete reality in which to deal. One of the worst things I have found to do is to try to talk to people about things in general. You need a concrete experience to ground the conversation. What was going on? Number two. Are we ready for that? Okay. Number two, what were you thinking or feeling while this happened? What were you thinking or feeling while this happened? Now, some people feel weird talking about feelings Like we're still just being superficial and not getting to the heart of the matter. I really don't think that bears up if we look at what feelings or affections are Uh you could read Jonathan Edwards on this if you're for like a reformed person who only accepts things in reformed patterns Uh you could read Jonathan Edward Edwards on this. You could uh look at St. Augustine on this, you could um I think look at your own experiences that we don't need to be afraid of emotions. Emotions and feelings actually reveal a great deal about what's going on inside of us. For example In James chapter three thirteen through chapter four two, one of the main things that is brought up is envy. Haven't you ever felt jealous? I mean, isn't it okay to describe it that way? That jealousy is kind of like a feeling that has and or an envy that has is rising up and taking over all of my the members of my body, you know? Or anger I think it's a legitimate way to talk about it. So we want to say what were you thinking or feeling while this was happening? And depending on their age, they're going to answer you more or less. intelligently. But you'll get a little something out of them. Mad. I was mad. May not even be a full sentence. Mad Okay, third question. What this is still talking to the you could do this with adults but also with with our children of our church, what did you do in response? So then let me ask you the question. So here it is again. What was going on? What were you thinking or feeling while this was happening? And number three, what did you do in response? What is the pattern? My questions are framing the situation. I'm in control here with how they're going to look at the int at reality. by how I'm asking the questions. So why is the third question after the second? What's the biblical reality or pattern that I'm making them see? It starts in the heart. What starts in the heart? All of the yes, that's true, but all of the things that you ended up doing with your body and with your mouth were downstream of something else, which was that thing that was going on in your heart when you felt mad or sad or envious or jealous or resentful or whatever the Is there a situation where what we do does not follow I don't know. I I I don't want to ask that question. That's on the fringe. I'm just trying to stay in the center. Okay. Okay. So um so you can begin to see that just in the way that we're asking the questions is we're trying to get them to think about the world and the patterns that God has given to us What was going on? What were you thinking or feeling while this happened? Number three, what did you do in response? The reason why we want to do that is that actions come from the heart. And Paul David Tripp points out rightfully What an excellent insight you have just given your child. Number four, what were you seeking to accomplish? Very good question. And this gets at the motives, it gets at the desires, and this gets at the purposes. Of a human being. And then number five, what was the result? This goes right in line with the James passage because he specifically mentions, James specifically mentions in in chapter Uh the end of chapter 3, that the peacemaker will have a harvest of righteousness. These are the results of this kind of work When you are able to overlook an offense, for example, if you're thick skinned, what's the result? What's the harvest of all of these things? Communities that stay together. marriages that are s like solid, all that kind of stuff. So we want them to be able to see and to take responsibility for the harvest. In other words, they need to see that reality is built around a primary um There's another universal law. What you sow is what you will reap. Yes? Well is there preparatory work that you have to do as a child? I'm I'm asking this other the sense of one my kids are gone and I'm gonna say things at all kids I didn't write but 'cause a lot of times the what were you thinking question comes out like what were you thinking? you know so that probably Yeah, as a as a rule that's not how we're gonna say it. So the the preparatory work so that a child is ready to hear those questions to actually answer them Honestly. Because a lot of times when you get into the heat of it and you or not heat, but soon after you start asking these questions, it's just defensiveness and uh unwillingness to be honest at some level about being answering this question. So how does one prepare the the child for the questions or even other person such that they are we're gonna actually have an open honest conversation with you That is a good question. And it would depend. I'll drop back into the paradigm of what we're trying to do here as a craft. Alright, so you're gonna have to become a craftsman to be able to know how to Work through all of the different situations and you're not gonna do very well at first unless you just have a super easy kid. So I'll give you an example of a not super easy kid. I grew up with a kid who wasn't super easy. It wasn't one of my kids. It was somebody else's kid. And this kid would be so set on what he wanted to do and how he wanted to do it, there was no talking to him. Three, four years old. even in into his fifth year. And you could bring the rod. You could smack the back of his leg. You could spank his butt You could whatever, you could take away his Legos, you could do all those things, it doesn't make any difference. It would motivate him. But there was one thing that that ended up working. The mother would hold him sitting in a chair and not let go until he decided to order himself and compose himself And she would sit there, I think I'll have to ask her. She's still a very good friend. I think she has sat there for two hours before, waiting. Are you ready yet? No. Are you ready? No. Hour. Are you ready yet? Are you ready to are you ready to listen? No. Right? And then we keep working. Now this isn't one like we sat down in the chair one day and I held on to them for two hours and everything worked out. No. I'm talking this was a season. Right? And then he got into a place where sh they were able to start talking about those kinds of things. So that's why I'm saying this stuff has to be put together within the framework of Christian wisdom. It's not the key to parenting. It's not like, oh well I didn't have these five questions when I was raising my kids in the seventies No wonder. That's not what's going on. This isn't the the like fifth gospel that you're I'm finally revealing to you So I it does have to be exercised like a craft and figure that out. And different kids are different. So uh I do want to okay, uh I'll I will I will permit A couple more. Sandy and then Carol and then Natalie. And then we're done. Yes, Sandy, go ahead. Would you want to know if you're doing something really annoying? Personally my first response is no. But within a few hours My curiosity gets to that the children as well. And maybe we tell them and say, Okay, what is it? And then she didn't read Oh okay. That's interesting. Cool technique. That's neat. I like the cra here cool little uh crafts technique. Yes, Carol. Yeah, I think um If I'm going through the uh ultimate trip uh series and certification right now. Okay. And he he really uh Yeah. Because what you really want when you lash out in anger and this other know, power tools, wrecking ball techniques is your own comfort, your own peace. Um and so dealing with your own part and preferring I think that is also part of um understanding how to deal with conflict in your own home or even in the you know the wider channel of a church. Yeah. They often go at it Yeah, that's true. And again, that even that has to be taken in the Christian wisdom. I'll see moms already at the end of their rope and then they're also trying to deal with a kid and then they have to reflect on, well, what about my own heart? And it can just all become super overwhelming. There is a place where you say, you know what? Spank his butt, put him in his room, and tell him to let us know when he's ready to come out and to work with us as another human being There is a place for that. Now I'm not saying spank in anger or anything like that. I'm just saying that there are many, many different tools, and as a person who is wise, you have to develop how to use what And it depends on the kids. There are different kids. I don't think it uh I I don't ever remember spanking Addison. It w all I had to do was like this. And it was as if heaven and earth had fallen apart. So I never did that. Uh Jack David Man Jack David was tough. So okay. So um And if any of you have any weird feelings about spanking or anything like that, let me know. I'm happy to talk about it. Uh I'm I'm using my language pretty casually, but I was We I I'm talking about a very controlled situation with definite purposes, not in anger, uh nothing that the kid c uh can't bear, all all that kind of I'm not talking about rage. Alrighty. So I'm just want to make sure what say what Carol's saying is true. And what Darren is saying is true. And Jen, I'm just saying I want to keep reiterating. It really takes Christian wisdom to figure out what to do when And a lot of times these patterns start to overlap in the wise person. It's like if you asked a craftsman, well, how did you carve that spoon in 15 minutes when it's taking me three hours and you can't eat from mine? It's like, well, I've been doing it for fifteen years. This is my four thousandth spoon. I've done it in every species of wood. You know, so that's the difference. Yeah. I I think in dealing with the children. especially it it like or even another adult, it takes laying down your own agenda. Yeah, okay, that's good. Mm-hmm. person like that child get rid of that bitterness towards their sibling or something as opposed to being just irritated that they got that Yeah. Yeah that's good. Yeah, and that's a part of the wisdom. Another part of the wisdom is when does the spanking end? I really don't see wisdom after a certain point where it should continue. It just it just embarrasses them too much Um okay. So I let's just stop that. Now all of you were saying things that were wise. That's great. I'm trying to point out to you that Paul David Tripp, I like these questions because they are establishing and framing life in terms of a pattern that we're looking at in our chapter, which is that conflict starts in the heart. And just the way that we ask the questions, we We say, what were you thinking or feeling when this happened? What did you do in response? So something's coming out. What were you hoping to accomplish? We have these goals. So the reason why we're fighting the way that we're fighting, there's something out there that we want And then what was the result? And they have to take responsibility for the harvest that they are going to reap. Now, the seeds for the harvest were planted in questions number two and question number four. Whatever was in the heart, and whatever desires and motivations and purposes you were seeking, those were the seeds that grew up into this full-grown plant that is now before all of us. Now let me give you an example. I don't remember the name of this toy. Well, I'll just do it really general. This is based on events. I'm not going to give you the real event This is based on events on true events. There was this toy where it's like um it's like an egg carton And then in each of the sections of the egg carton were these little tiny miniature toys, like little miniature birthday cakes and I think they were called Rinky Dinks or something, I don't know. Or maybe one of them was called Rinky Dinks. I don't remember. Okay. Well there was a there was a young girl who had received the entire set for her birthday And there was another younger girl who didn't, because it wasn't her birthday. And as the younger girl sat and looked at the older girl with all of the things that she had received. Something snapped. She grabbed Rinky Dink and she ran out of the room while the older one screaming, not my Rinky Dink! And the younger one ran down the hall, took a write, threw open the bathroom door, threw it in the toilet, and hit the lever. While the older one trailing behind stands over the toilet and says, Not my ring thing! Okay, so let's go ahead and based on true events, I'm not gonna tell you who the girls were. I'm gonna tell you. Who and the girls were. Holly and Rachel Schaefer. No, just kidding. Just kidding. Okay. Uh so let's say we talk to the the to the little girl. What was going on? What was going on? So if they're young enough, they're going to talk about the toy probably, right? And about the birthday party and looking let's just say that she this make it easy case and the l younger one says she had all of the toys Now, what's the biggest word in that sentence? Aww. Very good. Okay, very good. She had all of the toys. Okay. Now what were you thinking or feeling while this was happening? I'm uh angry. I was sad. I was angry, I was sad. Yep, okay. Now as an adult you can see if the first part is they have all the toys and I don't have any, and then there's anger. We're not really dealing with a righteous anger here I mean it was a birthday party. It's not like a bad distribution across democratic society. Alright, so we already know that the anger that they're the way they s put it in terms of mad or sad is they're dealing with some kind of jealousy or envy that's going on within their hearts So what did you do in response? Yeah. I flushed it I flushed it down the toilet. Right. Yeah. So I flushed it down the toilet. The uh the little girl could also say s yeah, I f well I I saw it and I ran and I grabbed it and I ran down the hall and I flushed it. Okay. We're starting to get a sense of what's going on. Now we have nah what were you seeking to accomplish? Now here's the answer. She had all the toys. So what's going on there? Tell me what her heart is saying at that point. What's her goal and what's her purpose? She had all the toys Okay, I'm reestablishing a sense of justice in my world. I want to be seen also. She was seeking yeah. She's a DEI agent. Yeah. What's that? She said all that. Yeah. Well she's definitely operating off of some distorted sense of justice. And there's something else going on there. It's it's like if you think that you can have more than me, I'm gonna let you know. that you're gonna be under my thumb where I'll destroy you or something like that. Yeah somet something evil is going on in there. And what pattern would you say she's following at that point with her purposes and what's happening in the heart If you had to pick a biblical pattern. Cain. There you go. Cain S. Or cane caney. Or whatever. What's the feminine form of cane? Candy. I don't know. Okay. Karen, I don't know. Oh. That's a pretty good one. Karen. Yeah, yeah. Right. Okay. And then what was the result? We have to take responsibility for the harvest. So then you ask the question, what's the result? And while you're asking the question, you're hearing the older one wail because a very and you can point out, it's like Y your grandmother gave that as a nice present that she's wanted for six months. I mean, how would you feel? Oh, I guess I've made that I'm really sad. And how's your dad doing right now trying to get the toilet to work again? Well well that's not going very well either. Like have you disrupted the entire family? Yes. Yes, you have. You've you've destroyed the family unit. Yes. And um so that's an example So that's an example for you. And and then at that point also part of the harvest might be and now I'm I I'm gonna have to discipline you and I'm gonna give you a spanking. Sometimes that happens depending on the age. Okay, so there's the five, and then there's this this uh frame that you've given to them and they're starting to learn just by having to search out the questions that of what's going on. What's the pattern that Christ reveals to us? Eventually as the kids got older in my own experiences, I didn't have to ask all of the five I could skip because they were do have done the work so much that they just were they just already knew they could process pretty quickly. of what was going on. Okay now, let's go ahead and move into the next part with the remaining four minutes. The um go ahead and get out your your Peacemaker uh pamphlet. Let's say that you do find a log in your own eye. And uh now what Ken Sandy uh recommends is that you would well he doesn't recommend it. What he's what he teaches us then is the scriptures talk to us about confessing to each other And he gives us here the seven A's of confession. Let me just tell you, as a meet trained mediator, uh I've done a lot of counseling. Uh I there are some pretty lousy confessions out there. Okay? So this is a very helpful thing to look at. The thing I was going to mention to you also when I told you I forgot my material. Was that they have a peacemaking for kids. And I was going to bring you and show you the comic books that they make for all different ages that are going over the same material that's in here, but it's in for kid form. Then if you want to move up from like middle school, they have a peacemaker for students And that'll take them through high school and mu beginning a college. And they also have a peacemaking for families If you wanted to pick something like that up, just so you could see more specific applications of the universal principles. Okay, so we found the log in our eye, and we'll talk about this more next week, but eventually we're going to get to just between the two of you. And you may need to make a confession to somebody. So let's take a look at the seven A's. This is just a a nice b beginning way to think about the things that you should include within your confession. Number one, you are going to a need to address everyone involved. So if the little girl needed to make a confession, which you would help her, you'd step her through, you could they have a little kids pamphlet and you could say, we're going to look at the seven A's together. We used to do this. And the little girl then would need to g address everyone involved. So in this scenario, who does to whom does she need to address? Dad. Okay, the dad who's gotta buy a new toilet. Grands sisters, sister. Maybe the grandmother. That'll be a question in my mind as to how big we make this circle. Uh because I mean this is a day in the life of You know, brinky dinks. It's just I don't know how big you want to make this. After the party, everybody's gone. Mm-hmm. Everybody's gone. So it's just the family in the house and I hesitate to bring I try to keep it as confined as possible. You know what I mean? It's like we don't need to learn every lesson today. You know? So okay, and then so the so that's a those are good answers. You would address everyone involved. You have forgotten someone who's very important. God. Yeah, you did. You forgot God. Okay. Alright. Well, we have a worship service right after this. So I'll introduce him to you again. Okay. Okay. The second one is avoid if, but, and maybe Can somebody tell me how this could run you into problems if you don't avoid those things? Okay, they're excuses. Does that go over well when someone is seeking to confess their sin to you but they're making excuses? Okay, so just think of a couple different examples. I hate that I'm in one sense I hate that I'm giving this to you because you're now gonna hear people and you're gonna be like, Yeah, that was the worst confession ever. Because they're gonna come to you and they're gonna say, Listen, you know, if you weren't so needy, I wouldn't have snapped at you. Well thank you so much for the confession. That was really helpful. Thanks for the punch in the face. I'm sorry if I hurt your feelings. That's good. How else do have you hurt it? Let's give a couple other examples. Yeah, yeah. Right. If we had better parents who evenly distributed gifts. Yes. If you hadn't been so disrespectful. Uh-huh. Yep, all right, very good. And then you could do the buts and the maybes. Okay, the third A is admit specifically. Now this can take some time And I usually try to help people to write like a little a couple paragraphs so that they can be as specific as possible on this one. Third A. Third A admit specifically. Well it's in the pamphlet. Okay. Fourth. I'm I'm moving because I don't want to hold you past time. Number four, acknowledge the hurt. So let's go ahead and talk about the harvest that has been reaped. And I found that's really helpful. uh when people have to actually figure out how they affect other people, it will help you to not raise a sociopath. Alright? Um and it'll also help you to raise uh boys who don't beat their wives. Okay? Accept the consequences. So we're we're not going to be angry about this. We're going to realize this is a part of the deal. Alter your behavior and you can come up with a plan for what that exactly looks like. And help them, especially if they're younger, you definitely need to do that. I've had to to do that all the way up into college where we're working on altering the behavior. What's that? Pardon? You might have to so that would be a sound principle of restitution. That would be nice. And there might but but there might be other things that you're seeing in their heart where they need to start working on certain things. Right? Like we're going to make cards for the widows in the church, as opposed to orienting everything towards what do they get. You see what I'm saying? So we want to start working in opposites like the Apostle Paul says. What do we want to take off and then what do we want to put in its place? And then of course we're going to want to pray over over them while we're working on this with them. And then um they ask for forgiveness All right, so that's the seven A's of Confession, and there is a children's version if you want to take a look at that. Next week we'll pick up on just between the two of us. uh very quickly and then we'll move on to the chapter that you're going to be reading. Okay, so that ends really the conflict starts in the heart and we began the next section which is oh For you to go out and to start doing some of the work of reconciliation which begins with confession, if appropriate. Okay, let's pray