Are we cool? Great. Okay. So then let's go ahead and br briefly review from last week. Last week we um were Beginning a section that is entitled Getting the Log Out of Your Own Eye. And um I um but but I was still reviewing part of glorifying God and we spent most of our time on just looking at trust in the Lord. We looked at a number of different Bible passages, seeing that the way in which the people of God have been able to be peacemakers is that they were people that trusted in the Lord because they oftentimes were not able to just resolve it themselves through some kind of technique. Well, they were never able to resolve it themselves through some kind of technique. And that was more obvious at some times rather than others. The most difficult of the conflicts, they largely had to sit in waiting. Lifting their prayers to God like incense, seeking for Him to resolve it. Sometimes He resolves that quickly, sometimes we wait Uh either way, there's a uh not only a pattern of people who are trusting in the Lord, there are explicit exhortations that we do so. And that that that is um To be a peacemaker, in other words, we must trust in the Lord. We then pretty much rushed through getting the log out of your own eye. But I will just repeat, you've already read the section, I'll just repeat some of the things that I have found the most helpful for getting the log out of your own eye. And one of the um things that is most helpful is to ask the question, is this really worth fighting over? Is this really worth fighting over? There's different ways to answer that question. And in the role play today today with Brad, I wonder if you'll s you can ask him some questions after we're done the role plays and you can say why did you choose what you chose, why did you say what you said? And you'll see in his you'll get a chance to Brad will reveal to you his inner psychology. This is a little scary. But he'll reveal to you his inner psychology and maybe you can see why he chooses to fight over some things and not others. All right, because that'll be a revelation of why humans do what they do. Is it worth fighting over? And one of the ways to be able to get to the answer that is w let's go ahead and define what the issues are And one of the and Ken Sandy suggests, well, there's at least two kinds of issues. One would be a material issue, and that has largely to be resolved through negotiation. And then there are personal issues, and that will require peacemaking responses. One of the things that make conflicts difficult is that the material and the personal are intermixed So it's nice to go ahead and separate those things out. And perhaps you'd be able to then answer the question, no, this isn't worth fighting over, or maybe you'll discover, yeah, actually we need to engage. Getting the log out of our own eye, one of the things that we should consider is that a primary virtue seen within the scriptures is that we are people who overlook We cover a multitude of sins out of our love for each other. And there are a number of scriptures that support this. A man's wisdom gives him patience. It is to his glory to overlook an offense. Proverbs 19. 11. Starting a quarrel is like breaching a dam, so drop the matter before a dispute breaks out. Proverbs 17. 14 Above all, love each other deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins. 1 Peter 4. 8. Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love. Ephesians 4. 2. Bear with each other, and forgive whatever grievances you may have against one another. Forgive as the Lord forgave you. Colossians 3. 13 To truly overlook an offense means to deliberately decide not to talk about it, not to dwell on it, or let it grow up into pent-up bitterness. If you cannot let go of an offense in this way, if it's too serious to overlook, or if it continues as part of a pattern in the other person's life then you'll need to go to talk to the other person about it in a loving and constructive manner. End quote. That's from Ken Sandy. I'm spitting the book back out to you. Another way that we can consider is this worth fighting over is to clear our minds and our hearts from anger Especially by looking at Ephesians 4 and considering, well, is there more to this person besides the villain I've painted in my head? Whatever is lovely, whatever is true, whatever is praiseworthy, think on such things. The other is um Philippians 4. 4, which is rejoicing in the Lord. There's a great deal of medicine for the soul and being thankful. And that can help you to have well what you're trying to do in all of these different things is to have the clearest vision possible to determine what you should be doing. The problem with us as human beings is that we can deceive ourselves. So anger makes us very narrow. A melancholy temperament distorts reality. There's an uh anxiety distorts reality. So what we're trying to do is get back in line with the way that things actually are. And let's stop that for the review. Um I had um So we'll start this week with we'll continue with the getting the the log out of your own eye. Um do I want to touch on this Let me say one last word by way of review. We looked at a passage last week that was uh or was it last week we looked at 1 Corinthians 6? I don't remember. You're not. Yeah, we did. Okay, great. So in 1 Corinthians 6, and Christina actually asked a really good question, and I don't remember the exact words that you used, but what you were trying to get at, if I remember correctly, please correct me. Is When we're looking at these specific examples in the scriptures as to how like certain patterns of peacemaking responses, are these patterns that we see for these specific cases like in a in a um in this in 1 Corinthians 6 where they were bickering over business matters and small claims Is that the pattern that we should be using for every ethical situation, or would it be inappropriate for some ethical situations So, for example, let me say it this way. One of the ways that Paul resolves the small claims in 1 Corinthians 6 is he says, why not rather be wronged and cheated? Now, is that an ethical principle that may appropriately be applied in any situation wherein you are wrong or cheated in any analogous way? I'm getting a no. Maybe in some. Maybe in what do you mean by that? There may be some situations where it's it would be appropriate for you to be the one who takes the wrong. There are some situations where it's appropriate to be wronged and cheated, but you're speci but you're not saying all. Oh we have a Okay. Right. The way Paul phrases it kind of implies that there are there are situations, but not all. Some but not all. Are we starting to get a consensus here? Some but not all. Yeah. And I think one of the ways to think about this, this is a very important discussion One of the ways to think about this, this is going back to our earlier Sunday school class on the correct application and use of the law One of the ways to think about this is genre. If you read a poem in the scriptures As if you were reading a scientific journal, you were going to misunderstand what David is writing in his poetry. Because he's speaking about things in a different way than scientists would think about them. If if um David says In a paraphrase, I watched the sun rise this morning, and it was like a chariot through the sky. And then if you're nothing but a physicist and you say the sun doesn't rise, we actually rotate and whatever, you're missing the genre. David is not approaching the world from outside of the world. He's approaching it what we would say is called phenomenologically from a human perspective with both his feet on the ground, maybe up on a balcony actually, overlooking uh the entire landscape and he's watching the sun go up and that's how we conduct all of our lives. I mean you all got up an hour later because the sun whatever. Okay. So So genre is very important. We don't read poems in the same way we read scientific literature. We're not looking for the same kinds of things. And it's the same thing here with these ethical commands. It's very important for you to see them within the the genre of pastoral counsel. You can even say apostolic counsel if you think it's too low to just say pastoral counsel That's fine because it's an apostle giving the counsel the counsel, but when you put it into that genre, the apostle is considering the case of particular individuals and seeking to tell them what is the wise course forward. He's not stating an absolute law that must be applied the same way in every single situation The reason why I bring that up is because sometimes verses like this are taken out of context, and let's say that there is uh uh A man who's getting beat up by his wife. And then you give him counsel, well why not rather be cheated? Why not rather be wronged? Paul didn't have that case in mind. Nor did Paul have the case of if the husband was beating the wife in mind. Are there particular scenarios wherein a wife or a husband who a man or a woman who is being beaten may consider that at least for a temporary time it is better to be cheated? Actually, yeah. Even though that's very difficult for you to hear, actually, yeah, I could come up with a number of scenarios where men or women are patiently waiting certain things out because, for example, it would be too dangerous to do something different right at that second. You can also construct situations where there's a female soldier beating a male soldier, and there one's from Russia, one's from the the USA. That's the that's the typical fight, right? When I grew up, is um centered on Rocky Balboa and the guy from Soviet Union. Sure. That's my childhood. That's my childhood. Yeah. So and in and in that case there would be a lawful defense allowed from man to woman or woman to man Right? Okay, so what you want to do is you want to consider what is the case in front of Paul and then what counsel is he using or what ethical principles is he using to work on that particular case. And we can see that in a small claims court, certainly one of the options is that you would just be cheated, as opposed to stirring up and destroying the Christian witness of the community and the community itself. I I think actually if you were to reflect on your experience, many of you have gone ahead and been wronged for greater things. Right? Yes? saying and our interpretation of it would be also making a distinction between whether or not the person wrong enough, maybe false, maybe false. Actually how do you put it this way for means it. Well I don't know. Um if the person is stating that they're a believer. So if so if someone if someone is like allegedly uh uh brother or sister in Christ and they are bombing you, wouldn't it be appropriate now we're not talking about a crime, but wouldn't it be appropriate if all if they're a if they're a professed believer to to start out that way. And so um if we end up if so if somebody is doing something that that's And we end up they end up being excommunicated because we get the church involved and the church is saying you were consistently not acting as a you know treating your brother or sister as a brother or sister. Right? You're not behaving as a child of God. Therefore we excommunicate you. I mean, would it so I guess the question is, in the in the context of the church, isn't it the no always be appropriate to start this. Start where? Start with allowing yourself to be wrong as far as outside world is concerned. Maybe taking it to the church Absolutely taking to the church first in all cases. It depends on all the details. And the details make one part of the case rise above others and then you start to prioritize, like that girl that one uh anyway, the The ethical cases we considered before. So I'm not so sure that it would apply to everything. Well I mean we can obviously we've put a fine prime. Um just wouldn't be I don't know. Yeah, I doubt it. Just because details change things. on the kind of counsel that you would give to a person. I can think of all kinds of scenarios. So my main point to you though is I'm I'm trying to help I'm trying to remind you that We had a main point last week, which was to look at what are some different ways for us to be able to resolve conflicts And all of those ways rely on trusting in God. When the example of why not be cheated or wronged came up, I had several people ask, does that apply to abuse cases? And so I'm trying to say it's very important that you don't misuse the scriptures. And what's one way that you can keep from misusing the scriptures? Recognize the genre that's that Paul is writing in. He's giving apostolic or pastoral counsel on a specific case. That does not mean that these principles that he gave in this case should be applied to a different case You have to exercise Christian wisdom and you have to evaluate every case case by case. Everybody got that? So that's very important. Okay. Everybody has stor or some people have stories of somebody taking this 1 Corinthians thing and then a wife is being beaten and so they say just be wronged as the solution. And I'm saying that could definitely be a misuse of the scriptures. I gotta keep going. But I do love you. Okay? Mm-hmm. Okay. Now with the remaining ten minutes that I have. Conflict starts in the heart. Let's start let's take a look at James chapter three. We'll have to do this pretty quick. Go ahead and open to James chapter three. If we have time at the end, I'll be able to do that. Let's just walk through this passage all the way to 4 uh 3. We're going to go from 3 to 4-3 and we're going to do it super fast. I just want to point something out to you, or a few observations here. So still seeing some flipping going on. Are we cool? We're at James 3. Okay. So with James 3, just we'll just go ahead and let's t uh let me I'll read a little bit at a time and comment on it. Okay. So first it says, my brethren Let not many of you become teachers, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgment. For we all stumble in many things. If any one does not stumble in word, he is a perfect man able also to bridle the whole body. Now why do you think James brings up the word here? He brings up the word here because he's moved into a set of instructions with regard to those who perhaps even for their living use words. They're called teachers. They're using their mouth all day long, talking about different things. And in this particular context, we're going to find as we keep going down that there were some problems that were going on perhaps among specifically those teachers and how they were using their mouth. You could ask the question, how were they using their public influence as speakers? And you could see that it may have been for nefarious purposes. So James, in order to help the community to take guard against teachers that are letting their mouth run away with them, or becoming a teacher who lets their mouth run away with them. He begins in verse number three to show how dangerous the tongue can be by liking it to other things that are small yet powerful. So take a look at verse number three. Indeed, we put bits in horses' mouths that they may obey us. That's a small thing, and the horse is a big thing. Right? We may put bits in a horse's mouth that they may obey us, and we turn their whole body I'd encourage you at this point in time to be thinking about a church community as a horse. And you can, with a tongue, it's like a bit and it can turn the whole body. can turn the whole community in a certain direction, even running off of a cliff. The second uh we have here is look also at ships Although they are so large and are driven by fierce winds, they are turned by a very small rudder whenever the pilot desires. And there you have it again. You could think of the church as a ship and being turned by the teaching of heaven's forbid, but those who are going to use their tongue to destroy. Now he goes away from the analogies back into the literal, connecting it to the tongue. Even so, the tongue is a little member, just like a bit or a rudder, and boasts great things. See how great a forest a little fire kindles And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. The tongue is so set among our members that it defiles the whole body and sets on fire the course of nature. And it is set on fire by hell. Now the the body there could be twofold. It could be the body as in my tongue is a part of my body, but it could also be set among the body as in like a group of people. Alright, and that could definitely tear through and kill or set on fire a congregation. Now we go on to talk about the the difficulty of getting of domesticating this tongue. For every verse number seven, for every kind of beast and bird, of reptile and creature of the sea is tamed and has been tamed by mankind. But no one can tame the tongue. It is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison. Now he's going to bring up some specific examples here and how the tongue can be used. I've already prepared you for this. And hey, let's think about church life when we're reading this passage, because that's really James' major purpose here, is church life. So we're looking at how the tongue could tear apart a whole community. And don't doubt that. Just because it's little doesn't mean it's not powerful. Promise. Anybody have any experiences with speech and uh the tongue and the language of someone, even though it's a small thing tearing apart large groups of people? Yeah, okay, very good. Me too. So he goes on here to really nail down, yeah, I'm I'm talking about how we treat each other. And he goes on and he says, um, with it we bless our God and Father. And with it we curse men who have been made in the similitude of God. Out of the mouth proceed blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not to be so. Now that's important that he says, he switches here and he says, My brethren, this shouldn't be so. So he's really speaking to the Christian community here. And that's going to show up in how he thinks about them with this analogy that he gives in verse eleven. He says, Does a spring of water, does a spring send forth fresh water And this is very important right here. Make sure you're paying attention to this verse. Does a spring send forth fresh water and bitter water from the same spring? That's very important. Underlying this, there's a lot of the work of the Holy Spirit that should be present within our lives to where coming out of us is going to be a consistent sweet water and we don't want to be gushing forth bitter waters. Now that's interesting, right? Why didn't he say salty water? Salt does preserve, that's one of its things. But if you drink it, you die. So maybe it's a cultural difference? I mean if you drink enough of it, you die. Here the bitter. We're gonna pick up on a theme here where he's gonna use the word bitter in just a little bit again. showing that chapter 3 and chapter 4 are intimately connected. And then he gives another example here. Can a fig tree, my brethren, bear olives or a grapevine bear figs? Thus no spring yields both salt water and fresh. Now, we move into verse number 13, and I don't think we're moving into a totally different domain here. We're now still thinking about how is it that people use their tongues in order to destroy each other or to break or to build them up. We've seen how dangerous the tongue can be in a community. Now we're going to look at the wisdom that would underlie the different uses of the tongue. Beginning in verse 13. Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show by good conduct that his works are done in the meekness of wisdom. Wisdom that shows up in humility. But if you have, here it is again, but if you have bitter envy, see that, and self-seeking in your hearts, do you see the domain we're going into? Conflict starts in the heart. You want to look at what's down, what's what's upstream, is it upstream? What's upstream of that bitter water that's coming out We're seeing that there's something that goes on within the very nature and the heart of humanity, even within the church, that is called bitter envy and self-seeking, and it's in your hearts. Now let's look at that a little bit more more oh I don't have time to look at it more closely. Okay. Who is it that's wise and understanding among you? Let him show by his good conducts that his works are done in the meekness of wisdom Now let's look at what it would look like if you don't do things in wisdom. It's you have bitter envy and self-seeking in your hearts. And don't pretend, don't use words that hide that. That's essentially his point there. Don't boast and lie against the truth. We all see how you act We all know verse 13 of four fifteen. I literally saw a thirteen because my eyes are getting that bad. The wisdom does not descend from above, but is earthly, sensual, and demonic. For where envy and self-seeking exist, confusion and everything evil thing there are. But this wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, willing to yield, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. And then it talks about the fruits and the harvest of the peacemaker. Now let me just ask you a question, and we'll need to end here. We can see in this passage, and I'll try to spend more time on it next week if we have that kind of time, that there's something going on within the heart of man, and out of that heart Is where conflict erupts. That's what the book is arguing. Does it in a little bit of a different way? I just wanted to point this out in James that from the conflict begins in the heart with something called envy and self-seeking. Now did you notice that around that word, envy and self-seeking, Paul wants to give this division between heaven and earth. The and he calls down here earthly. And the earthly stuff, the way that he's talking about it, is going to gush forth these things that are very much like setting a forest on fire and and destroying each other, cursing each other. Has any and and it's coming from self-seeking and envy. Have has anybody seen in the scriptures this division Between the heaven and the earth, or the earthly, and the earth being associated with envy and self-seeking. Has anybody ever seen that pattern before? Okay, how so? Okay, very good. Excellent. So we have a spirit and a flesh division that's matching this one. That's a it's like a pattern we could overlay. Another one? Old Testament. It's a premier one. Speaking of Saul and David, you would get the response. Even more premier than that. Separation of the heavens and the earth. Not exactly. Yes, but before. Earthly and envy together as a pattern against that which is heavenly. Cain and Abel. Cain and Abel. Okay. So I think that's being evoked here, Cain and Abel. And uh there's a little there's a little cane that is inside of us. called the old man. And it's interesting that those lines divide. And this is the and the cane line is the the one that's continually Striking at the church and that which Christ overcomes in us. And I think that's Ken Sandy's main argument is that there is a little cane inside of us that we have to watch out and so watch out for. And so what does that tell us practically speaking? Is that we have got to listen to Jesus Christ and ask the question, is there a log in my eye? Just knowing who we are. Where yeah, that that would be assuming that there is a lock. Yeah. Because we have that part in us. And James will go on to talk about that as even the reason why our prayers are hindered is because we can be praying like Cain. You see that? Okay, so I'll stop there. I would love to keep going on that because that has it's really interesting to me. But I want to leave plenty of room for the role play. So that's what we're gonna do now. So the only point I proved to you today was that conflict starts in the heart and our heart has a little cane in it. Now, Bradley, are you ready for this? I don't know. I don't even know what this is. Yeah. I don't know if I'm ready either. I don't know. Okay. Well we can we can uh sit you wanna sit down there? Sure. Okay. Will everybody be able to see? Yeah, you get that one, I get this one, and we'll see if they conflict. If they do, we'll just pass the mic back and forth. Can you hear me okay? Is this greener? That's green. Okay, cool. Thanks. Another reason to have a run around. I can I see colors. Okay. Oh, let me get my hand up This is a a situation where as if um Brad and I visited a land of very large people that had really large tables that we had to sit across from each other So pretend this is squished together like a cafe. And the the goal of doing the um the The role play is for you all to see how some of these principles play out. We're not professionals here, we're just trying to help you. And help ourselves. So be generous with us. We're going to go through a couple different scenarios, and then after we're done, we're going to do two scenarios. After the first scenario, I'll give you three to four minutes to ask questions about what was he thinking, why did he decide what he wanted to? You could ask me questions. And then we'll go into a different scenario that'll be a little more difficult and maybe get a little bit further along in the four G's that you're reading about. Is that cool? Okay, so the the scene is that we um Bradley has decided that we should get coffee together or um a steak or something. And so we've both just shown up to the restaurant. Hey man, thanks for buying me lunch. Really, really. It's been a week. Oh really? It's been quite a week. Yeah, I was gonna say I'm surprised that you're still hungry given that we just had Thanksgiving. Yeah. Yeah, you know. Yeah, what do you mean you it was just okay? I mean Thanksgiving is supposed to be fun. We had a I had a blast. I it was very I was very thankful. A lot of a lot of giving of thanks. There was uh You know, it it was great. We were with family, it was y you know, you know. Right. How how okay, before we order anything, how long have I known you Uh let's see. Uh it'll be sixteen years on in June. So I'm asking you a question and you're sh you're saying everything went great with your words, but then your intonation is saying Thanksgiving was not great. Look, I man, I just wanted to have lunch. I wasn't really trying to like go into it. It wasn't bad. If I tell you what happened, you're gonna think I'm stupid. It's it's no big deal. Well I think you're stupid anyway. Well then maybe um maybe I'll just tell you, okay? Like I mean everything went great. We we had a fun time. I just You know, sometimes one of my nephews has a little bit of an attitude. And Look, uh do you just want to give let's just order the food and then we can talk about it or do you re you really want to talk about this? I do. Yeah, what do you why don't you just we don't have to talk about it forever, but Uh something. It's really stupid. Uh so we were asked or told or however you want to think about it to bring mac and cheese. Okay. To Thanksgiving. And I mean Ashley makes really great mac and cheese. Where did you have Thanksgiving? And we had it it was down at my brother's house. Giving, we brought our mac and cheese, we did our part, right? And one of my nephews just He had to point out that they had to make mac and cheese because everybody hates Ashley's mac and cheese. And I just thought that was pretty lame. That sounds weird. He said he was glad his mom made her mac and cheese, because nobody likes Ann Ashley's mac and cheese. And that bothered you. Well, it bothered me because her mac and cheese is obviously superior. It has twice as much cheese. How old is your nephew? I think This is the worst question to ask me. He's between the ages of six and seventeen. The exact age is never going to be in my brain. Yeah, so what did you end up doing? I um you know, I w I I think I was a Christian about it. I just um I told him that nobody likes his mom's mac and cheese. And then and that we had to make our own mac and cheese so that w we could No, I didn't I didn't say that. I just kinda Uh I I maybe more sternly than I should have told him that he shouldn't dare to say that around his aunt. And and then, you know, I just kind of when we did the football game I m maybe I hit him a little hard and you know, just to just teach the lesson. Right. So then when I asked you how Thanksgiving was going, obviously you had those things floating around. I'm just wondering, did you f feel proud? No, I didn't. It just it felt like you know, it just felt like more of the same. Usually w we can't really do anything good enough for them, so yeah Just kinda it was a just a damper. I mean it was great, it really was a great Thanksgiving. They made great pies, we got to eat pie. Uh pie is a good thing. We're thankful for pie. Uh-uh. I'm sure it was good that you keep dropping little You we're both in the ministry? I know. And you keep dropping little crumbs on the table that tell me there's like a major there's something brewing I know that we're just going to eat though. So can I just remind you of what we've been doing in the Peacemaker class, even though that's been It might feel a little corny. You can. Yeah, you can do it. That's fine. Um I mean you know the same thing that I do, but if you I have found it helpful seriously, I will get this little thing out and I will read sections just to try to get my heart in the right place. And if I overly hit my nephew possibly six-year-old nephew in a football game. You may want to consider reading it. So can you read the glorify God part? Which one? This one this one right here at the top. Instead of focusing on our own desires or dwelling on what others may do, we will rejoice in the Lord Bring him praise by depending on his forgiveness, wisdom, power, and love as we seek to faithfully obey his commands and maintain a loving, merciful, and forgiving attitude. Okay, if you open if you open up I can already see you're thinking about it, but if you open up the pamphlet real quick, you see the uh chart Uh the little spectrum thing. Yeah. Where do you think you were in terms of your nephew and how you responded? You want me to answer uh literally or um ministerially? I want you to answer actually. Uh uh I believe at one point we got to the assault section. And then sitting with me here today. I think let's see, I was probably That's probably closer to murder. If I'm honest with Mustbell. Just superior to everyone else's mac and cheese. I don't know how to explain it, but I mean I know he's just a kid and it didn't mean anything and Well when I was sitting here with you you didn't even want to talk about it, so it made me wonder if you're like bouncing from assault to uh denial. Maybe really something you need to think about. I just you know, if I look at it too deeply I'm gonna end up finding other stuff that we gotta talk about. I really just wanna have lunch. Fair enough, but given the little bit that we did talk about, what do you think is the Seems to be the most godly I mean I know you want to be a godly person all in all seriousness. What do you think if he had to choose a step on that spectrum, what do you think is the one that fits this scenario? Well uh I mean like honestly. Yes, honestly. If I could go back and do it again, I f I probably should just overlook it. Yeah. I mean And cut. Okay, how do we do on time one? We have uh uh seven and a half minutes. Okay Not bad. So does anybody so I know that's like this is super corny and all that. But yeah you can tell there's like it's cheesy. Yeah. Mac and cheesy. It's mac and cheesy. But you can tell that there's still little pieces of human life in there. There's enough reality, I think, for this to be useful. And the other part that's useful is laughter is good medicine for the soul. So what are some questions that you might have for Brad or for myself in this? What what do you think? Yes, Deborah. This is all fictional. None of this is all fictional, by the way. The only thing true about this scenario is that Ashley's mac and cheese is superior to all other mac and cheese. Um I'm expecting that at the next church. Yes, boo here to go. Okay. So It sound so to me it sounded like there may be some kind of issue with that family. You know. So it wasn't just that. 'Cause for me if I was at think she and a kid said something rude, he was my nephew, I would feel um that I had the authority to tell a nephew, hey that was rude. You should apologize for saying something like that. It you could it it's You can like your mother's type of jeans more than Ann Athlete, that's fine. But it's rude to say it like that. I mean that would be appropriate, which we all probably look for that. So it sounded like maybe there was more. So I mean maybe a never lunch when you buy beer you'll actually use it between your brother. Okay. Yeah, so you're detecting that there might be something I mean, didn't you hear all the little hints he gave you that there's mu there's something much bigger going on in the relationship? You're gonna no let me just start off by saying this. What's what's one reason why we heard that from Brad? Because I actually went into a listening mode. I actually cared about what was going on with him. Now that number one is not I mean that's kind of rare among the human race to find a good listener. So I think that's one of the first things. So I I was giving uh uh intentionally the uh making it try to feel like there was a lot of more depth to what's going on here to show that even in a a really stressful, tense situation where there's a lot of history, sometimes overlooking is really just the best thing to do. And y we don't need to pull in all twenty the past twenty years of wrongs to the six year old nephew who doesn't know how to hold his tongue, kind of thing. But it might indicate that you could privately do some work of forgiveness or something like that. There's the unspoken that the child didn't have a filter, but there was something bigger in it that was going on because it was a factor. family decision from mom his mom to make a second dish. So this wasn't something that the child did. The child just let the cat out of the bag. with the brother and steps in. So you took your anger out in the scenario on the child. Well that not in the moment. That was at the football game when it's appropriate. More than likely Or your brother and sister in law. So but but the scenario was great and I know we didn't have time to get into it deeper, but yeah, you did incredible Jesse just being a real news It's nice for you to bring out how it does connect to the we do see the bigger things that it's going to be connected to. And that's a good way to put it that the kid let the cat out of the bag. You picked up on that that the kid let the cat out of the bag. Why would you still overlook in a scenario like that? What what is your calculus or decision-making process for what you're gonna overlook? You even personally, go ahead. Sometimes it's better to be cheated or wronged than to have to bring it all up. Um and just so you know, a lot of you guys know my sister in law and my brother. So this is absolutely not a real scenario. Just so everybody's clear. The idea is that we don't have to pull the entire history we have with the human being into every encounter with them When we do that, we can kind of baptize our own presumptions and think, hey, we we really get this person. We know them because twenty-two years ago, do you remember what they said And I know everything's been done surface level fine since then, but it really just reveals that i I'm the one who hasn't let it go something if that little bit is what's going on and going surface level Yeah, and did you have other goals that would have been destroyed if you were to have pursued it? I didn't go that far in the backstory, so I don't know. But like in real life, yeah. But sometimes you Sometimes you take a lot of punches so you can give somebody a hug. Okay. Or if you go back to James, I think one of the primary W if I uh so in my position I try to study leadership, particularly of those who have been successful pastors. Who have who has made it to the end without Suicide, adultery, uh extortion, all of those various things. And um They tend to be people who know what the most important thing is. So then they overlook a number of things because if they pursued it, it wouldn't advance at all. or very little the most important things. So most l successful pastors do are wronged regularly And they don't pursue it because what's more important to them is the health of the congregation. I thought it was helpful or good for me to see on the chart. How in one scenario, in one story, he went from this side, assault, to this side, denial. Now it happened But at a different time, it was immediately assault and murder. But then later when it came to revealing or talking about what was going on, no, it's immediately For his uh protection, he stopped getting into denial andor almost flight because it seemed like if you kept pushing, he was gonna say, Okay, forget it, I don't want to do lunch. I gotta go. Um but it was interesting to see how it went from there to there. And to see how it really could. And skipped over the middle part, all the good parts. That's all the good stuff. You ready? Uh uh it's up to you. You're the boss. Yeah, why don't we why don't we why don't we pick up the same one? Otherwise we're not gonna have time. Okay. Is that okay? Sure. Okay. Alright, so you had this. Oh yeah. So stick with me. So you're saying that you Should overlook, that's fine. I think so. Yeah. Yeah. And that m makes sense to me. I mean you you want to look overlook so bad at right now and I think that's part of why you just want to get a meal I I'd like to just overlook this. It wasn't that big of a deal. There's no reason to pursue it. Um could you do me a favor though and look at the second G Just into it says there's the peacemaker pledge in there. And the only reason why I'm bringing this up is because you have told me multiple times how you want to grow as a man and as a pastor. So I'm gonna ask that you would uh read the second G also. Let's uh get the log out? Yeah Instead of blaming others for a conflict or resisting correction, we will trust in God's mercy and take responsibility for our own contribution to conflicts. Confessing our sins to those we've wronged, asking God to help us change any attitudes and habits we lead, habits that lead to conflict, and seeking to repair any harm we've caused. Yes, and when you read that, is there anything that you think is applicable to that scenario? Even if you and I are just Trying to live holy lives and you never talk to your nephew again about it. Do you see anything in there that the Lord was revealing to you as an opportunity so you could grow? I mean I know I know it wasn't my nephew. He's Got some ways of saying things that he'll grow out of, I'm sure. You know. You know how they are when they're six to seventeen. Yeah. The uh I think honestly, I really think I need to I probably should talk to my brother. It's been a long time. There might be something going on that I'm You know, it might have even been harmless. Like now that I think about it, my nephew probably didn't say everybody hates Aunt Ashley's mac and cheese. I think You know, I'm I mean, i she does use a lot of cheese and really sharp cheddar cheese and that's what makes it the best. But I don't I don't think they're really keen on that. So you know, it and it's You're saying to me they don't the reason why they made the other mac and cheese is because they're not fans of sharp cheddar? I well, yeah honestly, I who cares? All the mac and cheese got eaten of both kinds. So it's not like Okay. I mean her mac and cheese is is pretty good. I ate some of it also. It's just I just don't like it when they let their kids do this kind of stuff It's really annoying. It gets old and every family thing there's always something and I don't know. Maybe I should stop telling Gabriel to insult their cooking. Probably the best course. Right, but you you flipped there and you were focused again on how they were contributing to the situation. Do you let me just ask you a quick question Do you agree that Jesus asks us before we focus on other people to look at the log in our eyes? Yeah, of course. Okay, so then so then what is it? I'm not sure why you're playing around with me. What do you mean? What is the log in your eye Is there one? Uh I I'll have to have a lot of people. Oh, I mean I I I definitely talked up that mac and cheese. And we all know just how good it is and I probably was looking for an excuse to hit somebody really hard at a football game. I uh you know, there's lots going on. Well what's going on with your brother y you first mentioned? Yeah, I mean there's just been some over the past, I mean there's just been a lot, you know. What would be an example? Well like I don't know. I mean he's much older than me and I think I still kinda hold against him that he got all the best stuff. I'm not even joking. Like he got all the best stuff. I everything I have is a hand-me down from him. And it just I don't know. I just wanted to have the best mac and cheese. I needed him to just stop being able to have the best of everything. And I you know, it's it's not a it's not an end of the world kind of thing, but I it might be just this competition I've had with my brother. Um I might need to just find a way to either let it go or talk to him about it or it's probably probably that. It's probably the competition thing. I mean really Mm. It's harmless. I love the situation. I love the um translation called the message where it says, and then Cain was in competition with Abel. I think we're gonna have to stop lunch if you're quoting the message of me. I think it's time to go back to work. My point is is that's a terrible translation. It doesn't say competition. It's like a secular way of putting it. Okay. So would you say it's just competition or it's it's probably jealousy, competition. Um You know, he never had the he never got punished like I did. But then I I mean he never screwed up like I did. So I get it. I understand, but Well how would you say your jealousy is starting to to show up in your relationship with your brother? I really think it's starting to go to our children. I I can't help but think, you know, I've I've done a much better job with my kids than he's done with his. So I think maybe I need to stop having so much pride in the things that I I think are different. And and he's a Christian. They're Christians. I need to love them like Christ loves them. Um well w since you brought up the message, I'm gonna I got this meeting that I've gotta discuss with Alright, so we'll stop there. So good job, Brad. Again, again, not real. Not real scenarios. Um w was there any observations that you want to make on the ho the scenario? What came to your mind? What did you pay attention to? um obligation to apologize for any part of the I don't I don't even think in this scenario that I would need to. In my experience, if the per if the person is walking strongly with Christ, he's going to think about this on the way home And he's probably going to figure out what he he's probably going to go home and talk to Ashley and they're going to need to probably figure out what to do But at least we can stop ignoring the thing. We can yeah. They're gonna start picking up on it. And he was he was leading us into this is trickling down in the ways that the boys are thinking about the other family and we've got generational stuff going on now. Which is pretty wild. I'd better tell Gabriel to stop pigeon. As a parent. And we'll wew uh if we'll shut that down in a heartbeat and then our own kid somebody says, You know what they did? And you my little angel never Would criticize cooking. Never. So I like that that's good. Yeah. So I was just telling you that I I try to be patient and let the Holy I know the Holy Spirit works all the time I don't feel like I need to be the closer with him. If he brought it up again with me and I saw he wasn't doing anything about it, I may bring it up again. But my hope is that it would just be taken care of. In the general cow conflict starts in the heart. And I feel in my own experience, ninety-nine point nine percent of any conflict I have with another person, usually family members is some kind of her past history in my heart that I haven't let go of. Yeah. So I'm reacting. Yeah. So he went back to like probably four years old. Yeah Seriously. That's what and that's amazing. And that's what that's true to life. For sure. And it did and he did admit that it came out of the heart 'cause he mentioned the jealousy thing. So it immediately brought us into Cain and Abel. Two brothers. When I get angry point always because it's perceived. And and w when we're sensitive to that because we're looking at somebody expecting them to treat us the way they've always treated us. We almost it's like self-fulfilling prophecy. Like they are going to be rude to me. I know it, they're always rude to me. Did you hear how rude they were to me? And somebody else says, what? That was a harmless comment. That wasn't rude at all. Yeah. So there's a there's a pretty complex web and lens going on here. Let me just ask you this. What opportunities is the Lord giving Bradley in this scenario that he would not have had if he hadn't thought like this What are some of the opportunities? Conflict provides opportunity. What are some of the ones for him in this fictional piece? Yes. Um well he's been hunting on to um some difficulties in the relationship. That had between that with him for growing. Um so he has the opportunity to be free of Some thoughts and attitudes that would have been oppressing him. Okay. Coloring his framework. So he's gonna grow. And that'll benefit him in his job, definitely. Okay. Anything else? Yes. Forgive this small offense. It would um or maybe I should say when we're in conflict and recognize that we are hard hearted towards forgiving a small offense, that's probably the red flag that there is something that we need to confess. And by trying to keep a hard heart towards that person, it's also trying to mask his cover up. That you have something there. And so we're like, well just keep up the wall against them because Yeah, and that's a good the picture there is just he's showing the tip of the iceberg and the more we talk he reveals. Two-thirds of it is below there and it's actually keeping him from having a the best possible relationship with his brother. He and his brother are gonna have to come to terms on this, or he's gonna have to just forgive Yes. Last one. Not thinking of in this scenario, but like to think through that God has ordained that he be the second child and get the human being down. that that was it's almost like switching our our thoughts to, you know, God has brought me to this point, God blessed me instead of the jealousy that eats us up inside. And a lot of times those things are things we can do independent of the other person because that's a heart change of accepting God's will. Yeah. And relations where we are. Yeah, that's very good. Very good. All right, so when we're looking at the book, the book is structured around the four Gs We've already been through the chapter on glorify God. When Brad was reading that section, he got it got him thinking and reorienting Did you find that to be true? It reoriented him. Then we went into the second chi, which is get the log out of your own eye. Even in this, you were able to see that at the root Is of our conflicts are often um things going on in our own hearts that aren't being dealt with. And that conflict really does provide you with a Tru w the Lord through conflict provides you with a tremendous amount of opportunities. He's going to be able to grow as a person. He's going to be able to glorify God and show the world what God is making in this world and people and he's gonna have uh a relationship with his brother. His brother, and once they get into this, his brother might have something to learn here His brother might need to be checked a little bit. Might need to learn about what good mac and cheese really tastes like. So hopefully that's helpful in illustrating what we're getting at in the book. So thanks for your attention. And do you want to close us in prayer? Sure. Thanks. Almighty God, we thank you that you have every second of our own personal history planned out. You know every bit of who we are and who you want us to be. And I thank you, Lord, that you have given us your spirit as our helper to guide us into the truth and to show us our own faults. I pray, Lord, that you will continue to use the peacemaking book and all of this attention that we are giving to it That you will use this to bring greater health to this congregation. I pray, Lord, that you will bless us with honesty, with ourselves and with others. And especially, Lord, when we find ourselves in conflict, that you will, by your spirit, recall to our mind the scriptures that we've read and the the principles we've learned, that we can bring you the greater glory even through our difficulties and our challenging situations. Oh God, it is so marvelous to know that you do not change, that you are full of mercy and compassion, and to know that the first act of Overlooking and forgiving that we have experienced is from you saving us from the wretched sin that we have committed and that we live in and if we're honest that we love. I pray, Lord, that you will bless each and every one of us to be able to see our own selves and our own sin rightly and to rest on you and the unchanging never-ending, unfailing grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. Please, God, help us now as we prepare ourselves and our hearts to worship you, that you will let us see Christ clearly in this Time of celebration and joy that we have ahead of us. Bless us, Lord, and we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Amen