Given us wherein we may uh reflect upon you and what you're doing with us and with this world, all for your glory. Uh you've given us many things today, uh fellowship and uh all of the parts of the worship service and even this this Sunday school that we can be strengthened to continue our pilgrimage. I pray, Lord, that you would use the teachings and every other part today to those ends of strength, and that our strength would result in rejoicing in you. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Okay. Well, we are continuing in the Peacemaker Sunday School class. And that is, these are lectures that are based off of, but not exactly the same, of the Peacemaker book, A Biblical Guide to Resolving Personal Conflict by Ken Sandy. I also use this often in the class, so you'll want to have like a little pamphlet. I think we have them in a basket somewhere or on the backs in the back. I often refer to that for you to become familiar with that pamphlet. Today I'm going to begin with telling you your homework for next week. Then we're going to have a brief review of what we discussed last week, and then we'll move into our lesson this week, which will be Finalizing the section on glorified God and moving into the section on get the log out of your own eye So let's start with just our homework assignment. So for next week, we meet on 11. 3. And you are required to read pages 100 through 138 And please answer the questions at the back. Let me just double check that I did not mess something up. So 100, so conflict starts in the heart, chapter 5 or section five, all the way to one thirty-eight. And that will the questions will start on one thirty-six And 137 and then 138 is blank. Okay, so the homework is if you have the book and if you have the page numbers, it's pages 100 through 138. If you have the Kindle version then know that you're reading Conflict Starts in the Heart. You're going to continue reading Confession Brings Freedom. And you answer the questions at the end of Confession Brings Freedom. Alright, so that's for next Sunday. Now, let's go ahead and Uh review from last week. Let's see where I am in my notes here. Okay. That's ten thirteen. Ten twenty. Okay. Okay, I think we're in good shape. Okay, so last week, just to remind you, we we if you look at your your pamphlet The way that the book is structured is that it's really working you through the four Gs So glorify God, get the log out of your own eye, gently restore, and go and be reconciled. That's how they're summarizing The basics of personal conflict resolution. And these also are in order. Alrighty? So last week we were still on Glorify God And we'll continue on that a little bit this week. And the main um the ma uh the first main point from last week was that Contrary to our initial or default responses, conflict for the Christian is actually an opportunity. That's quite different than how we usually see conflicts. We see conflicts as something to fight. We see conflicts as something to run away from. And hardly we don't often see it as an opportunity under the sovereign hand of God to exercise stewardship and some other things. Well, what kind of opportunities Does conflict provide? Well, one, it gives you the opportunity to glorify God. Two, it gives you the opportunity to serve other people. You get to help them solve their problems, you get to help them carry their burdens, you get to see where they need to change, and then you get to help them to change under the superintendence of the spirit. And you can encourage others to trust Christ. You also, besides glorifying God and serving others, another opportunity is that you get to grow to be like Christ yourself. Your own sin is exposed, where you can then leave darkness and go to light. You can be established in maturity, and through adversity, the Lord builds character. And um and that was last week. Okay, so then for this week we're continuing with glorify God And uh the point that was made in the the first section that you had to read was that in conflict it's quite important That we trust in God. So I want to talk about that just for a little bit. That in conflict, it is very important that we're trusting in the Lord. For those who don't trust in God, That becomes impossible. And you could think about trusting in the Lord on a spectrum. So because there is a maturation process within the Christian life, There is upon confession of our sins, repentance, and the exercise of faith in Jesus Christ as our Savior From that moment forward, there's a maturation process where we are growing more and more to trust in the Lord. So that means that there's different levels of trust throughout the congregation, and there's different levels of trust in you from one era of your life to the next era of your life. And what you will find, if you reflect on your experience, is that insofar as you trust in the Lord, you are able to more maturely handle conflicts. There's some integral or important connection between trusting in God and conflict. Now to prove this to you, or at least to consider the question with you of of what's before us, I want us to turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. I want to talk about this verse a little bit with you. I have a lot to cover, so I don't know how much I'll be calling on you today, but I'll try to do that. But there's just a ton to cover. So in- let's take a look at 1 Corinthians 6. I want you to see what's going on here in this situation. And then I want you to see a response that Paul recommends that the Corinthians take. And then I want to ask the question, how in the world could a person be in the right spirit to even offer that response? I mean it's wild what he says Uh I very rarely would hear somebody give this recommendation that he says in First Corinthians six. It's pr it's wild. Paul's a wild guy. Okay, so let's take a look at First Corinthians chapter six. Does anybody know, just for the sake of context Does anybody know what happened in 1 Corinthians 5? I'm expecting a bunch of women to raise their hands because they study 1 Corinthians not too long ago. Let's see how retention is going Anybody know? You can also look at the headings in your scriptures. Does anybody know what happens in First Corinthians 5? It's a famous case. Raquel, what are you saying to me? Yeah, case of incest. Okay. All right. And um And then if you were to back up and and go even to a broader context, you'd find that this letter is largely Paul responding to different reports that he has received from members of this church. And one of the reports that he's received is that there's There's an incestuous relationship that has taken place and they haven't done anything about it. So Here he is correcting them in number five. And then when we get into chapter six, there's another case that he is dealing with wherein They are taking each other to small claims court. Okay? So let's take a look at chapter six. I'll go ahead and read it and then we'll discuss it briefly. Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to law before the unrighteous and not before the saints? Do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world will be judged by you, are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters? Do you not know that we shall judge angels? How much more things that pertain to this life If you then have judgments concerning things pertaining to this life, do you appoint those who are least esteemed by the church to judge? I say this to your shame. Is it so that there is not a wise man among you, not even one who will be able to judge between his brothers? But brother goes to law against brother, and that before unbelievers. Now let's go ahead and stop there. Could somebody go ahead and tell me in your own words What is Paul's message to the church given this particular case? What are the main issues that he's arguing? Yes. The church should judge their own. Okay. Could you or someone else flesh that out a little bit on what that might look like? Judging the angels. Okay. Um and God views us capable of judging. It seems like God views us as capable of judging more wisely than others, but it's all Okay. Okay, so that so that's a pretty good way to summarize that. And and what Paul is doing right there up front is he's giving in the classical classical world or if you study classical rhetoric He's offering an argument from the stronger. So, and I'm and that has a Latin name, and I do not I'm just not in the mood to speak Latin this morning. Everybody gets repulsed when I do it anyway So hold on one second. So the so the argument from the stronger is that if you're if this is what awaits you in the end, that you will in fact judge angels How much more should you then be able to judge these smaller matters that are happening among you? What do you think what would be some of the examples of smaller matters that happen among uh a church that also lives in the same town or or city. So they're not you know they don't have suburban sprawl. Okay, they have they're together. So what are some of the things you think would come up Anybody have any ideas? Property damage. Okay, property damage. Can you think of something? You lend a tool to your neighbor, your friend, fellow broke believer, and uh you returned it And it broke it back. Yeah, there you go. So whatever the version of the ancient shovel looked like, you let your buddy borrow it. Yeah, he knocked on the door and he said, Hey, I'm just I'm in a jam, I need a shovel, and then He says it's in the shed or whatever and he goes over, gets the shovel, and then comes back two weeks later. and uh the shovels broken in half or his dog ate it or whatever whatever it is and and now because it's not easy to purchase another shovel they're now in a disagreement with each other And when we get into disagreements like this, we escalate and elevate to where, well, I needed this shovel because I own a company that uses shovels, so now you've broken my tool That is a part of my business that allows me to put food within the uh mouth of my family and my wife is very upset and we were we were tight on bills anyway and now my company is gonna collapse And I have you know my parents are gonna have to move in because they're getting older and now I'm not gonna be able to take care of them and And the other person has their own story. And now they're not agreeing with each other. They're not going to the church to resolve the dispute. Instead, they're literally taking each other to small claims court or the version of it within that particular culture and setting it before their judgment seat to judge. So I think that paints the picture of what we have. Michelle, were you going to say something Um just along those lines, I'm just um thinking about what Elaine said is I always think about Matthew eighteen. Uh huh. That's them. If they don't, then we go to take two and then but I think about how that looks in today's world. It would be like meeting with the pastor and then meeting with the elders and And they were meeting with the session, like instead of going to court, flushing it out with like church discipline and things like that. Yeah, church discipline or things like that. Can anybody think of where we find um moments where the church judges matters? Besides Matthew eighteen. Yeah, within Deuteronomy. Okay. Yeah, and then there's a there's a very famous example where Jethro, Moses' uh brother-in-law, is uh yeah, he he sees that Moses father-in-law, you're right, father-in-law, sees that Moses is doesn't have this uh dispute resolution set up just right and so he tells him why don't you judge the hard cases And then we all the others know the the law, let them judge the easier cases and spread out the workload among Israel. Alright, so I think that's be that's behind Paul's thinking here is that the church has always from the beginning had things set up to where they could arbitrate disputes. Okay. So I think we get the picture. Now I've taken you all the way through Um number six, and you can see that there's a further emphasis because this is done before unbelievers. And that could be in two ways. One, oftentimes the court of the unbeliever has uh an inj injustice uh elevating the rich, uh continuing to oppress the poor. Their laws themselves are not as good Right, we're not good at all. And then also if you can't resolve your dispute though you claim to be a follower of Jesus Christ, what does it say about your king that you act like this, particularly if it's petty Right. So what does it say about your king that you act this way? You're his follower and you end up being a reflection of him. that he doesn't know how to how to do things well with his people. So then let's go on now in the story here in verse number seven. Now therefore it is already an utter failure for you that you go to law against one another. Why and here's the here's that next part that I wanted you to see. Imagine walking into the pastor's office and he and you tell him the dispute And then they give you this as a possible solution. Look at what it says. It says, why do you not rather accept wrong? That's wild, right? Does that surprise anybody? Why don't you just why can't you ex or why do you not rather let yourselves be cheated? Man, if you walked into my office and told me a dispute, and then I said, well why don't you just let yourself be cheated, you'd say, where did they put Brad's office? Because I'm going to go talk to him. And then Brad would say, well why don't you just let yourself be wrong? And then you're like, man, there's other EP churches in the area. They all have this thank you, Tate. Thank you. So if they had coffee with you, you'd encourage them to stay. Yeah, okay. Very good. Yeah. So now just to to make sense of that, why do you think Paul gives that as an option? Let's see how you are with your moral reasoning. Yes. You have to think about cost not just there but the cost down the line with what she was explaining before, my wife and his and my job. So what is the value that you place on everything else that can keep that that keep that quite up as opposed to just accepting. Ah man that's re that was good Trish. So Trish is essentially saying you've got to count the costs. It's very important to count the costs. And when you do, you may find I'm just gonna be cheated. Okay. Did somebody else have something, Raquel? relationship is that cost of relationship told to you know maybe a couple thousand dollars that worth it you know oh okay Alright, very good. So you could count the costs, and sometimes when you do count the costs, you find it's not worth it to pursue this, even though I'm going to be disadvantaged in the end in terms of money or whatever. But sometimes relationships Or communities are more important than the thousand bucks I would get back. Is that fair? Is that what you're saying? Is there a third third explanation for how Paul could give such advice? Yes, yeah. Um I would I would just say it was an opportunity for them to identify with Christ and be forgiving even though they really weren't forgiving They were taken advantage of. Okay, very good. So then you're leaning on that that lesson from last week that hey if we look at this as an opportunity then maybe this isn't maybe the m the best opportunity isn't for me to be repaid the thousand dollars. Maybe the best opportunity is for me to demonstrate the forgiveness of Jesus Christ and how I decide to deal with my brother or my sister. Because this is a conflict that's happening in the church. This isn't between those in the church and out of the church. Okay, those are some good options. And we have two key concepts that have naturally arisen within such wise people as yourselves. And that is, we're going to ask the question, is this worth fighting over? And we're going to also ask the question, well, is there are there other opportunities here besides vindication? So I think those are really great questions to be able to solve it. Okay. So That's 1 Corinthians six. I think we understand the situation, and then there's a surprising response that the apostle gives. And he continues, I'll just finish up this passage. Take a look at verse 8. Now you yourselves do wrong and cheat, and you do these things to your brethren. Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor homosexuals. Nor sodomites, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners will inherit the kingdom of God. Right? And then he's going to in verse eleven remind them of what has happened, that they're no longer those in that group. And such were some of you, past tense, but you were washed. But you were sanctified, or you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. Okay, very good. So that then is um The first part of what I wanted to work with you on, which was a continuation of Glorify God, I wanted to look at 1 Corinthians 6, and the main thing I wanted you to see. was Paul's pastoral counsel, which is why not rather accept wrong or why don't you just let yourself be cheated? And we can see why he would say something like that But here's the main question that I want to raise in the face of this pastoral counsel that he gives. How can you have a mentality where you would let yourself be cheated. I mean we're sitting here in kind of like the laboratory Emotions aren't running high. I mean I'm not really that interesting. You're not emotionally engaged right now. We're not in the middle of a conflict with each other. But if you were And you had ramped it up in your head, then this would be a very difficult pastoral counsel to you for me to say to you, why don't you just let yourself in this case be wronged? So then when you're in those kinds of situations where you actually feel engaged with the matter, how is it that you could ever let yourself be wronged? Does anybody here have a problem ever struggle with letting themselves be wronged? Oh, there's laughter. Okay, that's good. That means that we have a we have consent here. We're unanimous Okay. Yeah, so we have trouble um letting ourselves be wronged as an option. So I want to answer the question, how can you have this mentality of letting yourself be cheated or wronged. Not to be wronged in and of itself. We're not becoming martyrs just for the sake of becoming martyrs. But it ends up being an option where we would give up our rights. So let's take a look at a few scriptures that could help us to see how we could have such a mentality by looking at others who had this mentality. So I want to begin by looking at Hebrews chapter thirteen, verses fifteen through sixteen. Yeah, her Hebrews thirteen, fifteen through sixteen. Therefore, by him let us continually offer the sacrifice of praise, that is the fruit of our lips. giving thanks to his name. But do not forget to do good and to share, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. So I think it's interesting that the category under which Paul puts doing good and sharing Are considered types of sacrifices to God. Now, if you were to look at the larger context that's going on here, There are difficult situations that this group of people are facing. And one of the solutions is that they're going to need to make sacrifices for each other by doing good and sharing. Now I'm not really making the argument that we should look at letting ourselves be wronged as an act of sharing, but I am looking at it under the category of something that we would do that is good And that it is a kind of sacrifice. And I think the the primary motivator for you this morning should be that last part within the verse. God is well pleased. I mean, what could be of greater motivation than to know that if you're making sacrifices for the good of other people and the good of the community? That God is well pleased with you. That's a m and that's why we get up in the morning, I hope Okay, so that's the first one I wanted you to see. That's a kind of argument for it. Is this the strongest argument? I don't think so. Let's take a look at James chapter 5 Um, Nick I think I'm like ringing or something. You hear that? Or do I have dog ears where I can just hear real high pitched stuff? James five, seven through eight. This the starting verse here is therefore be patient. Or you could translate it, therefore be long suffering. Could somebody tell me why Paul starts this section off this way? Therefore be long suffering? What is happening to where he's going to have to say this to people? Also very difficult to receive pastoral counsel like this. Okay, well let's be long suffering. What's going on? Anyone uh Christina? The rich in the community are oppressing the poor in the community. Do you remember specifically how they're accomplishing the oppression? I think there are things like on outside of Sunday, but then on Sunday, they're coming in with all of these lavish clothing specific places And all these extra things to show their status. And those with lower status are not allowed to enter into that sort of Yeah, if you have a if you're lower socioeconomically, it's difficult to get a good seat. Yeah. That would be like a summary, I think, of the beginning chapters of James. And then what about uh the the chapters that are more closely related to this? What specifically is the instrument of Of the injustice. Let's say it that way. What specifically is the instrument or mechanism of the injustice? Tate. They withheld wages. So you're going out to work. And then instead of getting paid, they're withholding your wages so that you're not able to meet the the daily things that you need. So then in this particular situation, James as a pastor is going to help them to see help that help those who are being treated unjustly, help them to see how they should see their situation, how they should think about it, how to arrange their psyche. And look at what he ends up saying. The first thing he says is that you are to be long-suffering, brethren. And then he says something further, until the coming of the Lord. So then he continues and he gives a an analogy between the long suffering that it takes to wait on the Lord and the long suffering of the farmer to wait on the harvest. So he says, see how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, waiting patiently for it until it receives the early and the latter rain. You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. And um that is the advice that he gives them in that particular situation. So one of the takeaways that you could have in asking the question How can you, when we look to the scriptures with this question in our mind, how can I have the mentality of being treated unjustly and being wronged or cheated? One answer would be W well the Lord considers my sacrifice good. It's pleasing to him. Two I'm going to be vindicated in the end when the Lord returns. He'll take up my case. That's a that's what he says here. So I'm going to wait for the the earlier and the latter rains. Now I do think it's true that ultimately justice will be established and all the world will be made right in everything in the second advent of Jesus Christ. But I also have a theology that says that Jesus Christ's injustice is continually throughout time interrupting injustice. So you may not have to wait all the way to the end to be vindicated. You may find that God in his providence vindicates you in a smaller way before the end. I'm sure you've had some experiences like that in your life where you've been vindicated. Okay, so that was uh another argument is James 5, 7 through 8 on how is it that we could have a mentality where we could be wronged. Now let's go ahead and take a look at 1 Peter chapter 2, 18 through 25 This is my third argument, and this is in the context of a servant who has a harsh master. He says here in 218, again, this is pastoral casuistry or counsel Servants, be submissive to your masters with all fear, not only the good and gentle, but also to the harsh. For this is commendable if because of conscience toward God one endures grief, suffering wrongfully. For what credit is it if when you are beaten for your fault you take it patiently? But when you do good and suffer, if you take it patiently, this is commendable before God. Very similar thought to the Hebrews 13 version. Now, let's keep going. For to this you were called So that four tells you, let me give you the theology behind the statement that I just made that this is commendable before God for you to be wronged. In this specific way. For to this you were called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow his steps. Now here's the example. The example of Jesus Christ is salient because Christ did nothing wrong. And yet he was treated harshly. So then the question is, how is it that Jesus allowed himself to be wronged? What were the motives? What was the structure that was going on inside of him to allow such a thing to happen? And here we see a quote. In verse 22, who committed no sin, nor was deceit found in his mouth. Who, when he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten. And then here's the key theology. But he committed himself to him who judges righteously. What do you think that means? He committed he committed um himself to him who judges righteously. Please put that into your own words. Help me help me see what Paul, what Peter is saying here. Can anybody do it? Brad. I didn't see your hand. Vengeance is mine, but I guess the Lord. Okay. So Peter is bringing home to this particular situation An understanding that has been among the people of God for a long time and the understanding is this. Justice is mine, says the Lord. Or vindication is mine, says the Lord. Is that your message? Vengeance. Or vengeance is mine, says the Lord. Very good. Okay. Anything else that anyone else want to offer? How we how you would put this in your own words How would you put this teaching of Peter in your own words? Very important for you to process it yourself and put it in your own words. Uh I I'm more and more the line for I'm putting my my life in the Lord's hands. Okay. So that if I'm I'm judging those people that are being wrong in me. But I can't be that judge because there's a high Okay. And I love what you said right there. I love the everything you said. Right? But there's something uh something that summarized it very well, which is I'm putting my life in the Lord's hands That's another way to to get at what Brad is saying. It's at least an aspect of what Brad was saying. Roger. Good to do it pointing to Christ. Yeah. And and that you know, we know we have a death we can't say. He can't. And so there's but we're called to be drunk in what Middle West Ways that we can't. Yeah. And that's a way when we forgive to others. You know, it's like Christ did for us. Yes. Very good. So Christ permitted himself to be wronged and he had in his mind that he committed he says here that he committed himself to him who judges righteously. And let me just ask you Uh what proof do you have that it was wise for Christ to commit himself to him who judges righteously? The resurrection. The resurrection is the answer to that. And is there any teaching in Scripture saying that you likewise will be vindicated? There is. There is a there is uh not only is there a general resurrection where everyone will be resurrected, but there will also be uh within that resurrection where we are announced as justified and liberated and vindicated, and that it was especially true to those who were dying for their faith during this time So you'll notice in the letters and in the book of Revelation that it that there's a continual message to the martyrs, you're going to be vindicated. The Lord is aware of the blood that you shed. He knows that the blood of Abel cries from the ground. He's not ignoring it. We just need to wait. And you need to commit yourself. Okay, so then that's another part of the the mentality that you would need to have in order to be wronged. So we've gone from Hebrews 13, where we would be motivated because we know that our sacrifice is to do good to community and others are pleasing to the Lord. We look at James 5, 7 through 8, where we know that we put our trust in the Lord to make things right. The judge sees And then in 1 Peter 2, we are called to be like Christ, who permitted himself to be wronged. committing himself to him who judges righteously, and therefore we also should be committing ourselves to him who judges righteously. knowing that vengeance is mine, says the Lord. Now there's one other one I want to give to you, and that is Hebrews 12, 11 through 15. Now before we read this, I want to bring something to your attention. I'm going to raise another question for you, and I want you to answer this in your own mind or if you feel like yelling it out, whatever. Hebrews chapter 13, 15 through 16, we look that up. James five, seven through eight, we look that up. First Peter two, eighteen through twenty-five, we look that up. What do they all have in common as the answer? How can you have the mentality of being wronged or cheated? What do they all have in common as the solution? They all have in common that you must trust in God. I mean that's the solution for every one of them as he's saying, well you're gonna have to tr entrust yourself to God. If you want, go back and look at those passages. You're going to need to entrust yourself to God. But Hebrews has a the scent of the same thing because you're doing it because you think God is pleased by it and you're entrusting yourself to his judgment. Now, having said that, let's look at Hebrews 12, 11 through 15. Everyone here is, I imagine, familiar with this passage. Okay. Now, no chastening seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterwards it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness. to those who have been trained by it. Therefore, strengthen the hands which hang down and the feeble knees And make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed Now we usually stop there, but I want to continue on so that you can see a little bit of the context of this exhortation. Pursue peace with all people And holiness, without which no one will see the Lord, looking carefully lest anyone fall short of the grace of God Lest any root of bitterness springing up cause trouble, and by this many become defiled. So I find it interesting that if you were to if you were to put up a whiteboard and you drew a big yellow dot Uh yellow, no. Uh a blue dot, because you can see that better. A blue dot on the whiteboard, and then above that blue dot you wrote the chastening of the Lord. And then if you draw a red dot and you wrote above that conflict, you would find both of those dots here within that passage. You would in fact see that the Lord is chastening those whom he loves, that we are to strengthen our hands and our knees And then it goes on to talk about the specific ways in which we should be conducting ourselves during these times, which is And this is the the red dot, that we are to pursue peace, and then the contrary is do not let bitterness reside within your soul. So sometimes we don't connect the dots in other words in these particular passages. And I think it ends up bringing out that there is an association And what the Lord is accomplishing in the chastening. I think that in the chastening, number one, that chastening can happen through interpersonal and communal conflicts. And the way that you would strengthen your hands which hang down is to not become consumed particularly in bitterness. I understand that you could talk about this even more broadly. There's lots of ways to buttress oneself in the Lord. But one specific way is that you're not going to become consumed with bitterness toward each other, but instead you are going to pursue peace with all people and holiness without which no one will see the Lord. So it ends up being that the discipline of the Lord is an opportunity Helping you to grow in how you're going to work through specific conflicts with individuals within the community, how you will end up becoming stronger. Now, what underlies that? You can now say to yourself, try to stay with me here. This is a complex thought. Let me try to put it real simply what I'm trying to say that this passage is one part of its teaching. We can have hope in the midst of the chastening of the Lord, particularly when that chastening is interpersonal and communal conflicts. We can have hope in the Lord because we see the great work that the Lord is doing in each one of us. But this is another way of me just saying to you that you're gonna need to trust in the Lord. Because if you see all of these different different ways in which you're being afflicted, if you don't believe that the Lord is behind all of those things and has good purposes for them, then I think you're just going to freak out. So again, what we end up finding lurking underneath of these passages is again, we must trust in the Lord. He's using your interpersonal and communal conflicts in order to accomplish righteousness in you, which looks like being a peacemaker. If we connect the dots of these particular passages. But we must trust in the Lord and the processes that He chooses in order to sanctify us. So that's the main section now on trust in the Lord. And I began the whole lecture saying to you that when we begin our conflicts, our default mode is not trust in the Lord. But then as we are matured in the faith and we grow in trust, we become more and more capable to be able to handle conflicts well. And you can see then You can see to where if you really trust the Lord, you could even have the option for yourself to be cheated and to be treated wrongfully and to not seek immediate justice or retaliation. So I hope that that helps you to see how important trusting in the Lord is. And that this in the book falls under the category of glorifying God. And I'll just end this part of the lecture with this statement. In my own experience And I would like you to check your experience some other time. Just register your conscience and your experiences. It seems to me that the primary thing that God is doing with his people is he's just trying to get you to trust him. When I look at the most difficult situations that the people of God have faced, particularly like in the situation of lamentations And you should remember that because I as a rookie did an advent on Ladmentations, which was one of the worst decisions I've ever made. Golly, you all are so gracious to your pastors. Man, I was just reflecting on this earlier with Nick. I was like, I still cannot believe I did a an a Lamentations Advent. Man, that's great. It's like having a nice meal in a dumpster. Okay. So What was I saying? Okay, so if you look at the harshest moments of the life of the people of God, and we could go ahead and go all the way to Lamentations we end up finding that the ultimate conclusion that is to be drawn is that the just shall live by faith. And that could be, you could rephrase it and you could say, those who are justified and are the people of God, they shall live by trust in the Lord. And that's what you end up seeing in all of the stories, is that we're all just trying to figure out how to trust God, and that's what the Holy Spirit is working on with us, with every single one of you. He's seeking to move you into a place where you trust God more and more and more. And when we look at Christ, we see the one who trusted God to the end. Never didn't trust him. It's beautiful. That's the image. It's the image of God is the trust him. Okay. Now did I see yes, Christina. So sometimes I and maybe in immaturity, it can be easy to read these passages and say the ultimate act of maturity is to just trust God and to never pursue any type of conflict resolution and to just allow all bad things to happen And to not pursue any type of thing. So but I so but that's not what you're saying I don't think Thank you. So those things I so but those things can go alongside one another. Trusting God fully, that no matter what outcome comes out of your biblical means of resolving conflicts that you pursue, whatever comes out of that is in God's person you. But that doesn't necessarily mean that the highest form of of moral good and maturity is that You pursue normal means of you don't you either don't pursue normal means of conflict resolution, you're just always cheated and you never I mean, even in First Corinthians or the James passage, clearly it has come to Paul's ears Or James, yeah. James the Just that um that these things were going on. People were not just sitting around being silent. So even as he's exhorting them to be That doesn't mean that you're not bringing things up or pursuing those things. Those things can be happen alongside one another. Yeah. I think we're that's well put. Yeah that's very good. And I think it's important that you said that because there are schools of thought out there that would say your only option is to just trust in the Lord. Right, and that would be more up down like um uh I'm gonna use this word, but I don't think it actually captures this particular movement, but it's more along like the pacifistic route. Okay, but pacifists I don't think would exactly say that about themselves. So I don't want to straw men them. But I'm going to just use that word, trying not to connect it to the movement And that's right. Some will think, yeah, I'm just supposed to essentially be a doormat until Christ returns. But that's not what we actually see within Scripture. We see that there's a lot of options And some of the most difficult options are when you run out of options and you must trust in the Lord. But even when you don't run out of options and you've and you're utilizing all the different means of peacemaking you still need to trust in the Lord. And that will show up in different ways. So if you're finally say to yourself, I'm going to overlook. But I wake up every morning and I am not feeling good about it. But I've spoken, I've prayed, I've counseled, and I know that I should be overlooking because love uh covers over a multitude of sins. But boy is this hard work. Now you enter into prayer trusting that the Lord will make you the kind of person that can grow in being able to overlook certain things. And lo and behold, over time you find that you've become thick skinned for the good of other people and the good of the community. Right? And then the same thing could happen is if it's not overlooking, but you have to go and talk to somebody, and that person really did do wrong in this case, you will watch the Lord work in other people. And other people will admit that they have sinned against you. That's a work of God. So you're trusting in the Lord to soften people's hearts, to take them out of the captivity of the devil. Trust in the Lord is all the way along. All along. And um so thank you so much for dividing that out so that we can make sure we see it as the whole scriptures, the whole counsel of God, and not just my particular emphasis. That's great. Austin and then Brett. Should there be an order of trying to cover your with love then Or is there a is we've got both cover of deviation, long suffering, but also your brother is wrong. Yeah. Um the an order. That's an interesting way to ask the question. I would say that you would need to Uh exercise discernment in what is the right response to what's happening to you or in what's happening at at that moment. Right. And that would require Christian wisdom. Right. Your children is re Um yeah, we that would be a bad response. Um and and um Uh yeah, there's some w some r responses I should confront you right away. Yeah, okay, and that Brad, and then this is the last one because I actually have more lecturing to do here. Sorry. You're good. The uh tying it back to the first Corinthians task. We trust in the Lord that He is giving wisdom to His people. Oh, that's good. More than to the unbelievers. And that's the problem is that if you go to somebody Who doesn't believe in God or that he exists at all or follow his moral decision making that he's revealed to us? Yeah. How can you hope to get true justice there And what he's really pointing out is that if you go to the unbeliever, you're actually hoping for more than that, or something other than that. You're not hoping for God to take and enact his will, and you're hoping for Something in what maybe. Yeah. I would say you're probably in that passage they're hoping to just get whatever is due to them individually. They're not thinking about the community or God's name. Yeah, that's that's good. And at different times in history there are different uh different secular judges are better or worse in determining the righteousness of God. In this passage we don't have the Christianization of the world yet Right. But after a time you're gonna find that the world has been so Christianized that even a secular judge has some sense of righteousness because he was like raised by his Methodist grandmother. or something along those lines. But in this especially in this passage, he's literally going to pagans where the world has not been Christianized. That's that's rough So that's good to keep in mind. You're in a similar situation now in that um depending on the circum depending on what the issue is, your judges These days, in small claims court or in other courts where, for example, if you're suing for divorce or whatever it is, your judges could be quite unrighteous in their determination. And actually the court could not really care about the same things that we care about as the people of God. They could have a very different l look on family life or marriage or whatever it is. You you do find that these days. Okay, so then let me go ahead and um end with All right. I literally have this left. Okay. And three minutes. So let's do this. After we have looked at glorify God, the next question that we want to ask, which was already brought up, is is this really worth fighting over? I I say that having contemplated the glory of God, you're already getting yourself into a better soul state to be able to determine that question. If you haven't been concerned about the glory of God, you will answer, yeah, this is worth fighting over all day long. What the book ends up giving you, and I'll just fly through this pretty quickly, is that to answer that question, we then move into this second G, which is get the log out of your own eye. And there are different ways to do this In the book, they highlight that it's very important for you to define the issues. They divide the issues into two main parts that are conflicts. This is not a perfect categorization, folks. This is It's not a perfect science. But but um this is useful and it's a good working model is that we would define the issues into material issues. And then we would have other issues which are personal issues. The material issues are going to be like, you used my lawn mower, we both agree you broke the blades. What should we do about it? And the result or the the mechanism you're going to use to solve that is going to be negotiation. And you can find that in your pamphlet another time. The personal issues are not going to be as easy. They're they're going to have to result in uh eventual confession on somebody's part. But I'll add a third category That you need to define whether the issue is an actual sin or not. And we define sin as any want of conformity to the law of God, basically. Alright? So what if we want to know if somebody has sinned against us, we need to know God's law, because that's how an offense is defined, is that which is contrary to God's law. So that's a third category. Sometimes people have interacted with us and it has offended us, but there hasn't really been an offense. There's just been a difference. We talked about that a little bit last week Moving on. Depending on what you uh decide the issue is, you may be able to move into a Mode of overlooking. And I'll bring this one up, and the book brings this one up, because this should be the response that is most often used. You can go ahead and look in the book for all of the different scriptural references for overlooking. There's actually more than you might think. And then he ends up saying this to truly overlook an offense Means to deliberately decide not to talk about it, not to dwell on it, or to let it grow into pent-up bitterness. If you cannot let go of an offense in this way, if it is too serious to overlook, or if it continues as part of a pattern in the other person's life, then you will need to go and talk to the other person about it in a loving and a constructive manner. So don't fool yourself when you're not overlooking saying that you are. Those are some of the requisites that would go along with that. You say you're overlooking, and then you enter into the Bible study, and before the Bible study starts, the Bible study leader says, Do you have any prayer requests? And you say Well yeah, I do. I'm really trying to overlook how such and such offended me the other day and it that's we don't want to do that. If you were one-on-one with somebody, you could probably share that kind of thing, but in a total group, that would not be overlooking. The other thing I'll mention here is that you want to check your attitude. And you can look at the book again at Philippians chapter four and you would go through the whatever is lovely, whatever is of good report. And the reason why Ken Sandy gives this suggestion to you by way of the scriptures, or this counsel to you by way of the scriptures, is that oftentimes when we are in a conflict Our view of people becomes very, very narrow. It's very similar to anger. If a person has an anger problem, they get very, very narrow and they can't see everything they're really breaking. All they can see is the wrong that has been done to them. And that's what happens to you in conflict is your sight gets real narrow. And usually your sight gets so narrow, but it gets magnified, and you only can see the villainy of the other person Everything about them starts to look gross and is frustrating and is uh and is uh uh is hellish And so what the Philippians 4 does for you is it allows you to consider them as a larger person, that they still have a lot of things that recommend them And then you can begin to shift your attitude in being more fair so that you it within the within the this context. And then the last thing I'll say to you, and we'll end is that Paul also throughout Philippians and in Philippians 4. 4 says, rejoice in the Lord. And I do think that that's one of the greatest ways that the Lord gives to us to be able to regain our sight, particularly in conflicts. is to spend time being thankful. I mean even when I say that in the context of a conflict, can you feel what happens in human beings when they're embroiled in dispute And then they stop and they think about being thankful. Those are different states of the soul. They have to start fighting with each other, and if you keep working on this half, then your sight is going to get better and you'll be able to do the will of the Lord in the conflict as opposed to just your own little demonic will that you're working out. Okay, so next week we'll pick up with uh what about our rights? Because that's usually an important question. And then we're also going to have a role play with Brad and I, with me and Brad Uh using the pamphlet it's gonna be it's gonna be fun. It's gonna be a trip. Yeah. Alright, let's pray. Lord, we thank you for all of the wisdom that you give to us as your people. It is one thing to hear it, and it is another thing to submit to your will. We know we you've given to us a desire. We see and taste that you are good, even from just our past experiences But Lord, we can forget, we can become blind, we can self-deceive We can become self-righteous, full of pride at a moment's notice, because we still wrestle with that old part of us. So I do pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that your The spirit of the ministry of your spirit would be among your congregation, that you'd be conforming them into your image, even in their disputes. I ask these things in your name. Amen.