Please turn with me to the book of Deuteronomy, chapter 7. And I'll be reading the first 11 verses of that chapter, and I'd ask that you please stand for the reading of His Word. Deuteronomy seven one through eleven When the Lord your God brings you into the land which you go to possess, and has cast out many nations before you, the Hittites, and the Gergeshites, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites seven nations greater and mightier than you, and when the Lord your God delivers them over to you, you shall conquer them and utterly destroy them. You shall make no covenant with them, nor show mercy to them, nor shall you make marriages with them You shall not give your daughter to their son, nor take their daughter for your son, for they will turn your sons away from following me to serve other gods. So the anger of the Lord will be aroused against you and destroy you suddenly But thus you shall deal with them. You shall destroy their altars, and break down their sacred pillars, and cut down their wooden images, and burn their carved images with fire. For you are a holy people to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for himself, a special treasure above all the peoples on the face of the earth. The Lord did not send his love on you, nor choose you because you were more in number than any other people, for you were the least of all peoples But because the Lord loves you, and because he would keep the oath which he swore to your fathers, the Lord has brought you out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you from the house of bondage, from the hand of the of Pharaoh, king of Egypt Therefore, know that the Lord your God, He is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and mercy for a thousand generations with those who love him and keep his commandments. And he repays those who hate him to their face to destroy them. He will not be slack with him who hates him. He will repay him to his face. Therefore, you shall keep the commandment, the statutes, and the judgments which I command you today to observe them. Amen. Please pray with me God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, these are very serious words to your people. I pray that they would sink in. And Jesus Jesus' name, Amen. You may be seated. Sons of Scotland, I am William Wallace, young soldier. William Wallace is seven feet tall. Yeah, Wallace. Yes, I've heard he kills men by the hundreds. And if he were here, he'd consume the English with fireballs from his eyes and bolts of uh lightning from his butt I am William Wallace, and I see a whole army of my countrymen here in defiance of tyranny. You have come to fight as free men, and free men you are. What would you do with that freedom? Will you fight? The veteran soldier stands up. Fight? Against that? No, we will run and we will live. Wallace, I fight and you may die Run, and you will live at least a while. And dying in your beds many years from now, would you be willing to trade all the days for this day? For that one chance, just one chance to come back here and tell our enemies that they may take our lives, but they will never take our freedom. Now I get goosebumps every time I hear that speak From Braveheart, riding back on it forth on his horse. It's Mel Gibson. This is a war speech. Sorry to. Butcher the history. This is a war speech. You notice that it has three parts? He sets the context, he tells them what their mission is going to be, and he spends a lot of time motivating him His men. Today before you, in Deuteronomy chapter 7, is a war speech. He will set the context He will tell them exactly what their mission is, and he will spend the last part of this speech giving them motivations to carry out their mission. And that's the three parts of the sermon. The context, the mission, and the motivations. Let's jump right in with the context of the mission. Notice verses 1 and 2. When the Lord your God brings you into the land which you go to possess, and he has cast out many nations before you, he lists the nations. When the Lord your God delivers them over to you, you shall conquer them and utterly destroy them. When Moses said these words of verses one and two, The people, and I'm hoping that you're having a bit of a flashback, but I know they had a flashback to the earlier generation and the war speeches that would have been given then Look at the verses. In verse 1, God promises them the promised land. Do you remember that happening in Numbers chapter 13? first two verses. This is what it says there. Of the former generation. And the Lord spoke to Moses saying, Send men to spy out the land of Canaan. which I am giving to the children of Israel. From each tribe of their fathers, you shall send a man, every one a leader among them. And they went and they surveyed the land that was promised to them. But notice also, even within our passage, that the promised land was filled with perfect opposition. Did you notice the seven opposition? The seven tribes, these nations that were greater and mightier than them, in verses one and two. We saw the exact same thing in the report from the spies in Numbers chapter 13 We went to the land where you sent us. It truly does flow with milk and honey. It's filled with fruit. Nevertheless, the people who dwell in the land are very strong. Just like their parents. So too, as Moses sets the context in this war speech, this group of people will be tempted to doubt God and not go on the mission that He is calling them to. That is the context. The context stretches all the way back into numbers. It stretches all the way back into the constant doubts that the people had into Exodus. And here in this passage, we see it all coming together to set the context. You could say that this context is really just giving us a question that hangs in the air. Will this new generation give way to fear or will they exercise their faith in what God has promised? Promised. They have received the law. Before that, they received the grace of redemption. And now the law is being given to them. They've been given the Shema. We've gone over all these things. You can count the Ten Commandments on ten fingers so all the children could remember. The Shema you can remember in two main parts as Jesus summarizes all the law. Lots of mnemonic devices are given that these people would be prepared, and here in this war speech, they are prepared further to have a flashback and remembrance. From where they came. And will they make the same decision that their forefathers made? Will they doubt God's promises? I was just speaking with someone older and wiser than me, or than I, and that That's not hard to find. He said, when you have fear, you must name it. The people of this passage, if they were to name the fear that Moses wants them to see as he contextualizes this for them. They would say something like this God is calling us to war. The nations have stronger militaries, they have stronger soldiers, and their numbers are larger. Did you notice the repeated phrases and the way that this these first two verses are structured to allay that fear? a constant emphasis on what Yahweh will do. It is not you will be so strong and you will cast out the nations. It's that Yahweh has given them to you and Yahweh will cast them out. That's why it's so important in these passages that Moses keeps repeating that. Yahweh will win the victory. We had a reading today that I will not trust in my bow or my horse or my chariot. It will be God who wins the victory. Now we lived many years after these wars, but we still have promises made to us by God. And if we follow the pattern that we see here in the context before going out on mission, we would expect that every time a promise is made, that a fear would rise up to contradict the promise. And that's what we do find within our life. And like them, let's name the fear. When I look around with my eyes at all the evil, I'm not sure there's any hope. Now specify that. All the evil within my children. All the evil within my relationships, within my marriage, and within my friendships Etc. You can name all of the different evils that run across our lives and cause misery. And the problem that we end up running into is that these fears, these evils Present themselves to our eyes like seven great nations and seem to become much larger than God Himself. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this. I want to move on to the main mission But what we need to see is that God is bigger. What they needed to remember, which is why it's repeated in these first couple verses as well as all of the narrative preceding this. Is that God is going to be the one who wins the victory. I'll just remind you of Romans chapter 16, which is a promise to you. Therefore, I am glad on your behalf, but I want you to be wise in what is good and simple concerning evil. And the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. That was their context. And since we all face fear, and we all have the the uh Uh we all face fear which is opposed to our faith. It is still our context also, and we must name our fears. Now, if they have faith to move forward, and we know the story they do, if you were to just turn to Joshua, they're gonna go ahead Ahead and enter into battle. So they went farther than the forefathers. They have a mission to complete. And that's what's listed next within the text. There is the main mission Take a look with me, beginning at the end of two, and then going into three. And when the Lord your God delivers them over to you, you shall conquer them and utterly destroy them. And then it goes on to list what this is supposed to look like. You shall make no covenant with them, nor show mercy to them, and on it goes. Their mission, in a word, was to enact the law of Harem. It is a technical war word in the Hebrew You can find it here within your text when he says utterly destroy, that is the Hebrew word harem. Haharem And they were to enact that policy with all of these nations. It's a good translation to utterly destroy. It captures exactly what is supposed to happen. It's described then, the policy is listed out both here and in Deuteronomy chapter 13. Just take a look at the parts in verses 2 through 5. You shall make no covenant with them, nor show mercy to them, nor shall you make marriages with them. You shall not give your daughter to their son, nor take their daughter for your son. For they will take your sons away from following me to serve other gods. So the anger of the Lord will be aroused against you and destroy you suddenly. That's a motivation. salvation, but thus you shall deal with them. You shall destroy their altars, and break down their sacred pillars, and cut down their wooden images, and burn their carved images with fire. You can see the policy that they must enact that has just been listed generally would be worked out specifically in every city. Take a look at Deuteronomy 13, 15. You shall surely strike the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, utterly, see it? Ha-harem, utterly destroying it. And all that is in it and its livestock with the edge of the sword, and you shall gather all its plunder into the middle of the street, and completely burn with fire the city and all its plunder for the Lord your God. It shall be a heat forever. It shall not be built again. And you can find this utter destruction theme running throughout these. Deuteronomy and other books, and the kind of destruction that should take place there. It did not just include artifacts like pillars. It included men, it included women. It included children. The law of Harem was to be acted out, and it was their mission. I think as we look at each one of these passages, the mission is clear, wouldn't you say The question that rises within our American hearts is, is it a good mission? How could God ask his people to enact a policy of ha chrem. No mercy were the words in the scriptures. How could he do so? That is the biggest struggle that we have with this kind of mission. In fact, some people have just tried to find their way around this. I noticed that some kind some commentators want to deny that this This involves human beings and it just involves cutting down altars. Look at the passages, do cross-references. This involves men and women and children. One man tried to solve this his name with Marcion. He said that the case of the case of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city The Old Testament God must have been full of rage and fury, and he was evil, and the New Testament God was full of love. But there must be That was the way that he tried to get around the law of Haram and to explain this kind of passage. So if you're scratching your head, or if this causes your heart to burn in some way, gives you heartburn, you're not the first human being to explain. Experience that. However, when you look at this in context, although it is grievous, it is terrible, that is to say, we are full of terror in We do not need to split our God apart into a God of love and a God of judgment. Because if you took some time Time to think about it, both are perfectly consistent with one another. And I hope that you will see by the time I get done talking about this, you actually want him. to bring judgment. It's one of your greatest desires, although it is difficult. The key to remember here, especially within this particular Context is that God is fighting against evil. That's what you must remember within this context. The context has made this clear from the beginning as we have progressed further and further into As humanity. Think of the time of Noah. There was a judgment there also that involved men, women, and children. The flood took them out. When I hear of Sunday school singing, Noah Noah on his arkee-arkie-arkie made of barkie-barkie-barkie, it confuses me because there would have been corpses floating around, perhaps Because it was a judgment of God on the evil of humanity, but it was evil that's key to see that he was taking evil off of the earth, or Sodom and Gomorrah, men, women, children, because of the evil that was present within the city Or if you take one of the tribes that are a part of the seven nations, the Amorites, you can see a reference to them in Genesis chapter 15, 15 through 16, and it actually shows you the progression of what God is Now listen to this. Now, as for you, you shall go to your fathers in peace, you shall be buried at a good old age, but in the fourth generation they shall return here out of slavery. Slavery from Pharaoh, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. Do you see they can't go up against the Amorites yet because the wickedness has Had not piled up high enough where God was ready to bring judgment on them. But the thing I'm trying to bring your attention to is that evil is always present when there is judgment. The seven strong nations, if you were to look at some of their practices, they sacrificed children to their gods. What would you do if your neighbor, you found out, was sacrificing children? What if he was chaining them up in the basement and offering them to their God? What would you do? I know what you would do if you found out if they were on the sex offender list. What would you do if they were torturing or sacrificing their children in the basement? Wouldn't you want the evil removed from your neighborhood? I understand that watching a person be judged is not easy. It is distressing. It is a terrible thing to witness. But we can understand it when it's in the context of evil. God did not even show favorites, brothers and sisters ancestors, when his own people would become evil and take up the practices of those nations, he would bring judgment on them. Do you see he's not showing favors? His focus is evil You would see this across the Old Testament. It results in the exile. You would see this in 70 AD to those who rejected Jesus Christ, who remained in the city. You would even see the judgment of God coming upon the head of his own son to take away our judgment, that evil would no longer remain. When you read this passage or any that affirms God's judgment, you must keep these things in mind. We all want a world that is full of peace and goodness, correct? Hasn't that been every day your cry to God? That can only happen if evil is removed This is the way one author puts it. God's wrath is not a cranky explosion, but it is his settled opposition to the cancer which is eating out the insides of his creation. And that includes people Because people are evil. God has sent out the message to the whole world for them to turn from their evil and be saved. From Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria to the end of Of the earth. If you are evil, God will destroy you, but you can repent and join his kingdom, and he will save you, he will rescue you from even your own evil. But they are still saying no. And even though God will in fact get rid of evil, he does not delight in their destruction, it says. He does not delight in the destruction of the wicked. And that's just a sentence, look at your God in Jesus Christ, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one who kills the prophets And stones those who are sent to her. How often I wanted to gather your children together as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you are not willing You could see Jesus seeing 70 AD coming down upon the city. Not for lack of an invitation, to make peace and to be reconciled to the Lord of Lords and the King of Kings. The opportunity is always present, even while it is called today, to kiss the sun before he becomes angry. We see this over and over again. Those are several reasons, several ways that we have to look at this passage to understand what God is doing. That this is not a cranky explosion of irrationality. As I search within my own self, looking at it within that context and understanding that it's a context of evil is very helpful to me. But there is one thing that goes above this for me personally, and I want to share that. With you. These reasons help, but perhaps the greatest help in knowing that the law of Horem policy is good is remembering whom My God is. I always find myself in a situation where I don't understand what God is doing. I can't answer all the whys of why He's doing it, but this I know. My God cannot lie. My God tells me that everything He does is good. Therefore, the law of Harem is good, and so is judgment, whether it be just on those particular cities or across the face of the earth And that requires faith which he has given to you. But even he does not delight in the destruction of the wicked. And neither will Neither should we. When he brings judgment, we must say at the end of the day, it is good. And so we see the context of the mission, and we can see the mission itself. And we're not embarrassed or ashamed about the mission. Here it's the seven nations. For us, we see a worldwide judgment across the scriptures that we must accept and not be ashamed of. But to accomplish this mission, they and we need motivations, and that brings in our last point. The motivations for the mission. Now you can begin to see this in verse 6. For you are a holy people to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for himself, a special treasure above all the peoples on the face of the earth. And we'll look at the next verse there with the with uh some other motivations. The first motivation is the motivation of election. I hope you saw that. It's right there. It keeps being repeated You are a holy people to the Lord your God. The Lord God has chosen you to be a people for himself. You are a special treasure that he's made above all the peoples on the face of the earth. The concept of treasured possession is explained well in 1 Chronicles 29. 3 and Ecclesiastes 2. 8. Let me repeat that second. So that you can write it down. If you want to look it up, 1 Chronicles 29. 3 and Ecclesiastes 2. 8, there's this concept of treasured possession. And this is what's going on here. The idea is going to be startling to your American heart. Are you ready for this? The idea is that God, that Yahweh chose you to be his own Personal property. That can be offensive to our sense of freedom, but nevertheless, I must declare to you what it means to be a treasured possession The possession here is kind of like the king's treasury. It's his own belongings, what belongs to him, the greatest of things that belong to him. You'll find that in those context. Contexts I gave you. And if that's you, that means he owns you. And you are his personal property. And he chose for you to be so. You didn't write in a letter and say, Oh Lord, let me be your personal property He chose you. He showed up in the town and he said, I will take that one and I'll take that one and I'll take that one and I'll take that one. And you are mine. It's kind of like an arranged marriage, if you will Now, this is a different perspective, isn't it? We place a lot of emphasis on human decision. But what if it's not about ultimately what we decide to do? What if it's what's decided for us? I don't know if any of you have heard of Harvey Khan, but he was a missionary to Korea. And I've given this example before, so forgive me. But this is a good example. He would preach the gospel to street women in Korea. And this is how it would go. He would plead with them to choose and accept God. And they kept responding to him: we're not good enough to choose God. We're the lowest of the low, we're the twelfth-class citizen, we're not worthy of that. And so they kept saying no. He said, Well, wait a second, I'm a Calvinist. Why am I even putting it this way? So he changed his strategy, and he said, if you believe the message of Jesus that I just told you, then he has chosen you, and who are you to refuse the king? And they said, oh, of course, who am I? I would never refuse the king. And they moved forward, began going to his safe houses And Jesus Christ began rescuing them from the streets. Not because they thought themselves worthy, but because they wouldn't refuse the king who has the right to ask or to choose. Jews. You see? That's a different way of looking at this from a different perspective. That's sunk in. The same perspective was present for those in this passage, and it's present for you, and it's present for me. If God has chosen you to be his personal property and his treasured possession, then what right do you have to refuse him? We do see some people refusing him, and that will bring judgment on their head. But look at it this new perspective. You must, as the Apostle Paul makes very clear in all of his letters. You, Christian, must accept your holy calling that He has given to you. It is of great esteem that the king looked and he chose you and said, You will be my treasured possession. I will save you by my son, and I will send you my spirit to fill you with my fruits. And who are you to refuse? Who are you to refuse in your apathy from day to day playing 24 hours of Xbox? Now that's the first motivation, election. The second motivation is redemption in verses 7 through 8. I love this passage because the Lord tells us why he chose them and why he elected us. The Lord did not set his love on you nor choose you because you were more in number than any other people, for you were the least of the people, but because the Lord loves you He loves because he loves, according to the good pleasure of his will is the way that our confession puts it. Out of the good pleasure of his will he He chose to love, not to do to some great resume or recommendations, or because this people was mightier than other people, or they were smarter, or because we have a university education The love is expressed out of the good pleasure of his will, and it is expressed in Israel's rescue from slavery to Pharaoh. That was their great event. We talked about it. Triumph of all misery. That is the great rescue that He has given to us. And if we understand this, if you apprehend this by faith, your heart will bust with thankfulness and gratitude. And it will overflow in service. So you will realize not only that you have been chosen, and who are you to refuse the calling, but you will say, I have been chosen, and I gladly embrace the calling. How could he ever choose a wretch like me? And yet he has out of the goodness of his will, the good pleasure of his will Now the third motivation is fear. I usually don't like to talk about this motivation, but I'm loving talking about this now. It has been very helpful for me this week in fear You see this beginning in verse nine. Therefore, know that the Lord your God, He is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and mercy for a thousand generations with those who love him and keep his commandments. And he repays those who hate him to their face to destroy them. He will not be slack with him who hates him. He will repay him to his face. Verse 9 affirms God's covenant, love, and faithfulness, but it also affirms the consequences of rejecting him in verse 10. They put it in terms of hate. You know, you can see this exact same logic in several places in the book of Hebrews. I'll just mention one to you. It's in chapter ten, verse Verses 28 through 31, and I'll read it to you now. This is the logic here. Anyone who has rejected Moses' law dies without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses You can think of the whole law, the sacrifice, the Ten Commandments, the statutes, the ordinances, all of the things that are a part of that. Of how much worse punishment do you suppose will he be thought worthy who has trampled the Son of God underfoot, counted the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified a common thing, and insulted the Spirit of grace There is fear to be had, whether receiving from Moses and rejecting, or receiving from the new Moses Jesus Christ, and rejecting, there is fear to be had. But how much greater fear to trample the sacrifice of the Son of God underfoot. If you hate him here, how much more to hate him at the revelation of Jesus Christ in reality? In other words, if you think it was a terrible thing to reject the gospel as relayed in shadows by Moses That will be nothing compared to rejecting the gospel and reality presented by Christ and His Spirit. If you have grown up in the church, you better pay attention to these words. You will be held responsible for everything that has been given to you. You will have a choice to make on whether you reject or embrace. Jesus Christ has been presented to you your whole life And if you reject him, if you hate him, the consequences will be severe. But we don't even need to go there because the invitation is open to you, even as it is called today, to embrace his mercy. That's a grace. You see, that's that switched in my mind this week as I saw the fear and understanding in context who God is he's re he's releasing another grace to you because he knows that you can get lazy that you can start to take him for granted and so he strikes fear in you To let you know what is at stake here. It's life and death. He knows that you and I need this final Final point that I just gave. We need motivation, and fear is part of that. The context in the beginning of the passion passion That was the context of this new generation. They did. They went ahead and they moved forward, believing that Yahweh would conquer the seven great nations, and we believe that God conquered In our life also, and eventually he will conquer all things. The mission is to rid this world of evil, whether in this context or in our context. And our motivations include our election, our redemption, and knowing the fear of God. You can think of those passages. Within Hebrews. Now, I've given some illustrations already as we've gone through the passage, but I do want to remind you that the church still has a mission today. They didn't just have a mission. We have a mission. It is stated very clearly in Matthew 28, 18 through 20. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. You've all heard that before. That's the great commission mission that you have. I want to bring something to your attention. Do you think the Apostle Paul understood the Great Commission? Well, of course, Jesse, of course he did. Yes, I agree. Listen to how he contextualized the Great Commission. In Acts chapter 17, verses 30 and 31, he says this, truly these times of ignorance God overlooked. He's speaking of Roman and Greek. But now commands all men everywhere to repent, because he has appointed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man whom he has ordained. He has given assurance of this to all by raising him, Jesus, from the dead. You see that? It's another way to say that Jesus has been given all authority in heaven and on earth. And this is in the context of judgment. In other words, God the Father. Has given Jesus all authority to judge the world. And his messengers are to go out before the judgment comes that there is an ark of safety. If you repent and believe, and now listen to me, this is going to sound crazy to you, and become a member of the true church, then you are on the ark of safety. When judgment begins, like Noah, you will be one of the ones that is safe. And so that's our mission. You are like a preacher of righteousness. Like Noah, going about and saying, it's going to rain soon, and everyone's looking at you and saying, You're crazy. It hasn't rained in 400 years. Or for us, we say Jesus is going to read turns soon and people look at us and say, didn't they say that two thousand years ago? Where is he? But that's still our message. And we understand that he's not slack in his coming, as 1 Peter says, but that he is patient, gathering all in, that none of his elect should be left outside of the ark. It is our mission, therefore, it is our co mission mission to preach repentance from sins, forgiveness of sins through Jesus Christ Looking for those whom God is making His treasured and precious possessions. This is done especially by prayer In Colossians chapter 4, Paul asked the Colossian church, pray that doors would be opened to me to preach the gospel, that they would enter into the ark, so to speak. Happens through prayer, and therefore it happens through teaching the gospel. But I'm going to focus on one thing that doesn't get much focus. It also happens Through the witness of our lifestyle. That shouldn't be a surprise to you based on the prayer and the thing that we've seen throughout the service That was one of the greatest tragedies. Is that those whom God has called his special treasured possession Would take over the promised land and was meant to be a beacon of righteousness to the whole world, and yet they became just as corrupted as the nations that they tossed out And we can have the same problem today. We are meant, in our co-mission mission, he says, teach them to obey all that I have commanded, because we are meant to be the salt of the earth, a light in the midst of darkness. Not more evil added on top of evil. Your actions and thoughts and behavior and how you use your property has eternal consequences. An eternal revelation of what is going on within reality. How you spend your Sunday or the rest of your time has consequences. Here's the question. Do you want people to have hope and to know that God is changing this world? How could they ever do so if they never see any change in you? Based on the evidence, the modern church believes that we should just sit around and wait for Jesus to show up and change the world. And we have got it all wrong. The change can begin now because the Holy Spirit has already been granted to the church, and the Holy Spirit yearns to bring good works out of us That the new creation would already be seen to have begun. Eternity has begun now. The new heavens and the new earth are you. You are the first fruits. The kingdom has come, and it is us. Do you believe that? The kingdom of God has come, and it is you. And I speak to us collectively, not just you as an individual, us collectively as Christians. It is us. The kingdom is meant to be a beacon of light, of righteousness, of justice. That is what we're meant to be. And we've been given all the power that raised Jesus Christ from the the dead to accomplish it? What more power would you need? The question that we have to ask is, do the people in America believe that you're a Christian Do they actually believe that you're a believer? This question was raised by a Chinese priest. Where he and his church are undergoing far more than you and I are, or perhaps in a different way. And that is the question that he raised to his congregation. He said that the problem is ch in China is that the Chinese people don't believe that we are believers. If they believed that we were true believers, they would stop persecuting us because they know it will make no difference. We're never going to give this up. We will always confess Jesus Christ as our Lord and live for Him. Are people still having dialogue and challenging you because they don't really believe that you're a believer? They think they could turn you. Or they don't see it in you to begin with. That's one of our goals. It has to be one of our goals that our culture would believe that we believe. Begins by understanding what it is that we believe. We must put away our fears and exercise faith in God's kingdom advancing I understand that the majority of professors in your universities or colleges think that Jesus Christ is a joke. And the end of days in judgment, they will be the ones that are ashamed. Not you. I promise you because God has already promised it. Put away the fear and exercise faith. I understand that this culture looks huge like a monster. Flooding and it's so loud before our eyes. But get rid of the fear, name it, and realize that that God is bigger. God's kingdom is advancing. We must get to work on our great commission mission, especially in being the salt of the earth. And since you are elected to do so, I'll just end with this. Who are you to refuse this call? Isn't it your great privilege? To be the righteousness and the image of Jesus Christ on the earth. And I'm speaking to Severn Run collectively. Isn't it our great privilege? To be so much. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we do thank you for this privilege that you have given to us. And Lord Jesus Christ, you are such a good shepherd in sending us everything that we need, We understand that we must realize that our triumph, total triumph, will not be till the end, but you have given us much good work to do today. We ask that you would help us to see reality correctly, that the fears would subside and we'd see that your kingdom has come, and that your will is being done on earth as it is in heaven, and that you are giving us this day our daily Bread to accomplish those things, and that you will deliver us from temptation and from the evil one, and that you will show that all glory is yours. That you will begin to do that even now. We pray that you would especially allow us to enact this through sacrificial love and through forgiveness of our brothers And sisters who are in the faith, and even our enemies. We ask, Lord, that your kingdom would be seen now in your church, and that people would run to your church As the ark of safety. We ask that you'd gather all in, and of course you will. Please give us the privilege of participating. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.