Heavenly Father, I thank you for this time that you've given to us out of our busy schedules. You've given us a day set aside to worship you. and to remember our great hope that you've given to us in the coming of your kingdom, which is already present. I pray therefore that Christ as our King, that you would empower your people to use our Sunday school, that they would grow more and more into your image individually and also as a community. We pray that you would, as you have for so many years, use once again this Christian classic Pilgrim's Progress. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Alrighty, so we're gonna begin. Um the main point of today is to have an introduction to uh literature and Christian classics in general and then this work in particular. But before we get into those two main parts, I just want to make sure about two main things. One is that you have we have sent out in an email a link to the course syllabus. So you can Print that out at home. I'm not sure if we printed any here this morning. Is it a syllabi or just the hero's journey? There is a hand so You can pull that up on your phone or your iPad from the church email, but there is a syllabus there detailing for you the course description. the course objectives. It tells you the lecture topics and the dates on when those lectures are going to be, and then there's a little blurb in terms of your reading assignments. You really should have everything right there in the course syllabus so you're not having to figure everything out afresh every week. That should feel good to you, to those of you who like routine. The In addition, there is a handout. So the second thing is, second introductory remark is that there is a handout. Nick, do I need this thing on? Okay, good. The there is a handout here this morning. I hope you got it. It should just be a graphic of the hero's journey. And we're just going to use that as a tool. I don't subscribe to that in any full way. It's just a tool for us to be able to look at narrative. Okay. So are there any questions about the course syllabus at all before we go on? Okay, everything should be there for you. It's waiting for you in your inbox if you need it. So to today we're looking at the introduction to literature and an introduction to the pilgrim's progress This coming week you need to read part one, chapter one. There are two parts to Pilgrim's Progress. The second one has to do with his wife, Christiana. But we're only looking at the first part. We may do the second. I haven't decided yet. And then the January 26th, you are going to have a guest teacher, ruling elder Chase Vaughan. And then it may be the one February 2nd you may have a guest teacher again, but I don't know. We'll see I'm going I ha I'm going to be writing a letter to you all letting you know that I'll be out for at least a week because I have uh some major surgery to be done dentally. So hopefully I'll show back up and have teeth. Otherwise it'll be the ultimate challenge for you to remain attentive to the word. Okay, so let's go ahead and get started with the introduction to literature and an introduction to Pilgrim's Progress. I am using for this a number of different resources to develop uh lectures, but the primary ones are going to be from Dr. Riken. Is anyone here familiar with him? He often writes on Christian classics. in Christian literature. I think it's Dr. Philip Graham Riken that might be something along those lines. And then Derek Thomas I'm also using, I'm pretty sure that he had done his graduate work on Pilgrim's Progress and his thesis work using him. I'm using also some, there's a John Bunyan Society of scholars and I'm using their papers to develop these things. This morning with the introduction to literature and to pilgrim's progress, I'm working off of the work of Philip Graham Riken And um so let's go from there. So introduction to literature. So when we're approaching the different things that we're reading, Whether it's a letter or whether it is uh IKEA a furniture manual Or it is a story or a literature like this, we need to approach it with the right expectations. So based on the kind of writing that it is, we really need to posture ourselves in different ways. The subject of literature, I wonder if you've had time to think about this, but the subject of literature is probably my favorite. It's where I live, is in story. The subject of literature is human experience. It's human experience. And it's rendered as concretely as possible, which I am a bear of little brain. I need things to be concrete for me to really get them. Literature should, it's it's contrasted to expository writing and it is used to help us to see the ordinary business of life. It's not really giving us facts and information like a scientific journal. It exists to make us share a series of experiences. And that's really important, is that it really is not just giving you information. You are going to enter into the story with the characters Now when I'm describing literature, I wonder if you're automatically thinking, wow, that's what movies do for me. Yeah, I think there's like a really important link between movies and literature. And I think literature used to do that more than movies, and it seems like movies are taking over. And I don't have anything to say about that at this point. But we're we're really entering in, we're sharing a set of experiences. Literature appeals to our image making and our image perceiving capacity. Has anyone here? Has anybody heard this kind of distinction that people are trying to make? There's some real truth to that Used to be they're playing on the conversation that has philosophically happened where we were once defined by Greek philosophers as rational animals within a a certain taxonomy. And now they're saying, yeah, but maybe we could talk about that as we're storied animals. And actually biologists and cognitive scientists are doing work to say that actually even our physical makeup is made up in such a way to where we are inclined toward stories. It's interesting. We'll see how that pans out. But I do think we recognize even if you were to just look at how popular are stories among the human race. And when we get together at a New Year's Eve party, do we find people telling stories And when we get together with friends, do we automatically, without even trying or having an English degree, talk to each other in narrative form? Well, yeah, I think all those things are true So that's all a part of literature is that we're the literature is appealing to that image making and that image perceiving capacity. A famous novelist said that his purpose was to make his readers see, by which he meant to see life. And by life he meant reality. So we're in some pretty deep stuff here. Now when we say reality, we don't mean that literature is just trying to talk to you about what happened. Literature is trying to show you what happens universally across all cultures among the human race. That's why it ends up being so important. It is a universal human experience, not just individual human experiences. It's what's true for all people and at all times And this does not contradict, one author writes, the fact that literature is first of all filled with the concrete particulars Particulars of literature are a net, they say, whereby the author captures and expresses the universal. History and the daily news tell us what happened. Literature tell us what happens. The task that this imposes on us is to recognize and name the familiar experiences that we vicariously live as we read the work of literature. So when we get into the pilgrim's progress, you're not supposed to remain at a distance from the particular character Christian You are to enter in and to see how his experiences are matching your experiences that you have had in your life. And that will be challenging for you because it's an allegory But he's going to encourage you, for example, to think of the people in your life like, is this person faithful? Is this person someone who's leading me astray? Or is this person worldly wise men? The whole path is people leading him astray But you he wants you to pick this will be part of our sermon this morning, he wants you to pick up on patterns. Not just as you read a novel as this literature, but you enter into it to where you could connect in your human experiences He wants you to ask the question, is this true to life? And you're either going, depending on your worldview, you're either going to say yes or you're going to say no. And so he he's he's challenging you here. And so let me just say it one more time. I think you really need to pay attention to this. The task that literature imposes on you is that you would recognize and name the familiar experiences that you vicariously live as you read a work of literature. It should help you with your own life. The truth that literature imparts is truthfulness to life, knowledge in the form of seeing things accurately. As readers, we will not only look at the world of the text, but through it, we will look at our everyday life. And I wanted to say a little bit more on the interpretation of life. Another author says, in addition to portraying human experiences, authors give us their interpretation of those experiences. I hope that you recognize that, even with movies, they're not just making you enter in sympathetically a human experience, but they're telling you what these experiences mean. And you have to decide whether you agree with that or not. It's helping you to figure out what is your interpretation of life. In other words, there's persuasion that is happening within literature. People use literature to get across to us their view of life. These interpretations can be phrased as ideas or themes. And an important part of assimilating literature is for you to recognize what is the view that they are taking of the world. So, for example, let's see what names you can place on this. Who here has seen any of the Batman series, modern Batman series? Okay, so there's Joker, right? And you're welcome to go back further if you want into the comics. But what themes or motifs do you think are picked up in the character of the Joker? Anyone? Okay, evil. So we have a pattern of evil. Let's try to get more specific because every story has evil, but not every story has the Joker. Chaos. Okay, chaos. So it may be an embodiment of chaos itself. Very inter that's that's see that all of a sudden is like, wow, that's super interesting. The embodiment of chaos. That's crazy. It's like two-year-old. I think also cunningness is that's actually a word. Cunning, he is cunning. There's something to him. Uh in the history of literature, he would be called the trickster. And tricksters are cunning, like a fox. You see see the connect see the connections that are starting to happen? And joker, jester, trickster, fox. That's all part of a little circle of patterns that we recognize, Darren? I don't know the word. What's the person that has no emotions, no feelings, things, nothing bad? They said psychopath. I'm just asking what springs to mind when we think of the Joker. I I would say the way that people have tried to characterize exactly what you're saying is psychopath, sociopath, but most popularly it's nihilist. Yeah, nihilist. The embodiment of Nietzscheanism or something like that. Yes. The person seems to know how to play on your weaknesses as you feel Oh and get that one. Yeah, that's very good. So could I put that in the language of that he is a good predator? Yeah. Yeah, he he definitely sees the prey and he is a predator. In an inter in a different way than other characters, the Joker is Uh uh because he is chaos, he doesn't really care about self-harm. So he's able to do certain things that others don't do. He doesn't have a conscience Um it's a pr he's a precursor to the movie No Country for Old Men. Is that how you say that? Um anyway, see all these different connections in this story and um you can see that if you were to view the world from Joker's perspective, uh w w um the themes and the motifs that are coming out of that, uh each of the movies usually don't encourage you to be the Joker. Uh nowadays sometimes that's a question mark that's left open on whether or not we sh that's a legitimate place to stand. Yes. Well some of the versions of when you watch the movies, it's as though he was made into the joker, the world made it that way. Through a children or something. So that's where I was thinking all of this is true, but some of them make it like well he was he was encouraged to be that way. Yeah, and so there there we have something else is going on in the background In a story like that where we not only have the perspective of Joker himself, we've got a m storyteller who's telling the Joker story in such a way to where Cultural and familial influences are in fact what determine what a person will become. So they're taking a stance on the nature-nurture philosophical debate. But they're doing so in a way where we don't say the word nature and we don't say the word nurture. We deal with concrete particulars in order to work with universal themes of human existence. that have plagued humanity with questions from the beginning. You see all that? It's like right there. Boom. Cool? I mean that you know that's exciting. Jokers. killing the Batman's parents when he was younger. And then he has this accident that can take his evilness to a higher level. Mm-hmm. And then we have these letters joke and which is Apparently his father disfigured him you know, so I mean I don't think this is that. Yeah. Yeah. Uh all right. Yeah. So Yeah, one was made and then one was already and it just kind of it just kind of made it exponential for people. Different answers to the question of how does something become evil. And maybe what is evil. Okay. Interesting. Yeah, very good. So you can be you can you can see there's different views of life that are being communicated with these stories especially within literature. And I'd say even the m movies are gaining any of their energy and talent from literature. I mean that it was first and then movies are are working off of that Um okay. So a work of imaginative liter literature aims to make us see life accurately. uh according to how they think. It's to get us to think about important ideas. And we do so by while enjoying an artistic performance. The best movies are those where you're not thinking about philosophical themes You're just enjoying the movie and all of a sudden it's over and you're like, man, that was a good movie. Right? And you got on the edge of your seat sometimes and other times you did this. And all of those things are happening and you're not conscious of that You're just ha in the experience and and then it's afterward that you could drop back and have a that conscientious conversation of well what was going on there Uh but and this and literature should be doing uh the same thing. Has anybody have experiences with literature like that? Um my young girls uh notice I don't hear any noise in the house and it will be sometimes because They are somewhere quietly reading a book and unwilling to put it down. They get caught up in the reading. I wonder if that happens to you There's something deep going on there that is connected with literature. Now what we have here is not just literature, but this is specifically classical literature So let me just define for you by one author what is a classic. He writes, to begin, the term classic implies the best in its class. The first hurdle that a classic needs to pass is excellence. Excellent according to whom? This brings us to a second part of our definition. Classics have stood the test of time through the centuries. The human race itself determines what works rise to the status of classics. That needs to be qualified slightly. The classics are especially known and valued by people who have received a formal education. Alerting us that the classics form an important part of the education that takes place within a culture. That could be more or less true. I've seen those who have not received a formal education able to determine the classics. This leads us to yet another aspect of classics. Classics are known to us not only in themselves, but also in terms of their interpretation and reinterpretation through the ages. So what are the stories that stay with us? We know a classic partly in terms of the attitudes and interpretations that have become attached to it through the centuries. I made the comment the other day, just in my own mind, I'm always talking to myself is uh i that I haven't seen a new movie lately. And what I mean by that is it just seems like they're remaking things. Uh I just watched sorta, I need to rewatch it. There's a newer movie called Wicked, I think, and I'm like, well wait a second. I didn't know what it was. I just saw these two emaciated women on the cover. And I'm like, what is this? What is happening? It's about heroin addicts. It wasn't. It was it was the origin story of the Wizard of Oz And well that's super interesting. And then I started seeing how the story was playing out. I was like, oh, they're just they're sort of like remaking or adding origin stories. That seems to be What they're doing at the whole Marvel franchise, is that true you think? You just shook your head like I don't even want to talk about it. Okay. So it's not exactly a remake of the Wizard of Ones, but it's ends up being connected and tapping into that story. So it's like this Yeah. I should read it recently and I'm like, hmm. Okay. Gotcha. Good to know. I'm gonna go back and watch it though. It looks super interesting. Okay, so uh some people would ask why should we read the classics? And the first good reason to read the classic classics is that they represent the best And the fact that they are difficult to read is a mark in their favor. Within certain limits, of course, works of literature that demand a lot from us will always yield more than the work that demands little of us. If we have a taste for what is excellent, we will automatically want some contact with the classics. And I I really think the um Audible has done us a favor And that we don't have to sit down and make it all the way through the Brothers Karmazov, uh flipping page by page, but instead you can listen. That's really nice. And they're starting to have better and better narrators where it doesn't sound like a robot is reading to you Yeah, they have great voices. Um and so those are s some of the reasons I think you get the sense of why you would want to read those classics. So let me go ahead and summarize then and give you four definitions of a literary classic from literary experts. And this hopefully all of this is going to accumulate for you to help you to read the story better. Number one, a classic is the best that has been thought and said. Two, a literary classic ranks with the best of its kind that have been produced. 3. A classic lays its images permanently on the mind and is entirely irreplaceable in the sense that no other book whatever comes anywhere near reminding of you r reminding you of it or being even a momentary substitute for it. That was from C. S. Lewis. And number four, classics are works to which we return time and again in our minds, even if we do not read them reread them frequently as stuch as touchstone as touchstones by which we interpret the world around us. What are some stories that you continually return to? Friday and print really? Okay. The reading or the BBC version or the I like to let the five hours be um thirty minutes about. Okay. Yep. Yeah, gotcha. He's Mr. Darcy, right? It's a wonderful life. Okay, it's a wonderful life. A lot of people say that one. That's great. I have friends who watch that every year. Tale of Two Cities. Very okay. Cool. Anything else that you re uh stories you keep returning to? To kill a mockingbird. Little women is Little women. Don't anybody here say Johnny Tremaine? I hate that story. I'm scarred from homeschooling. Sorry. Anybody else stories to which you return? Lord of the Rings. Lord of the Rings. Okay. No way. You want to say more people are very interested in what you're thinking. Uh huh. Man, Ryan Ryan's dropping some I'm done. Did you hear the gas It was on. That's great. Man, you guys really opened yourself up. Austin's back there waving his Bible. Where's a Sunday school class? Come on, you know every every answer is Jesus. Is that fiction? Who said literature? Okay, no. Is the Bible fiction? No, that happens. Right, I think you I think you owe some people an explanation. It's a novel by Charles Williams, he was one of the inklings. Did you know of that group? So he hung out with J. R. R. Tulkin and C. F. Lewis and Burke Stairs and Keep going. Tell us a little bit about it. It's about a little town in England. Uh and it one of the biggest themes that There's several themes, but one of the key ones is that there are individuals who are faced with choices of how they're going to Pursue their idea of the good or what they think is good, and they receive influences from various places And they start to make decisions and as it the story progresses you start to see the effects of the paths that they have chosen. And one person is effectively ascending and the other is descending. That's wild. That sounds like just about every Netflix series. Very good. He probably got most of his ideas. Yeah, probably. Sounds like that would happen in that group. C. S. Lewis and the rest were like, guys, just check Netflix. Very good. Thanks for that intro. Maybe some people here will pick it up. Uh and uh and read probably interesting. Yeah, it can be a little hard to to hand to stay with uh descriptions of things, but you just gotta buckle your seatbelt and That's cool. Alright. Okay, so let's answer a couple of questions that are important with regard to stories and literature. Why do people tell and read stories? How would you answer that, by the way? Why do people tell and read stories? See if you've been listening at all. Or if you have your own thoughts. Elizabeth, we'll just take a couple answers. Well one reason would be like the moral t morality tale, like a a fable or a something like that. Okay. Very good. Morality tale. Anything else? Christian. Um we're not always great at abstract thinking and stories bring abstract concepts into concrete terms And it can be easier for us to apply concrete to concrete versus concrete to aspirate. Yeah, that's great. And that's one of the main reasons I read it. Yes. Uh yes, Rachel. Beautiful quote by T. S. Lewis about like children will face hardship so let them be exposed to nights and throughout tales and courage to help them face the hardships in their own like butchering it. But yeah, I think we get what you're saying though. Yeah, that's great. Very good. Yes, last one. Um Tolkien says God is the great storyteller and because we're in the image of God. That's great. So instead of just a biolog biology of storytelling, you're giving us a theology of storytelling. That's great. Very good. Being made in this image is means to be Uh uh uh an uh like an under author and a storyteller. Okay, very good. Uh some of the things that make up a story Anybody ever studied narrative itself and you know like the parts of a story? Yeah. Elizabeth. Oh sorry, didn't you interrupt me? Um there's always a beginning where things are laid out and then the action rises and then there's a s a there's a conflict action rises, there's a sort of a climax and then a dangement where everything is sort of dies down and resolves. Alright, very good. That was a good that's like a description of Frey Tag's analysis. That's a good one. Alright. Anyone else want to put in different terms? Characters and plot. Character plot setting is pretty that's like pretty regular to hear. And would anybody put it any other ways? No, okay, yeah, that's pretty good. And um there's a quote from uh Flannery O'Connor says that storytellers don't speak about plot setting and character, but with them. And about what does the story tell us by means of those tools? About life, human experience, and the ideas that the story um believers, the storytellers believe to be true. Their tools in their tool bag are plot, setting, and character. There's also world making as a part of storytelling. Is anyone familiar with that? World making. In that same quote, Tolkien says. Can you speak up? Um in that same quote. Tolkien says God creates providentially with the events of history. And in his image man creates like not reality but imagery using the school segment. Yeah, okay. Alright and Brad, you were nodding. Did you have anything to say about world making? Uh role making is the way that the the author is going to be able to set the stage for everything that to make sense. So like in Tolkien's world he c created different races, people and different um a different theology of creation But like Tolkien used the Lugatar as his god and made it so that we could actually have a kind of a common experience with the way it is. And in Tolkien's world making the Louisari is the song maker and we edge different parts to each of the songs. We show it's That's cool if that's how God made the world. I don't think that's what Genesis one says, but we can put it into a a way of understanding things. like Christina said that are really, really abstract. Yeah. But when we think of oh there's a song and disharmony, that world making that he's created for the background involved or the brain helps us understand not only his story but even So we end up using if I'm understanding correctly, one you're summarizing, it seems like the Silmarillion. And then two, which I haven't read. I heard it's tough to get through. It's a flaw. But and then the second that he's encouraging us to think of our experience b by way of analogy to a song? He's encouraging us to the have fantastic imaginations about what gotten stuff. Okay. That's cool. Uh while I still have you, besides this world, what would you say is your favorite world? Okay, I got some Narnians in here. Anybody have one right on the top of their mind? In certain literature making worlds or world making, what would be your what's one of your favorite worlds to enter into? Seven and a half deaths of Evan Hartcastle. Okay. Okay, so I got that one, Marnia. I mean Middle Earth. Middle earth. I could totally see you living in the Shire. So you would be taller than everyone. That's good. Anyone else? Favorite world? Okay. Very good. I assume when you say Narnia you really mean Narnia. You don't mean on the other side of the wardrobe not in Narnia. Like you when you enter into Narnia that you like that world. There's two worlds in that story. And then multiple worlds. Okay. Alright. Well you so one of the things I want you to do when we're going through the story is think about the world making that's going on here. And we'll talk about that a little bit more here in a minute. Okay. And then lastly I just want to mention that there is the need to be dis discerning. The first demand that a story makes on us is surrender Stories will make you surrender. They take away your conscientiousness in evaluating everything. C. S. Lewis talks about this as that good stories get past watchful dragons. All of a sudden you're just in the story. You're not evaluating. And so you do have to be careful and make sure you're discerning The first demand that a story makes on us is surrender. Surrender to the delights of being transported, of encountering experiences, characters, and settings, of considering the truth claims that an author makes by means of his or her story But we must not be morally and intellectually passive in the face of what an author puts before us. We need to be true to our own convictions as we weigh the morality and truth claims of a story. A story's greatness does not guarantee that it tells the truth in every way. Very important. Okay, so now let's go ahead and jump into the introduction to Pilgrim's Progress. And I'm going to be really brief on this. specific part about who he is and what he thinks because uh what I'd like to do is just reveal a little bit about John Bunyan as we go through the story itself In some ways, or amongst some people, they actually categorize Pilgrim's Progress as a sort of autobiography. The others would categorize Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners, I think, is the title of a book that he wrote, and they categorize that as his autobiography. But some are also look at this as his autobiography John and so we'll look at John Bunyan the man as we go through the story, and John Bunyan the Christian, and then John Bunyan as the preacher, and John Bunyan as the dissenter or nonconformist And John Button but Button. John Bunyan as the ultimate or ideal um Puritan. Okay, so uh John Bunyan uh lived from 1628 to 1688. His nationality is that he was English. I don't have a map for you, but he kind of lived in like a little town right kind of right in the center. And the date of the public the first publication of this book of part one was in 1678. So is that date that date is super near something we also studied together. Does anybody Connect that dot is the confessions of faith in the larger and the shorter catechisms. Right? So he part one, sixteen seventy-eight, under the title The Pilgrim's Progress, and the rest of the title is From and this is really important, which we'll talk about in a minute, from this world to that which is to come, delivered under the similitude of a dream. I love the old titles. It's like an entire page of a title You know, it's great. And then part two concerning his wife Christiano on largely the same quest, but with different characters, some different characters, is published in sixteen eighty-four Depending on the edition, the book is usually 250 to 300 pages. And there are a number of different editions. I wonder which one you got. I send you sent you which one I picked up, which was this one here from Penguin Classics, because it has uh marginal notes and a couple illustrations that are helpful and seeing where he would be thinking about the scriptures. But there's a bunch of other ones, Barnes and Noble's, Penguin Classics, Crossway, Oxford World Classics, Dover Thrift, Norton Critical Editions. There's a bunch of them The genres that this book has been placed in are fictional narrative, allegorical narrative, dream vision. That sounds cool. Fantasy, realistic fiction, religious fiction, travel story, drama, adventure story, spiritual biography, and autobiography, conversion narrative, drama and psychological narrative. So, um the setting of this particular story, raise your hand if you've started to read it or have read it in the past. Woo! Alright, cool. Good percentage there. So the setting of the story is an imaginary realm that is filled with symbols and archetypes. archetypes to be simply identified with our known world while at the same time having many of the qualities of our world. Yes. Main characters. Who's your favorite character in the book, those of you who have read it? In Pilgrim's progress. Evangelist. Evangelist? Hopeful? Christian? Okay. Monica? Oh, no, I was a Christian. Oh, okay. Faithful. Faithful. Yeah, okay. So we all have our you've named uh most of the ones that people would pick up on. Interpreter. Uh faithful, hopeful, uh great heart, and Christiana. And the plot is that the story begins when the hero and the narrator of the story resolves to flee his hometown called the City of Destruction. The main character for the remainder of part one is Christian's journey from the city of destruction to the celestial city. And this is obviously the story of the salvation of the human soul. So that's pretty deep. Every character and place that Christian encounters is either an aid or an obstacle. in his progress toward heaven and his growth in the Christian life. The main action is Christians' perseverance in the face of adversity and temptations to be diverted from his journey to heaven. And then there is a part two, but I won't speak on that. Now I want to talk about the structure and the unity longer than these other sections that I've given to you already. The main structural element is named in the title of the book, and it is the central genre in which Christian literature, as far back as the medieval writers of Chaucer and Dante, have written And it is the story of the pilgrimage, or it's the structure of the pilgrimage. It is a journey to a sacred place. Pilgrim's Progress is built around what we would call today the quest motif. It has also been called the journey motif. And you can see why, because the entire book is really just about him taking a journey. Now, take a look at the handout that I gave you. So that we can think about this book in terms of a journey for a moment. Or a pilgrimage or a quest. So this is called the hero's journey. Has anyone seen this before? Okay, so this was popularized by a guy named Joseph Campbell, who has a lot of problems. But this chart is pretty good just in terms of reading stories and not adopting it, and not adopting his his Jungian psychology. What Joseph Campbell was doing was working off of the work of others, and he was looking all across the world at the stories of different cultures. So he would study Celtic fairy tales, or he would study African tribal stories, and he was trying to figure out are there commonalities and similarities in the ways that human beings tell stories And he answered, yes, there certainly is. No matter what culture you enter into, though the symbols The specific concrete symbols may be different. They're oftentimes telling the same story with the same parts. And I think C. S. Lewis was probably onto this same notion. In one of his writings, he says that all of the myths that are in the world have finally come true in Christ. So he was seeing some kind of connection between human stories across cultures himself. I don't know much about what C. S. Lewis says on that. I just know he said it. So here is uh a simplified map of um his findings on what are a part what what are the parts of the of the s of stories and he said that every culture has a hero's journey and it has these particular parts. Now let me just give you a fun fact Joseph Campbell, I don't know if you've heard of him or not, but I think you'll find it interesting that he and George Lucas worked together to figure out the narrative structure of Star Wars. Um at a so that's a pretty that's pretty cool. So uh uh if you so we're gonna talk about Star Wars just for a little bit Here, those of you who like Star Wars, that'll be fun for you. And I'd like you to help us to see Star Wars through through the heroes journey. Some of you are experts at that. Okay, so let's just take a look at the parts really quickly. The call to adventure. That's meant to be the person in the story up at the top with their staff, their walking staff. And because we know what literature is trying to do, you're supposed to become that person in some sense. You're surrendering and you're entering in there to be able to go through those experiences to learn from that view of life. They originally have a call to adventure. Joseph Campbell points out that the call to adventure could be, it could happen usually in two different ways. The um one way is that you see something That is from a different realm, so it catches your attention and you follow it. Does anybody have any stories in mind when I say that? You see something from a different realm, or it seems like it's other And you follow it. And before you know it, you're in a place you've never seen before and you're on an adventure. What did they see? The tornado. That takes them away. This is where you would go. But she wasn't away first. She ran away first. Alice in Wonderland. Chasing the Rabbit. Yeah, Uncle Berry. Yeah, okay, so Alice in Wonderland works. Uncle Berry. Yes. The Phantom Soldas. Mm. Are you familiar with that? No. That's why my face looks like it does. Uh tell 'em about finding purpose. In life. And he does teeny purpose and he comes home and finds a a a package and he unwraps it as a polos. So he's like, uh, let me just see what happens and he gets in his car and he ends up in this other world. Okay. He's the hero of the story It's a fine. Okay, yeah, and that's a little bit of a mix. I I literally mean you see something in the distance and you go to it. Not that you are sucked into a tornado There's like a voluntary movement towards this thing and you end up in sacred places, yes. This is not a classic. So it's I think about matrix. Okay. Yeah. Uh he sees Trinity and follows her? Yeah, it's a it's a bunny. Yeah, Alice in Wonderland. Uh usually so let me just so usually in a movie a blue jay will land on their doorstep and then they they notice Oh, that blue jay seems for me to want to follow it because it won't fly away, so I'm going to keep following the blue jay or the red-headed cardinal or whatever it is. Or there is in the mist a deer in the field And you it has this these large antlers and you're like, huh, interesting. And you start moving towards the deer, and the deer seems like it wants you to follow it, and all of a sudden you end up in a realm you didn't know you were going to enter into. Or a rabbit You decide that you're gonna chase the rabbit and you end up in a place that you didn't know you were gonna end up in. Uh there's a bunch of different ways in which this shows up Um uh a light that comes down that you then follow that catches your attention. All of these things are a part of the hero's journey. Yes. Princess Yep, yep, very good. All of those all of those kinds of things. Okay? So then um I've seen stories where a horse shows up and the person follows the horse It's like a wild horse and they follow it. And usually these things are on the edge of something. They're on the edge of woods, for example, or forest, and then for you to follow them you have to enter into a very wild place. Right, and that's the whole point as we go through the hero's story, is there is a call to adventure. Sometimes this shows up not in the terms of you going and seeing something on the edge of that which you do not know, the forest But instead, things are happening in your life and you realize you have to make a decision to pick up the sword and to start walking toward the place that you know there's going to be a dragon. And you're meant to fight it. And the the there are different the dragon is a symbol for that which we would have to fight, and uh that we can enter into the call to adventure that way There's then going to be some kind of supernatural aid to orient you in the matrix. That's his first meeting with The guy with the glasses. Morpheus. Morpheus. With Morpheus. He's some kind of divine sage that is helping him to to the call to adventure. He follows the rabbit and then there's the choose the red pill or the blue pillow, those of you who have seen it And then he's going to choose one, and that will be the one will be the call to adventure. One is you're just going to wake up as if none of this ever happened. He chooses the call to adventure, which he has to because he's the hero, by the way. Right. Then there's going to be a threshold where you're standing at the edge of the woods or that the two pills are handed or uh out in front of you and That threshold you're going to have to enter through it. I'm still just going through this chart. And after you get through the threshold, usually there's guardians there You are going to begin your personal transformation. And notice some of the labels here. This chart was not put together thinking about Pilgrim's Progress, but notice you have like helper Mentor probably be the interpreter or the evangelist. But as you're going through and you're notice we're on a descent here. We're a descent into a place that is going to take us to pieces and then put uh and then we're going to be put back together again in a different way. more mature. And that's that whole descent. There are in the in the abyss there is a death and there is a rebirth. And s and they would they would want to use the the uh example of Christ in this regard. Um when that takes after there's the death and then there there is the rebirth, which is then there's now going to be the The transformation that has happened to you happened in you, you can see this in every story. You're going to watch a character go through this process and they're going to change. And usually that change is something like This was a father, and all he really cared about was upward mobility within his business. And that cost him a good relationship with his wife and his children. Then he has to cross through a threshold and start his transformation wherein he's going to start reordering his world after fighting the final villain and he realizes that work is less important than my family and he's going to re-emerge, transformed And that will make a difference in the life of his children and his wife, and he'll start to evangelize for this view of life to society. Something along those lines. Now different characters go through different paths of tran or different transformations, but any movie that's not an existentialist movie is going to have these transformation points. Can you think of uh a transformation that I just described, a movie that transforms like that? For Skywalker. For us Thanks, Nick. Very good. So go ahead and tell us a little bit, step us through this a little bit with uh Star Wars then, since you since you want to bring it up. And be very careful which one you choose because you could get jumped. Well no, I'll I'll talk about animals in Skywater and went through all of the phases that you just said. Okay, take us through it. Uh he was a young boy. He met some people, got carried away on an adventure. Um something happened in his life where the work started to become more and more important. Um He was deduced by the dark side, went through this transformation. It had a huge effect on his wife and his two children. He started evangelizing For that specific point of view, join the dark side, and then finally at the end of his life he has a different kind of Okay. Somebody take us through the Star Wars movie period. Maybe the just the originals. I was gonna say it's uh Luke gets called the Adventure of the Drillice with the hologram, you know Talks about Obi-Wan, who knows the Ben Obi-Wan? That drives me to Ben. That's maybe s first supernatural because it's not that far and it doesn't kill Make sure you speak up. He destroys the Death Star, which is also supernatural. You go into episode five where he Then which with Yoda is the master, uh his friends are captured, which is his temptation. He wants to go save them, but Yoda's saying he needs more training. Um but he ends up kind of of giving into that temptation where he starts Vader, spoilers Vader as his father, so that's kind of his first revelation. That's also his abyss. He loses his arm and he's literally cast into the abyss. Uh he falls in that hole. Um he comes out transformed on the other side, so you enter into episode uh Which hole do you think is the abyss? After the cloud city, that's the thing. Yeah, yeah, which literally falls into a a hole in Cloud City after he uses the arm. I'm wondering if there's multiple because I always thought of the trash compactors. And then also it's in the anakin points. Like that's what I was seeing is the actual atonement isn't Luke per se. Yeah, he he does get atonement because he does save his friends finally. Um but Vader's the ultimate atonement, because Vader goes from being completely evil, where Anakin McRae El Duke never goes fully evil uh at least in the movies. Um so but but that's his transformation he then helps his father atone so Vader becoming back to Anakin. And then that's in that sense that's Anakin's return to goodness and then Lucky Luke's return to his friends finally. Because Luke keeps getting pulled away from his friends who wants to be. Um, but then finally at the end they have to party and multiplier. Fireworks and ewes. That sounds like a good night. of them the whole time they were making it. Yeah, I would say that most movie makers have this in front of them. A lot of them are trained and take classes specifically in this. Yeah. Yeah, like wow. Yeah. So you can pardon? Pardon? Because it works. Because it yeah. That's why it's cracking. Yeah. Yeah. Christina. Well, it isn't just the Can you speak up, please? Yes. Thank you. It's interesting that even though we're doing the heroes journey and that's what is in the pilgrim's progress. Yes the anti heroes journey is a similar can follow a similar arc and circle, but they end up in a different place. And sometimes they end up in a slightly better place than where they are in the abyss. Sometimes they stay in the abyss. um the whole time, but it can follow a similar I mean we were talking about that with the Joker too a little bit. Can you say a little bit uh uh about the anti-hero? That's a new term for us. Uh well it's And if you want to you just get some examples or something It's up to you. I don't know, I haven't thought that deeply about it at that moment. But an anti hero is someone who who has a similar art in terms of they start out one place, they start something happens, they start following down that path But instead of a path into the abyss and redemption coming out in redemption, they come out, they c go through the abyss and then they embrace the abyss and the evil and then they come out and they are um living fully in sort of the falsehood of what is in the abyss. And so there they affect the reality. A lot of times that's why you have a hero and the anti hero are working against each other through stories and narratives. But you can have stories that are entirely about an anti hero. Yeah, you can. Like the Joker. Yeah. And then um And then you the end result is really chaos. Yeah. Okay, very good. Anybody here a real quick Nora, I'll call in just a second. Anybody here a fan of Stranger Things? Anybody know about it? Notice the line on the chart. You have the known and the unknown. Right? So we have the upside down It's going to be the same thing. And there's always a question, when you do descend into the upside down, are you going to come back out? And if you do come back out, are you going to have adopted the features of the abyss bringing the unknown back up into the known where you are you've become a monster. See monsters belong below, but sometimes they come up above You see w see what I'm saying? So that's all part of the stories too. Nora. Can you speak up please? Um, with that one when um I forgot his name, but he turns into a dragon and then only to the Yeah. Very good. So what you just did within thirty seconds was to describe in general terms the the voyage of Eustace You see that? So he see what would you say is Eustace Eustace's lowest point? Where where is the abyss for him? Where does he have to die and be reborn? He is selfish in some way. He's a selfish little brat. He's annoyed that um his uh family staying with him um and taking up like he's called Pretty much and um then he goes and finds all that treasure like it all and then he starts reading back to the point where he Do you think that he started to become greedy when he saw the gold or was he already greedy? And then what happens in the story to help us to really understand what um what's going on? But he becomes a dragon, right? He can't get out of it. Yeah. To where he has changed as a character and is now going to be a a cont contributing member of society instead of a monster from the unknown. Yeah, so that's great, Nora. So it looks like even if they're not the main character, you see character arcs in many characters, they all have to go through their own abyss. What about Reapach? Does he have a Same thing? Well you can think about that. Okay, so that's the hero's journey. And uh so I'd encourage you to keep this in mind. Maybe it will help you to have the vocabulary and to see the depth of the story of what's uh going on with Pilgrim's Progress. And one of the things we haven't done is we haven't talked about Bunyan himself, but like I mentioned, we'll talk about that going through the the story And when we start to get in I think it will be easier when we get into the actual story itself is when I will talk about the nature of allegory. I also want to talk about allegory not as um just a personification of an abstract quality I want to talk about it as symbolic reality. And one term I really like that Philip Graham Riken uses is he says, when you enter into the story of Pilgrim's progress you enter into a forest of symbols. That's something that you're going to need to keep in mind. And when you're reading the story this coming week, do me a favor And when someone shows up on the scene and they have that allegorical name, it's going to be a capital letter. It's not going to be lowercase faithful. It'll be faithful, right? Or whatever it is with the capital F. Don't only look at that person as that which means something besides itself. Try to see in the stories and what he brings up what are all of the possible symbols and their references So if there's a candle, what does that mean? If there's light, what does that mean? If there's oil, what does that mean? If there's uh if there's seven pillars On the house and What is the meaning of every pillar? You see what I'm saying? This is why he calls it a forest. When you enter into a forest, you have that which is like low on the ground, moss Then there's ferns above that and you keep going until there's a canopy and there's the all of these different layers going on and they're all interacting with each other in an ecosystem and the same thing is happening in the story. And it's all meant to accumulate to where you can see uh by way of you can see what Bunyan is trying to say is what real life looks like As you seek to persevere from the leaving the city of destruction, getting to the celestial city, or as you have salvation for your soul. And already that might be surprising to you, because a lot of you think you have salvation for your soul the moment you believe. Which maybe you do. But it is isn't it interesting that there's also he has to make it through a path and get to the end. So that's interesting. Is that reformed? Yeah, that's interesting. Okay. Very good. So why don't we What's that? It's definitely report, yeah. Yeah, yeah, very good. So the journey starts at the Wicked Gate. So you might need to Bunyan might challenge you in how you view Christianity. I'm really hoping that he actually is going to challenge the first and the second great awakening right out of ya I think that'll be excellent if he does. So let's go ahead and close in prayer. Thanks so much for your attention. We're gonna start with chapter one, uh part part one, chapter one next week. Oh Lord, I thank you that you're going to give us the opportunity through art and literature to consider what you say in your scriptures and and how we're supposed to be viewing the quest that you have placed us upon. Lord, you say that you have called us. And Lord, it is helpful us to even think that you have called us into adventure. I pray that you would help us and that you would use this book. to help us to grow in our glory of you, grow in the image of Christ, persevere to the end. and to bring your kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Alright, thanks