Well, I hope everyone has their scriptures out. I want to direct you to the scriptures right away in verse 3. It's a phrase that we repeated many times. The last time we visited this set of verses. In verse 3 of chapter 1 of 1 Peter, we have a doxology or a praise to God. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. You know, you've got to think through that a little bit, in that he's writing a letter to a bunch of different people. And so He's not there by himself praising God, but there is some kind of expectation that those to whom Peter wrote would join him in this praise. And if you look in verses 1 and 2, especially verse 1, look at all the different people to whom he'd be calling to the same sentiment, the same act. Those in the dispersion, those pilgrims in Pontus, Galatius, Capitzia, Asia, Bethanya. All the pilgrims in verse 1 of the dispersion, and really when you start to broaden it out like that, it's very easy to see that this is called a unit what is called a universal letter. It's timeless, goes out to all Christians. It's easy to see that all of us with Peter, that Peter is calling us to say, Blessed be the Lord God, of Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. The question that we want to ask as we enter back into the letter is why? And we'll at least get two solid weeks because I'll be preaching. on 1 Peter again next week, Lord willing. Why would we want to praise the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ? I'm sure you can think of a lot of different reasons. Maybe we should narrow it and say, why would Peter want us to do so? What does he want? What's on his mind that makes him move off into worship? I wonder if you've ever been like that, if you've ever thought about things about God or what he's done in your life, and you couldn't help to start giving him praise. What has God the Father accomplished that would bring us to sing to Him? Well, the answer, I think, one way that we could put it, if we wanted to summarize it under two terms, is that it's God's mercy And it's God's ministry to us. These two M's are the emphasis that Peter gives us. And I think he really wants you to ask the question: has God given you mercy? And I also think he wants you to ask, does God minister to you? I don't mean does he theoretically give you mercy? I mean, could you tell me a story about his mercy and how he ministers to you And that's really the the thesis of this section. God has given his people mercy and he ministers to us. The goal here is that you would see that, and I just pray that the Spirit would help you to see it so clearly that you would be moved to praise him. So obviously we're going to look at this under mercy and ministry. And so let's begin with the mercy of the Father. And you see here in verse 3, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus. Christ, who according to his abundant mercy, there's the M-word, the mercy, and it gives us this first angle on why we would be excited about this, and it says that He has begotten us again. That's the first act of mercy that we see. Now that's a bit of a funny word. I don't usually hear you all in the Narthex saying the word begotten. Unless you're quoting the Bible. But I don't hear that in your normal vocabulary. So let's just take a moment and think about what does it mean that there's been this mercy given to us where we are begotten? If we look at other biblical writings, this is a term that's used by multiple authors, and that's really helpful to us, and that's how the Spirit planned it, so that you would be able to understand what he means. And he actually gives us really helpful pictures. To know what it means to be begotten. For example, this is repeated in 1 Peter 1, verse 23. I have to flip a page, but in verse 23 it says, it's the same word, having been born again. This is the idea here, begotten or being born again. And if you meditate on that, then you would see that the medits the metaphor of birth is obviously right out there in front of you. I would encourage you to meditate on it. Not many people think about what it would be like to be born again. It's kind of a really weird thought. And it's actually quite fruitful, just to start taking it out and the things that you know about the Christian life. Well, what do it mean to be born again? I was thinking, and I've heard people explain this in different angles, but I was just trying to think about what it would mean to be born again? One way to look at this is that you're safely existing in your mother's womb. There's just this nice little heartbeat sound machine And you're fed constantly. You don't have to work for anything. It's it's mostly quiet. And then all of a sudden there's all this tension and tightness and contractions, and before you know it, you're pushed out into this cold world with people wearing masks and people you've never seen before. You've only heard their voice staring at you. Down the birth canal and whoosh, you're into a whole new world. And we know that to be a a description of of of uh being born. But I think that's like the rebirth also. That you, in some ways, feel safe in your natural life. You're used to your surroundings, and the way that you think about things are quite natural to you, and you would defend those ways of thinking about things. And then before you know it, there's this Christ that enters into your life through the Spirit. And you become uncomfortable there. You can feel yourself being pushed into some place. And before you know it, whoosh, you're born into a supernatural life where you are aware of your sins and you are repentant of them by the grace of the Holy Spirit, and you see that there is a way of salvation through Jesus Christ. And to everyone's amazement who knew you in high school, you believe in this Jesus and everything that is said about him. And you can't even explain why, but you believe everything that God has recorded in his scriptures. And the rest of your life is really just you adding intelligence to the faith that has been given to you Well, this same kind of image is repeated in John three. Besides verse twenty-three, the birth image is also given in in John three. And this is uh I wonder where if this is where Peter got it, it uh where Jesus came up with the metaphor. Jesus says To Nicodemus, remember, Jesus answered and said to him, Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born again, and there's alternative translations, or born from heaven, that would be talking about the agency of the spirit. Spirit. He cannot see the kingdom of God. And Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? See, it's a strange question. I think it rolls over us because we're so used to it. Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Most assuredly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. And then more is added in 1 John. Whoever has been born of God does not sin, for his seed remains in him. That's a birth analogy still. And he cannot sin because he has been born of God. All similar language, trying all different ways to conceive of this idea of the begotten. And so, if you were to bring them all together, begotten means to be born again, a second time, where you are not controlled by a sinful life, but you look more and more like God in righteousness. And it begins with just a mustard seed of faith. And we could add other pictures to meditate on the point. We've been moved from the realm of darkness into the realm of light. We've been asleep and now we're awake. There's a number of other images that are talking about this experience that millions of people have had. Because of the grace, really what we should say, is because of the mercy of the Father and the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and His Spirit. No matter what passages you quote on this topic, here's the point that Peter's making. And remember, I'm talking about his use of the word begotten in the passage we're studying. In his mercy, God the Father has given you a new life. A life that you did not have before You were once dead in sins, and now you are alive. You once did not have faith, and now you have faith which expresses in faithfulness to some degree or level. Now, one question I have for you as you hear all that, which you've heard before, does that seem abstract to you? Because it it kind of should Again, remember, Peter's writing to all different kinds of people. He doesn't, he he doesn't he has to speak generally in this letter. Look at all the people he's addressing. What would you do if you were addressing that many regions? He doesn't get into the the nitty-gritty and specifics of everybody's life. He uses general language, but what you can know about the people to whom he's writing is that they all had this experience Of rebirth, they know what he's talking about at an individual level, and so it is right for me to ask you What would this look like, not abstractly, in your own life? I wonder what your story is here with being begotten again by the mercy of the Father. If you want, you should add the details. How were you once dead, but then by the mercy of God the Father, you're born again by the Spirit? What has changed? What has grown over time? Perhaps the change has been imperceptible to you, that you've known Christ since a baby. But what has changed as knowing Christ? Surely now you have faith in God the Father's work through Christ in the Spirit? That's uh gotta be a change. That's a non-negotiable. But what else? If you were to go back in time and ask different people that we know about, like John Newton, who wrote Amazing Grace, what would he say? Well, we know what he would say. He would say, I was a formal, a former brutal slave trader. And then he would summarize the whole story that he'd tell you about the ships that he was on and the torture he underwent. And he'd say, Amazing grace. How sweet the sound that saved the wretch like me. And then he would use the image of being lost. And then he was once lost, but then he was found. And then he'd drop into this idea of blindness, and he was blind, but now he sees. Because there's been a translation from one mode of existence to another mode of existence. The translation from darkness into light. He was born again. He was begotten by the mercy of the Father. And the great thing is that all Christians in this room share that You have been given new life by the mercy of the Father. Even if you grow up in the church, you can see the life that God the Father gives to you as you grow, becoming more like Him in righteousness. In fact, most covenant children that come before us by right around the age of 12 have this increasing awareness of their sin and their need for Jesus Christ. Now that's the first mercy that we see. The first mercy is that we are begotten. Again. But there is another mercy that we see here, and it is said in a number of different ways throughout this passage, but let me just point out a couple. It says that you have been by this mercy you've been begotten again. And then it goes on to talk about not what has taken place in the past, but what is in the future. Notice it says, you've been begotten again to a living hope. And then look at verse 4. To an inheritance. And then look at verse 5. Salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. These are all future occurrences, but they are nonetheless mercies from God the Father that He is celebrating. And so I titled this under inheritance for this second part. It's the second mercy of God. Not only does he give us new birth, but he gives us an inheritance. In other words, The new life that you have in the Spirit now, this being begotten again, and you've already read this in your bulletin, it is a foretaste of the full life, a full life that is promised to you in the future. Does anyone here know or have you heard of Abraham Kuyper? Abraham Kuyper is a 19th-century theologian, and he put it this way. I love the way he put this. This is a great way for you to meditate on this. He says, in the second birth, just like the first, we are perfect in parts, but imperfect in degrees. Now, what did he mean by that? You've heard me say that before. Perfect in parts, imperfect in degrees. That's the saying. Now think about that. When you were born, you have all the parts of a human. Yet, are all of the parts mature? I mean, do you have the same size fingers that you had when you were a baby? No. You have all the same parts, but they're imperfect in degree. There needs to be growth. This is the analogy that he's using. You have your head when you are born, yet your head will grow in size and your brain will grow in intelligence. You have hands and feet when you are born. You have eyes and a nose, and all of these were there, but then they have much growing to do. You are perfect in parts, but imperfect in degree. And so it is with the second birth. The spirit affects your whole person. You're perfectly spirit-filled, as he controls all the parts, but you still need to grow in righteousness in many ways. There are degrees that you must grow. You can see the analogy that he's using. You are reborn, Peter will say later, for the continual milk of God's word, but you will grow up into a saint who eats meat. You have been born again unto good works, but those works will be incomplete until you work perfectly in glory. You see the progress there that he's talking about. This is the in one of the inheritances that is promised to you. It's a mercy to you that your life isn't a dead end. But that's not all that is included in the inheritance. It could sound like the inheritance is entirely about having a new sinless character. And of course, that's glorious enough. I mean, if you think about it But the inheritance is far more if you were to go on to read. Our rebirth is just a tiny portion of the newness of life which awaits us all. The resurrection of Christ ushers in the new era, and eventually the whole new heavens and the new earth shall be renewed, and the order of creation itself transformed into a glorious and eternal era of peace. That I gained from the rest of the scriptures. In other words, the lion will lie down with the lamb. Now, can you see as we look at those two aspects of mercy, both what has happened to us in the past. Experientially, and what is promised to us in the future. Mercies from the past and mercies from the future. Can you see why Peter would want others to join him in praising God the Father for his mercy? Now maybe you can't, and we should talk. Because that can happen. It is because God the Father has given us mercy. That's why. The mercy of being born again and the mercy of a glorious future. But Peter not only mentions the Father's mercy, but he also mentions the Father's name. ministry here in the rest of these verses. He transitions in verse seven. It's a really important transition. If you take a look with me, or in verse six, I'm sorry. Notice how he's still going with the rejoicing, blessed. Blessing be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. He says in verse 6, In this you greatly rejoice, this inheritance that is given to you, this new nature, this new life that is given to you all by mercy, in this you greatly rejoice Though now for a little while, do you see what he's doing? This transition. We're moving from a time where we're just conceiving of his mercies now to a time where he's going to need to minister to us as we are pilgrims along the way. The first part of the sermon is about the celestial city that's promised and that's given to us as a deposit. And the second part of this sermon is about the traveling along the way, which is very difficult. He says in verse 7, if need be you have grieved, been grieved by various trials. There's all sorts of stuff that can strike you on the way to eternal life In one use of that word. And this is the context of the Father's ministry to us, these trials. That's the context of the Father's ministry. Every Christian can relate to this at different levels. If you can relate to this at different levels We confess with the rest of Christians that God mercifully is working new life in you, and that this is but a sign of a glorious future life And yes, we confess with the rest of Christians that while we wait for glory, we are grieved by all kinds of trials. And I just wonder what they are in your life. There's some you have never told anybody. What kind of trials or afflictions were they experiencing? And what kind of trials and afflictions are you experiencing Well, if you want to have the answer to the first, what were they experiencing? It's a pretty large audience, as I've already drawn your attention to in verse 1. He's writing to a churches all across the known world then. But you could see here in 1 Peter 4, verse 4, some of the afflictions that some of them were going through. In chapter 4, verse 4. And it's all too familiar. In regard to these, they think it's strange that you do not run with them in the same flood of dissipation, speaking evil of you. They will give an account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. And you can read a little bit before there about them being surprised that you don't join with him any longer. And the way that you could entitle this is you could just say there's a there's afflictions. They're being afflicted with reproach. Christian community would no longer join in the evil of the culture, and so the culture around them made fun of them, ridiculed them, and spoke evil. That's another word for um Speaking behind someone's back, gossiping. Do you see what's happening? It's all too familiar because the Christians are born again They've been taken from darkness into light. The Spirit of Heaven has made his home with them and is preparing them to meet Christ. And as they see him, they will be transformed and pure like he is pure. And that means that Christians now leave that earthly life behind. Our lives were characterized, and here's a paraphrase of some of the things that are in that list in chapter 4 of 1 Peter. Our lives used to be characterized by breaking sexual boundaries of all sorts. Getting drunk. And being a part of a party culture. I'm not saying the parties are wrong, but I'm talking about a very specific kind of culture called a party culture. And you know what I mean If you don't, you can talk to me afterwards. It's a kind of mentality which is destructive and brings chaos, and it revolves around jello shots and other stupid frat boy stuff. Even if you're however old, I've seen people engage in that culture for a long time. It's hard to get out of it. And now, by the mercy of God the Father, we separate from it. And we're here on the road to the celestial city and the inheritance that is promised. And we're trying to raise our families And those communities are offended by us. And they're offended that we don't join in the same lewdness that we used to say, oh, laugh at. And so in their offense, for whatever reason, they start to talk about us behind our backs. We become isolated and social. circles. It can move into threats. And they can even put our children in jeopardy. All of those are stories you know are true. If we try to discipline our children rightly, then they'll call the social worker. If our male children show any trait of effeminacy, then they call the guidance counselor and seek gender conversion. These are some examples. extreme cases, but it's a it is a part of our culture that we've walked away from by the mercy of God. If Christian women seek to honor and respect their husbands, then the world calls them weak and accuses the men of abuse. Then that's just a partial list, and it's not even the worst stuff that you know is there. And part of the point in bringing those things up, even though they're not the worst, is it acts as a kind of Of constant fingernails going down the chalkboard, always in the background for you as a Christian and for them as a Christian. A constant setting on edge and never really feeling at home. Those are the trials and afflictions that sit in the background and the constant tension that is felt by Christians that we see present in the 1 Peter passage. And that's the context in which God is ministering to you. Because remember, that's the second part of the mercy, is that he ministers to you. And how where does he minister to you? In this kind of context. Now, what is it that the Father does? What is the actual ministry that he does in that context? Now that's where we come in with verse 7 here. And it's glorious. Which is why we would want to say, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, not only for his mercy, but for his ministry in this afflicted context. Verse 7 tells us that all the tension is being used to refine the faithfulness of Christians. That the genuineness of your faith, being much more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Most of the time when you read this, you think it's getting into a detailed discussion on how gold is refined so that you would have a metaphor to understand What's going on? Notice that's not what's happening. It is specifically saying to you that God ministers to you through the afflictions so that you would have the most precious thing in all that God has given to you. It is your faith. Notice what it says. It doesn't get into the details of the refining process. That's in the background. It says, what's more precious than gold? What God gives you as He ministers to you through afflictions, faith, all the way to the end, because you will not enter into heaven if you do not have faith. The end result of the first process is precious gold in that passage. The end result of the second process is faith, which is more precious than gold. That's his ministry to you. Do you see that in the passage? You really need to see it, brothers and sisters. God ministers all the heat, all the affliction, all the nails going down the chalkboard in the background of your life He takes all of it and he uses it as a ministry to you to give you something which in the end is more precious than all the gold on the earth. Now really think about that. What can gold get you? Almost anything except for this one thing that faith alone can get you. Faith in God the Father, in Christ the Son, and in the Holy Spirit Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, for His mercy and for His ministry amidst our afflictions. And so as we review Peter here, we're really supposed to be in like chapter three. or something, but it's been so long. It's so great to get back to this though. I've been renewed in my understanding of Peter over the months and I wanted to bring that to you Remember that Peter is focusing on basic teaching of the Father's mercy and his ministry. So that you can live a life of praise. And Peter is writing this to many, many Christians, as you can see in verse 1. It's not specific. And therefore, it is general teaching that all Christians share. Now I want to move into a time of application for a second here. Do you know what it's called when you have teachings that all Christians share? It's called a confession or a creed Or a catechism. And that is not unusual for people, especially scholars, to look at 1 Peter as catechetical material. for the early church. And I look at that like at that generally I look at like look at it like that also. And so here's what I want to do for the application. Let's see how well you've been listening. I've got some catechism questions. for you that I've come up with from the passage that I just preached to you. Let's see how you do. Don't answer aloud. Here's question number one. Why is faith more precious than gold? I pray that the Spirit takes these questions and answers and drives them into your heart. Why is faith more precious than gold? Gold can get you a lot of stuff, can't it? What makes faith even more precious than that? And of course, the answer is in verse 9, because the end of our faith is salvation itself. It is the admission ticket In other words, only those who persist in the faith till the end will receive the future salvation and the inheritance. If you show up knocking on heaven's door and have not faith, there shall be no entrance? Are you beginning to sense the gravity of the mercy You know those old sayings about Peter and the gates of heaven, there's like a thousand jokes about that. But this isn't a joke. If Peter asks, why should I let you into the gates of heaven? What will be your answer? And you better say, Because I have faith by the mercy of God, expressed in faithfulness. For that is the price of admission for eternal salvation and the inheritance. And that is why faith is more precious than gold. Gold can get you something from this earth, but faith will buy you the new heavens and the new earth. Question number two, are you ready? This is very important. How do you get faith? Now, you know the answer because of the first point of the sermon. God gives faith as a mercy. We are naturally unbelievers and unfaithful, but in his mercy, God gives us a second birth. As reborn, we believe or have faith in God the Father's work through Jesus Christ and the Spirit, and we begin to express faithfulness to our God. Alright, how are you doing? There's only I only have two more questions. Are you going to get at least a 50%? Question number three. This is very important. How do you keep this precious faith? There's different answers to that, but from our text this evening is verse 5. God keeps your faith through his power. God keeps you keeps your faith through his power, and that's what he's doing with those afflictions, folks. He's making you stronger and stronger that you can live. last to the end and show up with faith. And then lastly, question number four, and then we'll we'll I'll pray and we'll we'll sing. Do you have room for joy in your life, even though your life is full of trials? Whatever the trial may be, I'm not just talking about physical pain either. This could be emotional distress of some sort, social distress of some sort. Anything. Do you have room in your life even though your life is full of trials? And do you know what the answer to that catechism question is? Yes! So you at least got one right. Because God uses the trials in your life to make your faith stronger so that you will persevere until the end and obtain the inheritance promised to the faithful. All the present-day afflictions are not even worth comparing to the future glory that He has planned for us. And that's Pater's catechism for tonight. Let's uh Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for these truths that you've given to us Hmm. Lord, we praise your holy name. Lord, it was when we when we hear things like this And we see the difference in who we are right this moment from when we showed up at the service, we realized man, we have really been forgetting how merciful you are and what you are doing. in our life. But when we remember, there's something even in us, even physically, that just wants to worship You and say, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. And we want to bless your name, Lord Jesus Christ for the work that you have done to make this possible. And for the sending of your Spirit that we truly could be reborn, that we would be born from heaven, in other words. by that agent from heaven, that person. We thank you, Spirit, for working faith in us. And taking those afflictions and working them out to direct and to dispose us, that we would become ever more faithful. As we put one foot in front of the other towards the celestial city. We give you thank for making us pilgrims. That is a great mercy. Our future as pilgrims is a great mercy. And we give you thanks for ministering to us to us as we walk along the road. I pray, Lord, for those here who have gone off onto different diversions. Those who are still dwelling in vanity fair, I pray, Lord, that you'd bring great conviction, that you'd send the helper, that you'd send the evangelist, that you'd give them light, they'd give back Back on that road, and that you would give them perseverance to the end, even through the final river of death. Ask these things in your In your name, Amen, Amen