Welcome on this uh foggy Sunday morning. Uh I'm gonna be teaching again uh for Jesse for a couple a couple more Sundays, this Sunday and next Sunday. As people make their way in from the narthex, let's start with prayer. Father, we thank you for the rest and comfort. That we have on this day, Lord, gathering together, studying uh the truths of uh your word talking about those truths with one another and encouraging one another, challenging one another, applied seeing ways to apply your word. uh to our our lives here at Severn Run uh and uh our lives out in the world uh through the week. Lord give us um uh great uh insight into uh John Bunyan's book help us to discern uh the the the spiritual truths that he is uh wanting to teach us and lord help us to uh to see how those how how this story applies to our lives. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, so last week we covered chapter three. And chapter three is the journey that Christian takes from the interpreter's house. Now to uh in chapter four, another house, a palace, right? But that journey had several major events. One was the cross, coming to the cross, seeing the cross and his burden. uh falling from his back. We also encountered uh various characters on the way, uh several at the bottom of the hill of difficulty, uh sloth presumption, um simple yes, uh personifications of vices uh that could endanger Christian on his on his journey. We saw two more characters who did not come in by way of the gate, formality and hypocrisy. who appealed to custom but weren't following the rule laid down by uh Christ. We we didn't have as much time on the hill of difficulty itself, uh but he uh where the others took other paths, you know, avoided this hill. Um Christian stayed on that narrow straight way, even though it was difficult. Even though there were uh frightening things ahead, uh the lions at the top, uh others mistrust, um who was the other? Timorous, running away uh in fear. He he kept pressing on. Um there's that the episode where he falls asleep at the tree, right, and abuses this uh Place of encouragement for his spirit, he says he indulged his flesh there and lost his role. Which was his assurance. And so we spent a lot of time last Sunday on the topic of assurance. I think that was a major, a major theme of that part of the journey. So he has to make several trips. A trip back to get his forgotten scroll Uh and then he's traveling in the dark and there's you know scary creatures that he can hear. Um and so I again I think the theme of assurance there, he he's uh troubled in in his uh in his conscience maybe, uh fearful, uh not always feeling the uh security and and love uh of God. But he finally makes it to this palace. And so we we start to see a pattern of journeying and then a place of rest in a house or palace or some such place. So that's where we've arrived today, is this palace beautiful. And the whole lesson will be on what takes place in that palace. He's greeted by a porter, someone who is guarding the entrance to this palace, and he has to go through a series of um Kind of an examination, as it were, with the different women of the house to make sure it's okay for him to enter. And there may be some significance to that we want to talk about. But much of this, whereas last week the chapter is very action-packed. You know, there's events happening, he's journeying here, it's mostly dialogue and conversation. And Bunyan gets pretty explicit about teaching us, uh kind of instructing us on basic truths of the Christian life through these conversations. The initial part, there's uh individual conversations that Christian has with prudence, piety, charity, uh. And then they begin to take him to uh in one room they show him uh or or tell him stories uh from scripture, uh acts of faith, uh in another room showing him uh items used by uh Christians of the past And then showing him finally the site of the delectable mountains. So all of that by way of summary, there's a handout in the back, and I have several questions. uh that will guide us. Other questions I'll throw in as we move along. But I thought it would be good to just start by asking what is this palace? a picture of. And what I'm wanting to hear from you is what what observations did you make as you read this section of Pilgrim's Progress. Were there any details that you thought were important about this palace and the people in it? So observations with an aim to figuring out what this palace is. Any guesses I noticed when he approaches the palace the twice, but he uses the word narrow in your narrow passage. Okay. Yeah. I didn't notice that myself. Uh yeah, the like so that language of narrow which would connect back to the wicket gate. Maybe the porter himself is almost you know he's guarding as it were the entrance of the house so that the uh imagery of a gate again there. Okay. Who who built this house? Oh go ahead. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, so the Lord built this house, built it for pilgrims who are passing through. The way led straight to this house. Any other details that you observed about this? Yes, Ali? Christian who was gracious. I came from the race of Jephthah, whom God will persuade to dwell in the sense of Shem. So I find it interesting because Shem Yeah. I guess it's where the Europeans or whatever the it's Gentile, yeah. Yeah, Gentiles came from. But he's like he's actually acknowledged Acknowledging that um that the that the wave was through Shenz a after after a fashion. And um yet it It's just kind of taking that how beautiful it was always there. And and now it's taking in the great yeah. Yeah. I just brought up on the book last night. So pre fresh in my memory. I would say the house contained the armor of God at the end. Um uh perhaps the house is the word or the spirit or the wisdom of God because it contains patience, proof, and different different other positive characteristics. So either the wisdom, the word, or the spirit, or some combination of those three. Yeah, you're highlighting a couple things. Um One of them is the names seem to be important, names of the the women who are there. The porter's name is Watchful, and then you have disc discretion. Uh piety, charity, uh prudence. Prudence, yeah. Which you called that w what did you s how did you describe the wisdom of God Okay. Maybe a contrast with the characters we saw on the way to the house, which were character flaws or vices. That could be a danger to pilgrim. Now we have ver maybe virtues that are necessary for Christian while he's on his journey. foundation that person can build away. Mm-hmm. Right. Yeah, he's equipped with armor. Okay. Any other details that might help us with what this palace is? Okay. How does that help? Helps identify what it is. Okay. Okay. What do you think that house on a hill or city on a hill where do you take that to be? Okay. Okay, so we've got yeah, a couple ideas here. One is the wisdom of God. And then possibly the church. What details could maybe help further this point? Maybe it's the church In their conversation, they talk through the council of God's Yeah, just in the course of their conversation. Okay, yeah, the content of the conversation, what's shown to him, might indicate that this is the church. What about the um Did the fact that the women are there uh conversing with him, allowing him into the church, is there any significance to that? The presence of these women. They're described as virgins. They will talk with Christian and make sure that he can be admitted into the house according to the rules of the house. Yeah. Yeah. Asking him about his previous experience. Yeah. experience being what he did to try to save his family and you know yeah well basically you were were cleared with why your family did Yeah. Let's look at uh a passage that may be in Bunyan's mind with this imagery of um These virgins in the house. Matthew twenty five is the parable of the virgins. Matthew 25, verses 1 to 13. Then the kingdom of heaven shall be likened to ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were wise and five were foolish. Those who were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them, but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. But while the bridegroom was delayed they all slumbered and slept, and at midnight a cry was heard, Behold, the bike bridegroom is coming. Go out to meet him Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps, and the foolish said to the wise, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out But the wise answered, saying, No, lest there should not be enough for us in you, but go rather to those who sell and buy for yourselves And while they went to by, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding, and the door was shut. Afterward the other virgins came also, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. And he answered and said, Assuredly, I say to you, I do not know you. Watch, therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming. So this this imagery of the virgins who are, as it were, preparing for the arrival of the bridegroom, which would be Who? Christ. So what you could take this as imagery of of the church in preparation. Bunyan's sermon, The Straight Gate, he spends some time looking at this parable because of the language of the door, that imagery of the gate shows up again. in the parable uh that the door is open for those uh virgins who were prepared for the arrival they go in but then the door is shut And and those who are foolish are not admitted in. Um I think some of that imagery is is is here. uh with the versions and plus the porter. I kind of I read through this initially and I didn't see much significance in a porter. But in that sermon, in Bunyan's sermon The Straight Gate, uh Bunyan sees a lot of significance in this idea of a porter. So I'm going to read you a um a quote from that sermon. So he he thinks when Jesus talks about striving to enter the narrow gate, he says, Perhaps our Lord Matt might have his eye upon the gates of the temple when he spoke this word unto the people, for though the gates of the temple were six cubits wide, yet they were so straight that none that were unclean in anything might enter in thereat, because there were placed at these gates porters. whose office was to look that none but those that had right to enter might go in thither. And so it is written, Jehoiada set porters, this is a quote from 2 Chronicles. Chapter 23. Jehoiada set porters at the gates of the house of the Lord that none which was unclean in anything should enter in. And then Bunyan speaks to the congregation, souls, God hath porters at the gates of the temple, at the gate of heaven. Porters, I say, placed there by God. to look that none that are unclean in anything may come in thither. And then he switches to the church. In at the gate of the church none may enter now that are openly profane and scandalous to religion. Though they plead they are beloved of God, quote, What hath my beloved to do in mine house, saith the Lord, seeing that she hath wrought lewdness with many? And he goes on to talk about these porters had to be armed and courageous so that they were able to thrust out anyone who was not permitted in. So we had porters, we have the virgins. My inclination is this may be the church. And not just anyone, Bunyan would say, can enter into the church. There are certain rules or laws of the house according to which people must enter. So you have to kind of think back to uh this Puritan uh his kind of Puritan outlook, uh where In terms of the state church, it's very easy to be a member of the of the state church. And he's maybe critiquing that, that um there need to be there needs to be some kind of examination some kind of inquiry into the lives, the practical lives of um of people who seek admittance to the church. So that's a couple details I think that are important. Porters, versions. Then there's the content being discussed. um kind of instructing him in truths of the word, um instructing him about heaven. Um all of this seems to be uh things that the church would do for the Christian. Marilyn? What was your uh take on the why we're vertical? I mean you can ask the question a couple times so I don't hear any comment on it. So the significance of them being virgins? Or right. Maybe I'll throw that out to the class. Do you see any significance of I mean up to this point are there any other women characters? There's his wife. Can you think of other women in the story before this point? I can't think of any. So that may be significant that it's women who are there. But what is what is um I guess in in biblical imagery personified as a woman as a woman, okay. Yeah. Wisdom personified as a woman. Okay. Why would the church be identified as a virgin? The Bride of Christ. The spiritual purity of the church. Yeah. Yeah, so another the I guess the virgin language would be we could make another argument that this is the church based on the Bride of Christ language. It sounded like um I could if the border is keeping the gate. It's when they start examining him it sounds like almost uh as the session would examine a member for a Church membership, yeah. Yeah. We're we've we're kind of covering The first two questions at once because we're talking about the significance of the characters in the house. That's question two And we're we've talked about the porters, we've talked about the vir um these virgins who are there. Of course that could be an argument that this is the bride of Christ, this is the church And this is helping us with question one. What is this palace a picture of? A strong argument could be made that this is the church. Well I should say question three, not question two again. So let's just take up, let's jump into question three there, because I think we're answering one and two What is it that we learn about the Christian life from these conversations that happen? And maybe as a starting point, do you think there's any significance to the fact that Bunyan presents this to us by way of conversations? Is there significance to that kind of literary form that he's using? Is conversation important in the Christian life? Yeah, why I say yes because I'm hoping great. edifying conversations with my brothers and sisters in that I'll share my thoughts or ideas on a you know say a part of a sermon that stuck outside But then hearing their insight just moves the ball further down the field. And I think That's fantastic. And pretty great. Part of what the women do is encourage him going forward down the hill and Well that maybe it's um the conversational um building up of brother and sister in Christ that um of future it calls um encouraging by what's the other person's experience um and strength and offering strength with the food and fine um to continue. Yeah. Yeah. Um to thinking back off that I was thinking uh conversation Is also a way that we develop relationships and God started that off in the very beginning. He conversed even amongst with himself and then he converse with Adam and Eve in the garden. So relationships are very important and having that um you know conversations other people keeps building that up. Yeah, great. What I thought interesting is we're strangers to each other. when they came in. And if it if it's a representation of the church, it's interesting how quickly and directly they ask Very deep questions and asked. And even, you know, started talking through, did you minister or evangelize to your wife and to your children? where there was one thing there. But how it feels uncommon that you're bringing people into church or you know, at least initially it it takes a while before we could do that. But basically that is people have it quickly. Maybe more like a movie form of that kind of speech. But I just Yeah. It raises questions about what what is the purpose of our conversations with one another. Yeah, but should we be uh less fearful and more bold when you're um talking to people who are thinking about coming to the church or you know questioning perhaps their level of authenticity too. Asking in a way that's not judgmental or critical. And a comfortable way in a building up. That mark if you're acting like okay And you did this and you came in here, but you're coming and you're stepping. So it's in a guiding way, in a helpful nurturing way with it. I didn't find well I didn't find them particularly just done. I didn't find them particularly something new. I thought their questions were very direct on they weren't anything words. They were mad at that. I mean, so yeah, they weren't going, Well, shame on you for losing your your little scroll of having to go back. Yep. Oh and what about what about your wife? What is what did you do? Okay. So um and and then they I mean and they do pronounce judgment here and there. Like I was saying, when they say, Well, you Right. There's a gravity to the gravity conversation. So I mean y yeah, they don't they they don't fall on either side. You know, PS Little talks about about you know sins common affairs and the double doesn't care which side you fall into. I think there you know there's a there's our two the two sides to that would be oh that That's okay and how horrible it is. And they're but they don't convince words. So and we need that. I wasn't sure how to read the there was a line in particular that struck me where one of the women it she smiled but the water stood in her eyes. It's like okay, she's f she's not uh she's friendly, she's smiling, but she's not I don't know, it's like she's ev she's still evaluating. And she's there's a seriousness to what she's doing. Yeah. I think that's a discretion. Discretion, yeah. She I think it says it before she He introduces him to the rest of the family of the three other versions. So uh I thought of this it's on the handout, this catechism question. It's the second one on the footnote. The uh larger catechism, question 160. Because I'm seeing in this house episode a very practical emphasis on not just hearing these truths, but examining oneself, talking about these truths, applying these truths to your life. So question 160 says, What is required of those that hear the word preached? It is required of those that hear the word preached that they attend upon it with diligence. preparation and prayer. So almost like before before you hear the word you need to have prepared and prayed. And then in the hearing, examine what they hear by the scriptures, receive the truth with faith, love, meekness, and readiness of mind. As the Word of God, and then maybe after the fact, I'm seeing the division this way, meditate upon it and confer on it. Hide it in their hearts pr and bring forth the fruit of it in their lives. So there's a there's a Puritan in Westminster emphasis on a on talking about the truth, meditating on it and conversing about it. So I wonder, do you think that do you think of that as a duty? It is your spiritual duty to have conversations? Spiritual conversations. Maybe the three women is kind of the characteristics that we want to nurture or the church nurtures in the photos, who is charity. Because the work in the church is a back and forth opportunity. We hear the word and the spirit resonates it to our hearts and we go out and limit it. And those three characteristics. So I well, it's just a conversation that Alison quote on is that the the whole lifetime of the Christian in the body of the church and have the back towards the um giving us things around those characteristics. One of the things that I noticed that Fred And then after that, he was uh put to a place uh to go to sleep, the window opened to the sun rising and it was called peace. So the end result of the conversations we could make it use was peace. Yeah, there's a f they're a fruit of all of that conversation, yeah. And there's a there's a line that I noticed that actually is what pointed me to the catechism. They said they were gonna have these conversations to improve the time. Which is another kind of Puritan emphasis, using the time to improve upon what you've heard, what you've learned. So and I'm seeing a contrast with formality and hypocrisy, right? Where you just kind of outwardly Maybe you you show up, you hear the word, you you see baptism, you see the Lord's Supper, but that's as far as it goes. And Bunyan is emphasizing a very different spirituality, Christian spirituality, which is There's a need for uh examining oneself, talking about these truths, applying these truths to your own Christian experience. If he was playing on a couple things that are a part of his culture. One would be, I think, around the time He was preaching, I think there were something like 85 different catechisms that were published. All different. And if you look at the Reformed Confessions, usually the Gentlemen that wrote the confessions also had catechisms that they wrote, which are question and answers of their students or disciples. And then we trace that all the way back to where Augustine is doing that the end of what the fourth century. And then we can go back even further to the to like Greek culture with Socrates where he's asking questions to a population that has that thinks they know truth, but they don't. And one of the reasons we also have a conversation with them is to help them to see that they don't really know much and they're all hypocrites. So I wonder if those dots are being connected here that likewise the church needs to be better than a ignorant hypocritical Greek population. And and we should really think about what they believe and be willing to die for it, like Socrates himself. I think another reason why I'm connecting it to Greek culture and before is those women uh are also seen in Greek paintings of the virtues that are necessary in order for a civic a city to not evolve into chaos and hell. Have you seen that painting? I think Miss Ball has a has it on her office wall. I believe it's been shown to the faculty at one point. Yeah. Yeah. So I wonder if he's Got all that in his mind. Yeah. And then applying it to the church as the city of God. Or or a colony of that celestial city. Yeah, because he's probably going to end up saying the only reason why Plato or Socrates know any of that stuff anyway is because they talk to Moses. Yeah, so even deeper connections to um the classical tradition. Maybe a play. Well let me ask with um I mean maybe we're in agreement that it's a duty to have these types of conversations with one another. How do you see that practically How do you see yourself practically fulfilling that kind of responsibility here at Severn Run? If it is in fact your duty to have spiritual conversations. How do you see that playing out? Please pay attention to Jesse when he says, have this conversation Yeah, have this conversation. Yeah, and it it it makes me think as well, it it this probably ties into a reformed view of the Sabbath day. That our Lord's Day is not simply showing up and hearing Jesse's sermon, but we continue to apply that in our conversations throughout the day. Okay, so that's one way we could see this working out. Yeah, Sarah. Well this is just kind of on that um on that note. I think it's interesting that they had this conversation So we could instill that injunction to work that these things through Or as a church. Yeah. In the evening. So I'm hearing we're fulfilling this pretty well. How do you see it individually? Do you see any practical application to you to you as an individual beyond the kind of corporate Uh fellowship. I feel like I had an example happened yesterday, maybe along these lines. Okay. I was at an event that was not a Christian sanctioned event. And I was talking with a lady that I'd never known before. And um she's part of the team that I'm involved with, the group that I was all of this. And at some point, you know, I I didn't know anything about her face, but at some point I mentioned some we were talking about kids and how they're born sometimes with a personality that we didn't have anything to do with. And so I kind of made a comment along the lines of yeah, God God makes them the way they are sometimes. And before I knew it that conversation escalated into in a good way, into a point where she started to tell me about an issue she'd had with her daughter. It wasn't a bad issue, but her daughter's getting of an age where her friend wants to do something different than what her daughter wants to do. Like the influential one of all of her group's friends, and she feels like she's losing a friend, these kinds of things. But it was interesting through that she started asking my advice and my opinion because of I think part of I felt like it was because we were talking about God a little bit. And so I remember thinking, Oh, this could be heavy. Like how do I answer this question and and try to do justice to And I even I don't think I did too bad, but I found myself thinking, well I'm glad that I might run into it later and I can pray about this and give uh hopefully some wisdom by the wisdom. Yeah. It's kind of she was like talking to me about well what would you do? And then we just we just had one of those moments, kind of like you were all talking about it's a relationship, it's all these are the things that we're gonna do. She didn't flat out say that she was. She was embracing she was embracing the conversation, but see that's the thing. Like I don't fully know. And I and I didn't want to be really bold and be like, well, what do you really think? And what do you really feel? But um yeah, it sort of felt like part exactly what we're all talking about. I'm like, this is interesting Well it even applies to outside of the church. Do you see any teaching within the house that applies to conversation with outsiders? An obligation to share the gospel? Where does that show up in the conversation? Well when he's supposed to be talking to his family and encouraging them to go with him. Did you share with them the danger? Yes I did. She seems to communicate there's respon there's a responsibility for their eternal Welfare. Um she says that you know their blood is not on you. After he describes all the things he did. Um And how he was careful in his conversation with them. So that's one one way we could see this duty applying out, you know, in your individual life. Do you have a responsibility to improve those opportunities of conversation with outsiders, making them aware Do you see any other points of application? Okay, so that's just based on the literary form. I think that's a very important point that Bunyan is making, the importance of just the conversations that need to happen and the fruit of them spiritually in our lives. But then there's the content What what do we learn from the content of the conversation about the Christian life? Were there any points that stood out to you Is the Christian life I'll direct you is the Christian life one of continuous upward progress? All the time, yeah. All the time. That for me it is. No. Yeah, so how what is the Christian life like if it's not one of continuous upward movement? Ups and downs. Which we see that in Christian's journey. Backtracking. But the slope over time should be obvious. Yeah. Why is that? Okay. Yeah that's or enemy you crowd around like a lion. Okay. Yeah the The world, the devil, and the flesh. That's a theme in some of these conversations. The w the there's an ongoing um On several occasions he refers to himself as the wretched man that I am. Where does that come from? Paul, Romans 7. Yeah, so let's look at that. Romans seven, starting in verse 14. For we know that the law is spiritual, but I'm carnal, sold under sin. For what I am doing I do not understand. For what I will to do, that I do not practice. But what I hate, that I do. If then I do what I will not to do, I agree with the law that it is good. But now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me. For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, nothing good dwells. For to will is present with me, but how to perform what is good I do not find. For the good that I will to do, I do not do, but the evil I will not to do, that I practice Now if I do what I will not to do, this is very difficult syntax here, it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me. I find then a law that evil is present with me. the one who wills to do good. For I delight in the law of God according to the inward man, but I see another law in my members warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin. Which is in my members. Oh wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death. I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord, so then with the mind I myself served the law of God, but with the flesh the law of sin So on several occasions, Pilgrim quotes that, Oh wretched man that I am. So Christians in in the present state are not perfect. There remains in us these n uh this corruption, this flesh, and the Christian life now is a battle. A battle between that grace in us, the spirit, and the remaining flesh in us. So practically, how is that beneficial? Learning this? That this is what the Christian life is like That even Paul, if we interpret this as Paul as a as a Christian, that even Paul says, what I want to do, I find that I don't do it. Yes, it it's pulse saying that and he had so many more I mean he felt like a third event or something, you know. I mean he did so many more It's it's like it's like the people of Israel who saw the the the the sea open and the and the flood and all you know and the and it they saw all of them and then they still stumbled Boy. I guess that's what it is. That's that's what it is and that's what's gonna happen to me and although I don't want to excuse myself, it doesn't mean that I'm not and uh can take a lot of comfort What are the dangers of this struggle that we're in? The fact that you are at war with another principle in you, the flesh, what are some possible dangers here? Yeah. I don't know. I'm telling you that, but when he leaves and goes back downhill in the comments that it's harder to go down the hill than to go up, they s would a few times this picture of him going into humiliation. But uh I think one of the dangers is we get locked when we fail if we Want to stay down. That's how we can just wallow in our failures and our judgments and not except for all the grace and prerequisites. Yeah, very good. Yeah. Listen. Going forward also when he's talking with faithful and they ask he asked about pybal. And the shame and the um the response to ridicule as being he just withdraws from the attempt to move forward. I think that can happen if you're at war with yourself. The idea that you can't go forward, that you're you can't win the battle So you you might stop trying or let the shame overtake you that you that you succumbed yet again to this this um evil within you. Yeah. Fe feelings of defeat. Yeah. That's I was gonna say you get caught in the fluid despond again, which is uh a place where the accusation does not lead to repentance. Um it's just a place where you're like they said you're just wallowing about in the muck and wire. instead of sorry, I missed the word. Instead of like a guilt that a conviction that leads to repentance. This sounds more just like Yeah. Futility. Futility? Yeah. Maybe in the uh the fact that it's an up and down kind of experience. Yeah, am I really making progress? Exhausted. And so it's we can we can take comfort that all the exhausted if we were. Or more so. I give you the catechism addressing this question in question 78, whence arises the imperfection of sanctification. Which we've already we've already mentioned it, it arises from remnants of sin abiding in every part of us. The perpetual Lustings, I should say, of the flesh against the spirit, whereby they are often failed with temptations and fall into many sins, are hindered. in all their spiritual services and their best works are imperfect and defiled in the sight of God. Does Bunyan provide counsel on how how we should handle this and not fall into despair? Where do you see that council? Well, Private asked him, can you remember by what means you find your annoyances at times as if they were vanquished. And he says, yes. When I think what I saw at the cross, that will do it And when I look upon my embroidered coat, that will do it. Also when I look into the roll that I carry in my bosom, that will do it. And when my thoughts wax warm about whither I am going, that will do it. So meditation on the cross, the righteousness we have. Through Christ. Elizabeth? Focusing on Christ, but also fellow man. Um page sixty-nine when he's uh in in the valley of the shadow of death and he hears He perceives that there is someone else there who's also struggling through it. He gathers that some who feared God were in the valley as well as himself. He perceived God was with them even in that dark and dismal state. And he hoped that he could overtake them and walk with them. Um so there was that encouragement and hope of a partnership and um And not being alone in that in that feudal battle kind of thing. Yeah. I haven't read that far. Sorry. Spoiler. Spoiler. Swong was spoiled and he also battled with ad Yeah, Pollyon. Yeah, and and Pollyon makes accusations. Right. And he's like, Yeah. Yeah, and Bunyan um elsewhere I'm forgetting where he talks about he calls this the master argument of Satan That Satan loves to use that remaining sin in you as a point of accusation. to unsettle your conscience and rob you of peace with God. Look at look at you. Look how you fail. What makes you think God's going to accept you? Right. And the danger would be, well, what the response to that should be, what? If Satan comes and accuses you behind me. Yeah. We also showed him the uh armor. Hmm, yeah. Yeah. He's not in it alone, he's got other things. Right. And in this in this um Valley the Shadow He encounters all these bad things in the night and then the day comes and he looks back and he sees that he's gotten away from it and he sees what he's been through and he realizes he's made progress. So I think there is that too, that that sometimes you're overcome by your th your emotions but then if you continue and and see what God has done there's still that Right. Marilyn, did you get to s say what you were? Oh well I was just sort of respond to your question. Okay. Well, it doesn't depend on my righteousness of Christ. If I am in Christ then we have no way that sees Yeah. I'm the chief of sinners. Right. You're you're correct, Satan. I'm very sinful. Yeah, and my standing with God depends on Christ, God on myself. Were there any other in the last few minutes we have, was there anything that was surprising to you in what we read for this week or what we've read so far that we haven't mentioned or talked about? Anything that surprised you about his the way he's presenting the Christian life? Yes, Bill. I have a slightly different take on how it's beautiful, not so much as a place, a church, but as the Sabbath day, because it is a time of refreshing, equipping, getting ready for the next steps that are to come, and that's what Sunday night is like to make back how the Lord is prepared me to me for the battle ahead. And then he faces the polyamoration and uh so I think as this Sabbath rest for Christian. Even though we say several days. That's a great comment. I'm now having to rethink much of what I said. Because so much of what is happening with that conversation isn't exactly what happens in the public worship. itself. But would would take place on a on a Sabbath day. Yeah. That's a great comment. Yeah. Not that this is right or wrong. compared to it it's just kind of shocking or y you know the uh that cured the mindset of of you know the interviewing and all that stuff that's going on. In contrast to our modern day idea of the church where we're actually trying to lure people in with all kinds of stuff. Um where it it's it's just such a shark contrast where Yeah. Yeah, there's a lot of lot to reflect on there about church practice. the rules of the house, how how does Christ want us to to admit people into membership? Did I hear some of it wasn't like a worship band. You could hear the bass from that. Did I hear someone else m trying to make a comment? All right. Thank you for the uh the discussion, comments. Uh let me conclude us with with prayer, and I hope we have some good spiritual conversation today to apply this. Yes, some more, yeah. Father, we uh thank you for this uh Sabbath day, for the a place to exercise um or to engage in this spiritual duty of conversation. Not only hearing truths about truths from your word, but asking questions of ourselves. How does this apply uh in my own life, asking questions of others, how they are doing uh spiritually, how can we bring words of warning, uh bring words of comfort to them. Lord, help us to be more mindful of others, seeking to know their spiritual journey, where they are, what they're wrestling with. How it is their understanding, their own experience. Lord help us to see that as a duty, an obligation we have for their spiritual good. So that we can comfort others and we can help them and encourage them along this journey that we're all in. Lord, help us to take advantage of the great blessing of public worship, the hearing of your word, the great blessing of Christian fellowship. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.