I wonder if those in the Northics can hear me calling them in for Sunday school. A lot of tardies this morning. All right, it's good to be with you this morning. Um I'm stepping in for Pastor Jesse uh after his surgery, and we should continue to pray for him. uh with his recovery. Uh I know he started us off last week with an introduction to Pilgrim's progress. After I pray, I may ask someone to uh fill me in on how he's how he has framed this book before we jump into the to the reading. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for uh this Lord's Day that you have set aside for uh the study of your word for the encouragement of our souls to remind us uh through your law of our great sin and misery. and to encourage us through uh the promises of your gospel uh and the assurance of pardon that we have through Jesus Christ. We pray that uh this uh This book, Pilgrim's Progress, would be a tool uh in your hand uh to work on our souls, uh to Explain to us your way of salvation, the way in which you work in the hearts of people to turn them from sin. And turn them to yourself. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. In the back there are uh last week's handouts. Um as well as a new handout for uh the first two chapters of Pilgrim's Progress I was not here. This is my first time in adult Sunday school in three years. Not because I stay home, but I'm usually teaching the young kids the catechism. So it's good to be back. If you if I sound like I'm talking down to little children, don't be offended. That's what that's what I've been doing for uh for three years. Um so could someone explain I I saw a handout, it looked fascinating, uh this hero's journey. Could someone Tell me briefly, very con the main points from last Sunday or the previous not not last Sunday but before when Pastor Jesse taught. Is there a highlight from that introduction? How he introduced Carol. I had I had notes and I found my notes. God is the great storyteller. I love that. Yeah. Yeah. Did he was there any discussion of the title Pilgrim's Progress and and maybe the significance of that language of Pilgrim Yes, no? We're all out of pilgrimage. Yeah, pilgrimage. Yeah. Certainly picks up language from uh Hebrews. Right, the that hall of faith and Abraham being called out from his homeland uh to travel to a place he had not seen. Um just by way of uh pr introductory comments uh before we jump into the reading itself, I thought I would Mention a few things that popped into my mind as I thought about the title, Pilgrim's Progress. And one thing that popped into my mind is that uh often in our our tradition, the Reformed tradition When theologians have talked about the knowledge of God, talked about theology, they've often said that our theology is a pilgrim Theology. A theology for pilgrims. Now the significance of that is to say that God hasn't revealed everything to us. God's knowledge of himself is perfect, complete. We get knowledge of him in bits and parts. Right, and those bits and parts do different things. Right? It's a pilgrim theology as well because it's suited to our condition. Does anybody remember this is a uh question I would ask in in the spawn. Does anyone know the the different states of Mankind, according to our confession, sometimes called the fourfold state. I know someone in this room knows that. Fourfold state. So prior to the fall fallen. Redeemed, glorified for states of mankind. And so part of having a pilgrim theology is that God not only condescends to our level as humans and gives us the knowledge fit for us, but he suits it to where we are in that pilgrimage back to God. And I think you see that in this book where we see a very practical focus in the book. Theology is not meant for speculating uh or or building up some kind of uh philosophy, right? It has a practical orientation to help us along the way. To get us back to the city of God. So that's uh part of what that title um strikes me with and and I thought of and I was thinking of this, you know, part parts of God's revelation are almost like different tools in a toolbox. Uh I a couple uh maybe a year ago I had to uh replace the uh the tub assembly in my washing machine And in the process I I had to remove this uh large uh this large nut that was basically rusted on. It was impossible to remove I spent an hour, you know, hammering at it, trying to find the what's the tool that I need to remove it. And then I remembered, oh I have a multi-tool, and I just cut through the thing. Right, but I needed the right tool and we're gonna see that in the Pilgrim's Progress that there are different parts of God's revelation. I think I'm thinking now of God's law God's law to me is a prominent part of the opening of this book. God uses, it's like the hammer in God's toolbox to hit us, you know, to hit the heart with to kill us, to slay us, to make us feel our sin. And then there's other tools that come in through the gospel to give us assurance and comfort. So that's another thing that came to mind with this idea of a pilgrim theology. Okay, let's let's jump into uh the book. In the handout, you I just you know have marked out the sections of the reading. I don't know if this was if you noticed this in the email, but um The intention was to to catch up and cover chapter one and chapter two of Pilgrim's Progress. I don't know that we will Be successful. Uh but I'm teaching next week, so maybe we can catch up. Alright, so let's jump into the first scene as it were. Each it each I'm thinking of these as scenes going along and it opens with what scene? What is Bunyan, you know, he he he goes to sleep and what does he see In the very opening of the book. What does he see? Yeah, Christina. A man standing outside Yeah, there's a lot of uh uh lots of detail to his description. Each seems uh full of meaning. Um so yeah he's how is he dressed? Oh in rags. Rags. He he's dressed in rags. He's facing is he facing his house? He's facing away from the house. He has a book. And a gr yeah, yeah, that's a very important part of it. He has a great burden on his back. Um course the the margins give us a number of scriptural references that can help explain uh the symbolism there. Um and what I love about this book, I haven't read it for Um well I don't want to say the specific number of years because you'll figure out how old I am, but I read it in college. And uh so it's been a while and it's just very fascinating going back to the book and seeing that there's a kind of surface level meaning that's very accessible, but then there are just layers to uh to this uh to this work And I mean so we could say the the rags are symbolic of our lack of our filthiness. Uh the the book, could you take a guess at the book? Yeah, the the scriptures, the the Bible um facing away from the house. Is that significant? Turning your back on the world or something? Turning your back on the world, uh fleeing, you know, uh family, friends, and so on for the sake of the gospel. Um and the burden. Yeah, this this weight of guilt and sin. Um so That's where we we we start. What is he? And it's interesting that Bunyan has him Kind of in this state for some time. He doesn't say how long, but it's quite some time, and that may communicate something about Bunyan's view of conversion, that sometimes the work of God on the heart. Uh it's not an instantaneous thing. It's not a a moment, but it it he takes time. And works upon the heart, softening it. What what are some of the signs of I was trying to think of how to word this, but I think part of what Bunyan is doing is he's describing how God is preparing an unconverted person, an unregenerate person for conversion. And already here in these opening pages we start to see signs of God's grace. What would you say if you if you were looking kind of at the heart of this man whose distress, what would you say are some of the signs of God's work in him. Fear. Yeah, fear. Fear of Yeah, fear of destruction. He's reading in the book, and he later will describe to evangelists what he read. He read about his death, he read about uh judgment after death. And he has this fear that the burden on his back is gonna sink him down to to hell. Right, so we see fear. Do we see any other works of grace in his heart. Um well I was just thinking that he already starts trying to convince his family that uh he he has concern for others besides himself. Even though he is this very burden of kind of on the front of his mind is to reaching all his other thoughts. He's still trying to convince them to come with it. Yeah, that was striking to me that he he prays for them. Like he he's doing a number of outward actions that um indicate God's at work in his heart. And yet does he know the way of salvation? No, he he he says, I don't know where to go. He's just in this state of fear, conviction, dread. And this is mo it's motivating him to flee, but he doesn't know where to. And so how does he f find out where to go? Yeah, the evangelist or evangelist shows up. Um where does evangelist direct into? Yeah, the the wicked gate, the narrow Yeah, I love how um Evangelist says, Do you see Yon Wicked Gate? And he says no. And Evangelist says, Well do you see that little light? And and he goes, I think so. I just that's dawning of like, you know, no, I don't see it. You know, but Then Evangel keys in on well, do you see the first in a glimmer? And he then he says yes. And that so Evangel says, Okay, heads for that Yeah, follow the the shining light and it will lead you to the narrow gate. Did anyone catch what that shining I think there was a marginal note for that What Bunyan may be indicating there. I think the marginal note said that it was the Word. The Word of God So to keep your eyes on the ideas, keep the keep your eyes on the Word of God, it will show you the what that narrow gate by which you enter into salvation. Now this is it's kind of a foreshadow of themes that he uh brings up later. Do you think there's any significance to having evangelists? Point him to the gate. I thought that was interesting. He he's reading the book, and the book is the Bible. Right, right. How will we know if there's not a if we don't hear and how can we hear if there's not a preacher? Yeah, I think part of what he may be doing is we we do see later a distinction that he wants to make between the law of God and the gospel. Which maybe we can get get back to because that gets unpacked later, but I think he's at several points in this story trying to make clear that there are parts of the word that can uh convict us of sin, namely the law, but that the law itself doesn't tell us where to go for relief. And then there's the proclamation of the gospel, the good news. That tells us where to find that that relief from our sin. Okay, so we come now gotta watch yeah move along here. Um Evangelists pointing him to the to the narrow gate, and he flees. The his neighbors see him flee. Uh his family, friends are calling out to him, two neighbors in particular. Chase after him to persuade him to come back to the city of destruction. Those two neighbors are obstinate impliable. And those names I think should hint you into uh, you know, Bunyan's really interested in the heart. You know, the different um dispositions and I'm using I'm gonna trying to resist old older language, motions of the heart, affections of the heart uh and how God is is working in in these people um to prepare them or maybe they're not prepared for salvation, for conversion. But we have these two individual obstinate and pliable. What's the differen Oh yeah, question. Yeah, this um thinking about where he was living in the city of destruction And how worldly it was, you know, and all of that all that worldly wisdom, you know, is is something that we uh try not to absorb but sometimes we do. And I'm sure that that affected him. But he also um was headed in a different direction than than the direction he was being given in the city of destruction or what he was learning or the way he was living, he knew there was a better way And that's where and this is just my thought, and that's where evangelism comes in. You know, and and that's where uh mentorship or or leadership comes in to give us good godly direction. Yeah. That's a theme as well, is like, yeah, being able to distinguish good counsel, because we see some bad counselors that show up later as well. And I was w I I was curious here as well if if this uh the narrative so far at all resonates with your own practical experience, this kind of fleeing family, friends, and the world. Is does that resonate at all with your own conversion? Not not so much. and my conversion, but now um and the context of now that is family that would be sick has actually fleed up or we've had to flee them because of our walk with Jesus. And um yeah, and so w we pray for them and we wish that it wasn't like that, but one of the things that Jesus says is that he will sometimes you'll have to leave his family for me. You know, hate your mother, hate your father, something and so that becomes real in the Christian life and what the totem is of being a Christian Mm. And it's not always easy because you love your family. But you have to make a decision, are you going to stand for Christ or are you going to stand for the world? No, it's never easy. And we and we see the we see the other side of the coin where they, you know, his family is trying to uh um kind of bring him back to uh you know why are you so distressed? Uh and and Maybe ridiculing him or trying different strategies to We could both definitely relate to that. And then the mocking from the people of the the world around the world. Yeah, I I think of a few or did you have no I thought of uh I mean in my own like my teenage years when I typically say I was converted. I was raised in a Christian home but spent a number of years rejecting what I had been raised in And you know, God used various means to to to draw me to himself. One was a death of a of an uncle at a very young age, he was mid-thirties, which kind of woke me up to uh a sense of d you know, dread at the possibility of death. I wasn't I didn't really have faith necessarily. I just had this sense of dread and I started reading the scriptures more. But eventually it did culminate. I'm not saying you can't have unbelievers as friends, but at at the time I had so many all of my friends were leading me in the opposite direction And I just had to, I saw no other way if I was gonna commit to Christ. I saw no other way but to directly tell them I can't hang out anymore. And that yeah, I c I can remember yeah, there was almost fist fights happening. uh where they were so angry with me and they mocked me and I can remember one of them saying this is a this will this will this is a momentary phase uh we can't imagine that you're at all serious about all this. It just didn't it did not fit with their impressions, you know, their previous impressions of me. So this certainly uh resonated with me of the need to turn away from the world. Um did you did you have something you wanted to share? Oh well I'm I feel like all of these they they are themes and in the story it follows a linear pattern, but each of these themes are things that recur Um over and over and over again in the life of the Christians. And also even the bat like I feel I have a hard time in the book because I see myself in every one of us I see myself looking at other people's convictions and being like, oh that's so stupid. What you don't have to go that far when the Holy Spirit has led them in a certain direction that isn't contrary to the gospel. You know, like I see my own heart do So I feel like it it's cyclical over and over again along the life of the Christian, and we can see ourselves in all of these things. And as it comes to obstinate pliable Again, I see myself and each of those people doing those things and how I even interact with my children and act as those people to my children sometimes or to my spouse. Yeah. I think that's a great way to read it. Each each character is almost a a warning to you. Don't be the the pliable uh or the merely pliable person So okay, with obstinate and pliable, how do you what differences do you see in those two I think Bunyan's trying to highlight some differences there. It's interesting that that there's two opposing attitudes both oppose the gospel. You know the person that's just dug in and says, you know, I'm not going to listen to you. And then the person that says, yeah, sure, this is new, I'll follow it for a while. But there's no conviction on this part. Yeah. What what motive did anyone catch what mo motivates uh pliable? Well Christian describes what's to come. Bible goes away. What are you leaving for? Yeah. Yeah, keep telling me about the city. The crowns. Uh this all sounds great. Yeah, so motivated by the the the good things to come. Yeah, the the he wants all the good, but yeah, we quickly see with the slew of Despond he he doesn't want any of the cross, any of the difficulty along the path. Obstinate is just attached to this world. Right, he says I can't I'm not gonna leave friends and comfort for this. It's because his identity lives with that situation. Yeah. Where Christian understands I think this is me is what we're talking about being one of each of those characters. You're growing you grow up in family, your identity is that family. That's experiences that you know, but there's an egg someplace else that you need to go beyond because in essence you need to go up to be your own individual. And this is the growing pains Where he started um knowing himself is those things, one of the part of the world. barrier to break because it's it's a habit. Living in this world is a habit. So let's do something different. Right. Yeah, we s we do see later in the interpreter's house some of the warnings, like even though he gets on the way Yeah, he there are warnings where you could divert back to the world, as it were. So maybe it is, but it's a different reality than what they are they're exposed to. And that's what they fly. Just thinking about the differences of obstinate and pliable, obstinate and pliable, you know, um in some ways to me pliable is worse than obstinate You know, because Occident takes that stand. No, I'm not going anywhere. The pliable says, yeah, let me try this for a little while, but he doesn't allow himself to grow roots. You know what I mean? So he's so wishy-washy when things get tough he goes the other way. Or if it sounds good he goes this way or he goes that way. So so there's no solid ground. Yeah. So to speak. Did anybody when when he goes back to his house I I kind of felt like, yeah, you deserve to be All of his fr some of his friends are are mocking him, ridiculing him and saying, Oh, you couldn't handle, you know you're the first difficulty you met and you're back, you know, so I kinda it's like Yeah, he's in a way worse because there was no commitment there at all. I mean like Bunny in his illustration. Yeah, definitely. Yeah, definitely. Um did what are some if you took pliable and compared him to Now he's called Christian in the story, which was inter is also an interesting detail. Yeah, it's it's He says this was the first time he's called Christian. Do you see any, if you compared Christian and pliable, do you see any differences there? He just doesn't know what path it is. He still wants to move forward, but he doesn't know what path it is. Or appliable Tess and goes, No, I'm going back. So he does after at the slough he says I'm gonna go back but there there is a part where he's like let's hurry up let's go let's you know get to the place you're telling me about and And Christian says I can't move as quickly because of this burden on my back. Yeah, so uh the Bible doesn't have a a burden, which is interesting. What do you think the um what do you think Bunyan is saying by n not having him with a So why did there why why do you leave a religion example Right. Yeah, so I I'm yeah. Well I was just gonna say, and it's almost like Christian does see the reports that are coming and they are part of the motivation, but his real main motivation for going forward is to rid himself of the burden He can't get rid of it. But that's really why he keeps moving forward. I was only looking for this for reward. And so there isn't that deep I have to keep going um motivation through the middle of the training. Right, yeah. Yeah, I puzzled over this and you know, I don't it wouldn't it wouldn't make sense for Bunyan to say Plible's not a sinner. So the burden must mean something more than just that you're a sinner. It's a conviction, yeah. It's a you feel, you know experientially that you are a sinner. And pliable does not have that. And there's a line that I noticed where he says he explained that obstinate would not have turned back if he had felt the terror that he felt. Right? That's what's m motivating him and and as Christina said, moving him along. Flibal's not really being motivated by that conviction of of sin through the law. The Bible is what my father would call a follower. Right? He follows it, if it looks good, it feels good, but then when it hurts a little bit, he turns around and goes the other way. You know, so never be a follower, Mike. Those were the those were his words. Well yeah. There's a saying that you keep bringing in mind if I say it correctly. People don't change or they won't change. until staying the same, staying where you are is too difficult, is like too hard. So then you're you're forced. It's easier to change than it is not to change And so you're kind of seeing a little bit of that battle where there is some truth to that, um, from what I've seen over my years. But it he's feeling he's aware of his burden, he's so pained by his burden, and he knows like staying where I am isn't gonna be any better. So he's driven forward by that Yeah. When Fleibel hasn't really experienced that yet. He hasn't had a value. Yeah. Yeah, I thought about Bunyan's own context as well Um I mean in Bunyan's time in his like his society, almost everyone is connected to the church. in some way. Um so that may explain the emphasis he he has on the experience personal experience of conviction um is that yeah almost everyone is baptized um You know, uh so it it may be he's warning against the the danger of a kind of nominal uh Christianity that's not truly experienced and and yeah, not a genuine faith. God never thought about that comparison with the burden with Bible. It made me think of other people in the book. Christian's the only one in the book that has burden as I know of and it might be worth following that motif as we go through. If you meet various people who are in the way But they're not actually on the way. Um and it's great, people that tumbled over the wall and Christian says, but you didn't come face gates. Um, so they never had the burden. So they're doing all the things that appear to be uh Christian, appear to be in the way Right. Um but it is that's the kind of thing that Baume is dealing with in that situation with this Right. Warning us to not rush to uh to to saying, oh, this person is genuinely uh converted. Um there's all sorts of stages. at which they might be uh and and God may be at work. Um but yeah that it's it's fascinating the way he kind of lays this out as the kind of ordinary process by which God brings about conversion. Okay, so net next he we have these Pliable continues with Christian, and they fall into this slew of despond. Yeah, this this there's a lot of uh details here that are interesting. Um what is this? slough that they're falling into. What what do you think the spiritual significance of that is? Did you catch any like descriptions of it? Yeah. Sounds like a trial. A tr yes, a trial. Yeah. That benefits. It did not travel the forward. There's air ineffective to the time to build on this. Right. Yeah. So despond, yeah, despair, doubt, depression, um The feeling the feeling he is Christian the feeling the burden of his not knowing how to get out the There are steps going through as well. That's the master of the place that sphere, but not everybody finds that. The same thing happens in the original sphere. I mean I Be humble for a moment and ask, am I mispronouncing that word? I don't know. So I'm I'm gonna stick with Google. Yeah. I'm just hearing different pronunciations, but I'll stick with the yeah. Okay. Yeah, so it's this spiritual depression. I mean the question I had in reading this is, do you think God wants Them to fall into the slew or slouch of the spawn? They're not careful because they're just going along and that's why they fall into it. I mean it's nothing that wanted them to, but he did it was part of the yeah. Yeah, he's allowing it. But he's built steps. The master has built steps. He's provided a way that it's not necessary. And he's tried to clean it out and tried to clean it off, but all of these things keep fall I mean, it's common human experience that they fall into this low place in the past. Is it a company? Yeah, it's it's in the temptation. There's no manager of a company there's a common Yeah, we can certainly say that God's God does not intend for them to remain stuck there. Right. He places these uh footsteps or um uh places solid places to stand, which in the margins mentions are the promises of pardon and forgiveness. It even says that like the lawgiver has been trying to mend this. To mend this. Um so it it almost sounds like it's um it's almost like a Through the law and through conviction of sin, because of our sinfulness, we often fall into extreme depression. Not because God is wanting to drive you to that state, but because of because of who we are, because of our fallenness, that's often what happens. And I don't know that he's saying it always has to happen that way. That's another uh point that Christina was mentioning earlier is like there are these We have to be careful. goes through exactly the same experience. Um but it does say the the the this slew or slough uh can never be mended because of Because of our sinfulness. The um that says he also brought me up out of those portable pitches. That might be the on rock just showing us that we do need you know that we can't go there Yeah. I think it's a matter of accepting that helps too. And I think accepting is releasing your beginning of releasing your burdens, your sins, your looking forward to something. Somebody's coming to help you get rid of them, not just given that situation that should be that they might come up. No. And he it says he he the law giver has filled uh filled it with you know thousands of healthy instructions. So God is providing so many avenues of health to keep you from falling into a state of depression like this. But it but it does often happen because we forget um God's promises, his promise of pardon and for and forgiveness and we just feel weighed down by the burden of our sin. And this is one of those scenes as well where I it's like, is this only before conversion? I don't think I would read it that way. I think the Christian is always there are times where we fall into depression. Where we forget. And then we come back to scripture or the the hearing of the the preaching of the gospel and and we hear the good news afresh and are reminded, encouraged. Um our enemies showed them we are not shown in the case. Yes, Christian. There's also it presents you two paths. We talked already about how this thing can motivate you and propel you forward. It can also you can also allow it to pull you down. So you sort of have two paths to what to do with the feeling of conviction Do you take your conviction to help it push you towards and we see even the slowest despot, I mean, Christian is dealing with both at the same time. He is still slowly trying to make progress away from his house. So it's still motivating him forward, but he you know, he does feel that pulse. But I don't know, I was just thinking about the proverbs and just sort of the presentation again of that biblical picture of two paths and what the same thing can do. Yeah, and we see in the scene that follows another path of dealing with the burden. Yeah, it's it is almost like God's law brings about conviction. Sometimes we veer off into despair. forgetting the promise of the possibility of pardon. And then another avenue we can take is the worldly wise man comes along. After he's out of this Miery pit, where does worldly wise men direct him? Yeah, to to morality. Um to the town. Legality, yeah. Yeah, and why does he direct in there? What's the w what is the intention? It's a quicker and easier path. Yeah, why are you on this path uh that's so difficult, which later is exp it it's the the way of the cross. Why are you going in this way of the cross when you could so easily remove your burden? And the town is back near where he came from. So it's back in the in the world. So what is h how is the burden supposed to be relieved in Well what's how does uh it going to the town of morality, how's that supposed to relieve the burden? What what could someone think? Right. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, don't feel so bad about yourself. And I think for us, I was thinking that this could, you know, there is a temptation to maybe not you know say to someone that's in such distress, oh Don't you know don't worry. Um things are not so bad and you don't want to do that necessarily um because the situation is bad. Um you ought to flee God's judgment. So you gotta find that middle ground if you don't want to drive someone to despair, only you know, preaching the law to them and condemnation. But you also don't want to neglect the that minus that that law that condemns. So you our tendency is to say, well you need to read your Bible and you need to pray and those things you need to go to church and those things are true. Unless they become a checklist like perhaps maybe the growing Catholic church would say, okay, you've been to Mass, you've done this and special week Um and you feel like the person you don't leave the person um well he says uh Bunyan says evangelism later says he's he strove to make the cross odious to you. Um You can't check those things off without mental choice. And that's the problem with legality. It tends to look the thing, the outward action tend to look at the same, well this person is convicted, so he's reading his Bible more, he's praying more. Which is what you would expect of the Spirit's conviction Um but he's not then going out and saying, Well, I read my Bible, I you know, I did my stuff for the day, I'm fine. And that's our tendency to say, Well, I can see that you're reading your Bible, but you're fine. Yeah. Yeah. It reminds me of a later scene when he does eventually get to the gate and you know he he confesses that I shouldn't be here. Right, it's only by God's mercy that I that I made it. So he does depart from where evangelists pointed him to. He is on his way to the town of morality. What stops him? Yeah, the the high mountain which is Mount Sinai. How does Mount Sinai stop him in his tracks? What? Yeah, too steep. Don't come close. Yeah. Now it's interesting, Evangelist shows up again. And what do you think the significance of that is? Yeah yeah, exactly. Yeah, and that I mean what can Mount Sinai do? It was help him. It was help helpful to him. It stopped him. It said, don't yeah, don't go down this road, because I will crush you. Cur cursed is anyone who fails to keep the whole law. So the law can uh that's I mean what we s what Bunyan is doing here very creatively is is presenting God's use of the law versus a misuse, a legalistic misuse of the law. No, I I can't think of what guidance we need to decide. Oh, God is it is the Um he he is on the wrong body and then you're in At the time we visualize well, but you know this is a relation where it become not realistic but very are all the but they are the slides we are so right. But I think eventually You think that's the thing that one is away? Um the first person of God when we move to be It's just the possibility. Um they have straight away, even It's the ball for the game, yeah. Even if it really uh Christian and this or and way and first part it's always it's always very Yeah, there is this I love the uh the conversation that Christian has with evangelists. Um 'Cause there there there's well he's overcome by th the sense of guilt that he's not followed what evangelists told him. Right? He's departed and is worried about is there any mercy available to him. Now what I did notice here is that evangelist does not immediately apply comfort to him. Right? What does he what is what does he initially do? Yeah. He points out his errors. He even threatens and warns him. So I thought that was uh that's very interesting to me that not only does the uh does Mount Sinai kind of threaten him, but evangelists, quoting from Hebrews. Mm-hmm. Beware, right Look at the judgment that fell on those under the old covenant, how much of a greater judgment will fall on those who turn away from the Son, from Jesus Christ. Right? So he's first warning him, don't ever depart. from this way or there will be judgment. But then follows it up with a sweet you know word of comfort. You know, because the man is how can I really can I still be pardoned? I left the way. And he he says, I if you go to the gate, pardon is there for any of the sins you've committed prior to to getting there, he says Yeah, so that's a I think that's a a major theme in this in these opening chapters is Bunyan's distinction of the law, the proper use of the law which is convicting uh uh a sinner and pointing the sinner to Christ. Not to say there's not uh additional uses of the law, right, to tell us how we ought to live. But the focus here is on conversion, that process of conversion, taking a sinner, bringing him to a sense of terror and guilt. turning uh or or motivating that person to flee their wrath to come, but then the gospel comes in, right? Evangelist points him where to go for relief. The law can't do that. And the law can't relieve the burden of Christian the Christian's burden on his back. Okay, then we um I was also um it's interesting to see that probably Wife and goal was get rid of the burden so that you can go back and enjoy your wife and family and all these good things that God has given you. Not get rid of your burden So it was the whole goal was to get back and so you can enjoy life where you were where you came from. Right. Um and and also so that was one thing and also the He he asked them like how did you get the burden and it was from reading the book. He was like, Oh yeah, he and b basically told him stop reading the book, go through the law. So but what what is the book? in this space but I guess it's not just it's the Bible. Like it's must be something more he's like 'cause he says stop doing that is then sent to the law. Right. So that more properly the gospel So I guess I guess that was one question because it's just generically oh he's reading the virus. Yeah. And he said something like, Oh people often, you know, get weighed down uh by their by their sense of guilt and misery from reading that book. Um so I wonder if he's like don't you know um there's God's purpose for the law? Which is to stir up sin, stir up your sense of your guilt and misery, and then there's his misuse of the law. So maybe that is what's going on there? Yes, right. I think the way I interpreted that was um I think you could still, you know, look at that with the view of the book as as God's word, but Um like when I see the way worldly wise men directs him to morality, it's sort of like well this is what the world says is the moral thing right now. your current culture says is this is right and this is wrong. And by the way, uh um that will crush you. Right. Like even right now in our current culture, right, where we have like things are just upside down, they have a very strict morality. And it is crushing, right Um and it's like much more bondage, right, than uh the gospel. Um so Uh there's that sense of I think, you know, he's trying to climb this mountain and um whether it's Sinai, like I'm going to be made right with God because I'm going to obey his law perfectly or I'm going to relieve my burden because I will do everything according to way the way my culture says it. Like neither one is actually something you can satisfy. So both of them will crush you. Um Ah, and I had another thought that has escaped me. Um oh I I thought it was interesting that um worldly wise men like attacks his His manhood. Like he's like if you like there's so many people that have read this book and like the really the weak people are the ones who like they get burdened down with this thing Um but people who are actu men who are like actually legitimate, strong, they don't you know so it's almost like this well, if you want to be one of the weak people who are like lesser men um So there's like all of these ways he's trying to like slip in motivations to get him off the right. Even his name, Worldly Wiseman, tells you he he thinks the way of the cross is foolish. And you're a foolish person for ta for taking that path. Um here's the the the wiser, easier Of course, you don't need you don't need the cross, you don't need suffering, and you can stay here in the world and enjoy family, friends and all that. Christina. It reminds me there's sort of like a current right now um of people becoming more conservative, adopting more Christian style morality, but not feeling like they have being I forget what it's called. They say they are culturally Christian. We s from prominent atheists to um you know, sort of a lot especially in men circles but strong men that cons more conservative who are speaking out against the culture. They're talking a lot about Jesus in the Bible But they're not saying you have to submit to his lordship. They're not saying you have to put your faith in him. They are denying the power of the cross while still taking the rules and saying, actually we think that these rules are really nice and helpful for a good and functioning society. And it's So deceptive um to see these people in power sort of co-opting those things. So it just reminds me of that thread right now. Right. Which getting back to like don't read the book, it's like if you take the if you take the law out If you separate it out, it's no longer it's no longer Christianity. Which I think is what you're what you're getting at with we want the we want the cultural Benefits of of Christianity, but we reject all the gospel part of it, yes. That's not really Yeah, not new at all. Yeah, in Bunyan's own time, I think he's he's dealing with that. So we were not successful with chapter uh with chapter two. But I I will strive to be more successful next Sunday. So have read for next Sunday Chapter 2, which that you've already read that, but chapter 3 as well, and we'll try to cover both of those next Sunday. Let me close this In prayer, thank you for all the helpful comments and discussion. Let's pray. Father, we uh thank you so much for the gifts that you gave John Bunyan, uh especially to think that he had very little formal education Wrote this probably in prison, um, and yet we're still reading it today and Finding encouragement through it and much instruction and wisdom. Lord, make us wiser about your word and and the way that your word works upon the hearts of sinners. Give us wisdom in our interactions with others to try to discern how you're at work in them, preparing them. Lord, help us to see the importance of your law in pointing us to Christ, but also the inability of the law by itself to save us. And the the great beauty and delight uh of the gospel, once we have that sense of our guilt, uh the relief that we experience in knowing the pardon that we have through Christ. Lord, help us to experience again that that joy of the gospel today through uh the preaching of the word and through um the our worship this morning. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.