In the back, there are handouts. The handout this week does have a couple three quotations at the bottom, if that encourages you to take one. A couple of quotations from the catechism. This week the goal is more is modest. We're not gonna shoot for uh based on the track record, uh covering two chapters has not been uh a good goal. So we're we're just gonna aim for one chapter. Chapter 3. So this will take us from the interpreter's house up to the beautiful palace. Now last week I felt a bit rushed and I think it was maybe within five minutes covered uh Christian being at the cross which really doesn't do that event justice. So I would like to go back to that and I would like to have more opportunity for you to discuss. In the rush last Sunday, I don't think I provided as much space for that. So let's go back to Christian at the cross. This is at the beginning of chapter three. He's just left the interpreter's house. And he is on the way, he uh this way of salvation, uh with a wall on each side. And he goes up a hill to a place where he sees a cross. And a little below the cross, he sees a sepulcher, a tomb. And his burden falls off his back and tumbles down into the sepulcher. Now I want to read you from that section of the story, just his response to this. It says, Then was Christian glad and lightsome and said with a merry heart, He hath given me rest by his sorrow, and life by his death. Then he stood still wa a while to look and wonder, for it was very surprising to him that the sight of the cross should thus ease him of his burden. He looked, therefore, and looked again Even till the springs that were in his head sent the waters waters down his cheeks. Now as he stood looking and weeping, behold, Three shining ones came to him and saluted him with Peace be to thee. So the first said to him said to him, Thy sins be forgiven The second stripped him of his rags and clothed him with change of raiment. The third also set a mark on his forehead, and gave him a roll with a seal upon it. which he bid him look on as he ran, and that he should give it give it in at the celestial gate. So they went their way. Then Christian gave three leaps for joy, and went on singing in a beautiful poem about uh his burden of sin uh uh being loosened from his back through the cross. Okay, so there's a lot of detail here. And I just want to open up by posing a question. Which is, when do you think, in this story that we're reading, when do you think Christian has saving faith in Christ? What are you doing? Yeah. Okay, I'm hearing at the cross and then at the gate. So what are some maybe arguments from the story? Would you re- rephrase your question? Exactly what experience experience or when in when in this narrative is he uh does he come to a saving faith in Jesus Christ? Yeah, when is he saved from his sins? We've heard two options. Could be at the gate. Oh, another option. Okay, could be yeah, he's being saved all along. It's interesting that functioning Christ and Christian from the beginning, even Though later he tells them in uh how it's beautiful, he tells them he used to be called Graceless. Yeah, it's in the it's in the just the the fleeing from the city of destruction, and he's talking to some of the neighbors who follow him, that he's first called Christian. Yeah, and later he says his former name was Graceless. Yeah. Um when he gets to the house to look for him hurts or high He says they asked him how how did he know the way or how did he come by where he was and he mentions that it's only by God's grace essentially, but it's only by God's grace. So he did it now the way, but along the way, God gave him what he needed to keep taking those steps forward and the heart to believe evangelist and interpret and the interpreter. So I think that um In a sense, he is probably right. There are times when people are called in a particular moment in time by God. And it is very evident at that moment. But God called him, and that is his that is his hope. God called him and opened his eyes to hear those things. brought him along in every step of the way. There's no falling out of that in the will of God from the beginning to the end. Yeah, that kind of brings us back to uh being careful of about the way Bunyan is laying this out and not treating it as one pattern that every person follows. If you were raised in a Christian home, your experience is going to be very different from someone who is worshiping idols their whole life as a as a Gentile and it is called into the Christian faith. Yeah, I felt like it was when he lost his burden. His burden was shed and he could see more clearly. And then um It was about growth uh in his journey. Right? Um and that that was each person that he met along the way. really uh the challenges that he was up against. Right? Like um yeah we feel grief or whatever whoever we ran into and I I had to think that a little bit. But you know, it's like a little by little all that stuff came off. And um He grew closer as he went on. You know, so that's the way I saw it. Is there um are there details in that cross event that is is leading you to see that as the moment I mean as you're as you're taking that position, you know, in what I read, the angel saying thy sins are are forgiven could be an argument, I think, for that. Uh scene. Natalie. Um what you would you would talk about you just said something about everybody's you know experience is different. And we actually see that in different characters. So I mean faithful doesn't even really stop at the the interpreter's house. But he just kinda keeps going. Oh he he doesn't fall into the uh the slew of despond. He doesn't fall into the slew of despond. He also doesn't he kinda maybe it's the maybe it's meets his piety and whatnot, he doesn't stop at that house. He keeps going. Christian has to catch up with him. And then and then you know, as we as we go we've got all of these different characters characters who are saved but having different experiences. So like when we get to Christiana's story, you know, we talked a little bit how that how that was a little different. How she sees across earlier. Right. What you said about everybody kind of a different experience, he's kind of talking about Yeah. Any other arguments? Sure. Um I was just gonna say that in the in the way that I don't know that any of us can point to an exact moment at which justification was applied to us. that it would be hard to point even in this story to say, right, there is there it is. But what we can do is we can get a tattoo to uh some of us to not having faith and having faith. And we can give a testimony to hindsight seeing where the world is clearly uh uh uh calling um which I think we can see those things. So there's a momentum where exactly is he justifying the story? Yeah. Why why do you think that Bunyan has these as two separate events, the wicket gate and then the cross. And not as one one event. Ryan? So um I know for my own other since because my own experience here um with talking to unbelievers. They I've had experiences with Where people see they they want to they see that there's something wrong, I think with Christian in the city destruction um knowing that sort of dune is sure if he stays where he is and then they see that There is somewhere, they need to go somewhere, they don't know where, and you might point them in the right direction. And so then they start walking in that direction and come to the wicked gate of sorts. And so they start to explore biblical Christianity. And I say this is really some of them are like pliable, some of them enter into the gate, um but then they're quickly diverted. Um and uh like you have the example of the um man in the iron cage. interpreters how he came in by the Lukas, as far as we know. He was said that he was bound for the celestial city. Um and I do think that there's a I I I like how Sheryl phrases that like in hindsight you can look back and say like wow the Lord had me all along. There was no Like when you have when you know that you're safe because you are you have you've been given that conviction that you love The Lord is law and salvation. Um you can see that path, but uh for others It's like you had you experienced certain elements of grace that allowed you to come a certain way, but then you fell away before you even got to cross. There's an opportunity, I think, that fall away as you start to move in that direction. You can make overtures toward it, but you might not necessarily get to do that. Could it be a different way of thinking about it is where do we see the free That Christian has been saved and will be able to persevere. And we do see that very concrete. across when he's able to when his burdens leave in and he's given the seal and his forehead and the scroll. That's where we No, because we see it from the fruit whether that's actually the point in time. I think that's sort of what Brian's saying too is that sometimes people are on a path that you don't always know what fruit is going to actually come out of that movie. Yeah. Also whole submission is part of that, like seeing the fruit. You can't the submission happens in the heart, you can't feel it. burden false off of the cross. So I think that might be part of what we could make, work through all um what they're struggling with. But somewhere in the heart you have to have that pulse condition. So you won't you won't lay it all down top if you Um burden uh I like to look back at Romans 7 and realize that isn't that burden really connected with the remote As we see more and more of law, then we feel the burden of I don't know Yeah, I think well in it earlier when we we had talked about why is it that Christian has a burden and these Um was it was pliable that went along for a while and he had no burden. And it seemed like Bunyan was getting at some kind of experiential uh feeling. of of guilt, uh the the weight of the law, this effect of the law on him, terror uh at coming judgment. So that could provide some help I think in interpreting this burden falling off that it has to do with his sense of well, then it has to do with the sense of re the the every result of the law pointing to Christ. Of the cross of the cross relieving that yeah, sense of guilt. It felt to me like Um when he's first called Christian, it's a bit like when the angel calls Idean a man of valor. It's he's speaking in his future and and showing to me that God has this path for him. And he's going to walk the path, maybe not well, mm-hmm, but he's going to stay on that path. Yeah. So of God's God's love for him. It's the work of God. Yeah. And and because of that he's gonna get there. Yeah. I wonder if it's been um your experience something like this, uh I'm hearing this in some of the comments, but in my own experience, trying to identify when when did I come to faith? And at some points in my life I've said, oh, it was when I was very young. And I made a profession of faith. But then there were these periods of really uh nightly bouts with doubt. Am I r am I really saved? And then and there was sin involved in that that would that was part of the cause for those for those doubts. And then at a much later age, kind of renewing a commitment to Christ. And sometimes I thought that was when I became a Christian, right? At a later point. But now looking back, I'm not as sure of the exact moment. I know God was at work all along the way. But I think it highlights, I wonder, I guess my question is, has it been part of your experience that you could, a person can be saved and have saving faith, but wrestle with doubt? Wrestle with guilt. always a spiritual battle going on, even though we want to um relations or aware of that too well Yeah. Um I think we're I think we're talking about two different salvation in at least two different senses. One is In the mind of God, when he set his love upon us before the foundation of the world, there is no doubt that those people will make it to the celestial But in our experience, we have what you just described for yourself, and I'm sure there are many variations on that. But in terms of the gospel, until a person sees Christ, I don't know how you could apply the term Christianity Christian in terms of worldly time, like earthly time. Um God's hand has been upon us all, saving us from the worst of evil. Um and and thank God, you know, he he brought me to the point where I can now I look back and go, yes. Um but I think I'm I feel like I'm on dangerous ground calling a person a Christian before the point when they look on Christ on the cross and the tears have come down their face. And the burden is now in the grave and they know it's there forever. At that point, you know, from that point on, he does still experience doubts and he leads to the past sometimes, but I mean and and he gets to the celestial city and ignorance falls down to hell from the gates of the city. And Krishna says, Oh I see now there's a way to hell, even from the gates of the city, and yet he himself even in the river of death he's gives you so much doubt that hopeful has been you know short in one of the other through so but I I j I think there's a good reason to put is If we have to put a time on his conversion experience, I and he gets he gets his three things from the the shiny ones, he gets his role of church and he gets his entrance ticket to his and he loses his burden. Uh to me those things can float into Yeah, yeah. I mean just to add Well the the wicked gate it isn't the the gate is Christ, so that that's part of the difficulty here of of trying to pick one or the other. But I just to add what to the comments I made earlier, I can think of later times in my life where I really got into studying particular doctrines about Christ's work, studying the cross, coming to understand that Christ's righteousness is counted to me, and experiencing in a new way A sense of assurance that I hadn't experienced before. An experience that took away all of my feeling of a burden of sin to know that no, I am actually covered in this uh new raiment, right? No longer rags. And I wonder if Bunyan is is is getting at that, that you could come to phase but wrestle for a time and really understanding the work of Christ and the comfort that that gives. Um but I I agree it's difficult to And in another sense, we haven't gotten there yet, but we can't be assured the sacred faith until he arrives at the end. But that there are signs that it that this isn't Practice Satan faith every time he's able to move it through yet another both temptation, so let's call that uh killing or something that attempts to kill And then also something that brings more life. So along the way, he's brought light by different people, by different groups. That seems to be present within him, where he's able to receive things in a particular way and be watered by certain things, by certain things. That they have a good aroma and not an aroma of death. He does convert, and then when he gets to the cross, this is another sign. That he has a saving faith because he actually can receive words of comfort and the burden experientially falls off. question in gossip price did it fall off or asking experientially did it? I'll think off the top of my head here so bear with me. And then um he survived Each one of the monsters along the way. I'm wondering if the answer to your question is at the end Just one who can be assured that you have same thing. So if we're just wondering that is it fair to to word your question as when can we be assured? At the end or in the present? Yeah. Yeah. Okay that would be fun. Which is I guess a little different question than yours When there's no longer any sin? Mine's more of a broad spike of things. The Christian is he starts off. Christian starts off away from things. He's running away because he's fearful. And as he's getting closer to the the wicked case to the cross, that motivation of running away from something switches to running towards so when I'm running away in fear I'm I am not looking for my my comfort, the celestial city. I'm running away for the sake of fight or white. But once you gone through that path and you are being built up through the spirit through the the constant renewal of yes you're You have your your ups and downs, you're learning from those ups and downs from Angelus and everybody else along the way. there's a a shift in your motivation. You're going you're going looking towards that. And that's where salvation starts to take form in a way that we can recognize it. We I had Cheryl was saying how can how can I celebrate you know Maryland How can I tell them she was a Christian or not a Christian? It's not up to me. It's it's what's in the heart and that motivation of running away from destruction instruction could be that seed that God has placed in there could start through all. He built, I want to run away from that. How do I get rid of that? I'm now running towards This illustrious thing is, I'm running towards my future as opposed to I'm away from the past. So that's kind of how I'm The the parallel is just points A in the union and C in the N. Right. Which I think that imagery is in is definitely part of the story because of his stopping to rest and the problems that that causes. He's not continuing, he's not moving towards the celestial city. Yeah Well, okay, so uh Cheryl, you had your Yeah, in trying to figure out how do we struggle with the gate and the cross, um all the characters coming through the gate And we know the only path to salvation would be the gospel. So thinking of the gate as representing the gospel, the gospel is given to us people and we know that those things are dropped in different places and perhaps the cross then is the gospel very Yeah. Or also we are also But we can think then and crossing this one. And I think the I mean might have something in mind And this one down here to be very difficult to inside. Um I like you. Um Because I'm going to take the value of the month. And like this we say especially to And sometimes similarly use I you don't understand. Only when I come in later when I found out this colour, but it'll be I think it's probably really fun. I think that it is on my early. So I don't know what the body is linked to exactly what's in my patient I I often thought about um women so I bought the sound thing Probably you want to run it from use. Right. Yeah. As you were saying that I'm reminded of uh you know Bunyan has an autobiography of his own conversion, Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners. And his his own experience there was a in his in his mind a conversion to embracing Christ but waiting a good time before he experienced the assurance of his forgiveness. He wrestled for a for many for for a long time with guilt uh and and whether he personally had his sins forgiven, whether he was truly united to Christ. So we may be getting that here. I do want to pivot a bit to because I do think it's interesting that He is really emphasizing, I think, assurance in this episode with the cross, given that he's got a mark on his forehead. Which I take to be like he not he knows that he belongs to God. He's one of God's people. He has the scroll. which is evidence that he's going to enter into heaven. So there is this kind of in the present assurance that he has that his sins are forgiven. I provided in a in the footnote on the handout a couple quotations that might be helpful here. I think it's good to be reminded that part of our Reformed faith, our Protestant faith is a strong doctrine of assurance, of salvation. Um So I give you in the footnote two questions from the catechism, question 80, larger catechism, question 80 and 81. But before that, I gave you a quotation from the Roman Catholic Council of Trent. And that doctrine is still the official doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church, but it says if anyone says that he will for certain Of an absolute and infallible certainty, have that great gift of perseverance unto the end. Unless he has learned this by special revelation, let him be anathema. So let that person be anathema that claims, any person who claims to have certainty that he will reach heaven. And you can see what the where the language of the catechism, you know, it's it's react it's in response to that. Question 80 Of our larger catechism says, Can true believers be infallibly assured that they are in an estate of grace and that they shall persevere therein unto salvation? Answer, such as truly believe in Christ and endeavor to walk in all good conscience before him, may, without extraordinary revelation. See they're responding to By faith, grounded upon the truth of God's promises, and by the Spirit enabling them to discern in themselves those graces to which the promises of life are made And bearing witness with their spirits that they are the children of God, they may be infallibly assured that they are in the estate of grace and shall persevere therein unto Salvation. So I part of what we're getting, it's interesting, at the near the beginning of Christian's journey to the celestial city is this assurance that he will enter that through the gates into that uh that a celestial city. So I w I guess what I would ask is, do you find Do you find assurance of your entrance into heaven helpful to you in your Christian walk? Or how has it been a help to you? Again, it's not saying every Christian experiences this at all at all times, but Christians can experience an assurance now. So when I have seriously stumbled and get back on the road, um certainly I shouldn't have assurance while I was stumbling But when I get back on the road, that's when the assurance is like, he loves me. Um, this is part of my sanctification, unfortunately. Um but now that I'm back on the road I can be assured that he was he was holding on to me while I was doing this. And he was chastising me. He loved me and he got me back on the road. So that's where uh insurance is quite consistent. That God is upholding you on the way. Yeah. I think Um maybe not when you're stumbling, but I know when I had, you know, three babies who were three and under and didn't have time to turn around much less the in the words like I'm praying as much as I should have and focused on the Lord. I still knew in my heart and in my intellectual knowledge that he had me and that even though I was having a hard time following him, he had me. And that's a comfort. And it drives you back to the word more than the knowledge that I just Yeah. Anyone else helped by Mike? Yeah, I uh I've uh had a lot of stumbles along the way, you know. Um when God forsake me uh You know, I was on like that cloud. You know, I never experienced anything like that. I was a different person, but still not perfect. You know, and Um still kind of on that journey, but I've never lost focus of my relationship and who God is. You know and uh what where I was headed. You know, and uh that's a comfort to me. Um to know that I just need to keep And um and do what God requires of me as best I can. Yeah. Yeah, which Yeah, it takes away a lot of the um the joy. I mean that's Christian experiences this joy and even a lightness. of step, he's able to keep going because he knows he has this assurance that God has forgiven him and God will secure him, God will preserve him al along the way. Did I see someone seeing? Yeah, Teresa. I don't know if this um this might be because of how I see the price, but um it was so dramatic that uh you know Star Prince the Light that I feel like it would be arrogant of me to not have insurance. I know it sounds strange, but like that wasn't me I was just killing my life. I was making all the wrong decisions. So it was it was God. So then I pulled off the packages that Close again, so then it was again. But also when I kind of like it, it was like how it was like hurting Christ again. And so that was a comfort too, even though it was painful because it's you know, I can't love Christ without the Holy Christ. So So you know, and that's what helped us out of that. So I think we can't truly love God in his word and hate and and be on his act without God and so that's working enough and strengthening us and so that can bring close and strengthening it on even though Um very much more than that. Thank you. I want to go back to a a th Theme that I heard, which is a connection between staying in the way and assurance. Do we see evidence or any examples of that in the journey beyond the cross that Christian's sense of joy and assurance is r is connected to his staying on the way In this ch in this chapter. Yeah. So maybe the flip side of that point is that maybe it could be described as a weakening of position When he sleeps. And that he has to travel that path three times. To get any kind of burden and consequence of even it happening Did you mention why he was taking those three trips? Did you mention what he lost? His role. Yeah. Um yeah, Teresa and then I think Jesse has in as well. It later he says that was my assurance of my access into heaven. Jesse, did you want to say something? I wanted to mention something before you move on. Yeah, sure. the contrast between the Roman Catholic Church and and the and what I was saying Catholic Church part of. Right. And um and how they were responding to that. In their Response, meaning the the response of the divides. It's really interesting when you look at what you gave us at the bottom of the page. I'm wondering what you think about this. They don't say how do you know if you have Satan and faith. They say, how may one be validly assured that they're in A state of grace. And then when you listen to people's testimonies here, we don't hear Elizabeth or Natalie or others. Trying to convince you that their faith is real. They're giving you a bunch of different things that show that they're in a state of grace, not just that they have faith. Grief over sin, continued belief. Um an obvious divine hand upon them, moving them through situations It seems like I guess I'm asking, do you think since you were studying this and I've just been laying on my couch with two feet? Do you think That they're trying to say there are a lot of ep evidences to which we may look to gain infallible assurance and not just The divines? Yeah, I was um yeah just recently reading a Puritan exposition of the Catechism And he, you know, par there's paragraphs on all these evidences of faith, the Spirit's work in us, to which we can look, examine ourselves, see those evidences, and be assured that there is a genuine faith there. So it's not just faith, but is the faith, you know, bringing forth fruit in our lives? Is there a hatred of sin and a desire to turn from it and be rid of it, which we see in Christian um Yep. A striving a dil yeah, a diligence in um striving against sin. I was also thinking in terms of some It seems to me like these are all supposed to be witnesses that yeah she Right. And so instead of having to wait until the end to have a infallible assurance that one is is Right. Right. And then Yes, yeah. Yeah, and by the second quote you're question eighty one? Is that where yes. So yeah, while while it's Infallible assurance is possible now, there are times where we don't always experience that assurance. And it may be for various reasons. I love the catechism. Um you know it's not just sin, which we do get Christian falling asleep at the tree, and it seems like later he says, I you know rested in my flesh. Seems like he wasn't wrestling against sin. He was using the comfort of the gospel for a wrong End. Um but the catechism even says uh it could be because of distempers, which are maybe you're depressed. Maybe you're sick. Something's not well with you. So it doesn't always have to be sin. But for various reasons, we can go through periods where we don't have that infallible certainty. Um okay so in that journey to the beautiful palace there are many characters that show up Which highlight perils, dangers along the way. One of them is, I think, related to the assurance question. What would that danger be? There's a character. It's actually those three. Who are the three that he initially meets on the way? Sloth, simple. And presumption really identifies the the danger here. What's the danger of that he's warning us against with these three? What a loss of diligence? Yeah, Christina. Well, it also might be one where it talks about trials and perseverance, but allowing perseverance to have its full effect. You know allowing perseverance at its full effect requires Continuum continuing on. Right, not just a beginning, but a continuation. This this might be off a little bit, but in in the Old Testament when they are called to uh remember what Christ is what God is done throughout um the the journey of the Jews. Um and and how they're to read this read it every year and Remember, uh it kind of feels like your true assurance is looking back. Um looking back at where God has provided steps out of the slew of the spond or given you that person to come along beside you and encourage you out of that next trap and to move forward and and so I think the way Christians like us see our our our state of grace and and the fact that God had us by looking back and seeing all the ways he provided in our past and sort of setting up our eben user of here is here's what God did and and doing it when we We can look back and see he has us all along and we just need to keep going and obeying and trusting Yeah. That's certainly part of part of uh Bunyan's message because I I forget l it's somewhere later, maybe in the Palace of Beautiful. Where he's talking about the ongoing struggle of sin and not always feeling like he has victory. And uh he's asked, when do you feel victory? And he says, when I think back To the cross. Yeah. When I think back to the cross, um then I I I again have this sense of victory over over sin. Yeah, so there is this, there's the well, and the catechism says that it says the promises of God is part of our foundation of assurance, that God has promised forgiveness through Christ to those who believe. And then bringing back there there is also a a kind of examination side of it where do we see the evidences, the many evidences of faith. And yeah, depending on where you where you are, if you're in a very discouraged place, that the the the objective promises are a great source of comfort. I'm looking at the final minutes here. I want to hit some of these. So like the three at the bottom, it's interesting they're asleep. There's the sleep imagery. Which I take to be s kind of falling into uh s a stupor, a spiritual stupor. It's a spiritual sleep, um becoming comfortable in one's sin, not fighting it. They're shackled, which I take to be their they're b in bondage to sin. I found elsewhere where Bunyan uh defines, this was in his sermon at the Straight on the Strait Gate. He divine defines presumption this way. He says it's a severing of faith and repentance. Presumption is that which severeth faith and repentance concluding that the soul shall be saved by grace, though the man was never made sorry for his sins, nor the love of the heart turned therefrom. So thinking that you can make it to uh the celestial city while not actually grieving over your sin or repenting of sin. The a sermon called The Straight Gate. Yeah. Yeah, and that in that sermon he lists many more, many more um characters, as it were, or vices. Many of them that show up in this narrative. So there's presumption. There's later there's formality and hypocrisy. He mentions those as well, but he has several others that he adds So there is that danger, I think, that he's pointing out, the danger of growing comfortable with your sin and thinking, having a false kind of security. Security in your sin, which is not true assurance, Bunyan would say. You can only have true assurance if you're striving against sin and uh and trusting Christ and making progress on that way of salvation. Let's briefly touch a couple more characters. There was formality and hypocrisy. What are the dangers there? Dangers on the way to the Celestial City. Formality, formalism, hypocrisy are almost born from Semble's law and consumption because he says that Christian was trouble to think that men in that danger should so little obtain the kindness of him that so quickly offer to help them see himself both by awakening of them, counseling of them, and proper to help them them off with your iron. And as he was traveling thereabouts, he is buying two bands come tunneling over the wall. And it sounds like and from this load I don't know. Maybe I'm reading into that too much, but it seems like and then from their slothfulness brings Right. Well yeah, that the vices aren't necessarily separate things. You could the the person trapped in this vice of formality and hypocrisy may have the also the vice of sloth and presumption. way of hopping over instead of being a not only did they skip the wicked We're going four grades in that time. Almost like that's fine, we're gonna go for grades, almost like grading myself. What's their argument that they give for you know to uh Christian that we're we're okay? Right. Yeah. So Christian is following the rule of Christ. They're following Custom, tradition. Right, yeah, they they say we're following the same laws and ordinances that that you do. Maybe the sacraments and worship. Yep. I think it's interesting that they come over when he's there, so for somebody to notice them at even at that point, So there wasn't that great. It's a passage in Matthew, it's where Jesus condemns the hypocrites. Matthew 15 came to mind where he talks about the hypocrites who make void the word of God for the sake of their tradition. Um and we could speculate who he has in mind in his own day. And we talked about it before, but again, who can assign where there's an established church. Everybody goes to everybody's a part of like in order to be a respectful person person you have to go to church on Sunday. You have to be doing things in the parish. And so that is like an a very pervasive The culture of we've always done this, we are Anglican and Christian because we are British and that's what we do. Yeah, also brings to mind the false teachers in Timothy that are right in the wolves, right in Right. Yeah. What he's warning us of yeah, that the danger is even within within the church, within the way, people who have not followed the master's direction, but rather tradition. And then we fe uh we also meet two final characters, vices. They're going the opposite direction. Who are those? Mistrust and yeah, fearful. So what are the dangers Bunyan is warning us of there? Okay, a lack of faith. Right. And the lions were for what purpose? To test their faith. To test their faith. Which goes back to something Jesse had you know, it's that all of these experiences along the way serve as evidences Um I thought of the parable of talents in the whole service who said I was afraid that you were going to take everything away. And so I buried the talent and and he's given such an awful judgment and then he's called people. And I think it's so easy for us to take what's being fearful and to justify our fears. But in God's eternity Which that one t that one would tie together fear and maybe also sloth. Of just not investing. Yeah. Okay, we're coming to the end here. I uh we spent Maybe too much time on the first half of the journey. I apologize for that. I do thank you for all your comments and helpful discussion. And so next week you should read chapter four, which is the all of the discourses in the beautiful palace. Let me close this in prayer. Father, there is uh so much wisdom to be gained from this book. I confess that in my own reading of it and thinking through again, uh the your words teaching on assurance that um I'm reminded to wake up, to be sober minded, to not become lazy and slothful, uh and Lord, I confess that too much of my time is spent in spiritual idleness. And I am warned by what I've read in this book. Lord, wake me up, wake each of us up, stir us up with your grace Help us to find comfort in the fact that it's by your grace, by the grace that you um Pour into our hearts that we are stirred up and are we are able to continue on the way to the celestial city. It is not ultimately based on our effort, but rather our effort, our striving flows from the work of the Spirit in us. So I do pray that each of us would find comfort in your love, an unchangeable love. Find comfort in the work of the Spirit, the testimony of the Spirit in us, and that the fruit of that comfort would be diligence. Diligence in pursuing holiness. I pray all this in Christ's name, Amen