Well, if you would please turn into Matthew. We're continuing in our study of the Gospel of Matthew, and uh we're on schedule to complete it about the first week in March, one way or the other. And so we are uh as we are continuing through this study, we are up now to Matthew 23. Would invite you to turn to page or to chapter 20, I'm sorry, to chapter 22, verse 2 Verse 23. And uh as you do that, put your finger there, I'd also want you to turn over to Philippians, and as part of today's sermon, we're also going to be considering a passage there. There we'll be picking up at verse twelve and reading verses twelve through uh fourteen. So Matthew twenty two first and then Philippians at in its do in its place The same day the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to him and asked him, saying, Teacher, Moses said that if a man dies having children, his brother shall marry his wife and Now there were seven brothers. The first died after he had married, and having no offspring, left his wife to his brother. Last of all the woman died also. Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife of the seven will she be? and said to them, You are mistaken, not knowing the scriptures nor the power of God. For in the resurrection they neither marry nor But concerning the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was spoken to you by God saying, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. And when the multitudes heard this, they were astonished at his teaching. But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together, then one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question, testing Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. This is the first and great Commandment. The second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, saying, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? They said to him, The Son of David. He said to them How then does David in the Spirit call him Lord? Saying, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemy And no one was able to answer him a word, nor from that day on did any Anyone dare question him anymore? May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Each one of these sections deserves its own sermon. And uh to explain all of the things that are going on in the dynamics of this passage would take us uh quite a while. Uh we're not able to do that today. I regret those things, but that is the way it has to be. But as we look at this passage and as we think about our circumstances in preaching today, I suppose that every preacher in America is talking about resolutions, at least making them. And I don't want to break that trend, for be it for me to do so. But if we're going to be making resolutions today, and perhaps we ought to do so, I think we should perhaps consider Philippians three verses twelve through fourteen. So let's turn there and look at that for just a moment. Paul is talking here about attaining to the resurrection from the dead. And so he starts off with these words. Not that I have already attained to this or am already perfected, but I press on that I may lay hold of that for by for which Christ Jesus has also laid hold of me. Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended to have apprehended, but one thing I do. Forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead, I press toward the goal for the prize Of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. This is Paul. He's the apostle to the Gentiles. He is the one who wrote most of the materials that we read in And he says of himself, I do not count myself to have apprehended the fullness of my calling. In the words that he's using there is to lay hold, to actually reach and to gain it. And then he says, But I press forward. I press forward toward the goal, towards that prize And what is the prize? The prize that he is seeking is the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Here we see Paul, Paul, mind you, with a goal in life that he has not yet fully achieved. I think when I When I think of this passage, uh the picture that comes to my mind is back in the old cartoon days, back when I was back in the dark ages. And and you see a picture of a kid and he's on a on a uh uh is actually the little rascals. And you see the little rascals, those of you who know who those are, and they would be sitting in this dog cart and they would have a stick and at the end of the stick would be a string with a bone hanging down in front of the dog and the dog would be trying to of course it doesn't work. Kids if you try this, the dog's not going to do it. But the dog would move towards the bone and of course pull the dog But the uh because he's pulling the cart, the bone always stays just out of his reach. And so I see Paul somewhat similar to that, saying, you know, I I strive to to attain To this fullness of understanding my effort call in Christ, but in this life I never quite get there. The pride Of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. But Paul was pressing toward it. He was pushing toward it. He was pulling the heart of his life, if you will, striving to get towards this. Measuring each day by how well or how little he did in a in moving towards that goal The prize of the upward call of Christ and upward call of God in Christ Jesus. I propose that that should be a New Year's resolution that we ought to be Strongly considering for ourselves. We need to understand what that means then. What does it mean to have this upward call of God in Christ Jesus? Now Jesus' teaching in this passage in Matthew is framed by this. That's why I'm going through it. We're going to talk about what is the upward call of Christ and upward Call of God in Christ Jesus, and we're going to seek to understand what he means by that, and then we're going to look at what Jesus teaches in this passage in Matthew to frame it within that. Now here's the definition. The upward call of God in Christ Jesus is that call of God extended to Paul, but also extended to Paul. Extended to each one of us by the very fact of Christ Jesus Himself. God is presented to us by the person of Christ. Not just his teachings. We're not considering here just Propositional statements. We're talking about the person of Christ Himself presented to us as a challenge to us, a confront Presentation to us, if you will. Here is Jesus. And all that he means, and he by His very being constitutes a call, an upward call of God to us. Jesus stands before us. Even now in the pages of Scripture, just as he stood before his enemies on that day that we're reading about in Matthew. The Herodians, the Sadducees, the Pharisees, the people of Israel were confronted with a person And they had to deal with this person. And more than a person. A person Who in the very words that we read in Matthew itself speaks of himself and he says, the son of David, that's who I am, but more than the son of David Jesus presents himself in this passage as David's Lord. There is no question when he's talking to them that he is referring to himself David saw Jesus. He saw the Christ of God seated at the Father's right hand. And Jesus standing before them that day was confronting them to say Say, this is who I really am. I am the one David saw seated at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. What are you going to do about that? I submit to you that in this capacity, that Jesus stands there Full of significance in his person, that this significance of Christ is in fact the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Jesus himself today issues us a call, a command, an invitation. He issues this call in his very own person. And he requires of us today, not just once in our life, but he requires of us each day a decision A choice to make about him. How are we going to respond to this person who speaks to us in the scriptures in this way? How are we going to respond to what he represents? God is doing something. God did something in Jesus Christ, and he made a statement. And that statement requires a response which we cannot avoid. As we approach this, it is our attitude that is going to make all the difference in the world. Jesus is confronting us and we have to respond to the person that He is and how we respond to the fact that we have to choose, that we have to decide on on a daily basis in some way, is going to say more about us than anything else. Is our heart going to leap with joy? Here is Christ Or are we more like the Herod Herodians, Sadducees, and Pharisees More seeking to find some way to put off having to respond to him or else to define him differently. Do we recognize him and do we cringe at the fact of who he is and that we we only come to him under the lash of our conscience. Because it is the weight of guilt and we're just responding to the guilt. Our guilt says, well, you know, I've been raised in things that Jesus is Lord, therefore I ought to love him. And I'm supposed to love God with all my heart and soul and strength. Yeah, well maybe I'm going to do that too, doggone it. God is not a Jewish mother who motivates by guilt feelings. He uses guilt plenty with those who are in fact guilty and who face eternal life, eternal death. But for God's people, we're motivated by grace. It is grace that drives us to Christ and it is grace in which we rejoice The question is, what attitude is going to govern our heart as we come to Him? Will we embrace and pursue the upward call of Christ? Christ of God in Christ Jesus or not. Certainly God has to work in us to will and to do that which is his good pleasure. And so it is up to To God to work in us, to will and to do and to make the right choice. Only those who are born again will embrace this call with joy, will embrace it with longing and delight So we should ask where our heart lies as we think about this choice. But for those whom the Spirit has changed, those who have been born again. Pursuing the upward call of God in Christ Jesus should be the deepest desire of our heart. And resolving, not just now at the beginning of the year But resolving throughout the year, day by day, to pursue this upward call of God in Christ Jesus should be the fruit of a changed heart. that desires to do just that. Now very briefly then, let's talk about what this upward call of God in Christ Jesus really is. Brothers and sisters, Sisters, the upward call of God in Christ Jesus is the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is the understanding that in Christ, in his person now God has made a covenant with man. He has made a covenant with you and with me in Christ. And that in the This covenant he extends to us the promise that we will find in this covenant with God through Christ Jesus. In Christ Jesus. life and that more abundantly. The upward call of God in Christ Jesus is that Christ Jesus and in him alone We can discover what it means to live in covenant with God and thereby receive the benefits of the covenant blessings that He extends. That's saying an awful lot. This is the main point. The upward call of God to us, to you, and to me. is to embrace Christ Jesus himself. We are to see him and to see him alone as the mediator of all of God's covenant blessings and Each day, like Paul, to to press on, to lay hold of him in that way, to reach out and to grab him and to rest holy and Completely and fully own him, recognizing our own sin that in this life we are never going to be able to do that exactly perfectly, but that's what Paul's talking about. We we strive To do that. To forget what is behind and to press onward to the goal of living in Christ. Resting in Christ. Loving Christ, trusting him as a real, live, actual person, and not just some godlike fairy tale That is the upward call of God in Christ Jesus Himself. And brothers and sisters, these words in Matthew today show us Jesus giving Use some major elements of how that pursuing and embracing that call is to be worked out. First, Let's look at this. Not able to go through all the details. Let's just pick some gleanings from it. Jesus teaches us here that embracing the upward call of God in Christ Jesus means that we should have, we should live in a lively expectation of eternal life. Okay, how many of you believe you're going to heaven? Okay? I probably shouldn't ask that, but I did it anyway. Do you really believe that? How does it show up every day in your life You're going to live forever. I'm going to live forever. Oh man, today is watting. If we really believe that we are going to live forever, would that not transform the fabric of our daily life? If we embrace Jesus Christ As the covenant of God made with us, and to live in covenant with Him through Jesus Christ, then the hope of eternal life should be more than a mile. It should be something more than an occasional thought. It should have force in our lives. It should be something of a glad imperative to us. It should not be an idle wish. Oh, I'm gonna die. I hope I go to heaven. I hope there is such a thing as life after death. You reckon there really is? Of course there is. Let's not settle for that kind of timidity in our thought process. We need to f press forward. We need to pursue. We need to reach out and grab Rabbahult of Christ Jesus as the certainty of eternal life for us. Now look at how Jesus makes this so clear to the Sadducees. I love this passage. He says, Sadducees, you're very wrong. You don't believe in the resurrection from the the dead. You don't believe in the resurrection of the dead, he says. And you're very wrong. There's no disputing that statement. As a matter of fact, by not believing in the resurrection, you're demonstrating that you don't believe in God Himself. Himself and you don't know the scriptures. Now that's pretty striking to educated men who claim To be religious scholars. You don't know God at all, and you don't know the scriptures. Brothers and sisters, for those who do not believe in the resurrection, Resurrection or who live a faith that does not reflect belief in resurrection, we have to question whether we know God at all. We have to question whether or not we have really believed the scriptures. Now think about that. If we know that There is a resurrection from the dead, and we know that in Jesus Christ and in God and in the scriptures, there is no question about it, then the upward call of God in Christ Jesus is to end Embrace that teaching. Jesus goes on to say this to the Sadducees and to put it beyond all doubt When he says, Did you not read in the scripture that God spoke to Moses and said, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Jacob, Isaac, and the God of Jacob? Now the whole force of this teaching is in the present tense When God spoke those things to Moses in the beginning, he said that as a present reality. I am Abraham's God, I am Isaac's God, I am Jacob's God God. Not I was, but I am. It says two things. It says that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are alive, and it says that God is their God Now, this is one of the most powerful teachings in all of the New Testament. Brothers and sisters, Moses, Abraham, Isaac, Elijah. These men are alive. We know that. For the scriptures, either in the Mount of Transfiguration or in this passage, teach us that. And their combined testimony today, even though they are not physically present with us, their combined testimony today is the same as their combined Testimony when they walk this earth. Yahweh, the God of Israel, is my God. And the upward call of God in Christ Jesus is this. is to have that become the truth of our life also. It is to believe that we will eternalize be in relationship with Christ, God through Christ. Jesus himself is our guarantee. It's not his promise. It's him. He is our guarantee that that is true. He is the mediator of the covenant promises. It is because he lives that the promises We embrace this idea. The corresponding reality is that it is the will of Jesus Christ Himself, His desire that you How would your life change if day by day you sought to grab a hold of that even more tightly? And to walk each day more specifically, realizing that. Teaches us here that embracing the upward call of God in Jesus Christ means exhibiting a loving disposition toward God and men. of the Bible reduces down to two fundamental basic covenant requirements. The upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Is God Himself reaching Down into time and space and saying to us, Come to me. Come to me. Live with me Discover the joy of walking daily with me. Love me with all your heart. Love me with all your soul and all your mind. Love your neighbor as yourself. Come to me. This is where quality of life is. is to be found. This is the life that is worth living. And you can have it. In part now and fullness when he comes again. But you can have it by answering the call of God in Christ Jesus Jesus here reinforces what he had already said in the Sermon on the Mount. The commandments of God to the born-again sinner, to the born-again sinner, are not burdensome rules that God Uses to whip us into shape. The commandments of God are invitations. They are doorways. They are lights to our path. And the commandments of God describe to us the life that is worth living. In Ecclesiastes, the preacher wrote and finally discovered this truth: chasing after quality of life, trying to to make our lives happy by riches, fame, or power is foolishness. When it boils down to it, the good life is simple. It is being Content with what God has given us, rejoicing in the people God has given us, and finding our rest in God Himself. That is the only life worth living. The doorway to this life, this life of living in covenant with God in Christ Christ Jesus is found here. The doorway is to each day to reach out, to pursue, to persevere in our intention, to love God more fully from our heart, to love Him more sincerely, to love Him more passionately and intelligently. To love our neighbors as ourselves. Jesus said that to know the scriptures and to know God meant that we would know that we certainly had have eternal life. He said that already. But here he says to know the scriptures is to know these two commandments. To know God, to know the scriptures means this: that God is worthy of our love, that God is glorified by our love, and therefore loving him. Loving our neighbors is not something that we do as a superficial add-on to our Christian faith. Loving God and loving our neighbor is the same thing as knowing God And knowing eternal life. You can't have one without the other. Because that's the way we experience it. Now, brothers and sisters, we should be resolving now and every day to pursue this upward aspect of our calling in Christ Jesus. We are to pursue love, as Paul tells us Explicitly in 1 Corinthians 14. And to understand that this love is daily growing and showing itself in us as the path progress of our Sanctification. God Himself, in Christ Jesus, living in us, is eternal life. And therefore These resolutions to love him and to love our neighbor is a reflection of embracing that reality. Last but not least, Jesus teaches us here that embracing the call of God in Christ Jesus means to know no king but Christ. And the last teaching Teaching in this passage, Jesus thoroughly confounds his enemies. It's so powerful that from this point on no one dares to question him any further. What is it he said He points to the apparent contradiction. How can the mess of the Messiah be David's son if David called him Lord? There's much we can say here. Let's take only this. David was astonished, I believe. And we should be astonished at this. We should be astonished. That Christ, who is God, came in the flesh. David, we believe, was brought to his knees in worship when he saw the Messiah in this vision because David knew that he had been given a great honor He knew that he had been promised that from him would come a king who would reign on his throne forever. And now he sees him. But he sees him He's not going to see him not just sitting on his throne in Jerusalem. He sees him seated at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. I know those of you who have children. How surprised would you be at seeing such a thing? How could how could How could my child be God sitting at the right hand of God the Father Almighty? I think David was really Struck by this. But what does it mean? Jesus was speaking to his enemies then. Jesus was speaking to his enemies. And he says, you know, God said to my Lord, David said that God said to my Lord, sit here until I make all your enemies my footstool. Jesus is talking to his enemies. They recognize that what he's telling them is that they are the ones To be his footstool. Jesus is here saying that all heav all authority in heaven and earth will be given to me. And after he arose from the dead He said that explicitly to his disciples. It is Jesus' right to rule. It is the fact that Jesus is ruling, and it is the means By which he is causing all things to work together for good for those who love him and are called according to his purpose, that constitutes the last aspect of our resolution. Brothers and sisters, we're called to embrace eternal life in Christ Jesus. We are called to love God, to love Jesus, and to love our neighbors, and here we are called to trust that because And therefore we are to live every day, no matter what it is God brings to us. us in the pathways that He causes us to walk. It is to live every day in the knowledge that Jesus Christ is ruling, He is governing our lives, He is governing The progress of history. We are called to trust him in this. Our trust is not to be in kings and governments, it's not even to be in social security. We are called to trust Jesus. How often? Every day. Throughout the day, no matter what we face, every day, to pursue the upward calling of God in Christ Jesus. is to more and more to seek to live in the confidence that Christ is seated on his throne. And whatever is going on in my life reflects his will for me at this moment. And And he is going to cause all things to work together for good. For I have been called according to his purpose. How would that transform your life, brother? Brothers and sisters, if you really took that to heart. What would constitute the witness of our life if we We lived every day. More and more and more, believing we're going to live forever. More and more and more. God, with all our heart, our mind, our soul, and our strength, more and more and more, exhibiting true love for our neighbors. And more and more and more. Resting in the sovereign rule of our Lord Jesus Christ. That man who stood before those enemies that day, the same man who is confronting us instantly scripture with the reality of his person. And we simply trust him. No matter what. Hereforth, let us so resolve. Let's pray.