Reading is from chapter eight in Judges verses four through thirty-two. When Gideon came to the Jordan, he and the three hundred men who were with him crossed over, exhausted But still in pursuit. Then he said to the men of Sukkoth, Please give loaves of bread to the people who follow me, for they are exhausted, and I am pursuing Zibah and Zalmuna Kings of Midian. And the leaders of Succoff said, Are the hands of Zeba and Zalmuna now in your hand that we should give bread to your army? So Gideon said, For this cause, when the Lord has delivered Zeba and Zalmuna into my hand, then I will tear your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briars Then he went up from there to Penuel and spoke to them in the same way, and the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Sucath had answered. So he also spoke to the men of Penuel, saying, When I come back in feast, I will tear down this tower. Now Ziva and Zalmuna were at Karkor, and their armies with them, about fifteen thousand, all who were left of all the army of the people of the east. For one hundred and twenty thousand men who drew the sword had fallen. Then Gideon went up by the road of those who dwell in tents on the east of Nobath and Jogbaha. And he attacked the army while the camp felt secure. When Zebah and Zalmuna fled, he pursued them, and he took the two kings of Miniad, Zebah and Zalmuna And routed the whole army. Then Gideon said, the son of Joash, returned from battle, from the ascent of Hares And he caught a young man of the men of Sukoff and interrogated him. And he wrote down for him the leaders of Sukoff and its elders, seventy-seven men Then he came to the men of Sucoth and he said, Here are Ziba and Zalmuna, about whom you ridiculed me, saying, Are the hands of Ziba and Zalmuna now in your hands that we should give bread to your weary men And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness, and briars, and with them he taught the men of Suckoth. Then he tore down the tower of Penuel and killed the men of the city And he said to Ziva and Zalmuna, What kind of men were they whom you killed at Tabor? So they answered, As you were, so were they. Each one resembled the son of a king. Then he said, and this is very important. They were my brothers, the sons of my mother. As the Lord lives, if you had let them live, I would not kill you. And he said, To Jeffer, his firstborn, rise, kill them. But the youth would not draw his sword, for he was afraid because he was still a youth. So Ziva and Zalmuna said, Rise yourself and kill us, for as a man is, so is his strength. So Gideon arose and killed Zeeva and Zalmuna and took the crescent ornaments that were on their camels' necks Then the men of Israel said to Gideon, Rule over us, both you and your son and your grandson also, for you have delivered us from the hand of Midian But Gideon said to them, I will not rule over you, nor shall my son rule over you. The Lord shall rule over you. Then Gideon said to them, I would like to make a request of you that each of you would give me the earnings from his plunder, for they had golden earrings because they were Ishmaelites. So they answered, We will gladly give them. And they spread out a garment, and each man threw into it the earrings from his plunder. Now the weight of the gold earrings that he requested was 1,700 shekels of gold Besides the crescent ornaments, pendants, and purple robes which were on the kings of Midian, and besides the chains that were around their camels' necks. Then Gideon made it into an ephod and set it up in his city, Ophra And all Israel played the harlot with it there. It became a snare to Gideon and to his house. Thus Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, so that they lifted their heads no more And the country was quiet for forty years in the days of Gideon. Let's go ahead and stop there and let's pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, this is a mixed moral situation. We pray that you would give us the distinctions and the discernment. That we might continue our theme of the canonization of the church. And anything we discover in that regard, O Lord Jesus Christ, I pray that by the power of your Spirit you would keep your church from such things. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Well, two weeks ago, the main symptom, I should come up, I should give you a list of all of the symptoms of the canonization of the church. We have quite a few now We could keep that in our journals and just remind ourselves every day. But two weeks ago, another symptom of the canonization of the church is bitter disunity among her tribes. It will be far from easy, but may we exercise wisdom for the peace of the church. This morning, you continue to see disunity among the tribes. You continue to see men wanting to wrest from God the glory that He alone deserves. But before we get into drawing those kinds of conclusions, I want to make a few observations, and then I have two applications this morning. So let's just begin with observation number one. Did this Gideon cycle With the food and the coming back and destroying those cities and the men of those cities. Did that remind you or evoke any other scriptures? It should have, and you're used to this by now with me, is I'm always looking for a frame from the scriptures by which to interpret the scriptures. It's a sound Interpretive principle is you read the scriptures by the scriptures. And here, when you see this account, you should be reading it alongside 1 Samuel chapter 25 with David and Nabal and Abigail. In that chapter, Nabal, which by the way is the Hebrew word for fool, refuses to give David and his mighty men food and drink. David is tempted to destroy Nabal's house. Abigail, however, wisely talks David out of killing Nabal And David thanks Abigail for keeping him from becoming like a Nabal or to become like a fool. He leaves vengeance in the hands of God, and not soon afterward, God himself Destroys Nabal. I want you to think of the similarities between that account in 1 Samuel 25 and the account that is before you with Gideon. It helps you to morally discern what is going on within the story. Getting in as leading men in pursuit of personal vengeance. Did you note that? Why is it that he would not have killed them if he hadn't if they had not killed his brothers? Did you see that? There's a personal vendetta going on. That's the same motive that is mentioned with David, by the way. In his pursuit of Zahab and Zalmuna, he had the 300 stop at Suchith and Penuel in verses 5 and 8. Brad is right to point out that they should have given him bread and water. It was a violation of the sixth command. But unlike David, Gideon decides to use the power of his army to destroy those people who sinned against him. Maybe there should have been some level of discipline. Maybe, for example, in verse 16, when he flogged them with thorns in discipline, maybe that was some kind of an appropriate action. But when we look at this relative to the frame of 1 Samuel 25, we know that it was foolish for Gideon in verse 17 to kill all of the men of Penuel. That's to decimate that area for all of the men to be removed. Have you heard stories of men going to war, none of them returning, and what happens to the women and the children in that place It's a way to destroy that area. And that's what we see going on with Gideon. You can start to detect in the book of Judges that nothing is just perfectly morally clear. There's always this kind of ambiguity as to whether they're doing something right or whether they're doing something wrong. And that's going to become murkier and murkier and murkier until the end. And really you're going to see that they do right and wrong all the way to the point where it's just only doing wrong. But here We don't see Gideon responding like he did two weeks ago with Ephraim, where he's able to turn away anger through a gentle word. We don't see him responding like David did at the wisdom of Abigail. Instead, we see Gideon taking upon himself the same kind of attitude, brashness, and anger and revenge and vengeance that we see in people like Nabal or in the Ephraimites. And this is another way of saying that what is being presented to you here is that after that initial battle Gideon is descending into foolishness. He's equated with Nabal so that we would equate him with fools. Now that's the first observation is to just look at 1 Samuel 25 in concert with our Gideon cycle. That's going to help orient you. Now here's observation two. At this, the three hundred men, verse twenty-two, try to establish Gideon as king of Israel. And here it looks like a little halo has formed over Gideon's head, and he's God's little angel telling them what the morally right thing to do is. But the problem is, and he's not as bad as others, that although Gideon refuses the title, if you look at the description, he basically plays the role anyway. It's like, don't call me that, but give me everything that's included. He gathers wealth from the people like a king into his treasury, and then he uses the wealth to re-establish a shrine. And this should be a key word for you that sends up all kinds of red flags. And Ophrah verse 27. We're now back full circle to the Baal worship that we witnessed between him and his father in that shrine that was set up in his backyard. And if you were to continue, in fact, it says this in 827 of Judges. Then Gideon made it into an ephod and set it up in his city. This is all um a foreshadowing of what the kings are going to do as we move off into the rest of the history of Israel. All Israel played the harlot with it there. He has taken this gold and formed something to where now they are treating it as an idol. Gideon continues to play the role of a king by having concubines and many wives, verse 31. That's always a sign that we're spiraling down. Look at the life of Solomon, for example. As you can see though, Gideon has not become any king, even though he has refused the title He has taken on the characteristics and the property and the way of handling things that any other Oriental or Canaanite king would have done in the area. And so here is a second assertion that we need to make based on our observations. Gideon has not only become foolish like Nabal, but more generally, he has been canonized. Now, in summary, we want to go back to that 1 Samuel 25 as our guide and make that the main emphasis in Gideon's canonization. And it's this. We could talk about this for a long time, we only have so much time, but it's this. This is the main problem that's that's going on here with Gideon at this time. It's his abuse of power. He abuses his prestige and military force of 300 to carry out personal vendettas and harshly treat fellow members of the church Now, I've given some caveats. I've said perhaps they did deserve some level of discipline. But I'm telling you, this man has gone too far. And that brings us to yet another symptom of the canonization of the church. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is the abuse of power. Can you think of a more timely topic in today's world? Well, I want to unfold this topic and make sure that we understand it Christianly, and it is my prayer that the Holy Spirit will work these things out with you as you have conversation over lunch and have your own experiences. But it's basically two Ps for the application. Proverbial instruction and then positive instruction. And then I'll have a series of questions for you. Proverbial instruction and then uh proverbial instruction and then posit positive instruction. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is the abuse of power. Let's start With going into the Proverbs to receive a little bit more instruction on this idea of power and the abuse of it. This week we observed how Gideon Is less like David in 1 Samuel 25, and he's more like Nabal, who is the fool. And what this does for us, besides giving us that 1 Samuel 25 to reference, is it can shuttle us immediately to the Proverbs where Nabal is used over and over again to talk about the fool. And so what I want to do is just lay before you a couple Proverbs so that you can see what this fool or Nabal looks like. Let's look to Proverbs for a closer understanding of Nabal. Here's the first one. Pay very close attention to this. If you want to flip to your scriptures to Proverbs chapter 30, verses 20 through 23, you're welcome to do so. That way you can have it right in front of you. Keep a finger in Judges. Proverbs 30, 21 through 23. For three things the earth is perturbed. Is the earth perturbed right now, brothers and sisters? It says here in Proverbs, well, there's probably three things present then if you're experiencing perturbation. Yes, for four, it cannot bear up. For a servant when he reigns, a fool, Nabal, when he is filled with food A hateful woman when she is married, and a maidservant who succeeds her mistress Now, perhaps these are surprising to you. Maybe some of them you initially find offensive. I assure you it's the English translation if you're offended. The general meaning of what's going on here when it's talking about the earth being perturbed is the connected to the meaning of all of the proverbs. The proverbs are about social relationships with reference to God. The point of this proverb in particular is to show the great tragedy of an upside-down social order. It's like having people in places where they don't belong. It paints a picture of a society where the godless, rebellious, and foolish are elevated to positions to rule community and home, and what the results are with that. Nabal is one example in particular that perturbs the earth A Nabal or fool, it says, when he is filled with food. Let me explain to you what that means. One scholar puts it this way: the sacrilegious fool has food. beyond his divinely ordained lot. If fed, thereby destroying the proper moral order by rewarding vice. When he is fed in his vice, he becomes more and more arrogant and dangerous, and he is given the power and the energy. to eventually dismantle dismantle the society that will tolerate him. Do you see that? That's the point here. And then if you were to look at all of those other names in the Hebrew, you will see that they are trying to describe people that upset the social order. Now we see other Proverbs about the Nabal. Proverbs chapter 17, verse 21. He who begets a scoffer does so to his sorrow, and the father of a fool has no joy. This proverb implicitly admonishes the disciple to be neither encouragable nor insensible to God and humanity. in order to avoid bringing unmitigated palpable pain to his parents. When the Dabal acts, there are consequences Not just for the community at large, but especially for the parents when they see all of the destruction their child is doing That's a part of this. That's the Nabal. If you asked the question and were to read through the Proverbs and the rest of the scriptures, tracing out the contours of the Nabal And then asking the question, why would parents have pain? Why would it be palpable? And the answer would be this: because the Nabal or the fool will use whatever powers he has to destroy the family. The Naval will use whatever powers he or she has to destroy the larger community for personal gain. And godless comfort. That's the Nabal. That is what's in their heart, and that is how they operate. I wonder if you can think of destructive people like that. Like every two-year-old in the world. Folly is bound up in the heart of the child, and they need to be trained out of it by the Spirit But what we see here, and what the conclusion that we can draw when we look at Proverbs to better understand that of all Ties intimately to what's going on in the main doctrine this morning. If the church abuses her power, she becomes like a Nabal. Do you see that? That's what's going on. If Christians abuse their power, they become like fools, like that. A fool who uses power to destroy home, church, and community for personal and godless gain. This, my friends, is something we must really grasp on to. Do you have any idea how much power you have as a Western Christian in the United States? Do you have any idea how much destruction and damage you can do to home and community with the power that you have? Well, we learn a lot about that from Proverbs and the word Nabal. Now, I don't want to just look at the foot at the negative side of this. We get it. We shouldn't be foolish as a church. I want to look at the positive side of this. We don't want to canonize, but what do we want to do? We know what we are supposed to take off, but what are we supposed to put on? And here comes the second application, which is positive instruction. The question that we should be asking at this point is: what is the positive wisdom that the church must exercise? How should she use her power, or should she have any? Those are great questions. And an easy way to answer that and stay within our Proverbs framework is to ask: what is the opposite of the fool or the Nabal in Proverbs? Is there another character that counterbalances him, that is anti-him? And the answer, if you were to study the scriptures, is this word, the humble. The opposite of the ball or the fool, understood in the context of Proverbs, and being social and living in social relationships, is the humble. Listen to this from Proverbs chapter 3, 34 through 35. Surely he scorns the scornful, but gives grace to the humble. The scornful is um a kind of that fool, that Nabal. But gives grace to the humble. See that opposition there? And then with through poetic parallelism, we're going to have now The wise shall inherit glory. That means that that humble person, they're the one that's going to inherit glory. But shame shall be the legacy of fools. So you have scornful fool Who's going to just inherit shame, and then you have the humble wise who will inherit glory That's the way that the moral universe is set up. And that's the opposite to the Nabal: the church, if we are to act positively in the world, we must have a posture of humility. We are to be the humble, glorious ones. Now I'm sure you recognize that from James. But the point is for you to recognize the opposites. The opposite to scornful and the fool is the humble. And so then the main question becomes for you this morning as a Christian and as a church. Is how do the humble use power? That's the main question. And I'm already framing it a certain way to answer the question: do the humble have power? And I'm saying, yeah, they do. They inherit glory. That's a lot of power. So if we have power, how are we supposed to use it in humility? If you study the Proverbs, you will find that the humble continue to be the opposite of the Nabal in exactly how they use their power. The humble use their power with reference to God and the good of their various communities. That's where all of their energy works toward. Now, I want you to get this right. I want you to listen very closely, because you are a modern Christian. Do not fall into the trap of misunderstanding what being humble is. Humility is not the absence of power. Humility is not stripping yourself of all power. Humility is the use of power with reference to God and his purposes for his creation. We do not lose our power. We do not abuse our power. We use our power. That is why the legacy of the humble is glory in our Proverbs. The Nabal uses his power to destroy the community. His legacy, then, is hatred and resentment from the community. If you have someone living in your midst and all they do is bring metaphorically a kind of disease and pestilence to your life. you begin to well up with resentment and hatred towards those people, and they are the shame of the community. And that's been evolved. But that is not the reaction of the good, spirit-filled community toward the one who is the humble wise. Because the humble wise uses all of their abilities and talents and powers For the sake of the glory of God and the love of their neighbor. To lose that strong rod of the community is a great day of grief because they were your continual benefactor. It was the way by which God blessed your community was through this person and their powers And that is why their end is glory and not shame. That is their legacy of the humble. The legacy of the humble is glory and actual great social esteem in a good community filled with the Spirit. Now, I want to give you a New Testament example about this power business and using it positively as the humble Consider, for example, Acts chapter 1, verse 8. This should be a swing with a baseball bat that knocks out of the park the idea that we are supposed to just shed any power we have as Christians. Consider the power given to the church from above, for example. Acts chapter 1, verse 8. But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. And you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. Now, of course, this is first and foremost the power for the apostles to preach and to do wonders. But the Spirit is sent to the whole church and gives her power analogous to the power given to those apostles. The power of faith to believe, the power of hope, the power to love God and neighbor The power of gifts for use in the family, the church, and civic society, the power that comes from the resources which are poured out on us in all the various things that we own. As Christians and as the church, we are not called to give up the power from above. How could we do that? God's intent from the beginning was to give us power. Do you not remember Genesis? I have given you dominion. And under Christ we are to exercise that power, teaching the whole world to obey and baptizing in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Our dominion is to use the power to honor and glorify him and his purposes for the created order. Now here's a major question for you to consider. What are all of the abilities and the powers that God has given to you? And I want you to think about this broadly. I don't want you getting lost in the etymology and the Greek word for power and all that, like we like to do. I just want you to think of it broadly. What are all of the powers and the abilities that God has given to you? Think about it as broadly as you can. And I want you to imagine those powers and abilities to be like soldiers You know how Gideon had 300 men in his army? If all of your powers and abilities were soldiers, how big would your army be? I bet you if we spent some time together we could get at least 300 in your army. Because I'm counting lawnmowers, your wealth, the way you look, the sound of your voice, some of you are charming, some of you are not. But that charm can be a power. Wealth, property, talents, experience. Physical stature. Have you ever been around somebody and they just command your obedience just with the way that they look? You're tempted to make them your Lord? Physical looks, the way you think, that can be a power that you exercise over people Your personality, your family heritage, all of those things are blessings from above All of those things exercise influence. All of those and more are gifts of the kind of the ability and power that I'm talking about here, and they could easily be enumerated out into you having 300 soldiers And the question then becomes for you, since you are now in the place of Gideon, is what are you doing with the power? What are you doing with all those soldiers? You've already resurrected or brought up or evoked The passage of James, when James is having this conversation with his con his congregation, he has to ask the question and make the assertion: are you not using your power for selfish ambition? Is that not why there are fights among you? So let me ask you, are you using your powers for selfish ambition? I've been reflecting on this sermon for longer than you. So during my time of the confession of sin, I had a lot to confess about how I used my power Especially with the power I have over my children and the words I use with them. I can have venomous speech and a tongue like a knife. Especially when I'm not feeling well. Someone asked me when I you know I've been sick. If you don't know, here's the announcement: I was sick. Now I'm better. Somebody asked me, what are your symptoms? I sat a sharp tongue with my wife and children. That's what happens to me when I get my man cold. Or whatever I get. If I get COVID, that's the ultimate man cold. But the symptom was a sharp tongue with my wife and my children. That's how I was using my power. What was my selfish ambition in using my tongue like that with my wife and my children? Leave me alone. Just do what I say so I'm never uncomfortable at any moment. I'm already uncomfortable enough. That's what I'm doing Now I could sign that up for you and say, I'm keeping a well-ordered house. But you know that's not true. That's not what's in my heart What about you? Men, let me bring something up to you. I talked about my tongue, and women, we can talk another time about all the ways But, men, do you know that you are gifted with physical stature? That you are typically and usually stronger than the women around you? That your voices are deeper and more threatening. Do you know that when you pull your shoulders back and confront women and children this way, when you want something done, that that is the demonstration of a kind of power? I want to know how do you use the power of your male presence, with women and children specifically? Do you use the power of your male presence to serve yourself to where you can just get whatever you want? Doesn't matter what arguments she has, you can always just, even in body language, tell her to just shut up. Do you dominate for the sake of humiliation? Brad was right to bring up to us the positive form of the sixth commandment. Do you know why God has given you, as a man, the physical stature and strength and deepness of voice that you have? For protection and life. For protection and life Now, men and women, how do you use your powers in the family? Are the children just getting in the way of your ambitions? Children, are you trying to treat your parents like they're your personal servants? Yes, you are Stop using all your little children powers to get them to do that. How were you supposed to be using your powers as a child? How does the church benefit from your powers? What about your neighbors and your neighborhood more broadly? The main question that we're considering is this: Do you use your power like a Nabal or like the humble wise who is the bride of Christ? That's the beautiful vision. This morning we are discovering another symptom. One symptom of the worldliness of Christians is their abuse of power. Is it not, my brother? I'm telling you here this morning that that is not our calling. That Jesus Christ has called you to something far greater than the abuse of power. That's what the Gentiles do, that's what Jesus says. By the power of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, we are given power not for abuse, but to use for his glory and the good of our neighbors. Let me reread to you what is in your bulletin from John chapter 13, verses 14 through 16, so you have an image of the humble wise. If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. Most assuredly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is he who is sent greater than he who sends him. In Christ and by the Spirit, let it be our prayer and our resolution to use our power like the Lord uses his power. Let us pray