Matthew today as we're continuing through the study of God's Word as it has been recorded by Matthew, and today we're up to uh a somewhat difficult passage One that uh is very solemn, but also two which we need to understand is all rooted and tied to the fact of our Lord's incarnation and what he came into this earth to do. do picking up in Matthew twenty one, verse um eighteen, reading down through verse twenty seven And in the morning, as he returned to the city, he was hungry, and seeing a fig tree by the road, he came to it and found nothing on it but leaves, and said to it, Let no fruit grow on you ever again. Immediately the fig tree withered away. And when the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, How did the fig tree wither away so soon? So Jesus answered and said to them, Assuredly, I say to you If you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what was done to this fig tree, but also if you say to this mountain Be removed and be cast into the sea, it will be done. And whatever things you ask in prayer, believing, you will receive. Now when he came into the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people confronted him as he was teaching and said, By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority? But Jesus answered and said to them, I also will ask you one thing, which if you tell me, I likewise will tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John, where was it from? From heaven or from man? And they reasoned among themselves, saying, If we say from heaven, he will say to us, Why then did you not believe him? But if we say from men, we fear the multitude, for all count John as a prophet. So they answered Jesus and said, We do not know. And he said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. The Pharisees show us that political cowardice is of ancient origin Sometimes people do stuff which really surprises us. We say, I never thought I would live to see the day when And such and such a person did that. Sometimes people do stuff that just doesn't fit in the box in which we have placed them. And it it could be you know, good or bad, or just something different. But it catches us off guard simply for the reason that we never expected it. I evidently did something like that at a session meeting recently We were discussing something. I said something, I forget what, and Mark Donovan was sitting right next to me, and he held out his fist in order to have his fist bumped From Jesse and Jeremiah's reaction, you would have thought I just won the Nobel Peace Prize or something. They they just were astonished that Arch would actually do a physical I haven't a clue to this very day what is so surprising about that, but evidently they did. The point of it is it's something they didn't expect to come from me. I hope there's no hidden meaning in this box. If it is, I'm completely ignorant. I'm safe. Okay, good. Sometimes it's not so joyful. Sometimes a person falls into deep sin And we're just so grieved because we never expected that person to do that. Or maybe it's when a person who is normally so mild-manded suddenly gets very angry We never expected they would act that way. The point is this. Sometimes people can be very surprising in what they do. Now, Jesus in this passage does something that's Surprises us. He curses a fig tree. He curses it and it dies right there on the spot. Do you believe that? Do you? Do you believe that? Surprising, isn't it? Why did he do that? He was hungry and it didn't have any figs on it. And he cursed it and he killed it. It withers away. It dries up right there on the spot. Now that's not consistent with the image we've built up in our mind of this meek and mild, beautiful little baby born in a manger when we sing about it and say, No crying he makes This doesn't sound like the Christ who would not break a bruised reed or snuff out a flickering candle. This thing surprises us. So what should we make of it? The fact that it surprises us tells us more about us than it does about Jesus. This is the same Jesus, remember, who had just chased off all of those people who were defiling the temple courts in Jerusalem. Now those events are all these events are all related, as I mentioned to you last week Everything started with chapter twenty one right up to the resurrection from the dead and the ascension are all tied together. They're one big, marvelous, acted out metaphor, if you will that has applications both immediately and eternally. Each thing, each action has significance for when it happens But it also has deeper meaning, a meaning that is consistent with what God is revealing in the life of Christ Himself. Remember we spoke of Jesus as Entering into Jerusalem on a donkey, and it was significant in that day because he did come to Jerusalem. It was a fact of life. He came into that city and he came there to die. It was significant in his life that he physically entered that city. But eternally, what he was acting out was that he is the true Messiah, the true Messiah true king of Israel was entering into his holy city. He came in a way that was surprising that people did not expect until they saw it happen. He came riding on a donkey. Being different from the kings of the Gentiles in the way that they come, arrogant and puffed up. No, he came as his kingdom comes. Quietly, meekly, identifying with his people. But then immediately he goes to the temple and he cleanses it. Now it was significant in his day that he cleansed the temple that day, chased out all of those money changers and sellers of doves and stuff. It's significant that he did that. It was important that he did that. And not only that, the people obviously knew it's something that ought to be done. Nobody called the police. Nobody said, arrest this guy. Jesus knew what had to be done in that day, and he did it. But there was a Deeper significance of what was going on there. It all ties together with him coming into his kingdom. He comes into his kingdom, and the first thing he does is purify his church. That's what we spoke about last week. That's the way Christ comes. He comes and then he immediately acts to judge the world and he begins with his church. He cleansed his church of all that defiles it. God's people must have their sin dealt with. God's people must be cleaned up before God can dwell with them. And Jesus has entered into his holy temple in heaven. From there he shall come to judge the quick and the dead And that judgment begins with his church. And this is all we talked about last week. Now what we need to see is that what's happening in the passage today is part of that same surprising message. It's not just a random event. It is connected to the total message of our Lord's life and what he is revealing to us. And it tells us something about what we ought to know about So the next thing that we should consider, I think, is what this event meant to the people then, to those disciples who saw it. Under this heading, I want us to talk about first the importance of the fig tree itself. Fig trees were very important in Jesus' day. the ancient Middle East. They were a staple of diet. They were one, along with the uh fruit trees, they were one of the fruit trees that were very first to be domesticated there. And they grew oftentimes with the grapes. The grapes would be planted with them and the grapevines would entwine. So you could hear in scripture of how a man would sit under his vine and They were important personally and commercially. The entire fig crop, if it was devastated, if if a plague came on the country, or if an enemy came in and destroyed the fig uh plants it was devastating. It took years to recover because fig trees take a long time to where they first start producing fruit The other thing we need to realize when we face this particular passage is that not all fig trees are equal. Some just don't produce. In Luke's gospel, we read the story of a man who planted a fig tree, and then he comes back to it after years when it's supposed to be To be bearing fruit that doesn't have any on it. He tells, okay, let's cut this thing down because it is not producing fruit. It's one of those. And you all know the story how the per the The keeper, the servant says, Oh Lord, you know, hang off to it a little bit. Don't don't cut it down right. Let me let me minister to it a little bit more, let me uh work with it. And now you come back in another year if it still doesn't have any fruit on it, we'll cut it down and throw it in the fire then. The point is this. When a fig tree doesn't bear fruit, what do you do with it? You cut it down and burn it. And There are fig trees that don't bear fruit. Jesus here was not necessarily angry with this fruit tree. We must not think of him being petty. Oh, I'm hungry. You didn't bring me any fruit. I'm gonna nail you. Really, I think he was pretty calm. He was simply doing just like he did with the temple, what the then the uh the uh keeper of the of the um uh garden was supposed to do cut down a tree That is not bearing fruit. He was, in effect, doing that. He was getting rid of a useless plant. And instead of cutting it down, he cursed it. it died. But there's more to this story than that, isn't there? This is there's more to this than just saying, look at Jesus. He has the power to lift up and he has the power to cast down. Now that's a perfectly valid Application. But that's not what this carefully staged series of events is leading us. So next let's look at what this plant Represents. And this plant represents the nation of Israel. Israel As it was formed in space and time, it was the precious fig tree in God's garden. It had been planted with the seed of Abraham. Isaac and Jacob. It had been protected for centuries. Even when it sinned and offended God in so many ways, yet God still sent his healing reins upon it. And gave it sun and allowed it to grow. The nation of Israel is God's fig tree, was special to God. It was beloved by God. It was nurtured by God. But it was always intended to bear fruit. It was to be God's witness to the world that those People were to be a special people, a nation of priests who would take the word that God had given them, and they would take it into the whole world, and from whence would they take it Their Messiah would come, he would come into his city, he would come to Mount Zion, and there would become the religious center. From there to there, the Gentiles from all the corners of the earth would stream so that the nations would learn the ways of God, the truth of God, and the great grace of God. God. That was the fruit that Israel, God's fig tree, was supposed to bear. The time was right. The fig tree had Had leafed out. That indicated that it ought to have fruit on it. The Messiah had come. It was the time of the harvest. The vineyard owner had come to his own trees. seeking fruit. He was looking for a people who were prepared for his arrival. He was looking for those who were repenting of their sins. He was looking for those who were anxiously longing for their Messiah, people who were by their very lies and by their heart the fruit of God's nurturing grace. Throughout the centuries, Israel was God's fig tree. And Jesus' action here is directed towards this tree With that in mind. This is what Jesus was telling us about what he came to do and what he would do. in the future. You see, he came into his holy city. He came seeking fruit from his tree, and finding none, he would speak the word And that particular fig tree, the nation of Israel, would wither and die. They would lose their place as a nation. They would lose their place as a special people in God's garden, and they would be replaced by another nation, another people who would bear fruit through the power of the Holy Spirit until the end. That God had designed. In 70 A. D. , Jesus spoke that word. And that fig tree. Withered and died. This was about what Jesus came to do. The temple was destroyed. The city was sacked. Later on, about fifty years later, the the country would be in current would the city would be entirely leveled And to this day, the Jewish race no longer has a special place in God's kingdom. They are preserved as an ethnic race, as Roman teaches us, because But the honor of being God's fig tree That has been given to God's visible church. A new creature has been created, and a new temple to the living God has been created Been established. Brothers and sisters, as we ponder this baby born in a manger during that first Christmas season, as we think of him receiving the praise of shepherds and the gifts of kings from the east, we need to keep this in mind. This is the baby who grew up to be this king. This is the owner of the whole vineyard This is the heir of all creation. Heaven and earth were established to be his throne room. This baby came into this world for the purpose of seeking fruit from his vineyard. And this baby is the one who judged his fig tree. and found it lacking in fruit. Now we need to love this child and we need to bow to this child and we need to worship this child But let us remember with whom we are dealing. This is our King. This is our Savior. It is through Him that grace and peace came into this world. Possibility of grace and peace. But he is also our judge. And he is as terrible in his judgment. As he is magnificent in his grace. As we think about that, we see what Jesus is revealing about himself. This acted out parable of causing the fig tree to wither. But then we must move right on to what he says to the disciples, and here what I want us to consider. is the power that our king leaves with his people. Now let's put ourselves in mind of what's going on here. They're outside the city. They're going up to the city. And Jesus is standing there with that withered fig tree, and behind him looms Jerusalem with its temple. Another word for Jerusalem is Mount Zion. It is often called the Mount of God, the whole city. And it was there in the sight of that magnificent city, along with its temple. And the beautiful walls, the formidable military defense that was there, so strong that even the strongest army, even the Romans, when they came to uh conquer this city City. They had to pause and figure out how they were going to take this city because it was so uh uh well defended by its walls. It was situated on And that made it even more impressive as those disciples are looking up perhaps through Jesus as he's saying these words and they're seeing Mount Zion behind them. It was in that scenario that Jesus speaks these words. Assuredly, I say to you If you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what I did with this fig tree, but also if you say to this mountain Be removed and be cast into the sea, it will be done. And whatever you ask in prayer Believing you will receive. Can you imagine their response? You gotta be kidding me. Those walls? That city? Tossed into a tossed into the sea If we ask God in the name of Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, if we ask God, in his name believing It will be done. The disciples were amazed at Jesus' cursing of the fig tree. How do you think they were when they received these words? Do you think they had any trouble believing them? Do we have trouble believing what Jesus is here saying? See that's all part of Jesus Jesus' purposes in this entire episode. Jesus is here. Listen carefully to this. Jesus is here telling his disciples. That when the enemies of God seemed to pose insurmountable obstacles to the kingdom of God here on earth When they pose threats to the very people of God, then the prayers of God's people, when offered in faith Will prove to be effective to the tearing down of walls, the removing of obstacles, and to the judgment of those powers and principalities that are behind those walls. He promises power in prayer to God's people. But power in prayer Directed towards the context in which these words were spoken. I've told many people the story of a prayer meeting held at Julie Soltis's house. No, it wasn't. It was at uh Randy Bibby's house. Uh we had a prayer meeting over there one night when we first started the church. And the lady in our congregation was a a uh She was she cleaned houses for uh her living, and many of you know who I'm talking about. And uh we were praying and she was a passionate prayer. She finished up her prayer. prayer saying, and Lord you know that I need a car. I I have to have a car, my car is broken down, and for me to get to the jobs that I have to do in order to produce uh income, I've got to have a car Lord God, please give me a car. And by the way, would you make it a red one? Remember that? Now I ain't saying here that if we believe we're gonna get a red car, God's gonna give us a red car She got it. She got her red car. But the point is, that's not necessarily the types of prayers that hear There's a contextual idea here. The prayers are the face of a persecuted church standing for the witness of God against the against powerful enemies who are threatening to kill them and who may very well kill them. Yet that prayer will be answered. It took forty more years before Jerusalem was cast into the sea. And there was much suffering that went on in that interval. But God did not forget the prayers of Jerusalem. The mountain of which Jesus spoke was Mount Zion, the city of God. And that city had not only become a city of thieves and robbers It had become the capital of a rebel army. It was filled with insurrectionaries. It was filled with people who not only did not love God. as their God and King. It was filled with people who hated God as he presented himself in the scriptures, as he consistently reminded them of who he was. And who hated the Son, whom God has sent, who was their rightful king. They were rebellious children who arrogantly claimed for themselves the right to construct a God of their own choosing and to call him Yahweh The city was physically beautiful, but what it represented was the first Threat to the church Jesus was founding. It was from this city and the people who were tied to it that the disciples would be evicted They would be driven from this city. They would be hunted down as they went from city to city. And wherever Paul went in the Gentile world, this city would send ambassadors to try to undermine the work that he was doing. This city, Paul tells us in Galatians, would no longer be called the spiritual Sarah, the true wife of Abraham. Rather, it would be called the spiritual Hagar, the bondwoman, the woman who sought to replace Sarah as the rightful source. Of God's, of Abraham's family. The city now represented the enemies of God and of Christ in its day, and it was controlled by powers and principalities. Of this world. It was controlled by the forces of Satan rather than the forces of God. And what Jesus is saying here to his disciples in his church. is that on the day when the forces of Satan, the forces of the earthly city that Revelation calls Babylon, when they arise in space and time and they grow to be powerful and they seek to destroy what Jesus himself has created, then the true people of God must begin to feel the darts that come from these powers They must begin to experience the pain and suffering that these powers, these towers, these fortresses can inflict upon them. And then God's people must remember the power Which they have been given. No force on earth can resist the power of this king who caused a fig tree to wither and die at his very word. No king, no president, no sword-wielding murderer in a murderous caliphate can long Long endure when the people of God turn back to their God in true belief and humble repentance and beg of him to curse those mountains and be cast into the sea. Brothers and sisters, have you ever stopped to consider that Christmas means that our King has come into this world? He has come to save this world. And he's come to save this world by building up an army, a nation, a priesthood, to replace the old nation which had not born from And it is his intention to save the world by bringing down the powers of Satan wherever they are displayed. Jesus defeated Satan. Satan in the desert. Matthew tells us that. He defeated him in his constant warfare against him throughout his life. He defeated him when Satan tried to steal to sift off of his disciples as wheat. He defeated him preeminently on the cross and in the resurrection, where he stripped Satan of his ultimate power, the power of death. Jesus came into the world to Defeat Satan, and he did it in that decisive battle. And now Jesus intends that the remaining power that Satan is able to exist and uh to demonstrate in this world be defeated also. And it is Jesus' intent that his people carry on that war against Satan Retreating army. It is Jesus' intent that they wage war against the principal powers and principalities of the air, and that they fight not with earthly weapons but with spiritual ones At the top of the list, Jesus came into this world to give his people the power of victorious prayer. To have them pray, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven, and mean it. To pray this prayer specifically, Lord God, Thy kingdom Has not yet come to Millersville. It has not come to the streets of Baltimore as it ought to Lord, let thy kingdom come. Tear down the mountain of evil, which holds so many people around and about us in its power. Bring peace to our cities. Bring peace to our streets. Lord God, across this world, there are people, evil people, who are killing your children They're holding your ministers in stinking prisons and subjecting them to terrible torture. Lord God, your kingdom come. Tear down the mountain of evil that is threatening to bring this whole world into conflict. And keep them out of our streets and out of our towns and out of our schools Schools and out of our theaters. Lord God, your church It was meant to be a fruitful fig tree, but it has been attacked and subverted from its church from its task. It's been subjected to false teachings. It has been given false leaders. And there are wolves among it dressed as sheep. Lord God, let your kingdom Him come. Judge your church and purify it. Come into its precincts and chase out all of those who would bring shame. and dishonor to your name. Now do it. Do it now, Lord. Before that awful day when you come in your glory, when you do it Brothers and sisters, do you see that Jesus came in order to leave his church? To leave us? With the power of victorious prayer. It is to be our first defense against the evil that surrounds us. It is to be the first weapon to which we turn. When it is time to batter down the gates of Hades, as Jesus promised his church would do. The question only remains Is this? Do we believe it? As we gather for Christmas celebration this year, ought we not to consider where we stand as individuals? Individualism as a church. What do we have in common with God's first fig tree? The nation of Israel? Are we sure Or are we bearing fruit, repenting of our sins and embracing our Lord and King who came into us royalty Are we praying in accordance with that by hating evil and longing for righteousness? Brothers and sisters, apart from those things, are we any really any different from these Pharisees that we see at the end of this passage? Trying to trip Up Jesus so that they can do their own thing. It is time for us to be about our Lord's business. He was born, he lived, and died to establish his kingdom. All eternity, all heaven and earth await us. It is because of what he did. It is ours because of what he did. And all that he asked of us now is to remember the rock from which we were hewn, to remember who we are, to turn our hearts away Our minds to his business, and first and foremost, give ourselves over to prayer in the pursuit of God's kingdom. and its goals. Would that not be an appropriate way to celebrate our Lord's praise? Let's pray.