First Timothy two. Therefore I exhort first of all, exhort first of all, that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. For kings and all who are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and reverence For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all. to be testified in due time, for which I was appointed a preacher and an apostle. I am speaking the truth in Christ, not lying, a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth. Let us pray. Oh Christ, it is gracious of you that you have planned out Your plan of salvation in a way where we sometimes may participate with you. That is the case here with the preached word But nevertheless, Lord, we ask that you would be our teacher, and that you would do so by your Holy Spirit. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, we officially have another repetitive statement as the doctrine of a sermon series. In the past, we would say another symptom of the canonization of the church is, but now, I hope that you remember what the new statement is The new repetition that goes from week to week is a healthy church is made up of dot dot dot. Now, last week we learned that a healthy church is made up of healthy soldiers. And we asked the question: how is it that one, what are some basic ways that a soldier of Christ remains healthy? Well, there are two main ways. You would keep up your faith in him, and you would keep a good conscience. Let's make some observations this morning about this first section in chapter 2. As we move into eventually another doctrine that has to do with what the healthy church looks like. The first thing I want you to notice is in verse number one. You can see why there's all this talk about prayer today. Paul instructs Timothy to make sure that the whole church prioritizes prayer. He says, first of all, make sure you're praying. Well, he actually gives Several different kinds of words for prayer. He says supplications, prayers, intercessions, and the giving of thanks that they would be made for all kinds of people. We should lift up our voices, he says, to God for all people, but he ends up really zeroing in on a certain group of people. Did you notice that? He has kind of a broad view, all kinds of people, and then he narrows in like a video camera, zooming in on a particular spot, and he mentions kings and all those who are in authority. Now, why do you think Paul is emphasizing government leaders? He tells us in verse 2 the answer to that question. He tells us the reason why we would pray for those kinds of people, in addition to all of the other kinds of people, and you want to think of ethnicities here, all the different kinds of ethnicities you would want to pray for, or nations. That's the theme that's been going for our bulletin. The reason is that we would pray for those who are in authority and for kings in order that the church may continue to lead a quiet and peaceable life. In all godliness and reverence. That's the reason that he gives. Now, to understand that, I want you to think about Your vocations. We talk about your vocations a lot around here as a way for us to neatly understand our lives. God calls us to Himself to serve Him in the holiness of our families. Our church and our state, and serving God in those areas can become exhausting. And they can become even more difficult than you would imagine, depending on the posture of those who have the power to mold and shape everyday life through law and the enforcement of law I want you to think of, for example, the very simple aspect of our lives in the vocation of starting a family. Do you know how much more difficult that was for the Hebrews when Pharaoh said, kill all the firstborn males, or kill all the males? How much more difficult it became To be a father and a mother during that time. And so you would want to pray for Pharaoh that he would come to his senses. That's the point same point here that Paul is making Paul wants us to pray for kings and those who are in authority in particular because of the peace and the practices of the church. Now, as another example, besides Pharaoh, consider Paul himself. We remember, even in this passage, in verse number 7, that Paul's calling was to bring good news to the Gentiles. He accomplished that mission in part. Think about this. Think about the details of his ministry. He accomplished his ministry in part by the orderly government of the Roman Empire. They often provided legal recourse for Paul, for example. If you don't want to even think about legal recourse, just think about the everyday happenings of life in Rome, and how those happenings could not happen if there were not order in Rome. Does everybody here know how Paul Call largely got from city to city besides walking? It was through ships Now, how are you going to have an ordered shipping industry that you could trust where you're not in fear of being overtaken by pirates in your boat unless there is some kind of law and enforcement of law by an order and in this case by the Roman Empire that sustains that order. The church can do its work under persecution. Well, that's been proven. The church can do its work by the grace of God under persecution and in the midst of disorder. They can do their work in the midst of disordered rulers. But it makes it way more difficult. And so Paul prays that we would pray, that the church would pray. For kings and all those in authority, that the church would be able to do her job. That he'd be able to do his job in this particular circumstance. And so Paul wants the church to pray that those in authority would fulfill their stewardship under Jesus Christ, as detailed in Romans chapter 13. You're welcome to look at that chapter as to what is required of governors. Now that is the practical reason for prayer. But there is also a theological reason, and this brings us to our second observation of the passage. You have a practical reason that we are to pray And to whom we're to or who we're supposed to pray for, or for whom we're supposed to pray. And now we have a theological reason in the second observation. He says that we are to pray for all kinds of people. Now, that should be a cue to you to understanding what the theological reason is going to be. The church should pray for all kinds of people, all different kinds of nations, and here's the reason in verse 4. Because God desires All nations to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth. That's the theological underwriting In his instructions to Timothy. In fact, if you look at verse 5 to just keep playing out the story here, Christ Jesus gave himself, notice the emphasis here in these passages, In verse number five, that Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom, now it doesn't stop there. There's another emphasis on for all. That is the point. And he's pointing to all of these different nations to which the good news is going. And that Christ Jesus gave himself a ransom for all kinds of people so that they might be saved. And then you see it reiterated again in verse 7, when Paul tells you what his appointment and commission is in the world, and it is not just to the Jews. It is to the Gentiles. Now what's a Gentile? A Gentile is a non-Jew. A Gentile is every other nation. And that is his point. And so what we end up having here in these first seven verses in chapter two of Timothy is a doctrine that emerges. A doctrine that carries forth from era to era, and it is this: a healthy church prays for all kinds of people. Now children, I hope you can especially write that down. That's a shorter sentence. I'm trying to get them shorter because you told me sometimes they're too long. A healthy church prays for all kinds of people. And we're going to talk about that under two main parts: the plan of prayer and the attitude of prayer. The plan of prayer and the attitude of prayer. A healthy church prays for all kinds of people The plan of prayer and the attitude of prayer. Alright, well, let's begin with the plan of prayer. A few weeks ago, we witnessed a problem for Timothy. He had to face a group of people, though he suffered perhaps from some timidity. Paul instructed him to face a group of people who used the law unlawfully. Timothy's opponents, in other words, as we explained, did not know the place of law within the plan of God. So we made a notice that we better make sure, as Christians, that we always know the place of God's things and his plans. Knowing if the place and the purpose of something within the plan of God actually could also be talked about as wisdom. It's in part what wisdom is. And this is similar to wisdom as we would discover wisdom in other subject matters outside of the scriptures. Think of a naturalist, for example, who studies the Chesapeake Bay and her tributaries and watersheds. Over time, they see how each organism within the Chesapeake Bay ecosystem fits and how it interrelates. They notice the place of oyster shoals and other bivalves within this system. They observe the role of seagrasses and how the drop of the proliferation of seagrasses in the Maggothee, for example, have affected the soft crab population, one of my great griefs in my life. Well, in a similar way, Christians over time grow in wisdom as they see how all the pieces of God's plan fit together in the ecosystem of his salvation. Now, last time when we talked about things this way, we noted there are three places that the law belongs in our lives. I'm not going to go into those three places. We just talked about the three uses of the law together to see where does the law, how is the law used lawfully Well, keeping in that same mode of thought, here is the great realization this morning. That in the same way that the law has a place In the same way that oyster shoals and seagrass have a place within total ecosystems, so too does prayer. Prayer is one practice in the ecosystem of God's plan. Prayer is a part of how God performs his plan. Do you know in large part how we keep clean water in the Chesapeake Bay? It is through bivalves and how they filter the water if we had enough of them Then the bay would always be renewed. Do you know how God brings restoration and refreshment in his kingdom? In part through prayer. That's how it fits. Now, relate this to your callings for a moment. We acknowledged last week that Timothy was ordained or called into the ministry as a soldier And we inferred that we are called as soldiers too. We are not ordained in the same way that Timothy is, but we all have work to do, and in that work we are like soldiers sometimes And therefore, we take up our posts and we give honor to our chief commander, who is Christ. Well, we do so in the family, and we do so in the church, and we do so in the civic sphere Now let me ask you, I have noticed that the vocation thing has really caught on around here. People take very seriously the various callings that Jesus Christ Has given to them. I really hardly need to even talk about it anymore. You take it so seriously. It has become a part of your own hearts. But let me ask you, why do you take your vocation seriously? For many reasons, undoubtedly, but one reason is that we believe that God uses our good works In those vocations to bring his kingdom to earth as it is in heaven. We understand our role and our callings within the total ecosystem of his plan, and we have seen how it makes sense. More is needed for the kingdom of God to be present in its fullness than our vocations, but not less we have discovered If we truly care about God's created order, we will work hard in the power of the Spirit, endeavoring to live as becomes a follower of Jesus Christ, as mothers and fathers, and grandmothers, and grandfathers. And as widows, whatever station God has placed us in within His providence, we take up our holy callings with the hope of the redemption of this created order. And no matter what you're doing, even if you're just making some sourdough bread that day, it takes on an eternal significance. Because it's all being collected and gathered up by Christ Himself as He renews the world. What a beautiful picture. And that's our vocations. And in a similar way, what we are to learn this morning is that God not only works through our vocations. But he works through your prayer. And so here, this is the inference that you have got to you've got to Or the actually let's say the the pursuit, the endeavor that you must have is in the same way that you take your stations in life seriously, you must also likewise take prayer seriously. If you take the work of your hands seriously, you must take the work of your prayers seriously. Because they are both underwritten and undergirded by the same power and promise. It is the power and the promises of God who said, I will work through these means. I will work through the sweat of your brow, and I will work while you are on your knees bedside praying for your neighbor. That is prayer within the plan. In fact, prayer is one means that God has graciously granted to you so that you may actually make progress. in your family, in your church, and in your nation. One fault that you may have buried deep within your own chest is that you could do those things on your own strength. But by the progressive sanctification of the Spirit over time, when our youth is long spent, we start to realize in humility That we are dependent upon God. And we pray as we should. And I would encourage you to have that maturity before you're mature. in that way. Use let your youth move into old age in that sense. And that is the plan for prayer. In each of our vocations, we now have the freedom and the actual invitation. God Himself has invited you to come and talk to Him as your Father. And you have the freedom to bring all your holy desires to God, who is now our Father through Jesus Christ and His Spirit. And as a father, this is so important that we think of him as our father. As a father, he is ready. And willing to hear what you have to say? What are the things that are on your hearts? What are the concerns that you have? He is ready to hear you and he is actually able to help. And he's actually more than able to help. He is willing to help And that, my friends, is a great doubt that is often among us. We are ready to claim All of the doctrines of theology, but we know lurking in our hearts that we have very little faith that God actually cares what we have to say to Him. And you're going to have to go back off to the sermon from last week where you would start to pay attention to that problem that you just realized about yourself. Talk to a Christian that you respect and that you know is healthy. And we need to start working on our faith in God. as a soldier, so that we can believe again that God actually wants you to come to him just as a father would want their child to come to them. But even more so. Even more so. He is able and he is willing to help. Now here are some questions for you. I wonder, is it time for you to give prayer the place it deserves in the plan of God? And I wonder what the obstacles are that are keeping you from it. Joe mentioned a few. Perhaps we could have some conversation about that. As parents, I want you to think of all parents, grandparents. As parents or grandparents, I want you to think of all of the work that you do for your families. And I just want you to ask: is prayer among those works? Prayer is a good work. As members of the church and all of the different roles that you have, does prayer have a place Christian, for encouragement, I wonder if you have recently taken notice of all of the prayer among the people of God within the scriptures. Have you seen pastors pray in the scriptures and the results? Think of the prayers of Paul for the congregations across the Mediterranean Sea Have you seen prayers for those who are just at their day job? People working, doing farming in the field? And then the owner of the farm decides to keep their wages and not pay them. And it's going on and on, and they're not able to put bread on the table any longer. And those Christian workers raise their voices to God. This is in James They raise their voices to God, and they are assured by James that God hears them, and at the right season he will avenge them. And he warns the rich that he will catch them in all their greed. What about prayers of the church? Oh, I would encourage you even today to take a look at Acts chapter 4 Look at Acts chapter 4 and the way that that church got together and prayed and how God immediately responded with an earthquake. boldness to preach the word of God and the conversion and repentance of sinners to salvation. Or what about the prayer of families? Think of moms and the scriptures like Hannah praying, Mary praying, Anna the prophetess praying. Think of the widows and their prayers. Ruth starting off bitter, but then seeing even beyond her prayers. Fulfilled Elijah's prayer for the widow in 1 Kings 17. And how many other listings could we give of the saints who are commended to us? And how prayer fits within the ecosystem of their lives. May we have a place for prayer Now, we must not only see the place of prayer within the plan of God, that's just the first point. We also need to embrace the perspective that prayer gives to us when we do pray for all kinds of people. And that brings us to our second main application: the perspective of prayer. The perspective of prayer is the constant posture which prayer gives you toward the world at the least. The perspective of prayer is the constant posture which prayer gives you toward the world. It is the way to keep your heart in line. And the plans of your heart in line with the plans of God in his heart. As we read in our passage today, prayer for all kinds of people is pleasing to God. How many here have ever wondered, well, I wonder what pleases God? Well, here you have it. Prayer for all kinds of people. Because God brings salvation to all kinds of people, and He wants them to come to a knowledge of the truth, and they will not unless He graciously releases them from the captivity of the devil. Now, I wonder if you notice how similar this passage is that we're looking at right now in Timothy to Titus. We had this, it's a carbon-copy discussion. It's just with the aspect of prayer. In Titus, we are told to relate well to the surrounding world as an imitative act of God the Father. Do you remember this? We are taught to relate well to the world as an imitative act of God the Father. In other words, this is what I mean by that. God brings blessing to the just and the unjust. Do you remember this? He sends his reign on the righteous and the unrighteous. And as his children, we are meant to do the same. We will not make the discrimination. We will not become partial. Because our Father does not, and we follow in his footsteps. And here we see that one way to bring rain upon the dry fields of the lives that are around us is to pray for those people. The very people who are disgusted with you, who are your enemies, who are trying to take away your freedoms. Who, if they could, would use social services to take away your children. And yet here's the thing: every time I go out And I see the rain, I still see God putting rain on that group of people. And that tells you what your role still is within society and within culture. Now I'm speaking generally, I'm not getting into individual cases. But here we see our general posture Is towards the world in this way, and prayer gives us the continued perspective to be able to do that. That's in fact the main point of this particular point. When we do When we pray for them, it shapes by the Holy Spirit and it frames our perspective of those people. It shapes and it frames our perspective that our perspective would be the same perspective that God has. Now, I want to give you a couple examples of this Believe it or not, sometimes I have difficult conversations with the people that are in my life. That actually could be a very large description of the pastor. Difficult conversations. That is a part of my vocation. That is a part of my ordination. Now, here's the interesting thing. When I'm called to have those difficult conversations Sometimes those people don't like what I said. They don't like the difficult conversation. And here is what's even more curious: they get angry with me. And sometimes they say nasty things to me. And sometimes it looks like they want to take a knife to all the tires of my truck. But most of the time, and most of the time, God gives me the strength to overlook all of that stuff that is in my face and to keep on pursuing the good of the person. But sometimes it's a little more complicated than that. Sometimes what people say and do to me hurt. It will be the kind of thing less about me hurting for myself and me more grieving over the choices that they're making. Sometimes it is about myself, and they will get under my skin. Another metaphor is that they would hurt my heart, both for them and for myself. Now here, this happened a little while back, and I happened to be on an elliptical machine when all of these thoughts came rushing in at Planet Fitness And I was trying to work through these issues. My heart presented a few paths for me to pursue. And I wonder if your heart does the same thing. One part of my heart said to me, destroy the person. Punish them. Hate them. Get the congregation to hate them. Egg their house. Those were actual thoughts. Another part of me said, Would you stop being such a baby? Just do your dumb little workout. Here you are, 46 years old on elliptical. Don't take yourself too seriously. Exercise some self-control. And then there was a third part that spoke up. And it said this, why don't you bring your troubles to your father in prayer? And what would happen if you prayed for the person that hurt you Now by God's grace, I took the third path right there on the elliptical without anybody knowing. Because it was in the silence of my own heart. And here's an observation that I would like to share with you. I'm not trying to share with you any psychological tricks. I believe this is all a part of what God has in his plan. My perspective changed on the person. And my perspective on myself started to change. I started again to become concerned for their well-being. I wanted so much good for them. But I knew that I couldn't give it to him because there's so many times, I'd say 99. 9% of the time as a pastor, you don't have any power to make anything effective And so I saw that prayer was the way where their well-being could actually be accomplished because God 100% of the time is effective. I still grieved. I still hurt. But here's another observation that I will give to you. There was no longer any place in my heart for hatred. It was just concern. Now what's interesting is I looked at many ancient commentators and theologians on the passage that we have here. I looked at even uh not just their commentaries but also their sermons just as a regular part of my research for all of this Stuff that we do here on Sunday mornings. And with each of them, they brought out this same aspect about perspective They all said that praying for all kinds of people keeps our perspective of those people in line with the plan of God for those people. Exactly what happened to me on the elliptical. Now do you remember When Peter was in prayer and God showed him a vision at Joppa. Do you remember that story? Because that story is very interconnected with what's going on here within our passage and in our lives. If you remember, a sheet descended from the heavens and it was filled with all kinds of unclean animals. God said to Peter, this is a paraphrase, eat! And Peter said, I would never eat these things. This is unclean. And God rebuked Peter and he said, Don't call unclean things unclean when I have made them clean. Stop contradicting the very plans that I have. Now we all know that this vision was to prepare Peter. to have the right posture toward what he was getting ready to do, which was he was going to be called to Cornelius' house With a God-fearing group of Gentiles, and Jesus Christ was going to send his Holy Spirit to them to have a kind of Gentile Pentecost Wherein everyone could see, both Jew and Gentile, that salvation from Jesus Christ will go to every kind of nation. And he needed to prepare Peter for that because Peter only thought it was for the Jews. So he had to get Peter ready for Cornelius' house. So that Peter could begin to realize, and it would take many lessons after this, so that Peter would begin to realize that whether you are a Jew Or you are a Gentile, all those whom Christ cleanses is clean, or are clean Now, I think this morning that God wants me to give you the same picture. I want us all to be a part of a kind of vision right now where we would see a sheet descend from heaven. And there are all kinds of unclean things in your eyes, unclean, on this sheet On the sheet, there are people who despise you and threaten your personal freedoms and families. Picture them. They're all over social media for you. They're the ones that get your heartbeat raised up. You hate them and they hate you. If they walked into the room, you would begin to vibrate. You resent them. They disgust you. And I want you in this vision to see half, at least half of the sheet, filled with government leaders that meet that description. Because that's what Paul focuses on. Kings and all those who are in authority. And there they are on the sheet And this is similar to what Peter saw. He saw a group of people who lived in ways that made him sick, and he would never have dinner with them. They are the scum of the earth. They are the dogs of civilization. That's what they call them. But here is the thing. Eventually, Peter was confronted by Christ, and he said, If you love me, Peter, you will love my sheep. Well, here's the big surprise. Some of those sheep are the very unclean animals that Peter hated. And Peter, in the maturation of his ministry Would have to learn to pray for even them. The same ones to whom Paul goes, it is the Gentiles. He had to learn to pray for them. Now let me ask you why. Because God is saving all kinds of people. Timothy and his congregation in Ephesus had to learn the same lesson. And we here at Severn Run better take stock and have the same instruction. this morning. And let me ask you, I already sort of warned you without a literal flair, children, what is the main lesson this morning? What is the main doctrine? Everything upon which we hang our hat today. A healthy church praise for all kinds of people. Let us pray.