God's holy word for God's holy people. Now in the morning, having risen a long while before daylight, he went out and departed to a solitary place. And there he prayed. And Simon and those who were with him searched for him. And when they found him, they said to him, Everyone is looking for you. But he said to them, Let us go into the next towns, that I may preach there also, because for this purpose I have come forth. And he was preaching in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, and casting out demons. Let us pray. Most holy God, in your grace and mercy, please meet with us here in your word. Open our eyes that we may see what you would have us see. And pray, Lord, give us your spirit that we can understand. The example of Christ here in this passage. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength. My Redeemer. Amen. Please be seated. In the early 1900s, there was a famous sportsman in England. His name was Charles Thomas Studd. He was a cricketer. And he was known as one of the most skilled to ever play the game. Now I can't speak to that because I don't know a single thing about cricket. But what we do know is that he had a long and illustrious and wealthy career of fame and sports fortune ahead of him. But suddenly he did something that surprised everyone. It surprised certainly the whole cricketing world. He gave it all up in his young twenties to become a missionary. This is what he said when he was asked later in life why he did it. He said, I knew that cricket would not last. And honor would not last, and nothing in this world would last. But it was worthwhile living for the world to come. So he went on to be a missionary in China and Africa and India. Lord only knows how many lives were fundamentally altered. Changed for the better because that one man gave up a life of fame and fortune to do what God wanted him to do. I think it's easy for us to see the mark of Christ in someone like that. Well, the book of Mark is the good news of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, and Mark has been showing us Christ, what he's like. What he does. He's been showing this to us every step of the way, and he will. He's already shown us that God prepared his people to encounter the Messiah through the Old Testament prophets, especially John the Baptizer, the last Old Testament prophet. He showed us that Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ himself, was prepared for his ministry, and that he has been proven to be the perfect spotless lamb, untainted by sin, though he was tempted by the enemy. We have seen that the gospel, the good news that Jesus preached requires a response from us which transforms our lives. We saw that when he called the first disciples to himself. And we have encountered Jesus' authority. Not just in what he does, but in what he teaches. We saw this. In his authority over even the spiritual world when he cast out the unclean spirit. We've seen Christ saving us, and he saves us to serve him. We saw this in the account of him saving Peter's mother-in-law. And last week we learned that Christians submit the disorder of their lives to Christ even if they don't fully understand how he will deal with it. And so tonight we come to this passage in which the Holy Spirit continues to show us the Messiah, because in this passage we learn from his example that Christians must be willing to do whatever is needed. despite what others expect of them, to accomplish what God wants. Christian, you must be willing to do whatever is needed, despite what others expect of you. to accomplish what God wants. And we're going to look at this passage in under three headings tonight. We'll first look at what Jesus needed in verse 35. We'll look at what others expected, verses 36 through 37. And lastly, we'll see what God wanted in verses 38 through 39. So let's begin by looking at what Jesus needed in verse 35. And we see here that he needed preparation. And in that preparation he needed time. Look at what it says there. Now in the morning, having risen a long while before daylight. If you recall, there was a huge crowd at Peter's house, the whole city. They were there from the time that the sun went down on the Sabbath, and they were there until who knows when. Mark tells us that Jesus rose from bed early in the morning, a long while before daylight. The Greek word that he uses here literally means in the darkness before daylight. And we can use our reasonable imaginations, and let's say that the sunset was at 6 p. m. , so Jesus is healing many and casting out many demons. That could have taken hours. And if we estimate that the sun rose at 6 a. m. , then Jesus rising a long while before that, maybe we could imagine that he got up at 4 a. So that means that if he was to get a full eight hours of sleep, that means that Jesus only ministered to those people, casting out the demons for, what, two hours? That hardly makes sense. Obviously, that's all conjecture, but what I'm trying to do is help us see what Jesus was willing to do. He was willing to lose precious sleep. In order to have what he needed, in order to have time. The time was more valuable to him than all the rest. Why? Because of what he was doing during that time. And so we also see that Jesus needed space. He went out and departed to a solitary place. He needed to be alone. Is there anyone here who can't relate to that? Needing some time to yourself. Sometimes we just need solitude, alone time to decompress, or in Jesus' case, to prepare for what's coming. Jesus knew he couldn't get what he needed at Peter's house. Everyone knew where he was, and he probably knew that as soon as the sun was up, that crowd, the whole city was going to be gathered again at Peter's house looking for the miracle man. And we see later that he was exactly right Jesus needed time and space for himself because he needed to be prepared for what he was going to do. And he needed time and space to himself because what he needed was His father. And so Mark tells us that there, in that solitary place, long before the sun rose, Jesus prayed He needed to speak with his father. We don't know what he said, but based on the prayers of Jesus, which have been recorded for us in the scriptures, we can know how he prayed. We know that he prayed for the Father's glory, that he prayed for his father's kingdom to come, for his will to be done on earth as it is in heaven. You see where we're going? Jesus went out there and took that time and that space to pray because his preparation needed him to be focused on his father. Jesus says elsewhere in John chapter 6, verses 38 through 40, he says, For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. This is the will of the Father who sent me, that of all He's given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up at the last day. And this is the will of Him who sent me, that every one who sees the Son and believes in Him may have everlasting life. And I will raise him up at the last day. Jesus knew the kind of preparation that he needed for him to do what God wants. He knew that in order to fulfill what God wanted him to do, he needed God his father to be at the center of his life, the focus. Of what he was doing. And so Jesus knew that he needed to be prepared for the ministry God his Father had given him, that that preparation involved time and solitude for prayer, because what he needed most was his father himself. And so I hope that you've seen so far how Jesus was willing to do what he needed. He was willing to lose sleep, willing to leave a comfortable place or a comfortable bed. He was willing even to possibly risk hurting the feelings of the people that he had left, because he was willing to do whatever he needed. Even though it was not what others had expected. So let's look now at what others expect. And we see this in verses 36 and 37. They expected Jesus to be where they'd left him And Simon and those who were with him searched for him. It's likely that they all went to bed really late. How could they sleep with the miraculous healing happening right there at his house? They probably went to bed when Jesus did. Maybe they even watched him fall asleep. Remember, these houses in the first century weren't like houses we have now where everybody gets their own tidy little room. They were probably all in one place. Sleeping on the floor. At the very least, they expected that Jesus would be there with them when he woke up. And when they found him gone, whatever went through their minds made them go out and search for him. I wonder if they thought that he had been an angel sent from God and he just disappeared. Or maybe they were afraid that something really terrible had happened. Maybe Maybe the the Jewish leaders had become aware of what he did on the Sabbath day in a synagogue, regardless of their reasons, once finding him They show that they expected Jesus to be where the people wanted him to be. We see in verse 37, it says, When they found him, they said to him, Everyone is looking for you. Now, I don't know about you, but I used to hear this as kind of a rebuke from the disciples to Jesus. I used to hear them saying, you know, hey, what are you doing out here? Everyone's looking for you. But after spending so much time in this passage of this week, I hear it differently. I hear it more as confusion. The crowd, maybe they had come back. Maybe the whole city of Capernaum was there outside of Peter's house. Maybe it was even a bigger crowd than the night before, because they'd had time to tell others what what miracles had happened. They didn't know what to do with them. These four men had only been following Jesus for what, a few days at the most? What did they have to offer all those sick and helpless people? So being as charitable as I can be, I hear them saying, Jesus, we don't know what to do. They don't want us. Everyone's looking for you. Everyone wants you. They expected Jesus to be where he was needed. And that's when I have to remind myself that these men, they didn't quite know just what God was doing through Jesus. And so we see that Jesus was willing to do what he needed, to get what he needed, to be prepared for his ministry, focused time with his father. He was willing to do this, even though it wasn't what was expected of him. And let's be honest, it probably wasn't very comfortable for them. They might have been scared, they might have been worried, yet their expectations were not the most important thing to Jesus. Because Jesus cared far more about what God wanted. And so we'll look at this in verses 38 through 39. God wanted many different people to encounter Jesus. Look at verse 38. But he said to them, Let us go into the next towns, that I may preach there also, because for this purpose I have come forth. Jesus needed to leave Capernaum because he wasn't sent to be the savior of just Capernaum. His purpose, what God wanted him to do, was to preach. This is Christ, the greatest prophet of all prophets. This is the one who reveals to us by his word and spirit the will of God for our salvation. So Jesus needed to do what God wanted him to do. And we also see that what God wanted was for Jesus' power to be displayed. Verse 39. And he was preaching in their synagogues throughout all Galilee and casting out demons. His power is displayed, as we saw before in verses 23 through 28. It's displayed by his preaching and by his miraculous casting out of demons No one ever taught as Jesus taught, as one having authority. And this is what the Father wanted him to do: to go into the world, to go unto the people who are in darkness as the light of the world. And so I hope you've seen in this short passage that Jesus was willing to do whatever he needed to do, even when it didn't meet others' expectations, in order to accomplish God's purposes. And so, Christian, you also, following the example of Christ, should be willing to do whatever is needed, despite what others expect of you, to accomplish what God wants. I don't say this lightly. I don't say this as though I think it's something that's easy to do. I know as well as you do that it isn't easy to go to bed at 1 a. m. and wake up at 4 a. m. Because there's something that must be done. But I have to ask, are you willing to do whatever is needed? So that you can be prepared for the work that God has for you? So that you can be prepared to fulfill His purpose? Are you willing to lose some sleep, as Jesus did? Are you willing to give up some comfort? Are you willing to part with your own free time or your hard-earned money? Here's the real rub. Because maybe you maybe you're like me. But you are willing to do a lot. But you don't do it with a smile. There's not a hot a not a lot of joy in the sacrifice that's made. That's not what God wants. God wants us to do it joyfully. Are you willing to do whatever He requires of you, even if there's no hope of reward? No one will recognize that you are making the sacrifice you're making. Only God sees it. Only God knows. Are you willing to lay your soul bare and to confess your sins to another person? Sometimes I've found that the biggest barrier That's in the way of being useful to God, being able to accomplish what he wants, is an unwillingness to seek the help that's needed to do it. And most often what we need the most help with is getting past our shortcomings and our failures. Sometimes we're unwilling to open up and let someone see beyond that carefully curated image that we present to the world. To let them know that we're struggling, that we're hurting, that our relationship is falling apart. How can we be helped to grow in our love and devotion to God if we are not able or willing to subvert someone's expectations of us? And to let them know that what they thought about us hasn't always been the case. We don't have it all put together like we've said we do. Because I personally struggle with pride, there was something in this passage that really really just jumped out at me. Maybe it's similar for you as well. I don't know about you, but I really like to be where I'm wanted. Do you? Do you like being where where you're wanted? There was a whole city of people who wanted to be with Jesus. They wanted to be near him. They wanted to be around him. They wanted to hear him. They wanted to see him. So I asked you, if there were thousands of people clamoring to be around you, Where would you be? There was a crowd who who was just overcome with a desire to be around you. To have what you could give them. What could keep you away? I'll make it even harder. Let's say they were going to pay you millions and millions of dollars What could keep you away? Could you stay away even though you had another purpose? Could you stay away even though you had another commitment, another place where you needed to be? I know what I'd do. I'd start making a whole lot of excuses. I'd start having an argument with myself. I'd probably end up convincing myself that it was okay just this once to break my word, to break my commitment. After all, these people, they need me. But what does Jesus do? He prioritizes what his father wants. He doesn't stay in Capernaum. He doesn't stay where there's a crowd of people that want him to be there He goes all over because that's the reason God the Father sent him. And we'll see in the future in Mark that there are some places that he went where the people really weren't that excited that he was there. You might be surprised to find out that was his hometown. Now sometimes we are challenged by the expectations of others. If you haven't experienced it yet, children, there will likely come a time when someone has expectations about what you'll do, where you'll be. And their expectation will be in conflict with what you know your father wants for you. It happens all the time. It happens to Christians often. Perhaps it's the boss who says, we really need you to work on Sunday. Or if you have experience with sports teams, maybe it's the coach who says, Really you can't let the team down. We've got the game on Sunday morning. Or perhaps your group of friends would like you to do something that you know displeases God. They're going to expect you to follow along and to do what the group does. Are you willing to refuse, even if it means you'll no longer be part of the group? I have a friend who has been invited to a bachelor party in Miami. And he was there having a good time with everybody, with all of his friends. And uh they were in a very crowded vehicle. He ended up having to sit in the back seat, laying down behind the back seat, didn't know where the car was going. And when they ended up at the destination, it was a place that Christians ought not be. There was an expectation from the group. Well, this is what we're doing. This is the plan. You're part of the group. The group is going here. This is what you do. But that's not what he did. He ended up spending four hours in a parking lot. He almost got arrested twice. Because you're not allowed to hang around those places in a parking lot. The police really didn't believe that he was there with a group, but could not go in. There were many times that he the people that worked there pleaded with him, just sit here. And the foyer. You can just sit here. It's air conditioned. It's nice. It's comfortable. But in that foyer you could still see what was going on in that place where Christians ought not be. Only God can help us do what He wants. We must be willing, brothers and sisters. To do what is necessary that we can fulfill his purposes. I pray that our awesome God would make us more and more like Jesus, willing to do whatever is needed, despite what others might expect of us. That we can be used to do what he wants. Please, let's pray