And I'll read to verse eleven. Seven, seven through eleven. Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened. Or what man is there among you who, if his son asks for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I do pray for your congregation that through your preached word you would enlighten their hearts and minds, and that they would trust you as a good Father. I pray, Lord, that we'd really believe you. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. If you met with someone and had to explain to them, let's say you only had a couple minutes with them, and they're a pretty busy person. But they asked you what the Sermon on the Mount was addressing. What would you say? There are so many different details that are a part of the sermon. There are so many different things you could say just from your own observations If you were to survey the landscape of commentary on this section of the scriptures There'd be even more to say, whether they're Christian or non-Christian philosophers, Kirkregard, who it seems like everyone wants to comment on this. If you wanted to get to the most basic observation that you'll see among them all, really, at least in my own experience, and what we've been saying here Is that Jesus Christ is seeking to make sure in the Sermon on the Mount that we would know as his people that our relationship with our Father in heaven is very important to maintain. That we must have a good relationship with him. Now last week we were starting to see how that would flow, that having a good relationship with him would start to flow out into our relationships with each other. You could make a note of this if you wanted, but oftentimes we act as we think God is. So if you are harsh with other people, that may in fact be how you think God is with you. And one of the lessons we're learning in the Sermon on the Mount is that actually, although God is just He is merciful. He makes those things work together without a contradiction of his character. And last week we learned that the people of God should in fact judge with justice like their Father in heaven. But we don't do so harshly. In addition, we have learned that as God's congregation, we must avoid hypocritical judgments. And instead embrace humility. We we speak from a place of our our own um ourselves being beggars of God's mercy. We speak from that place, and therefore even in our judgments, when we must exercise them, it is done in humility, and that's the way in which your eye can be clear of the log. where you could see clearly as opposed to judging hypocritically. With that all of that still with all of that being said, we as God's people learning to be disciples of Jesus Christ Though we judge with mercy, though we judge with humility, we never judge naively. Jesus is not Saying things in the Sermon of the Mount, no matter who would say otherwise, he's not saying, out of the kindness of your hearts, just ignore all wrongs and injustice. and just ignore people of rotten character. Everything will work out in the end. That is naive. He instead calls us to act with discernment, especially with regard to the treasures that he has given to us. Which are the gospel. In all, he really calls us as a group of people to exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees. We as God's people or the city of Jerusalem are meant to be a hill. We are to show the world the God's intention for human life, and that includes on how we would relate to each other. And as I just mentioned in review, we read late in love, humility, and not with naivety. Now today we have a new set of observations. That was all just stuff we covered over the last couple weeks. But this week we have a new passage in front of us where Jesus is returning to a theme that we've already seen here, which is praying to our Heavenly Father. Did you notice that we're returning back to the concerns that Jesus had for anxiety and that Jesus has in terms of prayer. I just want to make a couple observations about this passage with you this morning. And my prayer is the Lord would bless us all in the hearing of his truth. So let's begin that. The first thing I would like you to take note of here within this passage in 7, 7 through 11. Beginning in verse number seven is that despite your thoughts to the contrary or the thoughts of others to the contrary, God does not abandon his children. God does not abandon his children. Despite thoughts to the contrary, God does not abandon his children. You can see this in verse number 7 if you understand the place that verse number 7 has in the total scripture. It says in verse number 7: Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks, it will be opened. Now you should rightfully be concerned about how you would read this passage, this verse here. There seems to be no limits in the way that Jesus is phrasing it. And yet we'll see very quickly here that Jesus is not telling the kind of story where God, as a character in the story, is a genie in the bottle. where you get to rub the lamp and then when God shows up you can ask of him anything that you want, whatever it is, whatever desires you have, and as long as you are persistent in it, he will give it to you. That's never been the story of the scriptures. In fact, one of the most gracious things that God can do for you is to not give you some of the things that you want. And we all know that. We're going to talk about how much better God is than an earthly father here in a moment. And one of the marks of even a halfway decent earthly father is they do not give their children everything they ask for. You know, your children your child might be four and very excited about M80 fireworks. It's not time, brother. We don't give our children fireworks at that age, at least not most of us. Because we don't think that their desire is good. So even playing around with that's the story here that Jesus is is trying to give to us. This is his explanation of reality. That's really detached from reality. That's not what is going on here. And if you wanted a little icing on the cake to just have a scripture to remember this, remember James chapter 4, verse 3. It says this, you pray or ask and do not receive, because you ask amiss. that you may spend it on your own pleasures. So there is a specific example of James bringing up the experience that God is not interested in answering everything that you as a corrupted creature would ask. That's not the story. But he is interested in those who are chasing after his heart to answer their prayers. Now I've told you so far what the story is not. I do want to tell you what the story in fact is. What's going on here with Jesus' uh words here about asking and it will be given to you, seeking and you will find it, knock and it will be open. Believe it or not, these aren't new words within the scriptures. This this same way of talking about things has already been talked about within the Old Testament. And I tried to give you a passage in the bulletin where you would start to be able to see the trail of that, and that's that Deuteronomy passage. That Deuteronomy passage is then quoted in Jeremiah 29, and it is speaking to the exiles, and it uses this exact same language that Jesus is talking about with the knocking on the door. as a way to talk about going to our Father in heaven for prayer. Now, do you remember that when we began this series on the Sermon on the Mount or in other series, that this letter, this gospel from Matthew is very concerned about the exile. I just would mention to you the very beginning of Matthew chapter one within that genealogy, the captivity to Babylon or exile is mentioned three different times. It's definitely on his heart and his mind. So it's not odd for us to then see, this is my main point to you, it's not odd for us to see then in the teaching of Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount that he would hearken back. to teaching that was already given within the time of the Babylonian exile, which would have been in places like Jeremiah. In Jeremiah and in Isaiah, for example, God's people had some major concerns. Because they came under a serious kind of discipline because of the decisions that they they had made. They often wondered, did God forsake us? Does God hear our plight? Does he hear our concern? Does he hear our tragedy? And throughout the scriptures, we see God showing up and saying, Yes, of course I do. Now this isn't exactly the captivity, but it's the same thought. Listen to this from Isaiah 49. The first time I ever read this passage to you, by the way, I was standing next to palm trees in Florida on a video that I then sent up to you as soon as we heard about COVID. The Lord led me to this passage to preach to you. I was in Florida, you were up here dealing with COVID, sorry. But nevertheless, this was the passage, and it's the same here today. It says in Isaiah 49, 14 through 16, but Zion said This is the people of God. This is what they're saying in their hearts and out in public. The Lord has forsaken me. And my Lord has forgotten me. That's what they're saying. The Lord quotes them. Then the Lord responds to them in Isaiah 49, and he says, Can a woman forget her nursing child? You saw Kendall up here today. You could ask about that with Kendall. Could she forget Elias? And now leave Kendall for a moment. She doesn't want us talking about her up here anyway. And just think of any woman in the world as to whether or not they would ever forget their nursing child. And I've said this to you before. Actually there are some women that forget their kids. But God thinks of that too when he says here, he says, uh, can a woman forget her nursing child and not have compassion on the son of her womb? And he says Yes, surely they may forget. But then he comes along and he says, But I'll never forget you. I'll never forget you. See, I have inscribed you on the palms of my hands, and perhaps that has later significance. I have inscribed you on the palms of my hands your walls, meaning this your city, your community, everything that we have built together. Your walls are continually before me. I've never taken my eye off of you. Now that's Isaiah, and that's dealing with a little bit of a different conflict than what we would see within Jeremiah But when we see when we go to Jeremiah, we'll see that it's a very similar kind of context and emotion and thought that the people are dealing with But the the benefit of us turning not just to Isaiah but also to Jeremiah is you're going to hear exactly what Jesus just said here about knocking. So listen to this, and you could you're welcome to meditate on this for the rest of the day. Jeremiah 29, 10 through 14. He says here, For thus says the Lord, after seventy years are completed at Babylon, I will visit you and perform my good word toward you and cause you to return to this place. For I know the thoughts that I think towards you, says the Lord, thoughts of peace and not of evil, to give you a future and a hope. Now everybody's heard that before, right? And sometimes you see it on football helmets Or whatever it is. You've you've you've claimed that verse as your own before, but sometimes we stop and we don't keep reading and it says this and it says He says, uh you have a future and a hope. Then you will call upon me and go and pray to me, and I will listen to you. And now listen to this. And you will seek me and find me. When you search for me with all your heart, I will be found by you, says the Lord, and I will bring you back from your captivity. I will gather you from all of the nations, from all of the places where I have driven you, says the Lord, and I will bring you to the place from which I cause you to be carried away. And you can see how that was going all the way back into Deuteronomy that we had re read earlier at the very end where the Lord says in your bulletin But from there you will seek the Lord your God, and you will find him if you seek him with all your heart and with all your soul. And Jesus is getting across the same thought with this kind of triplet of expression that he's given here in 7-7 through 11, where he's saying, ask and it will be given to you. Same kind of thought. Seek and you will find. Knock and the door will be opened. For whoever asks, receives, and seeks and finds, and knocks, and it will be opened. And you can see that what Jesus is addressing here is that same kind of mentality that would be going on with this group of people because they still thought of themselves as under a kind of captivity. yet to be restored, which is why the Messiah was sent to begin with. And Jesus is addressing that here. He is addressing that despite what some people have said, God does not abandon his people. Now will will moms sometimes forget their kids? Yeah, but I've never forgotten you And the way that that shows up, practically speaking, for God's people, is that his eye is on you in your prayer, brothers and sisters. When you seek him and his kingdom, just as he taught within his Lord's Prayer, he hears your prayers. His the walls of your city are continually before him. It's the same kind of thought that he's always been given to the people of God, and our feeling of abandonment is not a new feeling. is something that human beings have struggled with all the way from the beginning. And here Jesus is addressing it, or at least beginning. to address that. I mean just ask you just right now, let's just stop for a second. Have you ever felt abandoned by God as God's person or as God's people? If you were to pick up any Puritan volume and you wanted to see some of the spiritual conditions that they address, they address what they call a spiritual abandonment. That human beings, for the longest time, as God's people, have this thought that God has left them and forsaken them. And here Jesus is teaching us that though there may be an aspect of discipline where it may feel that way and God can permit that and that and that could be on purpose, God has never taken his eyes off the wall of your city. That you can turn to him in your prayers, knowing that your Father in heaven hears you Now, if we were to start bringing together a couple different threads from Jesus' sermon here, we maintain that Jesus gives us under his lordship responsibilities that we are to steward. But God knows that there is w many thing and most things in this world that are way outside of anything you could be responsible for. And with those things especially, although it is with all things, but with those things outside of your control especially, he expects for you to bring them to him in prayer. And for you to have a heart that is filled with faith, knowing that he hears your concerns for his kingdom. That's what Jesus is seeking to get across to here in the very first point, that despite thoughts to the contrary, God does not abandon his children. Now the second thing Is that he wants to prove this to us. When I say things like, despite what people say, God doesn't abandon his children, there are this a there is this emotional baggage. There is uh this feeling that resides within us and thoughts continually come that I understand the words that are coming from the pulpit this morning And I'm happy to theoretically affirm them, but honestly, it does feel like I'm alone sometimes and that he does not see what is going on with me And so Jesus understands that about us. He knows that we are weak people and that we struggle with different doubts. It's why he helps us so often with the things that he does in the church. And so in this next part, which I'll read to you, he's seeking to, at least for a moment, reassure you, no, really, he really does care about you. And he says that here in verses nine through eleven. Or what man is there among you, if his son asks for bread, will give him a stone. Or if he asks for a fish, we'll give him a serpent. If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? What a question. What a question. And what a an uh what a set of questions and what an exclamation that Jesus has given to us here. There is no number one when we ask God for things, there's no inconsiderate giving. There are some people in this world where you ask them for something and they do give you something, but it's not anything you ever needed or wanted It's just trouble. And the second part here, of course, just restating what Jesus is saying, is that if a human father knows how to give, how much more does your heavenly father know how to give? How does he know how to listen to his children? How much more does he know how to be good to you if an earthly father knows how to be good? Now interestingly, one of the things that I hear whenever I talk about this verse or hear it read or hear it on a podcast or something like that is inevitably, and I understand why we would do this, inevitably somebody says You know, there's a lot of assumptions that are going here into this teaching. I didn't have a good father. So how am I supposed to know or have any kind of experiences that testify this? This passage means nothing to me And the thing that I would like to just reply is this passage doesn't care if you had a good father or not. This passage is just assuming that you're aware that there's such a thing as a good father in the world That out there some dad's trying to do his best. That there is a even if you had to make it up by way of writing a a fictional story that there is this concept of an ideal father that we have in our mind, and sometimes we see little glimpses of it in our neighbors and the way that they treat their children And Jesus' only point is that if a human being is capable of looking after their children and seeking good gifts for them and good things for them, how much more possible is it That your Father in heaven would seek good things for you. And I'll also say this, and this is where this passage really gets me. When Jesus makes this exclamation and he says If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? Do you see the way that he says that? I want you to picture yourself there at that sermon and that you're a part of the crowd. And he looks at you and he says, this is what he says here. He says, if you If you, that's a direct address to the crowd, if you then being evil, you know how to give good gifts to your children, don't you? Do you remember that time when you did it? And when I'm looking at you, I know that you have at least a couple moments in your life where you have given good gifts or sought the good of your children. And everybody in that crowd would have been able to register it and say, Yeah, well you know there there was this one time when I was really looking after my kids. I went in aft in the ocean after 'em, even though I'm scared Oh wait, what's the clean word? Even though I'm scared to go into the ocean, let's just put it that way. There are these different experiences, I believe. Jesus wants us to leave the the words just words, and he also wants you to register your own experiences where you can see. You know what I did make some By his grace I made decisions that were good. I was seeking to give good to my family. Whether you're the mom or you're the dad or whatever it is And I would like you, if you could, right now, because I think this is what Jesus intends for us to do, is for his word to be alive. Think of some times where you made decisions for the good of the children in your life. That's what you're supposed to do. I can think of sometimes. Do I do good things like God? No. No. We'll get to that in just a moment here. But when I look and I I've even checked my heart before in conversations and I've said, you know what, by God's grace, these were decisions where I was really just looking after the good of my children. So if Jack comes to me when he's a he when he's four and he says, Dad, can I use the circular saw? I say not yet. And that was a good decision. And imagine you could come up with all different kinds of that was a real lame one, but there's so many different ones that you could come up with. And Jesus' point is this. This is where I think it's the most powerful. It's at least the most powerful for me. You just thought of some moments where by his grace you looked out for the good of your children, even if it was a small thing. And here's another experience you have of yourself. Do you know how messed up you are? Jesus says, if you being evil, would you care to share some of the evil of your life? Do you have some things that you could mention? All of us do. All of us are amazed that we get anything done. And once we really realistically start to see who we are, and yet you being that kind of person, you're still looking out for the good of other people? And this is where the power comes in. This is where Jesus says, okay, if that's the case, how much more would God be concerned about your good? If you're capable of it, how much more capable is God who has no evil? Only thing he ever does is pure love. He is love. The only thing he ever does is pure righteousness and justice. How much more is he looking to give you good things? That's where I think the argument is really powerful. When we register our own experience in both that we, as sinful creatures, one, and two, even in that state, by his mercy, we were looking after others, how much more is he looking after you? That's where the power comes, and I think that's where Jesus wants us to to really focus, to take that next step and to say whether it's in Isaiah or it's in Jeremiah or it's here in the Sermon on the Mount, that we could realize like the people of God has all have always had to realize That God is a good father. Capital G good. And the way that that shows up Is that when you pray for to him, when you seek him, he does not hide, you find him. He reveals himself to you. He relates to you in an intimate relationship as even an evil father would relate to their son or to their daughter. But of course, so much better. Part of the difficulty is that our Father and this is where we really struggle with this, I think, is we we can start to feel the power of Jesus' argument, but then when we leave here And we start to recall different experiences or we go into different experiences even in this day. Part of the difficulty is that our Father is determined to not give us everything that we ask. And the reason why he doesn't give us everything that we ask is because he's good. If he were, he wouldn't be good. If he were to give you everything you'd ask. then um he would not be good. And you can see this in verse number 11. I just want you to see that very quickly. It is right there In verse number eleven it says, If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father who is in heaven heaven give good things? To those who ask him. That's what he's determined to do. He's determined to give you good things, not all things, not everything that you ask for, but he is determined, in fact, to give you good things. Now there's a great example of this with the Apostle Paul having to learn this lesson. And I want to share that example with you. I wonder if it will resonate with your own experiences a little bit. He says in 2 Corinthians 12, 7-10, and lest I should be exalted above measure by the abundance of the revelations, a thorn in the flesh was given to me. A messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. Now what is he saying there? Paul is saying, I'm being afflicted by God. And the reason why I'm being afflicted is so that I don't become too prideful based upon the the status and the experiences of revelation that he's given to me. And he calls these things a thorn in the flesh. Now what was the thorn in the flesh? There's a lot of speculation. One of the best speculations I've heard is that since Luke is always following him around that perhaps l that Paul has um lost most of his eyesight and that of course it's difficult to travel around the Mediterranean Sea when you're blind trying to preach in hostile cities. Makes it tough. But that that's just a speculation, but this is a thorn in the flesh. It's something along these lines that is not going to go away. The rest of the passage says this. It says, concerning this thing, this ther this thorn in the pl the flesh I prayed with the Lord or pleaded with the Lord three times that it would go away. He says three times that it might depart from me. And this was the Lord's response to Paul. My grace is sufficient for you. My strength is made perfect in your weakness. Now imagine receiving that response. After you've given up your whole life, you're traveling around into these hostile cities, you get yourself on a ship trying to do the Lord's will. The Lord the ship uh shipwrecks. You get finally make it to land, uh you know, half half dead, and then a venomous snake bites you. And the Lord just, and then Paul just wants one thing. Couldn't you just have this one thing go away from me? And I'm going to ask you three times. And Jesus comes back and says, My grace is sufficient for you. My strength is made perfect in your weakness. Now let me just ask you a question. In answering the prayer that way, is God good? Now how would you reason through that? You would have to reason and you'd have to say that God sees things that are more important. That God sees things that are better for Paul, then let's just go with the, let's just, for the sake of discussion, that are better than his eyesight That are better than his eyesight. There's something else. Those are the kind of thoughts you would have to have to understand a situation like this, that Jesus is actually doing the ultimate good thing And Paul, by the grace of the Spirit, is able to accept that, and he ends up saying in the rest of that passage, therefore, most gladly I will rather boast in my infirmities. that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in needs, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake And here's this famous verse, for when I am weak, then I am strong. Now this is a the reason why I want this example to be for you here this morning is because this is an example. of a human being, namely Paul, going through very difficult situations. He prays just as Jesus told him to on the Sermon on the Mount. And Jesus, in his sovereign discretion, decides that the best thing for Paul is to remain with the thorn in the flesh. And what you have here is a picture of despite all of that, and with a true understanding of Paul, you see a man still accept that God is good. Still he didn't go down the other path that we can go down so often that is presented to us in these different thoughts. When we don't get exactly what we want, the only thing we could conclude is that God is not good But everything that Jesus is saying here is that if you want a solid foundation and you want to stand on something that does not shift If you want to know something that is true forever and ever and ever and ever, it is this: God is always good in everything about himself and all of his decisions. And Paul was able to go down that path. And Jesus Christ, through his argumentation, the evocation or the allusion to Jeremiah and Deuteronomy, he's trying to do the same thing here for you this morning. Stop doubting your God and rest in his will for you, even when he answers your prayers in ways that you never would have asked. If you were to be a bit more mature, you would have always asked the prayer this way anyway. That's how it would work. And that's what Jesus is calling you to here within this passage. Do you presume that God is not good as soon as something difficult happens to you? Is that the rut that you immediately fall over into? We all have those defaults. Jesus is calling you to a new creation. He's calling you to create different habits by way of his mercy. And that that is not your presumption any longer. That God is good instead. When the thought that He is uh when the thought is presented or when the thought presents itself that God is not good, let me ask you this. This is a little bit of a diagnostic question. When the thought is presented to you in your mind, when that God is not good, what gives that thought power? What makes you think the answer is, well, God's just not good? What makes that plausible to you? What gives that power? I would like you to talk to someone, a Christian that you respect, about that And you need to start working through that because that's an obstacle. It keeps tricking you into falsehood and thinking that God isn't good. It has a certain kind of power. We need to get rid of it. And what is that thing? What makes it sound like, yeah, that's the answer, God's not good? What makes that plausible to you We need to work that out. I encourage you to that as a kind of homeworker application here this morning. When the thought that he is not good presents itself, what gives that thought power? And what steps can you take to believe Jesus? in our passage today, instead of those stray thoughts. Here's the message. God is your good Father. He hears your prayers. Seek him and you will find him. Seek him with all your heart. Knock and the door will be opened. It's your home, he's your dad. Let us pray.