Let's stand for the reading of God's Word, and you can open to 1 Peter. We are still in chapter 1, and it's 17 through 21. Of chapter one. And if you call on the Father who without partiality judges according to each one's work, conduct yourselves throughout the time of your stay here in fear. Knowing that you were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver or gold from your aimless conduct received by tradition from your fathers. but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. He indeed was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you Who through him believe in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would bless the reading and the hearing of these words, these sacred words that you've given to us. We pray that you would plant them deep within our hearts. And that we would not just be hearers but doers. Show us the power, your power through your word. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. This morning, in speaking of Deuteronomy, we made a a statement that whether you were there this morning or not. I'd like you to hear, and that is that the physical exodus of the Israelites, like the exodus coming out of Egypt. And the Exodus through Jesus Christ, they inform one another. One is a commentary on the other. The exodus that we see within the Old Testament coming out of Egypt, literally coming out of Egypt As we learned this morning, God gave his people the protection they needed to have judgment pass them by. You remember that story, I hope. God, in addition to the Passing over them in judgment, God delivered them from slavery into the wilderness, and they awaited the promised land. Now that's coming out of Egypt literally with that group of people, but there is also an Exodus in Christ. God the Father through Christ delivers us from the slavery to sin and death and into the wilderness of our existence now. The parallels match. And one story helps us to understand our story, and we await the promised land. Those are the good memories. When we think of the direct narrative line, we see those good, the good movement of what Christ is doing through his redemption. But there are similarities in those stories from the Old Testament to our own lives now that deal with suffering and sin also. There are parallels. The wilderness then. In the wilderness, the Old Testament church was tempted to believe that God would not finish his work. They said things like, Why did he bring us out into the desert to die? Do you remember when they said that? We should return to Egypt was their answer. But we have the wilderness now, and it's not that much different, really. Today we say the same kinds of things in the pilgrimages of our lives. There's some kind of suffering, some kind of pain. It could be as little as just a confusion that enters into our lives. We cry out to God to fix it, and He doesn't. Everything becomes more and more desperate. And eventually we crack and say, I should have stayed in my old life, and this God is a joke. Our children see that kind of attitude within the parents, and our children take on the same attitude. And they sit in the back row not listening to the sermon at all, but watching something on their screen. Have you ever heard those kind of thoughts? They are all over. People may say that they still believe in God, but as we do a closer evaluation It seems that only a few remain that believe that God is actually powerful and that he actually makes a difference. Something like this is happening in Peter's congregation. It's not just thoughts that are going on inside of their own heads in this congregation that Peter is ministering to. There are false teachers that are with them that are contributing to their doubts as to what God is accomplishing and whether or not they can trust in God and in the message of Jesus Christ. It's a question that we all wrestle with. Can we trust in the message of Jesus Christ? Or should we be putting our hopes in something else? That was the problem of this congregation. You can see the problem more clearly in 2 Peter. And if you flip there with me very quickly, I'll show you just to flesh this out. 2 Peter 3, verse 4. I'll start in verse three. Knowing this first, that scoffers will come in the last days, walking according to their lusts. And saying, listen to what they are saying to this group of people. Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation. They're questioning whether God will be keeping his promises as spoken. And if anyone in this congregation were to believe that, they would lose the hope that they had built their life on. You can see in chapter 3, verse 9, that Peter then responds, and he says, The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness, but is long-suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And that's a good reason for a delay that all would be gathered in. It is an act of love that the Lord delays. The difficulty when we flip back to 1 Peter is that The doubt that they are having in God, the struggle that they are having is not explicitly expressed yet in 1 Peter. It is expressed in 2 Peter. But notice that Peter has been comforting the congregation here in the first chapter with answering the doubts that we saw in the second chapter in the same way. Look at 1 Peter. Verses 3 through 5. Look at the the truth that he gives to them, the kind of comfort that he gives to them in 1 3 through 5. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, and that does not fade away, reserved in heaven for you, who are kept by the power of God through faith for salvation. Ready to be revealed in the last time. It's the exact same topic that's going on in 2 Peter. Will he return for the la in the last time? And Peter is addressing it. Again, you can see it in 1 Peter verse 13. He says, therefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and rest your hope. fully upon the grace that is to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. That's at the end of time when he will be revealed. His second coming So we see he's comforting this congregation in the same way that he comforts them in 2 Peter. And I really think that that re- that brings light to us that he's dealing with those Same group of false teachers even here in this epistle. You can see that Peter keep reminding keeps reminding them that their hope for the future is real. It is going to happen. You are not polishing or rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic. You are not wasting your time. You did not make a mistake. Jesus Christ really is the hope of the future. That was the temptation to believe that he was not the hope of the future. Do you know what someone does when they do lose their hope? Very rarely does a person just collapse in total despair. Every once in a while, you can see that. A true existential crisis. But others who lose their hope return to something else that worked before. And that's why when they lost hope in the wilderness, they wanted to return to Egypt. Why die in the desert? We could be eating onions in Egypt. In 1 Peter, you can see this same kind of thought being expressed that if they were to lose hope in verse 14 Then they would return to conforming themselves to who they used to be in their ignorance. And that's his whole point. There's no reason to lose hope. So don't go back to that life. Instead, be holy as God is holy. Verse 14. Peter reminding them that their hope is not in vain, encourages them to keep the course. It encourages them to sober up and stop being drunk with the lies and the doubts that people plant in your mind. or the lies or the doubts you plant in your own mind, and instead to rest your hope fully on the grace ready to be revealed. Commit to God who saved them by endeavoring to be holy as he is holy. Now last week Really, that's a review. Last week we started to move beyond these general encouragements to hang in there till the end. It's very much like Hebrews: stay in the race. Stay in the race. And to help them not only with this grand doctrine of what the Father is doing, God the Father, He also starts to give them specific motivations. And last week we were reminded that even if hope is established, we still do need motivations Even if you do understand that God the Father is working through Christ, and that's real, and you have put your hope in it, you still need motivations. And the first motivation was that even though God is our Father, through the adoptive work of Jesus Christ, our Father still deserves our reverent fear. Reverent fear for a father is a very good motivation. Think of your own fathers. Do you have a reverent fear for God the Father? Some people consider this as a motivation that's res reserved for the Old Testament. And I thank God that it's not. Knowing that our Father sees all and disciplines makes us cautious and it makes us diligent in our lives. Think of those two thoughts together. That's what we see in starting in 17. And if you call on the Father who without partiality judges according to each one's work, conduct yourselves throughout the time of your stay here in fear. That's the first motivation in verse 17. And it combines two words, really three notions that are very important for us to remember. God is Father. A father who sees everything, a father who disciplines. It's very important for us to see because it supplies us with a motivation that is very necessary. I remember when I was growing up we heated our house with a wood stove. Anyone else had have the wood stove dilemma? Yeah? So fuel the wood stove, we used wood, but we were not yuppies, and so we didn't just have the wood delivered and sacked for us. If you are having wood delivered and stacked, I still respect you somewhat. We had to do everything. That was my father's way. We had to have it dropped off, then we would split it ourselves, then we would stack it ourselves. And you're you may be thinking, since we're kind of in the suburbs, that they're little stacks And I'm talking about walls that go around the house so that we can make it through the winter. If we didn't know how to split Or if we didn't know how high the stack should be because there was a number of logs and it should only be so high, otherwise it starts to bow and my father had a plan for all of it Or if we didn't know if it was supposed to be on the stacked on the front porch or how to be stacked on the front porch, we didn't do whatever we thought was a good idea. And this is what we do when we're younger sometimes. If you don't know what to do, you just say, well, I don't know. Let's just take the day off. We didn't do that either. We didn't stack it however we wanted. We didn't drop in laziness and set the task aside. You know why? Do you know why we just kept going? Because we had a revere and a fear, a reverence and a fear for our Father, my brother and I. We revered and feared our Father enough to go and to ask him so that it was done as he wanted. There would have been no excuse. If we didn't know how high it was supposed to be, it would have been our fault and he would have been right. Because we could have came and asked him. We knew that whatever lazy tactics tactics we would try and use, he would see through them all. It was the same thing with the cleaning of the chimney. Has anyone here ever cleaned a chimney with the wood stove? One of us would stand on the chimney and we would send the chimney cleaner down the pipes, always twisting, if I remember, clockwise. Why clock clock? Why clockwise? Because dad said it, and that's what we were supposed to do And he knows what he's talking about. That's how we approached it at first when we were younger. But then when we got older we thought it doesn't need to be clockwise, this is a waste of time. And you know what the first thing is that happens when you don't twist it clockwise while going down the pipe? you lose the brush that's on the long pole in the center of the chimney, and then you have to spend the rest of the afternoon trying to get it out. But if we would have just revered him and understood that he had been around for a while and trusted his judgment, even when we didn't know. If we would have had that motivation present, it would have saved so much time that we had wasted, even in that single afternoon. That's the kind of motivation that is present before you here in this. But it is with your Heavenly Father. And it's the first motivation. There should be a reverent fear of our Heavenly Father. You could sit there and you could say, well, his sermon should be more clear. And they probably should. But if you had a reverent fear for the Father, you would chase after the meaning of the words. You would seek understanding as if it were silver and as if it were gold, knowing that they are the words of eternal life. Because you'd be motivated that the Father knows what he's doing, and anything that comes from his word is worth your time. You wouldn't just go off lazily or doing your own thing. So you can see the value of that first motivation and why Peter mentions it, and that's really still just a review. But there was a second motivation that we saw in verse 18. Knowing that you were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver or gold from your aimless conduct received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. We were redeemed from our aimless conduct with the precious blood of Jesus Christ. That is not a motivation, by the way, of pity. You could think that it is. You could, by faith, see Christ crucified. And have pity on him, and therefore engage out of some kind of sympathetic feeling with a person who suffers to be nice to him and give yourself over to his words. And to serve Him. Sympathy is a gift. Sympathy is a gift of God fostering relief from our neighbors and to our neighbors. It's a good motivation to have. Sympathy and pity is even extended even into the animal world and can be a motivation that is long-lasting and helpful. I just watched a YouTube video a few weeks ago, or over a month ago. where there were two white-tailed bucks that had their antlers stuck together, and the one buck lost the fight and was dead and drowned in the lake or in the pond. And two men, out of sympathetic feeling and pity for the animal, went, jumped on the back of the still alive buck, trapped him down, took a chainsaw, and cut off his antlers so that he could run away with his life. The motivation that was in the men was from, at least in part, sympathy and pity for the animal stuck there to die, such a horrible death in a pond. Their own sense of what it would be like for them, even though it was an animal and probably not the same way, extended out to them. And we do that with our fellow human beings also. But what I'm saying is that here in 1 Peter, the motivation For following Christ, for staying the course with God the Father, is not pity. We are not to pity Christ. Pity is not the mode of force offered in this passage. The mode of power comes from how precious the blood of Christ Jesus Christ is. That's different. Gold and silver were not spent. But the death of Jesus was the cost. Do you see the difference? When you look on Christ, even if you were by faith, if you know him to be bloodied, to to have that the crown of thorns on his head, to have the nails driven through his hands and through his feet. You could look on him in pity and in sympathy, unless you knew what God said, which is that he was there voluntarily and in power. And then the emotion and the motivation changes because of our knowledge of what is actually taking place. And so the motivation here. It's basically this. How dare anyone serve God half-heartedly when the cost to serve was so costly? How dare anyone serve God half-heartedly when the cost to serve was so costly? I pray that you would meditate on that, to see what it cost for you to be redeemed. The truth is that if God has called you, you are redeemed, and you need to catch up to what it costs for that to take place. And the gratitude will grow. This second motivation though, and this is all new material here, is continued. I think there's another motivation at work here that we haven't discussed when we talk about the precious blood of Jesus Christ. Because when we get to verse 20 and 21, I don't think he's breaking off into some totally new conversation, but he's continuing. There's another aspect of the blood being precious. And it is another motivation which contributes directly to us staying in the race and keeping hope. Take a look at verses 20 and 21. He was indeed foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you, who through him believe in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and your hope are in God. This has already been stated. Really, in the first part of chapter one, Christ was foreordained before the foundation of the world. This was decreed from the beginning. The plan was set. But it took time for the plan to become temporally manifested Although established before the foundation of the world, he was revealed or manifested in these last times. And that was said earlier in the first chapter also. Peter explaining what he was preaching on Pentecost. We had been waiting for this moment and now it's here. It had been planned before the foundations of the earth, but now it's here. And God raised this Jesus from the dead and gave him glory. Why? So that your hope and your faith are in God. Do you see the train of thought that's following in 20 and 21? Because I think the 17 and following are continuing with that train of thought. Here's the train of thought. The train of thought is don't give up hope. That's been the motif all the way through. Because God has raised Jesus from the dead and he has given him all power. We've heard it like this. Jesus is alive, and the gates of hell will not prevail against him. That is what's being taught here. And I believe that the blood, the precious blood, is tied into that sentiment that we should not lose hope. Do you worry that God's kingdom will fail? Do you worry that the world is winning? Think of the specifics of your life. I think what Peter is saying here is let the ro let the blood remind you that it's not. Would God the Father, here's the ultimate question for you. Would God the Father allow the precious blood of Jesus to be wasted with a loss? That's the question I think that he's asking. And we know that he's seeking to assure this group of people in their faith. The resurrection assures them. All authority in heaven and earth in the ascension of Jesus Christ has assured them. But the blood also assures because it is so precious. In other words, think of it this way. Jesus' perfect sacrifice honestly is a means to an end Jesus died in agreement with God the Father. Jesus agreed that he would serve God the Father even to the death to rescue his chosen. And as a reward for his obedience, he would be given all authority to then bring the whole creation into submission to God the Father. If the redemptive plan does not succeed in every single way, then Jesus' sacrifice was a loss and is nothing. So this is the question before you. Would God the Father let the precious blood of his son ever be a waste? That's the point also of it being precious, is that you don't waste it. Not one drop is wasted That's the answer. The answer is no. Of course, the plan will succeed because the precious blood of the Son is involved in it. And he will not waste one drop of the sacrifice. And therefore, use your knowledge of the precious blood to remind you that Jesus' blood will not go to waste. And think about your own assurance of your salvation in that regard. If you are sprinkled with the blood of Jesus Christ, you must be saved. It is decreed that the plan will continue. And that is where our confidence is. It's in the decrees of God, not our fluctuating behavior. God the Father, in the end, as it's been said from the very first sentence in the first chapter of 1 Peter. God the Father has accomplished, is accomplishing, and will accomplish his plans. And now we have even further motivations and reasons to believe that it is so. I think it can all be summarized in this final sentence. Christian, while you are in this world, you will face much doubt and much trouble. But take courage, because God, through the blood of Christ, has certainly overcome the world. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this truth and I pray that it would dive deep into our own hearts. I think it would reshape the contours of our living. If we truly believed that you were always in control, always winning Lord, I think it would give us the humility and the patience that you call for within us, the unending satisfaction and contentment in the life that you have given us in the present. Knowing that all things are moving forward just as you have planned. There is no reason to fret or to wring our hands or to lose sleep any longer. Because through the precious blood of Jesus Christ you have sealed it. As Christ Himself has said, it is finished. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, for this truth that you have given to us, and we ask that you would sanctify us, especially from our anxieties. We look at the things around us. We even look at our own children. And we wring our hands as to if your will is being done. We feel so out of control a lot of the time. Lord help us to be united to you and your sense of control. Help us to be content. In whatever enters into our lives, knowing that you will complete your work. You will not waste one drop of the precious blood. And Lord help us when we don't understand to continue on in obedience. Just out of simple reverence for you, our Father, even if we don't understand why some things in this world are to be turned clockwise, we ask that you would give us the humility to just keep turning. Knowing that you know what you're doing. Father, we come before you as your people in continued prayer now There are prayers that we have that are in relationship to the passage that we've just heard. Some of us are lacking in motivation. Some of us wish the people in our lives were more motivated. Some of us are lacking in an appreciation for your sacrifice, Christ. Some of us want your sacrifice applied to those who are rebelling against you. There are so many concerns in the room. And we pray that through Jesus Christ, Father, that you would hear our prayers now.