And our verses today are twenty one through twenty three. And please follow along with me. Proverbs thirty, twenty-one through twenty-three. For three things the earth is perturbed. Yes, for four it cannot bear up For a servant when he reigns, a fool when he is filled with food, a hateful woman when she is married, and a maidservant who succeeds her mistress. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you have given to us this wisdom. Lord, we receive it as wisdom from your eternal son himself. And we ask that by his Holy Spirit you would use this preached word To make us wise unto your glory in the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. There are so many different Bible translations these days, I'm not sure what to expect and what you have on your lap. there, but if you had mine in front of you, you would and you flipped back to the beginning of chapter 30, you would see that we had moved into a new collection of Proverbs. Proverbs is a series of collections And in this collection, I wonder if you have the title, The Wisdom of Agor. That's right, and that's what we're in right now. We've seen that he uh likes to approach wisdom And um in a way that is a little bit different than the proverbs that we have seen from the other collections. We started to notice where he was listing numbers of things. It's not unusual for us to see there are three. No, there are four, such and such. Now with last week we Or two weeks ago, or last week I cannot even remember, but the we looked at the generations So beginning in verse number eleven, there is a generation that curses its father and does not bless its mother, and then we have the repetition of that. There is a generation There is a generation in verse number 13 and verse number 14. There is a generation. And then Agor moves then into speaking in these enumerations. The leech has two daughters. We then saw the the insatiables. There are these three things that are never satisfied. Four never say enough The grave, the barren womb, the earth that is not satisfied with water and the fire never says enough. And then we move into verse number 17 And we said that that all was one unit of meaning in the Proverbs, all the way from verse number 11 to 17. And the reason why we said that was because of the two bookends, if you'll remember. In verse number 11, we see there is a generation that curses its father and does not bless its mother, and then in 17 you can see us go back to The same theme of cursing your father, not blessing your mother. 17 says, the eye that mocks his f father and scorns obedience to his mother. The summary that we I could give you here tonight just to remember that sermon on those generations was that this was about the social order. That this was letting you know in various ways that in each generation there will be generations that rise up that seek to destroy God's order. And that we, as the church, need to remember that. It's important for us to pay attention to that. If we go to Proverbs 24, it urges us to be very careful that we're not neglecting the vineyard. Because if you do neglect through laziness God's kingdom, it won't just stay the same. It will collapse because there's a kind of a force out there in the generations wanting to tear it down The last thing we said in that sermon was just that we have hope because in the end Jesus Christ will not allow evil to rule, no matter who the generation is. And you know how we saw that It was from the the quite vibrant picture in verse number seventeen that I'll remind you of. The ravens of the valley will pick it out and the young eagles will eat it. Speaking of the eye that mocks the father and the mother. Those generations that rise up in rebellion to the Lord, even as we read in Jude today They won't stand in the end. You'll see that there is a there is a movement from heaven that brings human community right where it's supposed to be glorifying the Lord. Now when we go into our passage here this morning, you'll see that I jumped over a few things just because I'm not going through every single proverb in the book of Proverbs. But we have in verse number 18, you'll notice that there is the enumeration again. This uh wisdom teacher likes to do this. In verse number eighteen, there are three things which are too wonderful for me. Yes, four which I do not understand. And then we have where I have picked up in verse number twenty-one, you'll notice another enumeration. For three things the earth is perturbed, yes for four, it cannot bear out. No matter where we started, all of these things have to do with community and keeping order within society. Ours is the same. And so what I'd like to do is just step through this a little bit with you so that you can see the lesson that Christ has for us this evening about our society and what we need to learn. Let's just take a look at the verses one by one. They're proverbs, so they're really condensed, and we need to peck at them a bit in order to get the meaning out. You'll see in verse number twenty-one that it says, For three things the earth is perturbed, yes for four it cannot bear up. The word earth here is referring to society. It also is translated sometimes as land. If you were to, you can scribble these things down, but in Amos 7. 10 or in 1 Samuel 2. 10. You'll see that the word land, the same word that's being used here, or the word earth, stands for a city or a social order. And so that's what the topic is here. There's a there's something going on with communities and cities and social orders that this wisdom literature wants to address, that Egor wants to address He wants to address that there's something that disturbs or perturbs communities. He says there's actually three things that disturb them. No, wait a second, four And you can see that this is pretty serious if you continue reading the second part of verse number 21, because he says, yes, four cannot bear cannot bear up. This is another way of saying whatever these four things are that are over a community That community will not be able to bear it if those four things are over them. The community will be in rough shape at varying levels. insofar as the kind of power that those four things end up getting. There will be a kind of social collapse. And so there are many who then will describe verses 22 and 23, which are a numeration of those four things. As the four unbearables. The four unbearables, because society can't stay together. They can't bear it. And I just want to take a look at what each one of those means because it can be a little confusing if you don't see the specifics. So let's begin with the first unbearable. For a servant The first is is uh cannot bear up when a servant reigns, for a servant when he reigns. Now you have to be careful when you read that, especially with the influence of modern day media, you could read that and you could think Well, this is written by the aristocracy who's trying to keep the lowly person from being able to rise up and make a name for themselves. It's just like them to do to keep the man down. And that's not what's going on here. When it says that one of the the first thing that the society can't bear is for when a servant reigns. The story isn't the story of Joseph here. The story of Joseph is a person who is a slave in a person's home, and through God's election and promises, rises to be a leader over all of Egypt. But that's not the story that's going on here with this specific one. This is not referring to a story like Joseph. Joseph rose in power through divine election and wisdom. This is a story about a servant, and there's a specific word that's used here for this servant, that he's a high official in the royal court. And what is going on here is that the high official in the royal court uses his influence to be able to usurp the power of the rightful king through intrigue and betrayal and takeover. So then what you have is you have one person Who obviously has evil intents and an evil way of doing things, working through malicious means to rise to the top. And the proverbist is telling you, if you have a person like that who ends up at the top in leadership The whole society is in trouble. I mean that makes pretty good common sense, right? Okay, let's just go on and head on to the second unbearable And the second unbearable is that when a fool is filled with food, again, you could look at this in just the normal eyes that we may want to look at it and say, what's wrong with somebody being fed? Don't we want to help the poor? But that's not what's going on here. It doesn't say when the poor are fed. It says when the fool is fed And what they're getting at here is they're trying the the proverbist is trying to show you the way that God's moral order is meant to work, and that if you go against the order that God Himself has placed uh in place, then there's a there are great terrible things to happen. This is a this is actually the fool being fed The fool being stuffed with food is actually a defiance of moral order. Just think about it for a moment. A godless fool If things played out with the way that God has designed the universe, a godless fool should starve due to his rebellion against the way God created and maintains the earth. That's what should happen. We have principles that say whatever you sow, that you shall reap. So I sow foolishness and I reap victory I so deprivation and I'm fool? That's not what we're supposed to accept in the moral order. And that ends up being the Paul here, the point here. Paul expresses this by saying, if you don't work, then you don't eat. He's trying to say this is the way things work. Assuming that not working is due to laziness or other vices, they should not reap food. However, in an upside-down society, the godless fool is rewarded and is able to thrive making him more and more influential. We now have those people who do not know how to keep order in society, who actually seek to break society down, getting fat and strong. One commentator will go on and he'll say, if fed, this destroys the proper moral order by rewarding vice. And he will become more arrogant and dangerous and eventually will dismantle the society that tolerates him That can be a little bit of a shock to our systems because I think what's been built into us is that we're supposed to tolerate anybody. At least philosophically we might accept that. When I say we should tolerate, we should give space and room and toleration to anybody. That seems and uh that's there seems to be a plausibility to that statement to us, but then if you look at specific cases, particularly the case of the fool, you'll see that toleration needs to end at certain points, or they will destroy everything You can't keep rewarding someone who's destroying. For example, I was uh seeing this same thing. Imagine the the topsy-turvy world in which we would live if Those who created death just kept being rewarded, that they were the ones that uh let's say that the the wicked prevail and those who are meek just die That's not the message of the scriptures. Imagine a world like that. It would become very difficult for you to imagine a world that has a different moral order than what God gives to us through Christ. C. S. Lewis, in writing his Mere Christianity, ponders the idea of having a different moral order. He said, what would it even look like? For us to talk about this. He said, think of a country where people were admired for running away in battle. Can you imagine a place like that? Did you run away from the battle? You get rewards. He says, or imagine where a man felt proud of double crossing all the people who had been the kindest to him. Can you imagine that the order would be set up to strengthen those kinds of people, people that run from battle and those who betray? That's what the proverbist is pointing out here, is that it your society will not last, but in fact will collapse if the full is filled with food. That's the point. Now the the third unbearable is when a hate a hateful woman when she is married The hateful woman, they're trying to translate uh the hateful woman. This is um she's a real piece of work This is the contemptible wife who is uh some of the related terminology to her throughout the Proverbs is that she is odious That she is quarrelsome, that she is unlovable, and because she is all of those things, you could think of you can go back into Proverbs and you can see her inviting people to her meal, by the way. to join her in her evil. And everyone goes down to death who l who lies with her. But she she is rejected normally by society. She's so wicked that everyone sees that this woman shouldn't have influence. But the way that she ends up gaining influence Is that she's given leadership within a family? She gains leadership through being able to move into marriage. The moral order under God's rule should sift her into ruin, but in marriage she gains influence in ruling her home. Her loud mouth, one commentator says, and sharp tongue should have been cut out. But now she gains a secure place and a platform to speak. Now I'm not talking about the run-of-the-mill mom or wife. I'm talking about a person like Jezebel here. Look at the kind of work that she's able to do because of the influence that she was given over society. She was so infamous in the destruction that she reaped over communities that she's mentioned, even after she's dead, she's mentioned as an archetype of what it looks like to be wicked. And seductive, you see her in revelation among the churches with which Christ walks, for example So you had two men in the beginning of unbearables. You had the the the servant and you had the fool and now we had one woman and now we have another woman You also had at a national level and then we have in the home as a servant and then we have uh now we have in the home as a woman and then we go again to another woman here and this is the bookend. This is going back to a royal official. So you had a male royal official, now we have the female royal official who would tend to the queen, for example. Proverbs are written largely in a royal setting. And this is a bookend with the official who usurps the king. She usurps the queen and she uses all of the malicious means at her disposal. The female official usurps the queen. She literally, when it it says here in 23, it says she succeeds her. This isn't like there was a vote or an election Or I'm passing the baton to you. Please continue my legacy. That's not what's going on here. The the word what is um you can see it in uh even in other translations, what they're getting at here is that she displaces the other woman. Now she's going to displace that woman in different ways. She could displace that woman, the queen, by seducing her husband, the king She could turn the queen's children against her. Whatever way she chooses, the victory of the woman, according to the proverbist, is it signals the loss of the city. Because that's his whole point. And you can begin to see the pattern here that when those who are wicked rise to the top and are able to gain influence over a society That society is on the verge of collapse unless something changes In fact, I think that's the main message that Igor is trying to give to us. I wonder what examples he had had through his life, where he watched wicked people rise to the top And the society collapsed. Certainly you could read the scriptures and you could see where one king after another is raised up, and those who had to be under them basically starved. And were subjected to tyranny and cruelty. Society threatens to collapse under foolish leaders. Now Essentially what the proverbist is doing here is he's making an argument to you and he's saying, listen, there's this one thing that causes this other thing The foolish wicked leader causes, there's a direct line of connection between the collapse or the health of a society and the leaders. And I hope that that has a self-evidence to you when we s when we come out explicitly and we say it that leaders matter. You can think about this, for example, in just a couple different domains. Consider, for example, some of the places where leaders are placed. Consider a household. We had a household within the Proverbs. Can you think of any scriptures that show us that when a person is wicked and a fool and is given influence even over a household, that those in that household suffer because of it? Well, the first example that came to me was the story of Nabal. You know his name is translated Fool It's the same word. The story of Nabal from 1 Samuel 25, 9 through 17. Let's turn there together and just take a look at um I don't want to read the whole story First Samuel twenty five, nine through seventeen. I think we're pretty familiar with this story. So when David's young men came, they spoke to Nabal according to all these words in the name of David, and they waited Then Nabal answered David's servants and said, Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse? There are many servants nowadays who break away each one from his master. Shall I then take my bread and my water and my meat that I have killed for my shears, and give it to men when I do not know where they are from So David's young men turned on their heels and went back. And they came and told him all these words. Then David said to his men, Every man gird on his sword. So every man girded on his sword, and David also girded on his sword. And about four hundred men went with David, and two hundred stayed with the supplies. This is not going well for Nabal's household. Now one of the young men told Abigail, who is Nabal's wife. Nabal's wife saying, Look, David sent messengers from the wilderness to greet our master, and he reviled them. But the men were very good to us, and we were not hurt, nor did we miss anything as long as we accompanied them when we were in the fields. They were a wall to us both by day and night, all the time we were with them keeping the sheep. Now therefore know and consider what you will do Listen, woman, know what you're getting they got 200 men getting ready to descend on you. You need to figure out what to do based on your humber your husband's mount And his decisions. Consider what you will do. For harm is determined against our master and against all his household, for he is such a scoundrel that one cannot speak to him. We have pleaded with him, and he won't listen to anything. So here you end up having the picture of a fool. Picture of a fool, actually. And one of the reasons why he's in the position that he is, is because even though he has been a fool all this time, he's fat and happy. For whatever reason, the moral order there is topsy-turvy because he is being rewarded even with his attitude. You can see this a little bit later within the story You can see, for example, in verse number 36 of the same chapter. Now Abigail went to Nabal, and Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunk. He wasn't singing psalms. Therefore she told him nothing, little or much, until morning light. So it was in the morning when the wine had gone from the ball and his wife had told him these things. that his heart died within him, and he became like a stone. And then it happened after about ten days that the Lord struck Nabal and he died Well let me ask you a question. In that particular example of the cause and effect that I'm trying to establish here by way of the proverbus, what is it that ultimately saved the family and what is it that threatened to destroy it What threatened to destroy the family was this rise of influence of a wicked man over a community. And what is it that saved the family? It was one who was good who ended up taking control even over that family by way of Abigail and her negotiations with David, and ultimately the goodness of the Lord as the leader who struck that man dead so he could do no more harm. That would be an example where we just see I'm just trying to show you that the perver what the proverbist said is true, that there's a cause and effect relationship between bad leaders and collapsing communities Now, the second example I could give to you is within congregations. There is a cause and effect relationship between bad leaders and suffering congregations. If a fool is given power in the church, the congregation will not be able to bear it. Let us keep that in mind. How many times? I'm not going to go in length on this one because we're in Matthew already And have we not seen in the Sermon on the Mount or in your other readings of the Gospels that one of the reasons why the people are like sheep without a shepherd is because of the leaders that are over them. The scribes and the Pharisees are considered blind, leading the people into a ditch. The scribes and the Pharisees are described as those who are meant to feed their people, but because they are wicked, they eat the people Even the most vulnerable. They devour widows' houses. Cause and effect relationship. Why are the people suffering? Because of their leaders. I'm not saying it's the only cause. I'm just focused on what the proverbist is pointing out here. There's a reality in the world where that mortar moral order You've got to really be careful. If you start to see that happening, you have got to do something about it. Because a lot of suffering is getting ready to come You see what the proverbist is saying? Do you see that there are these unbearables that we've really got to watch out for with communities with various levels of society, even the home, even our county, even our state, and even our nation, insofar as you have responsibility for those things? I think there's uh you know this idea has been experienced not only read in the scriptures but experienced in every culture That when the wicked rise to the top, it's unbearable. One culture that experienced this captured their experience in a painting And this part of the painting is called the Allegory of the Bad Government. I think some of you have seen this painting. There's an allegory of a good government also. I believe this is painted in like the 1300s or 1400s. I believe that one of our congregants has this painting on her wall Is that right? Yes, okay. Very good. And uh so you have the allegory of the bad and the good government, and the ri why would someone take the time to commission an artist or for an artist even to just take their own time to make giant frescoes of allegories of good and bad government It's because of what our proverbist says here. It really makes a big difference. It can become unbearable for a society. You could lose everything Have you seen the painting? You've seen the allegory of bad government, for example. I I encourage you to look it up. Uh I didn't print it out for you But let me just describe it for a moment. In the center of the painting is a throne. And sitting on a throne is a demon, has horns, and his eyes are crossed. He doesn't have an eye medical condition. Sometimes we can struggle with that. His eyes are crossed because it's a representation that he can't see a way forward He's not able to pay attention to the right things. Things are confused for him. He has horns. And beyond him in writing is a listing of various vices that surround him like a swirling influence over his own heart. There are words that say cruelty, treason, fraud, fury, division, and war. And then if you you you pan down just for a moment, the the painting itself moves you. It moves you not only emotionally, but it moves you through it so that you know what you're supposed to look at I guess that's one of the marks of a good artist is they move you. And your eyes will move down to the from the tyrant down to the feet, and you'll see below his feet that represented as a woman, which is traditional, is justice. And she's been knocked over. And her scales are broken on the floor. She's being watched over and she's imprisoned, which means there's not going to be any way of doing anything right. You could cry out all day long, you could groan like the Israelites in Egypt, but there's no one here to hear you. Because of who's in charge. The cityscape in the background is crumbling, there's dilapidated buildings. There if you were to move into the countryside in this painting Which is uh it takes up uh I imagine well it looks like I have never been there. I've never really been anywhere exciting. But the the Like Italy. Let me put that in. Like Italy. I think it's in Italy. But it looked to me like the painting may be as big as that back wall. Is that an oversti is it? Is that about right? The whole wall. So these paintings would be like that big. And you would see dilapidated buildings in the in the city. If you moved into the country, you would see barren fields. There are scenes of violence and there are scenes of disorder. And this is the allegory of the bad government. And at the center of the allegory is someone who has risen to the top and is exercising influence, who has no business being there. is exactly what the proverbist is saying. Cause, effect. You could look at another fresco that says allegory of good government, and you could see the contrast, which is helpful to us, but I'll just point that out as What the proverbist is saying here, the effects on that s society are ruinous and the earth cannot bear his rule. Now that is a all all we've done so far is really just given you a reality that the proverbist has observed Hey, listen, there's a lot of causes and there's a lot of effects in the world. I want to point out one to you that's really, really important. That has to do with our social orders Now let's go ahead and bring it down where we could begin to see why we have some of the traditions that we do within our Christian community. And the first one I wanted to point out to you Is that because of what the proverbist says about if a foolish leader is in control, the society will collapse, whether it's a society of a household or a city. One of the things that we have to try to protect ourselves from this is consent in marriage. Is consent in marriage. Now you all have been to a lot of different weddings, and I think I may have pointed this out to you before But the there is an importance to the consent of marriage relative to what this proverbist is saying. When the door is opened, we finally are able to see the bride. Prior to this, there should have been premarital counseling. If we've made it this far, that's really saying something. Prior to the premarital counseling, there should have been familial involvement. But here we're at this point where the door swings open And the bride comes forward, and the first gate that we all need to pass through for consent is I ask the congregation. All of her friends, all of his friends and family that are in the room, is everyone okay with this marriage? Or is there some lawful reason that we should end the ceremony right now And just go to the reception to celebrate something else. That's the first gate. The second gate is that I ask I think the second gate I I get I'm getting this confused. But I think the second gate is that I ask her father. If he's willing for this to move forward. Who gives this woman to this man? Her mother and I do. Second gate. Then that father places her hand in his hand. And if that shouldn't have happened because he's the kind of person that shouldn't be in control of a household or having influence and authority within a household, the father should not be taking the hand and putting it over on the other hand. Now we live human life and you can't always tell. I've seen some cases where you would have just thought this was the most beautiful person in the world and it ended up not being and nobody would have ever known. We don't know what we don't know. But the lesson is that we better we better work to make sure that this is a good idea because of what we're learning from this proverb. And then the third is that I ask both of them, are you sure you want to do this I ask them both to declare their intentions. Do you, young lady, or older lady, or whatever age you are, when you're getting married, do you have the intent? And the same thing with the man, do you have the intent That's three gates that we have to walk through to make sure that we're not moving into a situation where you're just going to suffer the whole time That would be within our tradition, and it's based on these kinds of teachings that we see here within Proverbs. Proverbs 31:3, King Lemuel's mother warns her son And if she had a daughter, she would have warned her in a similar way. Do not give your strength to women, nor your ways to that which destroys kings You have your daughter or you have your son, you see how beautiful they are, and you see their spirits. You've known them since you were there in the hospital room when you gave birth And you see their artistic abilities or their athletic abilities or their sweet and good nature, and then you don't pay attention to who they end up getting married to. You just put the hand on top of the hand, you don't know anything about him or her And it becomes their greatest weakness, and they never are able to become what they're supposed to be. That's King Lemuel's mother, not mine. I mean a message not mine. It's her message to her son. If you marry the wrong woman, you'll not be a good king, you'll be a weak one. A tortured king. And the same thing could go if she had a daughter. If you're going to be a queen and you link up with the wrong man, he'll just make you weak. Very important the responsibilities that we have when we see this cause and effect relationship The same thing can be said of the importance of qualified church leaders. Let's just go through the list here a little bit. Don't you find that God has taken the time to reveal to us his entire counsel of his divine decrees for the salvation of his people And he has done so when you think of all that is involved in very limited space. There's not that many words relative to all of the intricacies of a divine plan And yet he, through his servant Paul, takes two New Testament letters in the beginning to devote, to make sure the leaders are qualified. Now, why would they do that? My argument to you is that one reason is because of what the proverbist says. You end up with the wrong people in leadership. The society will collapse. Is that true? Well, it is true because we see in 2 Peter 2, 1 through 3 that false teachers and heretics were seeking to destroy the church. We see the same thing in what I read from Jude Diotrephes in 3 John 1, 9 through 10, is exercising in the same way. Hymenaeus and Alexander in 1 Timothy 1 19 through 20 seeks to make the congregation collapse The Judaizers in Galatians just about destroy everyone's salvation in 1, 6 through 9, and in Acts 15, 1 through 5 And then we see in Acts twenty, twenty nine through thirty-one, the Apostle Paul says this, For I know this, that after my departure savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock And then verse number 30, also from among yourselves men will rise up, speaking perverse things to draw away the disciples after themselves. Verse 31, therefore watch. Remember that for three years I did not cease to warn everyone day and night with tears. For three years I sought to To warn you of what Agor says in Proverbs 30, 21 through 23, in a specific application. You know, we look at this book of Proverbs, and sometimes we can think of it as just old material. But when we understand that the eternal Christ has always been, even before his incarnation, we realize that the eternal Son of God was giving us his love and his wisdom right here in Proverbs. The same one who has taken upon himself human nature that you know so well when you read the gospels. That's the same person Who is seeking to give you his love and his wisdom here through Agor in Proverbs 30, 21 through 23. There's a cause and effect relationship that Jesus wants you to see. That fools in leadership collapse societies. And I'll repeat to you the words of Jesus on this particular point From Matthew 7, 26 through 27, everyone who hears these sayings of mine and does not do them, he will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, and it fell, and great was its fall. You see the connection there You know one of his sayings, seeing him as the eternal Christ, you want to see how house fall Support autopsy turbil turvy moral order where fools rule, and you'll have your way. Christ has a lot to teach us here. And he doesn't just teach us to warn us so that we're just shaking in our boots. He wants us to see the things we need to see. So that we can flourish as a community. We know what to watch out for, so that we can be healthy and support one another. And so he has demonstrated once again in these proverbs his goodness to us It is my prayer that we would heed him in his wisdom. Let us pray