Proverbs thirty, verse ten. Do not malign a servant to his master, lest he curse you, and you be found guilty. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray in your Son's name and our Savior's name that you would bless the preaching of this word for your glory and the health of your congregation. In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated I feel severely imbalanced. The left hand side is it's okay. I wonder if uh you have heard the the old story about the four Christians. who were had joined together for a time of confession and accountability. Have you heard about them? There were these four Christians who were out together and they wanted to have a time of confession and accountability. And so they really were opening up and talking about their various failures. One Christian said, Well, you know, I sometimes watch movies I shouldn't be watching. And that was honest of him. Well another Christian spoke up in the same accountability circle. Well, you know, I go to the casino and I gamble more than I should. And another guy says, you know, I when I'm by myself, I smoke a lot of cigarettes. And the fourth Christian said, Well, my sin is gossip and I can't wait to tell everybody about you guys. I imagine you've heard that before. No. No, okay, there you go. It's not a true story. That was once upon a time. It might have happened in the South, I don't know. But it just points out that our proverb here today is really dealing with maligning a person's name. slander and gossip. It's picked up many times within the scriptures this social disease, and disease that comes from our own tongue. James speaks about this in terms of the tongue being a fire, the ability to set a whole forest or community on fire. Or like a spark. And that's what we're going to consider here this evening is Proverbs 30:10. Do not malign a servant to his master. The overarching theme is gossip. It's couched in this particular scenario, which I'll explain. Lest he curse you and you be found guilty. What I'd like to do is really just take a look at each one of these phrases where there might be some confusion so that we can understand exactly what the proverb is saying and then we can look at what difference this makes. I want to begin with just the word malign there. He's really after what we would call slander Slander is all through the Proverbs. You know, there are some books that are put together for you to be able to understand the Proverbs. And some of them will tie together different themes, like the tongue, or lying, or whatever it is. And it's it's worth your time to take a look. At what the Proverbs has to say about those different topics. Let me give you a couple proverbs that have to do with slander or gossip or maligning a person. In Proverbs 16, 28, it says, A perverse man sows strife, and a whisperer separates the best of friends. When I'm reading these to you, I wonder if you could think of your own experiences. Where a whisperer has has separated the best of friends. And have you been around people who have sown strife? In Proverbs 18. 8, the words of a tailbearer are tasty trifles and they go down into the inmost body. Have you noticed that when someone does have gossip, it's very difficult to resist listening to and spreading? Seems like there's an inner compulsion in the human heart to keep it going. In Proverbs 25-23, it says, the north wind brings forth rain and a backbiting tongue, an angry countenance. In Proverbs 26, 20, where there is no wood, the fire goes out. We all know that from camping, right? And where there is no tail bearer, strife actually ceases. Proverbs 26, 28, a lying tongue hates those who are crushed by it, and a flattering mouth works ruin You can see this kind of field of of concepts that the proverb proverb is working with. Really it's it's a field of different characters that are in a community, different people that are in a community And the damage that they do with their tongue in slander and gossip, whether it's sewing, strife, whispering, tail bearing, backbiting, lying tongue, flattering mouth And that is what's going on here when we look at our Proverb 30 verse 10 at the word malign. It's in that same category. But the proverb goes on, and it doesn't just say do not malign. It specifically says do not malign or slander a servant to his master. Now I think this is really important because it it it uh it helps you to focus and to see in a particular case the damage that is done when we use our mouth like this Uh the one example that ended up coming to my mind is from a novel from 2009 called The Help. It was also put into a movie. I'm not sure if any of you have read the book or if you've watched the movie, but The Help is a It's a novel set in Jackson, Mississippi during the early 1960s amid the civil rights movement. And it it ends up exploring themes of race and class and social change. And it does so through three main characters and two of the characters are black maids. I believe her name is is Abeline. Is that right? Abilene. Abel. Avilene. Avaline Clark and Minnie Jackson are the two black maids, and then there's a young white woman nicknamed Skeeter. And Skeeter is secretly collaborating with these black maids and other maids to compile their stories Risking uh social ostracism and legal repercussions in Jim Crow's South. Now, one of the stories that are told within the health, both in the movie and in the novel is a story about this one so white socialite woman who is very nasty to her maid Minnie. And um And what ended up happening. And that's the part of the story that connects with our proverb here. What Miss Millie ended up doing was because she was upset with her maid Minnie, as she spread throughout the town Lies. She had told her neighbors and the crowd that she hung out with that Minnie was a thief. And so when um when she was looking for a job because she was going to have to have a change in jobs, sh it mentions in the novel, for example That many went to Miss Child's house, the Raleigh's place, the Riches, the Patrick Smiths, and the Walkers, and none of them would hire her, which was very unusual. And so this was disconcerting because Minnie has five children at home and her husband had just lost her job. And it's all from just a slander. This proverb is bringing out when we see not just The word slander or the word maligning, it's bringing out that when we choose to use our words, especially in specific scenarios, it can have devastating consequences. For her it had the consequence a a real consequence of not being able to have any work. The loss of her reputation meant no food on the table for her children And it invites us to consider what is the damage that our tongue does when we say or cast a little bit of doubt on a person's character Maybe it won't be as extreme as what we see in the help, but the way that the scriptures represent this, there will be some kind of damage, either right then or a little bit later. Now the proverb ends up going on in verse number 10: Do not malign a servant to his master, lest he curse you. And you be found guilty. We know what malign is, and we understand a little bit of a scenario by way of an analogy to the to the novel help. We understand what it would look like to malign a servant in that social context within the South and the repercussions on that. And so you can see how serious this proverb is. But now we move on and you see that there's a curse that builds up within the servant's heart. Because of what you have done in your slander. You know, the same thing happened to Millie, this to uh to many, and this is where it gets a little funny actually. It's one of the funniest parts in the book for me where she really does develop a kind of cursing in her heart for this woman because of what she's doing to her family. The way that Miss Minnie works out her uh her curse is that she brings Miss Millie, who had spread all of the rumors, uh chocolate pie and slides it across the table for her to eat and she digs in with two slices and wants to know why it tastes so delicious. Minnie tells her it's from vanilla from Mexico, and I won't repeat exactly what she says, but then reveals to her it's also because she baked her own excrement into the pie. It was literally a poop pie. Now, when we look at this proverb, I'm not recommending that you curse people by baking them poop pies. That's not the lesson. The lesson that I'm pointing out here is that you can see very quickly, even without reference to a proverb within this movie, that when slander happens There's something that happens in a person where they're no longer honoring or giving respect to the person. There's something, there's a they want that that person to be cursed in a sense And that's the way that it would look like in that particular movie, perhaps in that society, is they would be cursed that way. When we end up looking in the scriptures, we don't see exactly those kinds of curses, what we see instead is far more serious than that kind of a pie. What we end up seeing is that servants cry out to God For their defense. I want you to think of Exodus chapter 2, verse 23, for example. Now it happened in the process of time that the king of Egypt died. Then the children of Israel groaned because of the bondage, and they cried out, and their cry came up to God because of the bondage. This is something to remember. I think sometimes we can walk around in our life not realizing that absolutely everything that we do is before the face of God And that God hears very, very quickly, it says in the scriptures, that he hears the groans of people like servants. In the confessions we would see the word inferiors. Those who are limited because of their place within society And if they move into a time of cursing and a c and a calling out for God to help them because they have been put in an impossible situation and they're not even able to put food on the table because of your slander and because of your gossip. And you can see here in 10, you should beware lest he curse you and actually you be found guilty. You know, there's another example that I wanted to bring up to you besides the Exodus example here in terms of we're not to slander, especially in cases Like we see here with this servant, lest they curse you and God hear this and act. You know, one example that we have is from 1 Kings 21. And what I'd like to do is you can all turn there with me so that you can follow along. I'm actually going to read for a little bit there. Apparently today is the day of reading from the pulpit. But 1 Kings 21, and I'm going to read nineteen verses to you, so hang in there. But I want you to see here this same thing where we see someone crying out to God and God hearing their voice because their their name was uh there was gossip and slander And it came to pass after these things that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard which was in Jezreel. next to the palace of Ahab, king of Samaria. So Ahab spoke to Naboth, saying, Give me your vineyard that I may have it for a vegetable garden, because it is near, next to my house. And for it will give uh and f for it I will give you a vineyard better than it. Or if it seems good to you, I will give it you its worth and money But Naboth said to Ahab, The Lord forbid that I should give the inheritance of my fathers to you. So Ahab went into his house sullen and displeased because of the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him. For he had said, I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers. And he lay down on his bed and turned away his face and would eat no food. But Jezebel his wife came to him and said to him, Why is your spirit so sullen that you eat no food? He said to her, Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite, and said to him, Give me your vineyard for money, or else if it pleases you, I will give you another vineyard for it. And he answered, I will not give you my vineyard. Then Jezebel his wife said to him, You now exercise authority over Israel. Arise, eat food, and let your heart be cheerful. I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite. And she wrote letters in Ahab's name, sealed them with his seal, and sent the letters to the elders and the nobles who were dwelling in the city of with Naboth. And she wrote in the letters saying Proclaim a fast, and seat Naboth with high honor among the people, and see two men, scoundrels, before him to bear witness against him, saying, You have blasphemed God and the king Then take him out and stone him, that he may die. So the men of his city, the elders and nobles who were inhabitants of his city, did as Jezebel had said to them As it was written in the letters which he had sent to them. They proclaimed the fast and seated Naboth with high honor among the people, and two men, scoundrels, came in and sat before him, and the scoundrels witnessed against him. Notice that it's a false witness. They maligned his name. Scoundrels witnessed against him, against Naboth in the presence of the people, saying, Naboth has blasphemed God and the king. Then they took him outside the city and stoned him with stones so that he died. Then they sent to Jezebel, saying, Naboth has been stoned and is dead And it came to pass when Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned and was dead, that Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which he refused to give you give you for money. For Naboth is not alive but dead. So it was when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, that Ahab got up and went down to take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite. Verse number 17. Then the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, Arise. Go down to meet Ahab, king of Israel, who lives in Samaria. There he is, in the vineyard of Naboth, where he has gone down to take possession of it. You shall speak to him, saying, Thus says the Lord, have you murdered and also take poss taken possession? And you shall speak to him, saying, Thus says the Lord, in the place where dogs licked the blood of Naboth, dogs shall lick your blood, even yours. You can see here an outworking of really what I'm trying to show you is originally in Exodus the people of Israel groan and God hears their cry. Here we have a very similar uh situation as we would see within Genesis chapter four, verses ten and eleven. I'm not sure if you've ever noticed the phrase in Genesis four, ten and eleven. But it's very similar to what's going on here. Let me read that to you also. This is with Cain and Abel. In ten and eleven it says, and he said, What have you done? And this is key. The voice of your brother's blood cries out to me from the ground. So now you are cursed from the earth. which has opened its mouth to receive your belother brother's blood from your hand. You see there, even if Navoth is not giving up imprecatory prayers or prayers of uh asking for justice that even his blood when his mouth can't speak his blood does As Cain as Abel's from the ground, and the Lord is able to hear it. It gives a word to Elijah the Tishvite. And the injustice does not stand. You can see therefore that this proverb is to be taken very seriously. Not only serious because of the social consequences that you would see within a person's life, losing their job. Everything that a reputation gives a person, like we see within the health. It is also serious Because of we see the way that we see that the Lord looks upon such things. Do not malign a servant to his master lest he curse you and you be found guilty. And I'll add in parentheses before the Lord. Now that's uh what the proverb says and an illustration from a two thousand nine novel and one way that would have shown up and then some Old Testament Testament references of the consequences of the slander, which is not a certain kind of pie. but instead the Lord hearing those who are groaning under the gossip. I'd like to broaden out just a little bit and remind us that in terms of application here with this proverb is that Just let us remember that Proverbs are a development of the Ten Commandments. Really you could think of the whole Pentateuch as being developed here in these Proverbs. The exploration of living in accordance with God's will in various situations. It's called wisdom. Commandments are about living in a just society between God and between others, and we know that that's not just something that was given to the people of the Old Testament. When we read the New Testament, we can see that Christ has sent us His Spirit to start restoring society. We talked a lot about that this morning. Christ changes our hearts so that we can begin to change the world back into paradise, particularly in society. And that is ends up being the focus here The focus here is not just an individual concern and your slanderous heart. That is a concern, but there's larger social order implications One of the reasons why I say that, if you take a look down at the scriptures again, we've looked at verse number 10. Then it moves in. Notice in verse number 11, it's going to move into a different commandment Namely, the fifth commandment. There is a generation that curses its father and does not bless his mother. You know, the Ten Commandments are taught are given to talk about a society with God and a society with each other. The fifth commandment focuses in on those who are our superiors, our fathers in the faith, the mothers in the faith, our our our legal mothers and fathers. So let me ask you, if you looked at it that way, if you looked at, hey, this this proverb that we have now, we understand the particularities of it, and we've seen an illustration from a recent novel But let me ask you, on the social order scale, in relationship to the Ten Commandments, what commandment do you think it's addressing? We know that the next verse is addressing the fifth commandment And this one is addressing the ninth. You know, I always go back whenever I try to think clearly about the commandments, I go back to the larger catechism. Because it has a a listing of what your duties are in the commandment and then uh what's what you are to avoid Let's put it that way. And then there's just a ton of examples and scripture references for you to look up to see, well what does this look like? And what I'd like to do now is just remind you of what the larger catechism says in question number 143 in terms of the ninth commandment here as we think about gossip and we think about slander. The ninth commandment is, thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. And in question 144, they ask the question, well, what are the duties required in the ninth commandment? The duties required in the Ninth Commandment are the preserving and promoting of truth between man and man And the good name of our neighbor. Let me just say that again. Make sure you're listening closely, because this is a little bit of technical language, but it's very important. The duties required in the Ninth Commandment are the preserving and promoting of truth between man and man and the good name of our neighbor. We preserve and we promo promote the good name of our neighbor as well as our own appearing and standing for the truth, and from the heart sincerely, freely, clearly, and fully, speaking the truth, and only the truth in matters of judgment and justice, and in all other things whatsoever. And it goes on again and it says, A charitable esteem of our neighbors, loving, desiring, and rejoicing in their good name. Sorrowing for and covering over their infirmities, freely acknowledging their gifts and graces, and defending their innocency. A ready receiving of a good report about people. I can't wait to receive a good report about them. And an unwillingness to admit of an evil report. Concerning them. It goes on and it says that we should discourage tailbearers, flatterers, and slanderers, just like we had listed in Proverbs. Love and care of our own good name and defending it when it is required. And then it goes on from there to speak about promises and I'll just stop there. Although at the very end it says that we are to study and to practice whatever things are of true, honest, lovely, and of good report. I'd encourage you to study that section and it has uh footnotes where you can look up each one of the scriptures. Where you can see what God is calling us to as a community. And in the meantime, let me just ask you a few questions. Can you recall a time when your words, even casually spoken, spread a shadow over someone's character? How might God be calling you to replace those shadows with words that shine light and truth? When you hear a negative story about a neighbor, a co-worker, or a friend, or a congregation member, does your heart lean toward, ooh, that's curious Or does it stay back waiting with compassion for your neighbor? And knowing another proverb that says, Well, this story sounds right until you hear the other story. How can you choose to protect their dignity instead of spreading doubt? How does it feel to know that your own reputation could be ch tarnished by a careless word? Has that ever happened to you? What steps can you take to guard both your integrity and the honor of those around you in a world that is very quick to judge? I hope that those questions can help you as we think about what Christ has made us as individuals and as a community in terms of how we're to be using our tongue. And the damage that can come from gossip and slander. I was really caught by a quote from Ben Franklin. Uh I heard he was quite the individual with his morals. But for some reason God also gave him some really great quotes. And he says this, he says, glass, china, and reputation are easily cracked. And they are never well mended. I think it's at the heart here of what this proverb is saying, that we should all heed from our Lord Jesus Christ and his wisdom That we would not malign a servant to his master, lest he curse you, and you be found guilty. Amen. Let us pray.