We're in verse eleven through seventeen this evening. Thank you, Marilyn. Thirty uh Proverbs thirty eleven through seventeen. There is a generation that curses its father and does not bless its mother. There is a generation that is pure in its own eyes, yet is not washed from its filthiness. There is a generation, how lofty are their eyes, and their eyelids are lifted up. There is a generation whose teeth are like swords and whose fangs are like knives to devour the poor from off the earth and the needy from among men. The leech has two daughters, give and give. There are three things that are never satisfied. Four never say enough. The grave The barren womb, the earth that is not satisfied with water, and the fire never says, enough. Let us pray. Oh I'm sorry. The eye that mocks his father and scorns obedience to his mother, the ravens of the valley will pick it out, and the young eagles will eat it. We'll end on a good note there. Let us pray. and uh the just how poetic and the symbolic representations, Lord, you are the great artist. Thank you for speaking through this proverbist here, Agor. Lord, I ask that you'd bless the preaching of your word, that your congregation as a result of your preached word would grow in wisdom to your glory and to the flourishing of those around them. Ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I've noticed as I've been reading through the book of Proverbs that there are certain Proverbs that keep resurfacing for me I wonder if you have that experience when you read through them. I know some that read through the proverbs once a year, and uh but nevertheless there'll be two or three proverbs that keep being exceptionally relevant to their life that always come back in order to frame and to help them to figure out how they should be serving the Lord in certain situations. Well the one for me is Proverbs 24, beginning in verse number 30. I went by the field of the lazy man and by the vineyard of the man devoid of understanding, and there it was, all overgrown with thorns Its surface was covered with nettles, its stone wall was broken down. When I saw it, I considered it well. I looked on it and I received instruction. A little sleep and a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest And so shall your poverty come like a prowler, and your need like an armed man. This picture that's given here of this vineyard is meant to be the picture of a society of a s a city even, and it warns that if you are what he calls here a lazy man or one who doesn't act at the right time Then you will look at your city, and though it might be beautiful today because it was handed to you from your forefathers and foremothers, because of your neglect you'll find that the walls have come down Things are covered with thorns and thistles, and it's just not functioning like it used to. And this ends up being a good picture for the main topic that we're really focused on with these last set of proverbs, which is social order. Last week we looked at, okay, let's slow Proverbs 24 down and ask the question: how did the walls of the vineyard collapse? What are the actual nettles and the thorns that thorns in real life, this being a symbolic representation of what actually happens to a society And the answer that we received last week, well, one of the things that can tear city walls down, that can make a community collapse, that can turn everybody against everybody else. is when we use our mouth in slander or in reviling one another. Backbiting And we explored that theme last week and Christ always pouring out his wisdom and mercy on his church was showing us really those lessons from the letter of James that though the tongue is little it can cause a fire across an entire congregation and we must be careful As we think about why God has alerted us to the ninth commandment that you should not bear false witness. Those commandments we explored last week are there in order for us to have a flourishing society with God. And a flourishing society with each other. These are those are societal principles, if you will, given by God Himself, that we'd be able to uphold the household or the vineyard. of our church, our congregation, really of the earth, as the influence for Christ's kingdom spreads. Well Last week was slander and this week is a whole nother group of wisdom in just how is it that we are able to keep society together, our different societies, maybe your home Maybe this congregation, maybe your workplace. And as opposed to it falling apart like that vineyard that we see. In other words, in twenty-four it says a little sleep and a little slumber, a little folding of the hands. Okay, well If I'm not going to fold my hands, what am I going to do with them? If I'm not going to sleep, what am I going to be active in? Well, this proverb starts to answer that question for you in 11 through 17. As you heard in the final set of verses, it's full of uh wild imagery to be able to communicate these things to you. So what I'd like to do is I'd like to just spend some time walking you through these verses 11 through 17 and then we can see just how applicable they are to our daily life The first thing I wanted to address with you, just so you can go back and read this to yourself, is you could, when you read it, doesn't it look like three separate sections? It seems like you could read the first one and then that could be one devotion. You could read the second one that has to do with leeches. That could be your second devotion. And then you could re About the in the uh the womb and fire and water, that could be another devotion. Then you could read about eagles eating eyes, that could be a different another devotion And I'm making the argument here, just by the way I put this in the bulletin, that all of this belongs together. And I wanted to show you why. And it's not going to take long, it's not complicated. There are bookends If you take a look at verse number 11, you see there is a generation that curses his father and does not bless his mother, and then mother and father show up again in 17. You see that The eye that mocks his father and scorns obedience to the mother, the ravens of the valley will pick it out, and the young eagles will eat it. So this shows to me that God wants us to think about all of these different, what seem like different things, He wants them to be thought about together. That is the way that He has composed this And so when we take this step by step, the very first part of this larger unit are the generations. The generations. You can see that here beginning in verse number 11. Take a look at that with me. There's going to be a lot of explaining today because there's a lot going on in this piece of poetry But in verse 11 you can see there is a generation. And verse number 12, there is a generation. In verse number 13, there is a generation. In verse number 14, there is a generation. These, you can just see with the repetition, belong together and are communicating a particular message. You can think of a generation. Uh you know, we could we use different uh we explain generation in different ways. Oh, that was your generation, this is my generation. But a generation is you can think of it as a group of people who represent an era or an ethos. You can even think of a generation as kind of standing for a particular movement or way that we're supposed to be within the world. Think, for example, of a phrase that we say, the generation of the 60s Right? You see what I'm saying there? There was a generation of the 60s, and that that generation had a particular ethos. or a um a way about it, you could you would know that it involved hippies and it involved flower power and it involved somehow San Francisco and LSD and other things. And that is getting really close to what's going on here within this proverb when he is repeating: there is a generation, there is an ethos, there are eras that come and go. That we must be aware of if we are to maintain social orders. Now you can see here that he's trying to make you aware of this because these generations, the ethos and the eras that will arise Cyclically, throughout history until Christ returns, will be generations that seek to tear down the vineyard and tear down God's kingdom. I mentioned that to you this morning, that when we think about serving Christ, alongside of that, on the other side of the coin, we have to recognize that it always takes place within the situation of warfare. And that's what we're seeing here. You might even be able to argue that in each generation you will see these generations or this ethos or these or this kind of era arising, and you will have to deal with it if you want to keep your city together If you want to keep your household together. Here is the ethos of the wicked, really. You know, Proverbs talks about this cyclical rising of the wicked You could look up, for example, Proverbs 28, verse 12, when it says, When the righteous rejoice, there is great glory. But when the wicked arise, we all hide ourselves. This is talking, it's trying to give you a picture really of history, social history, sociology, if you will, where you we should know and expect that in each of our generations we're going to see this certain ethos arise. Now You can see this also other places within the scriptures that there are generations that arise like this throughout history. Genesis 6. 5 says, Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually, and that was referred to as an evil generation. Jesus even talks like this in Matthew 12, 39 through 41, but he answered and said to them, An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign. And no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth The men of Nineveh will rise up in the judgment with this generation and condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah, indeed a greater Jonah than Jonah, is here So I'm just giving you a sampling that this idea of generations rising goes all the way through the canon of scriptures. It should be something that you're aware of if you're going to keep your life together as a community. There will be ethos and era where people rise that want to destroy your work. Now let's take a look in particular at the different character types that are named You notice when I read to you Proverbs 24 that the character type there was the lazy person In other proverbs that we went over together earlier this year, we went over other character types. There are five people that the Lord hates their character, knows six that he finds detestable. And then he goes through what those character types are. He's very concerned about making sure you know who you're dealing with in the world. And he does that here too in all of these verses. So let's just take a look at them together to see what character types he brings up. Number one, in verse 11, is that there is a generation that curses its father and does not bless its mother. Now, we looked at the ninth commandment last week, and this is obviously having to do with the fifth commandment. And this is turning God's social order on its head. It's taking what God intends in in the in order for the world to be able to flourish. And it's instead of it it um moving upward and creating beauty and having a beautiful garden. This is a flood that washes in and destroys everything. And that can begin within the child's heart as the instead of giving life back To those who gave them life, they instead decide to dishonor them. Now dishonor is not just talking back. Dishonor is a summary term for a heart attitude that is expressed in a million different ways in which we are dishonoring to parents. And it can be degrees. It could just be a snarky little look as they say something to you. It could move into them expressing it from your from their mouth It could move all the way over into where you would kill your mother or your father. Those are the different ways that we even see within the scriptures. In 1 Timothy 5. 4, there is an example. And you may want to write that down so that you can look at it and think about it as an example of something that's much larger. 1 Timothy 5. 4 says, but if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show piety at home and to repay their parents. Let me read that to you again. But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show piety at home and to repay their parents. There is a social obligation that children have to their parents. Now, the children go on for a long time, thinking the earth revolves around them. and having all of their needs met, but then there's supposed to be this switch over into hashtag adulthood where they start to realize they're to be repaying Now, 1 Timothy 5. 4 goes on to talk in 1 Timothy 5. 8, but if anyone does not prov provide for his own, thinking of the same situation, and especially for those of his household, mom and dad They have denied the faith, and they are actually worse than unbelievers. That's how serious we see this going across the canon of Scriptures with dishonoring mother and father The social order rests on children honoring their fathers and their mothers. Let's take a look at the next verse, verse number 12. There is a generation that is pure in its own eyes, and I'll actually keep keep going here Yet is not washed from its filthiness. I'll do thirteen also. There is a generation, oh, how lofty are their eyes, and their eyelids are lifted up. What a funny thing to say. But here what we have in the first one in verse number twelve, there's a generation that is pure in its own eyes, is they have set a standard for themselves that's not God's standards. And they live according to the dictates of their own heart. And they justify themselves. And then when we get to verse number 13, they're not sorry about it. They look down on other people if they don't go along with them. So what you have moved is not only as are there people who are dishonoring of the social order, you've moved into an a social arrogance. And you can see that therefore this won't get better. Actually one commentator says verse number 12 shows a supercilious arrogance. Has anybody ever heard that word? Has anybody know what a supercilium is? A supercilium is your eyebrow. It's like your eyebrow area. Supercilium. It's be and and uh we see this in different movies where I don't know exactly what the look is. I can't do it, I'm not an actor. But there's a way that you can make your eyebrows look where you look like You are superior to somebody else. Has anybody had that done to them? Has anybody seen it? I know that there are a couple different characters out there on uh movies that behave and look and think that they are superior to everybody else and they have nothing to learn. One would be, for example, Dolores Umbridge and Harry Potter. She drives me up the wall with the way that she looks Another one, this is uh little crasser but Regina George and Mean Girls I know that he eventually shows himself to have some kind of redeemable character, but in the beginning in the BBC series, Mr. Darcy just looks so stuck up with the way that what he does with his supercilium And his eyebrow area. And the same thing is going on here. These are the same kinds of people that are being talked about. Maybe you could think of um the Dalmatian cartoon from Disney, what's her name? Cruella. and how she would look at people. They're drawing on those kind of facial features that that uh this group would show. So that's verse number 12 and 13, and then we get, you'll notice that there is an escalation that is happening among these generations in verse number 14. These are not meant to be thought of as separate people. These are the same people that keep moving and escalating in their social anarchy and anti-uh anti-social behavior and really More and more becoming sociopaths. And here you see in fourteen, there is a generation whose teeth are like swords. And whose fangs are like knives to devour the poor from the earth and the needy from among men. This is the unethical exploitation of the weak and the defenseless poor. They are cruel this generation and rapacious as wild beasts. And it's interesting to me, just as we're going through the Gospel of Matthew Is that all of these marks that we see among this era, ethos, and generation are the same marks that Jesus points out about the scribes and the Pharisees? That a generation had arisen among God's people, even claiming themselves to be God's people. And you could see them looking condescendingly at everybody else. I'm so thankful, God, that I'm not like this man. Think of the supercilious arrogance there. But then going on, Jesus and Matthew 23 and the woes against the scribes and the Pharisees mentions that they have become like wild beasts with teeth that are like swords. He mentions in Matthew 23, 14, Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites. because you eat or devour widows' houses. Now this is the play on words. The community, as we just read from 1 Timothy, we are to contribute to widows. And help them to make ends meet. But here you see a whole generation that has risen and justified itself with incorrect theology to where they devour and eat widows instead of feeding them. So you can see that there in Jesus' time, you can see it in Noah's time, you can see it in Abraham's time and what The Proverbs is pointing out, as you could have seen it, is Solomon's time, because these generations happen every generation, and we have to be aware of them, because they will stand against the work that Christ has called us to do. Now That's a lot of explanations so far, but we have to keep going. We're now going to go ahead and switch. Take a look at the passage with me again. We've taken a look that this there's this whole section 11 through 17, and these are meant to be thought about together. We then went through a number of verses beginning in 11 that are connected by the repetition generation And we can see how this knowledge is supposed to help us to maintain social order. We have to know that there are characters that will arise that will eat and devour what you produce. And now, the proverbist wants us to think about this in verse number 15 in terms of leeches. I you know I you can see how these proverbs are just so memorable. I mean how do you forget a leech? There's actually a um I wish I would have had time to include an insert, but there's an old drawing of this proverb, of two leeches, and a city on fire in the background, and a grave And uh they have done a great job of representing what the proverb is is trying to get at here. And so you see here now we can start to think about those generations in terms of leeches This this section on leeches are meant to be a lens by which we would look at that group of people with those characteristics And um and actually the word here is with reference, this is gonna sound pretty nerdy, but the word here is with reference to what is called the Palestinian horse leech. A Palestinian horse leech. So now you fun fact. But the Palestinian horse leech resides in the stale waters of Palestine and surrounding regions. And when horses would come up to take a drink in this stale water The leeches would find their way into the nostrils of the horses and into their palates, and they would cling. Like parasites. I was talking to someone who actually is a rancher. She has 75 horses and a bunch of uh yaks actually in the high altitude of Colorado. And she was saying, I I I sent her this verse and I said, hey, you're a horse person. uh what's the deal with the leeches? Palestinian horse leeches. And she said, well we don't have Palestinian horse leeches in Colorado. But she did say it doesn't matter where you are, there's always something that's trying to kill a horse. So she talked about in her region dealing having to deal with um uh West Nile virus and other things that are working on horses there. She talked about another area where she had been in horses and the the difficulties that they have there And then here you can see that this is its own brand being in that middle eastern region of the horse leech where that leech clings onto the horse's nostrils or on the palate. And here's another interesting thing about this particular leech. This leech has, anatomically, has two sections under it, two mouths that never say enough. What the proverbist is doing here is the proverbist is personifying the leech as a mother who has two daughters. The one daughter, the one mouth on the leech, suctions itself to the horse's nostril. So that you can't pull it off. The second mouth then connects to the horse's nostril, penetrates the skin, and continually sucks blood. I imagine you're starting to get a picture of what the proverbist thinks about these generations. They are parasitical. They don't bring life to a community, they draw it away. In that sketch that I saw, where these two leeches were in the foreground of the drawing, Behind the two leeches was a burning city. And that is the result of a leech. And the way that the proverbist is encouraging you to think about it is that they are pulling the entire social order and society to a different end than its health. They are pulling it to their own to its own destruction because they have set themselves not on the flourishing of those around them. but on their own material prosperity, their own status, and other manifestations of human greed. That's what we see even within the scribes and the Pharisees, if you need a biblical example of that. Now That is at least some of the ways in which the proverbist wants you to juxtapose and to see the connection between that generation and the leech Now when it says there, take a look at the scriptures with me again in verse number 15. Do you see that exclamation point, give and give? I think right away we can just stop for a moment and we can ask, will those generations who are truly those generations and are not repentant, will they stop? Will they just stop on their own? And that's part of the lesson, is that in order to keep a society in order, sometimes things must be done And God has given us various means, prayer, teaching, discipline. Even within the civil order, we have a kind of enforcement that can take place. If you were to look at the Pharisees and the scribes and the woes of Matthew 23, who Jesus knew that they would always say, no, give, give, we want our status. And eventually Jesus has to stand with his arms open over Jerusalem and say, oh, how I would have longed to place you under my wing, but you have refused. And in seventy AD he'll have to send the Roman soldiers in in order to stop them from devouring everybody. So you can see right away how important it is for us to have a civil society that includes police and firemen and governors and senators and however it is that we structure our republic. You can see how important it is that God has given the administration of our civil lives to a group of people in order to bear the sword. Because if they didn't, because God knows what is in humanity, it would just be, give, give. And the same thing can happen within our children, and that is why there must be a part a part of parenting is discipline. Well that's a application quickly on the leech and how it would connect to those other generations. Now take a look with me at the rest of 15 going down into 16. We've moved from the generations to the leaks and now there is another section that is meant to be connected and integrated with what we have said about these generations and maintaining social order. Now what I'm going to lay before there are different ways to look at this section, but I want to look first at the pairs. P A I R S. Not the fruit, but pears. So let's take a look at together. There are three things that are never satisfied, four never say enough. And now we're going to have them listed for you. The grave, the barren womb, the earth that is not satisfied with water, and the fire never says enough. Now the first way that I want you to be able to see this is that they are given in pairs of extremity. The first pair is the grave. So that's the end of life, and then the barren womb, the beginning of life. The w the barren womb is a little difficult to tease out, but what's going on there is that the womb has been made for life And so the barren womb never says enough. It's always trying to produce something. That's the idea. So you have death and you have life. Those are the first two extremes. And then we have the next pair, the earth that is not satisfied with water, and the fire never says enough. Now that should be pretty obvious to you that you now have water and fire. And we have opposites going on there. But you can also look at this as not just in pairs that link like that, but you can also look at it as this poetic structure that goes from the outside into the interior. Again, talking about life and death in different ways. So let's take a look at that. The grave goes with fire. The water goes with life in the womb. And that makes a lot of sense. And what the proverbist is trying to do here, whether through pairs or an outer or an inner core, with death and fire and life and water She's trying to point out to you again that, remember, the exclamation point is give, give with the leech, and then the exclamation point is never enough. Never enough. It's not going to end That every time you try to bring life, there will be fire there to sap up the water. That every time you try to bring life, there will also be death present. That you can expect that in each generation there will be an era and an ethos that is working against you as you seek to bring back paradise, there will be those who enter and try to take away the water with fire. Now it took me a long time to get to that, and I've just given it to you in like a minute and thirty seconds. So I imagine you're going to have to meditate on this proverb, but there's a lot going on there, and this accords with what commentators say also of many sorts. The evil generations like death and fire will continue in cycles, arising and falling throughout history, and they will work against the order which the righteous seek to bring to society. And that brings us back to Proverbs 24. I went by the field of the lazy man and by the vineyard of the man devoid of understanding, and there it was, all overgrown with thorns. Its surface was covered with nettles, its stone wall was broken down. Do you notice all of the same elements present there? What is meant to be life, there's an entropy present that is making it move towards death. And the way to change that would be for the person who is in that Proverb 24 is to no longer be lazy. To leave behind those generations that we saw and instead step by the power of God into the renewal of the Holy Spirit That they could be the water and the life that is working against the continual entropy that is against God's kingdom. And that is a picture of you. It gives you an expectation of what to expect if you want to maintain God's kingdom on earth. You can't have a little folding of the hands. You can't have one nap after another. It will go on all the way to the end. All the way to the end. When you realize that you're taking your last breath and someone's singing or reading a hymn to you and you're you know that you're getting ready to go see the Lord. It will go all the way to that end. You'll see the two, water and fire, life and death, entropy, and the the the building of the kingdom of God. Now This is the last part. Thanks for hanging in there with me. There's a lot going on in this section. Now we get to ask the question After you die, will there be a day when death stops Will there be a day when when Jesus brings all things to right, where the fire doesn't burn things down any longer? And the grave is no longer in contest with us. And that brings us into our final section. In verse number 17, the eye that mocks his father and scorns obedience to his mother, we're right back to that ethos, era, and generation. And we see that in the end they won't win. In the end, evil doesn't triumph. Why? Because you can see that there will be a solution from heaven. The ravens of the valley will pick out pick out the eye and the young eagles will eat it. Now Are they, you know, in American society, if you saw ravens and eagles, uh both of which are vultures, by the way, I'm not sure why we think of bald eagles the way that we do But if they're they're never mind. But the but if we were watching a movie in our culture, it would we would see eyes eaten out of a human face for effect. But that's not what's going on here with the perverbist. The reason why he picks the eye. The reason why he picks the eye is because the eye represents and reveals the mindset. You'd have to read all of Proverbs to see this, but the eyes reveal a person's mindset, what they're focused on, what they decide to give attention to. It reveals their aims of greed, and it reveals their sociopathic intents. And what's being pointed out here in this adventure and this journey that we've gone through with this proverb. Is that in the end, God will act, just as he has said in many other proverbs, God will rid the earth of such parasites and society-sucking leeches. And he can do that in a few ways. One of the ways is by you showing mercy to them And God through you, bringing them to Himself, that they would leave that generation Now you know one of the ways that we're able to see that this really clearly and to take heed to these things that have that are being said is to remember our Christian baptism. You know, we get in a lot of different arguments about baptizing, like household baptism is what I call it. I don't call it infant baptism. I call it household baptism. I think that's a better way to talk about it biblically. And you can see you s you you know that that household baptism of our of our children, even when they're that young, those babies that you see up here. That is meant to be a s that is a that is a sign and a seal so that you could see that they have moved into a holy community so that we can work with mercy in our hearts. and diligence in our fingers and in our feet to m to to cry out to God that they would not join those generations. That they wouldn't be the fire but the water for the world. I wonder if that's helpful for you to think about, that that's baptism is Jesus Christ's way of giving mercy to our children. For us to be able to see what's in front of us. What do we need to do? in order to make sure that society doesn't collapse even within their own souls. The other thing that I think that this proverb does for us Is it sets real s it sets realistic expectations on our callings? You know, I continually hear uh ways that we represent our world that we think that we we we see something that would be good to do or good to have and then we think that because we have desired To have that good thing or to do that good thing, that now it will just happen. But what we end up seeing here within the scriptures is that there is Nothing really good that happens without fighting for it. Like I mentioned, this is again within the context of Warfare. There's death and fire, life and water. And so we are going to need to help each other. We're going to need to have realistic expectations. You're going to have to realize that you're never going to get it perfect And Jesus Christ has allowed for you to be able to live not perfectly, but will give you progress And then the other thing I think that's very important in here is that do you see that in order for the world to be brought to rights, for us to be able to return back to that garden that we see in Revelation 21 that you're not going to be the solution? That it will rely on Jesus Christ. Amen. The raven and the eagle at the end. He's the one that's going to have to set things right in his wisdom. We're going to have to receive relief from heaven. We're going to have to receive from relief from heaven at the end of all things. And you're going to have to receive relief from heaven every day of your life in order for the vineyard of your household, your marriage, your relationship with your children to not be overtaken with thorns and nettles. There's just so much against you. Have you ever heard testimonies of people visiting the Amazon and they s they they come to the realization that I'm in this jungle and I realize that 99% of the things here want to kill me And it's the same thing with your good efforts. We can see that in this proverb. The last thing I wanted to do was I wanted to read something together with you. So could you turn in your scriptures to Romans chapter 16, 17 through 20? This passage, which is dear to many of you because it speaks about crushing Satan under our feet. This passage gives the same message as the proverb that you just heard. Romans 16, 17 through 20. What you're going to see in this passage are the generations An encouragement not to become one of them, and please place your hope on the promises that Jesus Christ is going to be the one to bring things to rights. Romans 16, 17 through 20. Now I urge you, brethren, note those who cause divisions and offenses, contrary to the doctrine which you learned, and avoid them For those who are such do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly, and by smooth words and flattering speech deceive the hearts of the simple Now that's that generation that we talked about. But those who accept the words of the proverbists, they are the wise. And we move into the next. For your obedience has become known to all, and therefore I am glad on your behalf. But I want you to be wise in what is good and to be simple concerning evil. And here's the last part of the promise. And the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. Amen. So I'd encourage you to take this proverb that you heard today in the preaching of his word. Read it alongside Romans 16, 17 through 20. So that the Lord may bless you in seeing what is it going to take in order for you to keep your communities together? I know that's important to you. I know you don't want to see your families or your church or even your nation to dissolve And Christ here today and this evening has poured out to you by way of the preaching of the Word wisdom by which you would keep things together. By his power and ultimately by his promise. Let us pray.