To Judges chapter seven. We have a reading this morning from verses twenty-four till eight chapter three Judges seven, twenty four through eight, three Well remember from last week that the men of Israel gathered together to pursue the Midianites in verse twenty-three, and now we continue in twenty-four. Then Gideon sent messengers throughout all the mountains of Ephraim, saying, Come down against the Midianites and seize from them the watering places as far as Beth Barah and the Jordan. Then all the men of Ephraim gathered together and seized the watering places as far as Bethbarah and the Jordan, and they captured two princes of the Midianites, Oreb and Zayib. They killed Oreb at the rock of Oreb, and Zaib they killed at the winepress of Zaiib. They pursued Midian and brought the heads of Oreb and Zaib to Gideon on the other side of the Jordan. Now the men of Ephraim said to him, Why have you done this to us by not calling us when you went to fight with the Midianites? And they reprimanded him sharply. So he said to them, What have I done now in comparison with you? Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiazer? God has delivered into your hands the princes of Midian, Orab, and Zaeb. And what was I able to do in comparison with you? Then their anger had s uh then their anger toward him subsided when he had said that. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, we thank you that from the beginning you have been communicating with your people that we might know What we are to believe concerning you and your salvation, and what you require of us. Lord, you are in your ascension, ruling over all things. And in a special way, even over your church. And I pray that you would rule over us now by the preaching of your word. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us To have wisdom that your church would remain united. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Our doctrine from last week can be summarized and was summarized last week from Jeremiah 23, or uh Jeremiah chapter 9, verses 23 through 24. Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, let not the mighty man glory in his might, nor let the rich man glory in his riches, but let him who glories glory in this. that he understands and knows me. Well, we are going to continue unfolding a little bit about God's glory and man seeking to grasp it or rob God of his glory. Which Jeremiah was also addressing. But we're going to do so now with this very small little occasion that took place between Gideon and the tribe of Ephraim. And so as we normally do with simplicity, we will have some observations to get our heads around the passage a little bit more. And then we'll state our doctrine and move into some application, which is largely with regard to the lessons we're supposed to learn from the interaction between these tribes. And it has a lot to say to us today about church unity. Let's begin by just noticing a few things, though, that we just read. In chapter seven, verse twenty-three, which we read last week and that I reminded you of this week, does begin the decline of Israel. This will result in idolatry, which I've been promising to you for several weeks now, that we will see Gideon quite soon. Lead the nation into idolatry. And that 723 verse with them pursuing in the way that they did is the beginning of that. They're not really relying on the Lord any longer. For now, however, what we witness is that Israel regathers many thousands of troops. And if you remember, they're just over in the war camp. That's where they all went back to. So it's going to be those who had been refined out of the main army. In addition to the 300 who brought down the pots and the torches and chased Midian out of their camp. Together now, they are going to pursue the Midianites Gideon, moreover, is going to send messengers, and did send messengers, as you can see in verse 24 of chapter 7, and he's going to stir up the tribe of Ephraim and say, we have them on the run. We need you to participate and to secure the victory. Ephraim, we can see then, does a great deal Ephraim captures and spends a the account spends a great deal of time on Ephraim and what they have done, and they've beheaded two Midianite princes or rulers. And what we see in 25 with the wine press and the rock, this is a memorialization of their victory. You could no longer go to that area and visit those places without remembering what the Ephraimites accomplished and who they conquered Consider it like a trophy, if you will, or a trophy room, or a memorial. That's observation one, where we can see what's going on. with that continued picture of them fighting against the Midianites and now the Ephraimite location and all of that. Well let's notice another thing. Now we're going to, we've been moving pretty fast. And now we're going to really slow down in the episode here, and we're going to watch a personal interaction. Between the chieftain of the tribe of Ephraim and Gideon. The narrator relays this interaction in a great deal of detail, actually. And what this does is it helps us to see into the heart of the Ephraimites, which is going to be very important by the time you get to chapter 12 when we deal with them again with Jephthah. So there's a couple questions that should be rising in your mind when you read this. You should be asking, for example, why did Ephraim bring the heads to Gideon? Why did they seek to memorialize their actions as a tribe? And what we discover in the way that they approach Gideon and Gideon's response, as well as what we've already read in this passage of Gideon. Is that they are dealing with one thing, and it is pride. Look, for example, at Ephraim's bone of contention with Gideon in chapter 8, verse 1. Now the men of Ephraim said to him, Why have you done this to us by not calling us when you went to fight with the Midianites? And they reprimanded him sharply. Now this is language that speaks of about to enter into war. The places were renamed to glorify the tribe of Ephraim. They took the heads of princes as trophies to glorify themselves. And they were ready to war with Gideon because he had apparently denied them more glory in the fighting of the war. But what was the actual story that is the reason why they were not a part of the battle? Even if Gideon did recruit Ephraim earlier, would they not have just stayed in the war camp with all the others? God only wanted 300 to fight so that Israel did not claim glory to herself. And yet one of the very first things we see After the Battle of Gideon, is Israel one of the tribes seeking glory for itself? What you witness, therefore, is a tribe of Israel. Doing exactly what God was concerned about, what she stated in chapter 7, verse 2, and I'll just read the tail end of that, lest Israel claim glory for itself against me. saying, My own hand has saved me. Ephraim's mindset is going to continue into chapter 12 That they are going to bump up against the wrong person. His name is Jephthah, and Jephthah is going to execute most of the tribe. Jeffsta has some other poor qualities also, and we'll learn about those later. Now, that takes us into observation number three. Ephraim's interaction with Gideon unfolds wisdom which the church needs in every era. Here is another moment when there's a positive commendation of a person and their actions in Judges. And those are rare. So we really want to pay attention when the narrator stops us and says, look at how this was handled. On the one hand Ephraim teaches us that it is a grievous sin to create disunity among the church, especially when it is from pride and envy. On the other hand, what we see is that Gideon teaches us that in wisdom we must seek to keep the household together. We must be clothed in the spirit of wisdom to be able to do so. Gideon's response: if you had to summarize it from the book of Proverbs, what would you say? A soft answer turns away wrath. It's kinda obvious, isn't it? And you can see him appealing to their glory mongering. Look at you. We're nothing in comparison of you. Look at how high and elevated you are. We just have scraps compared to your main meal that you have accomplished. That's what he means by the gleanings. Well, that's exactly right. A soft reply turns away wrath, while an irritating word provokes anger. That's the rest of the Proverbs. That's Proverbs 15, verse 1. And then if you were to scan down just the 15 verse 4, there's a follow-up, and it says, the tongue's balm is a tree of life, while any distortion in it breaks the spirit. Gideon, clothed with the spirit, already sees that Ephraim is irritated, and he sees that they are inflamed, and so in wisdom, and perhaps there's a mixture of some cowardice here. So in wisdom, he uses his tongue like medicine to soothe and like water to cool. And he saves them by God's grace from civil war Now this week, we are going to take our lesson from the interaction between the tribe of Ephraim and the tribe of Gideon, who is Manasseh. Because the narrator has stopped us here, it's its own little episode before we move on to further pursuing. And here is the doctrine. I'll put it in two ways: negative and then positive. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is bitter disunity among her tribes. And then positively speaking, the church instead is called to exercise their wisdom in the spirit of wisdom for the peace of the church. Let me say that to you again. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is bitter disunity among her tribes. The church instead is called to exercise their wisdom for the peace of the church Now, what I'd like to do, children, those of you who are taking sermon notes, I have two main points of application: lessons from the tribes, or lessons from tribes, or tribal lessons. And lessons in wisdom. Lessons from tribes and lessons in wisdom. So let's begin with this lesson from the tribes. I've been thinking about lessons from tribes actually for a couple of years now. And I hope that this really benefits you and that you can keep meditating on this also. What we have done around here is we have worked diligently, even in the book of Judges, as a congregation, to make sure that we're reading the Word of God well. One of the griefs, griefs, the one of the ways in which we're grieving is the church's loss of knowing how to read the scriptures. And so toward the end of correcting that, we have realized, and I've said this so many times, that God has in fact provided us with history in his scriptures, but it is not just for history's sake. He intends for the church to learn, for example, from judges for the sake of their own day The eternal Christ has been instructing the church for a much longer period of time than after the point of his incarnation. And so those who read it well are able to see his instruction even in judges for the modern-day believer or post-modern-day believer. The church during the time of judges, in other words, struggled deeply with worldliness, and we've been calling that canonization And the church today, therefore, can take instruction from their experiences, at least take warnings as to what can take place within church life and seek to avoid them And this morning, going along with that same effort and thrust that we've been doing at least since 2019. The tribes are here for us to take lessons from. The tribes are analogous or represent the composition of the total church And they are analogous, and there is a great deal of fruit to come out of meditation upon the church as kinds of churches or denominations that we have today and how they are supposed to relate to each other and what will happen when they start to relate poorly and how to pull out of that. There's a great deal of meditation. The tribes are mentioned here in Judges, but they're mentioned in many other places, including the New Testament, and you'll see analogous examples even in 1 Corinthians, where Paul and Apollos are starting to become kind of a separate tribal instinct or something along those lines. There's a ton of conversation to have here for the benefit of Christ's pride. I've wanted to draw lessons from the interaction of the tribes for some time now, and I've had to exercise the virtue of patience. But I cannot take it any longer. For example, when we were going through the song of Deborah, there were already tribal lessons to learn. And I so badly wanted to say them to you. But we didn't have the time. Do you remember in her song what she said about tribal interrelationships and some of the problems that can result? She commended those who showed up for the battle, and others she mocked for staying on their sailboats and enjoying the beach life. She said this in Judges chapter 5, verse 17. Gilead stayed beyond the Jordan. And why did Dan remain on ships? That's the sailboats. Asher or Asher continued at the seashore, that's the beach, and stayed by his inlets. Now those are not commendations. So essentially saying you have a fraternal relationship or a brotherly relationship or you are siblings and they were in distress and you decided to stay on your boat in the severn. It is too easy in that example, in that song, through the mouth of Deborah, to see the heart of the eternal Christ in his song. One tribe in that specific circumstance should have helped the other. And they should have thought of each other as brothers and sisters, and they should have come to the aid of their brothers and their sisters. What a lesson, in other words, for the church today and our responsibility not only to ourselves, but the churches that are around us. The denominations that are around us. And when you start to read something like this, you should very quickly start to get into a kind of inspection to see if there is a pride and envy present within you as individuals. or as a congregation that you're taking in your individuality as a specific congregation or person that keeps you from helping other people. You would rather see churches die and fail so that you could become greater. That's a part of this conversation. That's been going on at least since the Song of Deborah, but we could come up with some other examples. When I think of this When I think about how God loves it when we help our brothers and sisters in a time of need, even at the level of congregations and even at the level of denominations, This reminds me of a gentleman that I met in a postgraduate seminar. He was a missionary starting in the early 80s in Burundi. This is in Africa, Uganda, I believe. And he was sent to Burundi to p uh to train pastors Because in the 70s, and I think it was in 1972, I was born in 77. So some of you will remember 72, but I do not. But because uh in the 70s or in 1972 there was a civil war in that country, he had to go over there to train pastors because all of the young pastors had been killed. And this was this this was an earlier part of what would later become in the 80s the Rwandan genocides and in the 90s. He was a part of all of those things. He was a missionary during that time. And I heard him wonder out loud as he was dealing with and sharing so many stories of us of what it was like. To be there present as a missionary during the genocides and even the eruption that had taken place beforehand. And he would come back to the states. From watching the little boys and girls in his school taken away from the school by the army, asked what their ethnicity was. if they gave a certain answer, taken away, executed, and then their bodies put in a river. That's what he came from. And then he would come to North America, he would say, and nobody was talking about it And he felt this tension of why is it that the church is suffering so badly in this one particular place But we're talking about nonsense in North America and no one seems to be aware or willing to help what's actually going on And he uses this to raise the kind of question that we're raising this morning through the song of Deborah: what happens in the heart of the church when it no longer knows the pain or suffering of its brother or its sister? Or what if they know, but they don't care anymore? What has happened to the people of God? Well, we're saying there's been some level of canonization, hasn't there? Some level. What is it that we use to justify such attitudes of not caring? Is it the mode, recipient, and administration of a baptism? What could it be? to keep us separate and turn into Cain and Abel in a sense. Well that's what I'm reminded of when I think of the The Deborah example, and that's just one lesson from the tribes. It raises questions about our responsibility not just to each other, the tribe of Baptist or Protestant or within Protestant well the Protestant And then look at all the divisions of Protestantism, including Baptists and Presbyterians. But to other congregations in the area, even if you just want to think about proximity, and perhaps even other denominations in faraway places I just want to use this as a moment for you to say: should we be asking what is our responsibility? Do we have any responsibility to other churches? Are they to be thought of as brothers and sisters? And that's one lesson from the tribes I've wanted to bring up for a while. And I guess I got my way. Generally speaking, Christ through judges and the tribes has lessons for us. Now that's one. But our lesson this morning, however, is not from the Song of Deborah or a modern analogy to Rwanda and the Genocides. But from Gideon and the wisdom that the Spirit gives to him. And so I want to now move into lessons and wisdom. It really should not surprise us that the Spirit evokes the book of Proverbs as Gideon keeps the tribes from civil war. And it was a great delight to me to see the Spirit working in you this morning as I heard many of you quote the verse that immediately came to mind. The Spirit's just being clear here, isn't he? That's the manifestation of the proverb. What Gideon is doing And it's no wonder that we're taken to the book of Proverbs because the book of Proverbs for the church has always been about keeping the household of God together. The result of foolishness or not having wisdom is not getting a math problem wrong. It's tearing apart society. It's about tearing apart families due to your foolishness. It's about tearing apart churches due to your foolishness. It's about even tearing apart nations due to foolishness. All of that is there in the book of Proverbs. It's about keeping the household together. The main teaching in Proverbs denounces those Who break down the social order. And it has five or six different names for those kinds of people. But it praises those who keep us united. And we see such praise in the proverb that you recited and that I recited. Proverbs praise the kind of people, and he says. You know, those of you who protect the peace and the purity of the church, you are like a tree of life. Can you imagine a better commendation? If I came to you and I said to you, you are a tree of life to this community, wouldn't that be a good moment in your day? And I wasn't just referring to like how you bring sausage links in the morning or something. But how you contribute more widely. Proverbs put another way, with this tree of life and the tongue being a balm. And the language of soothing and hot and cold. This is medicinal language in the ancient world. Proverbs praises such people by talking about you as being medicine for us. Medicine for the community. There's a fracture in the relationships, and somehow, clothed in the Spirit, Christ uses you to bind us back together. People are bruised, and somehow you alleviate the bruises and soothe. Those are the kind of people that are commended in the book of Proverbs. So it is no wonder that it is evoked here within the Gideon story as we see Gideon clothed in the Spirit. I want to give you an image that is an image that has always stuck in my mind because I experienced it. It is as if in this episode, it is as if the tribe of Ephraim has something attacking their skin, is it not? When you look at how they are interacting with people, and go ahead to chapter 12 in your own time and look at how they interact with the people there, you want to look at these people and say, you're crawling in your own skin. You are itchy. You look like you're burning inside. You are so agitated And this of course reminds me of an image of my early youth when I uh got poison ivy over my entire body. Has anyone else had this experience? Can I get an amen? Woo! I had poison ivy all over my body. I remember that even my eyes were itching, and every time I would go to itch my eyes, my grandmother would smack my hands, telling me it was just going to make it worse and cause more blisters. And so I had to lie there on a pair of old sheets that they're just gonna burn or throw away afterward. And then I remember my grandmother showing up with some kind of magical medicine that she learned about in the hill country of western Pennsylvania. And she applied it to my arms and my legs, and it was just soothing relief. And I was actually able to fall asleep and to get some rest. That, my friends. Is maybe silly, maybe not significant, but it is a memory that I have, and I think it captures well what is before us in our calling as a church. That is what the spirit-clothed people do for an agitated church community. You are the soothing relief. You are the magic medicine from the hill countries of western Pennsylvania. You are the kind of person and you are meant being clothed in the Spirit who is the Spirit of Peace. You are meant to soothe interpersonal conflicts and agitations. You are meant to soothe and bring balms to intercongregational irritations. And we learn from the tribes that we should keep going further out and not be so individualistic, even with our local congregation. And that we have some kind of responsibility in interdenominational agitations and irritants. And that of course raises another question for us because I think we can see the teaching from the Scriptures clearly We see the analogy with the poison ivy, and I think you can hear the responsibilities that are rising up out of the word for us. The main question for us to consider this morning is insofar as it depends on us, are we promoting peace? Or are we fundamentally anti-social in the kingdom of God? Are we wise or are we foolish? Now those go in degrees, but where are we on the scale? I have to say that I'm not ignorant. At least not in all things. And so I'm not ignorant in this, in that I understand that the book of Proverbs doesn't just talk about a gentle word in keeping the community together. Sometimes we need to admonish one another. Sometimes a person needs rebuke. Sometimes a person needs a rod or a spanking. Sometimes we need to defend. But even in those moments, we can ask the question, as a congregation, especially in this era with the news cycle and how they choose to treat each other. We can still, even in the moment of defending the truth, ask: do we too easily or unnecessarily break the bones of the church? Are we too rough with her? It's a good question for us to ask. It's a good question for us to ask, even as a denomination with interdenominational conflicts Over homosexuality or whatever it is. Yes, we must defend. Yes, we must rebuke. Yes, we must admonish. But is not the peace of the church important too? Is there a way to have it all happen and stay together? Is there a way to be brothers and sisters? I want you to remember our lesson this morning. It is this. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is bitter disunity among her tribes. And I'm drawing an analogy between the tribes and the kind of tribes that we have divided into, which are called denominations. Many of you look at denominations as a curse. I look at them as a necessary grace and blessing so that we can get on with the work and not argue about things all the time. And we can worship with a clear conscience. It is a grace until Christ returns to have different denominations. It is never intended in the providential working of Christ and His Spirit for you to treat the true church that is divided in other denominations to treat them as if they are not your brothers and your sisters. You do not need to concede to falsehood. But the fact that they are a part of the true church means that there is at their heart the confession of the true faith, the apostolic faith. And we cannot use secondary or tertiary issues to excuse ourselves as we stab one another with our words or even with real physical objects Please remember that if we do so, we are walking down a very, very dark path. Have we begun that path? Another symptom of the canonization of the church is bitter disunity among her tribes. It will be, in fact, far from easy. It will require personal sacrifice and communal sacrifice. But may we exercise wisdom for the purity of the church while maintaining her peace. Amen. Let us pray