I know it's been uh it's been a month, and so it may feel like we're not quite getting our way through this song. But that's okay. We've got a couple more years for Psalm 119 at one stanza per month. Gives us a chance to really digest it and chew on it. Psalm one nineteen. If you have your Bibles opened, Uh could I ask if we could stand for the reading of God's Word? We stand out of respect for our Lord, because this is His Word, not the Word of Seven Run EP, or the Word of Me, or of any other person. This is the Word of the Living God. God. Starting in verse 17 through 24. Deal bountifully with your servant, that I may live and keep your word. Open my eyes that I may see wondrous things from your law. I am a stranger in the earth. Do not hide your commandments from me. My soul breaks with longing for your judgments at all times You rebuke the proud, the cursed, who stray from your commandments. Remove from me reproach and condemn, for I have kept your testimonies. Princes also sit and speak against me, but your servant meditates on your statutes. Your testimonies also are my delight and my counselors. Let's pray. God in heaven, this is your word. Without your blessing, without your illumination. It is simply words. But because of your promise, and because of the great work of your Son Jesus Christ, We trust that your Spirit, that dwells in me and dwells in all of your children, will illuminate this scripture for us, that it would edify us and conform us into the image of your Son. We ask your blessings on this endeavor now, in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I don't think it's a surprise to anyone that our modern culture creates celebrities. And some of these celebrities have some really unique personalities. I wonder if you're familiar with the famous professional boxer Cassius Clay, otherwise known as Muhammad Ali. He was well known for being such a personality. He was notoriously proud. And he had a very high view of himself and especially of his abilities, and he really wasn't worried one bit if someone didn't like him telling them just how good he was. Now there's a famous story that I've heard about Ali. He was on a long airplane flight. And there was turbulence, so the pilot turns on the fastened seatbelt light. And a stewardess walks up to Ali and asks if he needs help because she notices his Seatbelt isn't fastened. As the story goes, Ali, non-plussed by the stewardess or the turbulence, turns to her and says, Superman don't need no seatbelt. To which the stewardess replies, not skipping a beat, Superman don't need no airplane, neither. Pride affects us all. Not a single one of us is immune to pride. For the Christian, it's a particularly dangerous sin because it at times it can creep into our lives without our notice. Even if we are seeking to live a life of godly purity with all of our best efforts Now you might remember from stanza 2 last month that we examined the Bet stanza, the second letter of the Hebrew alphabet, and we saw that to live God's way We must follow God's word. And God's word, when sought with the whole heart in obedience and delight, will reveal the mind of the Lord. It reveals what pleases him, and it reveals what angers him And as we contemplate the scriptures, we are given understanding by God in order that we might follow His path through our life. Now, even though a man may be seeking to follow God and follow his way as revealed in his word, there's a danger common to all of us that can hinder such progress. That danger is Pride. It's a danger when it grows inside of ourselves, inside of our own hearts, and it's a danger to us from others who have promoted its growth within themselves. What are we to do? Can Christians be protected from pride? Brothers and sisters, rejoice And praise our mighty God for His grace and mercy in giving to you His inspired and holy word delivered through this particular prayer from this particular psalmist. Because tonight we are looking at this third stanza, the Gimel stanza, verses 17 through 24 of Psalm 119. And I pray that we will all see together that dependence upon God and His Holy Word is our only protection against pride. Dependence upon God and His holy Word is our only protection against pride. We're going to look at this in two ways. We're going to see in verses 17 through 20 the protection against pride in ourselves And we'll look at verses 21 through 24 and see the protection against pride in others. Is it any surprise that the psalmist who wrote this, who wrote Psalm 119, would direct us once again to the Word of God as the remedy for our problems? Let's look now at this particular stanza, this particular part of the prayer that's been preserved for us, and we will see in verses 17 through 20 the protection against pride in ourselves. And this protection comes by means of our humble dependence upon God, and we'll see this in verses 17 and 18. One must depend upon God if we are to live and to serve Him. Look at verse 17. It says, Deal bountifully with your servant that I may live And keep your word. Notice the humility that is present in recognizing our proper place before God. The psalmist recognizes that God is the Master and He the servant. We must also recognize that God is the Master and we are the servant. And make no mistake, though the psalmist here uses an imperative and is saying, deal bountifully, or reward me He is not giving orders or demands or commands to God. The psalmist recognizes that life itself and obedience to God by keeping his word is a reward from God. He is dealing bountifully with us when God gives us continued existence and the desire to keep his word. We must depend upon God if we are to see and to know Him. And this is what we see in verse 18. says, Open my eyes, that I may see wondrous things from your law. We can only know God at His pleasure and on His terms. If we are to have any knowledge of God and to see Him, it must be revealed to us. He must open our eyes to the truth of his revelation, which is his word, which is the Bible. Now, how can pride inflate itself in our spirit if we understand this as the psalmist does? Can it? God's law, His Word, has been given to us, not discovered by us. In it we see wondrous accounts of God's dealing with humanity throughout all of history. But none of it will mean a thing to us if God Himself doesn't give us eyes to see and ears to hear. If we are properly dependent upon God, humbly recognizing that we can do nothing and know nothing apart from His good pleasure to reveal Himself to us Then we have thwarted pride's gestation by cutting it off at the root. And how do we receive this revelation from the Lord? In the Bible. In his word. This is where God tells us of himself. We are protected from pride in ourselves by a humble dependence on God Himself. And by recognizing our desperate need for God's word. And we're going to look at our desperate needs for God's Word as we see it in verses 19 and 20. Look first at 19. I am a stranger in the earth. Do not hide your commandments from me. From this verse we learn that God's word is truly special. And we need it because it is all that we have of our true home. All Christians are like the Psalmists. We are strangers in the earth, sojourners. We don't belong here. We're meant for something better, something greater, something more amazing. We are meant to eternal life with God the Father in paradise. In the new heavens and the new earth. Everywhere we look here on earth, there's death and decay and misery. Everything reminds us that this world is perishing. It's being changed like a garment. Everything here reminds us that we are strangers. Brothers and sisters, can you imagine what life would be like if God had not given you his word? What would you know about him and his wondrous plan of salvation in Jesus Christ? What comfort could you have? Could you call yourself His son or his daughter, if you didn't have the Bible that shows you and explains to you how it is he's made you his child How is it that He's made those who are not His people into His people? We must have God's revelation if we are to survive in this world. Well, thank God that He has given us His Word so that we can. Brothers and sisters, we desperately need to know We desperately need God's word, not only because it's the only concrete communication from our Father in our true and eventual home, but we desperately need his word because it is the only source. For true wisdom that we cannot live without. Look at verse 20. The psalmist says: My soul breaks with longing for your judgment at all times. It isn't easy for pride to take root if one is desperate for the judgment of another. A soul that breaks with longing is not one that is self-sufficient or independent. The Christian must be desperate for God's judgments, for his wisdom This dependence on God's judgment quashes pride before it even has a chance to grow. It is God's judgments, his decisions, his determinations that Christians need so completely. This world does not make sense The things that happen to us in our lives don't make sense. The tragedies we experience, the losses we experience, the suffering that happens to us every single day does not make sense. Without God's word. Our only path to be content, to experience delight and joy in this life, is to know and to heed the judgments of God. To understand his purposes, to hear his promises, to see his mighty power bringing his purposes about, regardless of whatever man does. This is what we need to make sense of our lives, God's word. And this is what He gives us. Now, pride is not only a danger to ourselves because it grows within us and damages our thoughts and tarnishes our understandings. It can be a danger to others as well when pride gives us a false sense of ourselves. Pride can make us mean, can make us judgmental, can make us hypercritical, can make us hypocritical. Pride can do a lot of damage to the people we love around us. And the pride of others can affect us as well, can't it? It can harm us. Let's look at verses 21 through 24, and let's see how God and His Word are our protection. not only against pride in ourselves, but against the pride in others. Again we see our humble dependence upon God. Again we see dependence Upon God in verses 21 and 22, but this time we see how it protects us against the pride in others. God protects us. Through his rebuke of others' pride. Look at verse 21. It says, You rebuke the proud, the cursed, who stray from your commandments. All people who allow pride to take over their thoughts and their actions are not sinning against you and against me in their behavior primarily. Primarily, they are sinning against God. We understand from the psalmist's words that the proud are guilty of a particular mindset and worldview, one that devalues and ignores the commandments of God. This is, in and of itself, a curse. For just as the blessing of God is to believe his word and want to keep it, the curse of God is to leave a person exactly where they are. Ignorant of his word, uncaring about his word, with no desire whatsoever to obey Jehovah. He protects us from their pride by rebuking them, sometimes publicly. And we see the rebuke, we remember that God does not overlook sin. He notices it. He cares about it. Nothing done in secret will stay there, especially if it is against the Lord. Only through the atoning work of Jesus Christ can sin be dealt with. It's never just overlooked. It's dealt with. It is atoned for. It is expiated. It is erased from your account. And since God is rebuking the proud, not allowing their pride to be viewed as acceptable or profitable, we are protected from their pride, enticing us to desire a similar life. When you see a proud person's life falling apart in the news because a scandal that's been made public is coming out into the open, and you see Jail time and you see all of the consequences that come from a person's pride, doesn't it make you pause? Doesn't it cause you to say, There, but for the grace of God go I? Doesn't it cause you to pray and beg and fall on your knees and say, Lord, let that never happen to my pastor? Let that never happen to me. This is how seeing pride dealt with in others helps protect us against their pride from damaging us. Well, we depend on God for our protection against the pride in others because He alone has the power to overrule the results of their pride, that is, their behavior. Look at verse 22 together. Remove from me reproach and contempt, for I have kept your testimonies. Now I realize that this can be a little confusing. It almost seems like the psalmist is saying, Don't rebuke me, God, like those proud people, because I'm better than them. I keep your testimonies. Brothers and sisters, we can't let ourselves fall into that kind of trap in trying to interpret the Bible. We can't fall into this trap that could lead us to understanding this verse as some kind of support for legalism or for claiming that our good do our good deeds can influence God's actions towards us. We have to look at the context around this verse, and we see that it is dealing with the actions of others and God's response to those actions, not the psalmist's actions and God's response to him. And we can understand this as the psalmist saying: Lord, don't ignore the proud or their reproaches and contempt upon me for loving you and striving to stay faithful to your word. The world will never be truly friendly to Christians without some ulterior motive. And this is especially true when Christians are zealous for God's Word. When we are zealous for his testimonies and his laws and his commands and his judgments. Now again, we see the believers' desperate need for God's word in verses 23 and 24. We saw in both cases, in both protections, the protection against Pride in ourselves, we saw a dependence upon God and on his word, and now we see again in the protection against the pride in others, dependence upon God, and now dependence upon his word. A desperate need for his word. Look at verse 23. Starts, princes also sit and speak against me. There are proud men harming the psalmist here. They're speaking out against him and demonstrating the reproach and contempt that was mentioned in the previous verse. Some of the proudest of people can be those people who have been put in places of authority. And when such a one, given over to this kind of pride, is also given authority. They can make many people's lives miserable. Pride and authority are a recipe for tyranny in every human being. It can happen to young husbands easily. It can happen to new fathers easily. It can happen to teachers and senators and presidents and princes. But it doesn't matter who's speaking against the church. It doesn't matter who's speaking against you, Christian. Be they kings or emperors or homeless vagabonds, there is a solution for you. It's the second half of that verse. But your servant meditates on your statutes. God's people do not heed what the proud say about us or about our God. We do not allow such nonsense to invade our minds or our thinking about God because God's servants meditate on his statute. It is God's opinion that matters to us, not that of the prince. It is God's thoughts that consume our attention, not a president's tweets. Finally, we see this protection that God's Word provides against the pride in others when it gives us true comfort God's Word gives us true comfort and true delight. And we see this in verse 24. He says, Your testimonies also are my delight and my counselors. I wonder, um I'm sure that some of you in here have lost your parents. A parent has passed on. And I wonder if you've experienced this. Whatever communication you had from them, be it letters or emails or voicemail that your husband accidentally deletes. It becomes precious to you, doesn't it? That last voicemail, we kept a tape of my grandfather's uh answering machine message that he set up. From like 1993. We had that forever. And it would be a precious thing to us. We'd put it in the tape player and just listen to Jodic's voice. Well, these, this word of God, this is the testimony, the communication from your Father in heaven. Is it a delight to you? Do you have that same kind of emotional attachment to your Bible as you do to that last communication from your earthly parent? When the Christian meditates on God's Word and truly takes delight in His judgment and His wisdom By God's grace and mercy, that is when true comfort abounds. And Gabriel, when I say comfort, I don't mean like comfy couches or soft pillows. I mean comfort in the true sense of that word. It means with strength. When you delight in God's word and you meditate on his statutes and his commandments and his judgments, that's when the strength comes into you. That is when his word becomes a counselor, giving us the advice and the strength to deal with the pride of others, to deal with our own pride. It shows us where we should devote our thoughts. It shows us how we should deal with the people that are against us. God's word is a counselor because it shows us the proper course of action that we must take if we are truly concerned with obeying the Lord. Now, brothers and sisters, there is one called Wonderful Counselor. Is there not? He is the eternal word. And John the Apostle has told us that this word is God and is with God and was with him in the beginning. This is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the purpose and the plot of all of God's words to man. All the holy scriptures point to him and to his great works. Jesus is the perfect example of a man protected from pride by his dependence on his father and on the Word of God. He stands up to the temptations of the enemy using God's word as his weapon. We read that this morning. At the cross, it was God's word that filled Jesus' mind, and it filled his lips as he endured the behavior of prideful others. If we are to persevere as Christians in an ever-increasingly prideful world, we must take heed to the message of this passage. What do you think about God's Word? Do you even know what you believe about God's Word? Why is this God's Word? If you can't answer that question, talk to the elders here. Talk to Pastor Jesse. We will point you to resources that will help you, or we will take the time. to do it ourselves, because it is vitally important that you know why this can be trusted as God's communication to mankind. And for those of you who do believe that the Bible is God's word and that it contains his abiding communication of himself to his people, do you delight in it? Is it something that you love? When you are seeking something wondrous and fantastic, do you go to Avengers or do you go to the Bible Now uh I know you're aware that the Avengers movie came out. It's a big deal. Everybody's aware of it. And it's pretty impressive, isn't it? Dozens of movies, almost 20 years, one story. Really Kinda neat. I wonder if you'd be impressed if it were 66 movies written over thousands of years. All with one story, all with one main character. That's the Bible. The Bible is far more impressive than the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Do you agree with that statement? When you're looking for excitement, do you go to God's Word or do you go to television? What about being a stranger in the world, as the psalmist put it? Does it describe you? Or do you really feel at home here? Is the thought of not being on this planet something that makes you anxious? Do you beg God to open to you the scriptures so that you can understand it? Do you expect God to answer your prayer? As a stranger in this world, you can't get what you need from this world. You can only get it from your home, from the Bible. If you go to the Word and you don't understand it, do you ask Him to enlighten your minds. And when you do ask him, if you do, do you expect him to answer it from this pulpit? Do you expect God to answer it through Pastor Jesse? When you ask him to open the word to you? I know that all of us here have struggles with this. We do. We have struggles with delighting in God's Word and reading God's Word. And a big part of that is because we live in a society that is constantly speaking against God's Word and speaking against us as Christians There are political parties and talking hair-dos that try to influence us to view human beings in unbiblical ways. What do you do when you encounter this kind of speaking against God? Do you take it to heart? Do you lose confidence in the country? Do you hang your head in shame because your political party's just so far gone now? Or do you meditate on God's word? Do you seek His testimony, His wisdom? Do you seek Him about how you should view other people? When the Supreme Court of our country, or the governor of Virginia, or the gov the legislature of Kansas says that uh wholesale slaughter of helpless human beings is okay What do you do? If you trust those in authority to tell you the truth, and those people in authority are telling you that evil is good and good is evil, where can you go? There's only one source of truth: God's Word. You go to God's Word, you meditate on it, you study it, and you beg Him to enlighten you through it Well, do you go to God's Word? And do you understand that His Word is a protection against pride in yourself and the pride in others? I have to ask this because it seems to me one of the most prevailing problems in the church nowadays If you were to agree with me that God's Word has all these answers for us, do you even know where to start when you have a problem? If you are enduring what seems like endless suffering, endless pain, endless and ubiquitous difficulty, where would you go in the Bible? Would you go to Job? Would you know to go to Job? Do you beg God not to hide the Teaching from Job from you, so that you can see it and heed it? Are there days where you just can't find the words to pray Are there days where you feel like you just don't even know God well enough to even try to address Him with words? You know where you can go? Go to the book of Psalms. Read the prayers that have been preserved for you. Read the pouring out of emotions and thoughts of God's people, whom He loved and called according to His purposes. And it'll help you. Are you worried about the church? Are you worried about the world? Are you worried about how in the world Is anything gonna be improved? You look out at the news, we see everything that's terrible happening. Is there any way that this will be resolved? Can you guess what book I'm gonna say to read? Revelation. Read Revelation. See how it works out. If you're worried about the church and its survival, read the book of Acts. See how God works it out. Trust in His word Brothers and sisters, to be protected against pride in ourselves and against the pride of others that can damage us, you must. Please pray with me Gracious Lord, there is much that we need to change in ourselves. We know this is true There is much that we don't like to think about because of what it causes us to experience. But we know, Father, that your word has been given to us. Though we may be confused on how you've given it to us, we know that it's here. And we know that when we read it and when we pray, and when we ask you to guide us, we experience you in your word. We experience the advice. We experience The counsel. Father, we ask that you would encourage us, strengthen us, that when we come to situations in our lives that are difficult, your word is not our last resort, but our first resort. May you strengthen us and our faith in your in your precious communication. That we would not only rely on it for ourselves, but we would have no fear and pointing others to it. Lord, grant that we would become lovers of your word So dependent upon you that there is no hope for pride to grow up within us. Because we see how much we need you, and how much we truly do. Do not understand what goes on around us. Bless your people, Father, with an understanding of your word, a dependence upon it, and trust in Jesus Christ. But it's in his name that we pray. Amen.