It's Philippians 1. We'll be looking at the last set of verses in chapter 1, 27 through 30, and I'll ask you to stand for the reading of the word. That's Philippians. Philippians one twenty-seven through thirty. I know I just asked you to do thirty things at one time, so I'll give you one second. Only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your affairs that you still Stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel, and then not in any way terrified by your adversaries, which is to them a proof of perdition, but to you of salvation and that from God For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. Having the same conflict which you saw in me, and now Here is in me. Father, we thank you for your word. It will be meaningless to us unless you seal it to our hearts, and so we ask for your spirit in the name of Christ. Amen. Please be seated. We're in a series through the summer on partnership. And the analogy that I'm uh I'm giving, actually I I just saw another one. I was speaking with someone about a a book that was written that is going down these same lines. I didn't even know it existed. It's called Not a Fan And they're making the distinction between just being a fan and then a real follower. You've also heard me make the analogy of those who are a part of the crowd and those who are striking That's another image. But the image that I've been using is one of business because the term partnership within Philippians is a a term of commerce. It means a business partnership and I was sharing with you how there was a a pretty big difference between being an employee of my father and then being his partner in business. An employee you go home and you can stop thinking about your If you're a partner, it just keeps going. You're always on call. It the buck, I think they say, stops on your desk or whatever that means. So the the the uh the point though is that That we are seeking not just to be fans, not just to be those outside the crowd, and not just employees. It's not just our hobby, but we are in fact partners with the apostles in following Jesus Christ and doing his will. Last week we the the very first sermon, this is the third sermon now, the very first sermon was basically an introduction that carried, showed you some of the themes that we're going to to hear. Last week was all about in order to be a true partner, to be a mature partner, you need to have the right philosophy of life. And that right philosophy of life means you need to think about suffering in a different way than the people around you that aren't Christians, and maybe even that are Christians sometimes. You need to be able to see That suffering is a part of life, it's a part of our reality. And you also need to be able to see that God is the great alchemist and He takes our suffering and He turns it into gold. Sometimes you can't see all the gold that He creates. We trust his word, but a lot of the times he does allow us to see a glimmer. And and we we heard in the very final end that we're motivated to do that because Jesus says that for me to live is you And therefore we can say for me to live is Christ. Today we're continuing the partnership theme and we're building off of the philosophy of life, but we're relating something a little bit Let me ask you this question just to show you this theme. Today we're talking about public faith. You have to have a public faith in order to be a mature partner, but let me let me ask you this. If you went, ladies, and and even if you're not married, just think about this. I don't I don't care how old you are. If every time your husband left the house in the morning, he took off his wedding ring before he left What would you think? Would that be good for you? It would not. If he's a welder, he you know, he doesn't want to Uh oh. Uh-huh. There we go. All right. If he's a welder, yeah. And I and I've seen I know there's other reasons to take off the ring. Um but but you You know what I mean. And and that's the point that I want to make today is that um in that situation the the problem that you're you begin to wonder as a wife putting myself in your shoes Is is um is he embarrassed of the relationship? Does he love someone more? Does he want more opportunities than what I'm giving to him? And he only does that in public. In private he has this one life, but then when he goes into to other people, he takes off the ring. Why is that? And we need to ask the exact same question if we're going to be mature partners with Jesus Christ. You can't Just have a private faith, in other words. You have to have a public faith. Obviously, the Apostle Paul in this passage has a very public faith because he's publicly imprisoned He's speaking in public all the time. The question for you is, do you have a public faith? And if you do, what happens when you do? What can you expect to happen? What can expect You expect to happen when you decide to to go public with your faith? And how do you handle those kind of things? Those are the things that we're looking at in the past. Today. It's it's really the practice of public faith. What does it mean here? What is the terror to our public faith? What are some of the adversities that can come up we're going to deal with one and then how do we have strength in the middle of that opposition or that terror and um so I've I've uh direct your eyes now to verse uh throughout these verses this whole section I want to prove to you So this entire section that we're moving into is a different break in the letter, and he's speaking about public faith. I want you to notice some of the patterns here. Take a look at verse 27 with me. And he says, only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ. Now listen to this phrase, so that whether I come and see you or am absent, Alright, now if you're in your scriptures, take a look at chapter 2 and look at 12 through 15. And look at the It's a different turn of phrase, but look at the same concepts. Starting in verse 12 of chapter two. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but much more in my absence. You see that? Okay. And then he goes on and he begins to speak about how a Christian well how a Christian should be living. What does the partnership look like in real life? But it's not just living in general. It's specifically in the public sphere. Take a look how, if you were to continue, it says, do all things without complaining and disputing. I'm in verse 14, that you may become blameless and harmless, children of God. God without fault, where? In the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world. themes and he's he's doing it there in chapter two but he's also doing this in 27 through thirty. His concern is not just Christian practice or faith, but public Christian practice or faith. This would also be brought home to you if you did a little word study. I'd encourage you to do this if you can get yourself a little concordance or something like that, or a dictionary of biblical words. Take up and look at verse twenty seven, the word conduct. It's a very rare word that he is using there. Of course you don't pick it up in the English, but in the original, it's very, very rare. It is only Used twice in the entire New Testament, once in Acts and here, and then throughout the rest of Greek literature, it is used to describe public civil responsibilities and activities. It's really talking about actions as a citizen of a polis or a city. Paul uses the word conduct for a lot throughout his letters, but not this word. He uses another word. one and so pretty much everyone that I have read have read see this as Paul describing public life or public faith. And that's why we're talking about Talking about that today, that there's a public faith in relationship to partnership. And he lists here for us, very easy to follow, some practices that we should have, and we'll move the three So take a look. The particular practices that he mentions there, it flows nicely. Only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ. It should be your practice publicly should be in accordance with the standard of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That which Jesus Christ said, that which Jesus Christ did. We'll see that especially. Well what does he want to hear? Well he tells them, he says, that you are standing fast in one spirit, and that you're with one mind striving together for the faith. And so here you see this wonderful image that he's giving of being like a little army, united in your purposes and in your causes. And this is what it looks like to have a public face is that you This would have been a particular So speaking in this language Of citizenship, which would have been important to them, as well as solidarity as an army would have been important to them. But he gives a different goal to the soldier that exists So you had veterans that used to be a part of Rome, that now through the power of the Holy Spirit become Christians, and he's saying to them, underneath of this, he's saying to them, you used to be a citizen of one country and now you are a citizen of another. And I'm asking you to have a public life that accords with the citizenry of this heavenly country. If you want to see the theme continue, you can see it in chapter three of the same book. He says, you are now citizens of heaven. He's appealing to this to this uh this idea of citizenry within within the citizens here. Before, in other words, they would have appealed and sought to die for the gospel of Caesar. And now Paul's saying, look at how he's lining everything up. Why do you have to be one in spirit? Why do you have to be one mind striving together? Well, for the preservation of the faith of the gospel. He means And that's what the soldiers had beforehand, but it was the gospel of Caesar. Caesar. They would have, as an army, they would have been in one spirit and one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel of Caesar. And now it's the gospel of Jesus Christ. You know you can actually, if you go Go on to Google and type in Gospel of Caesar, there are remains of letters where you can see it literally says the good news about Caesar. And then it tells you what he's True and only salvation to the world. Caesar says that he's the king, but Jesus says he is the king of kings. And it's not just a power struggle. Jesus offers everything better than he would have ever offered. Jesus can actually perform what he only prom what Caesar only promises to perform. That's the argument that Paul is putting here, and it's important for you to see that Because when he says that we are to stand in one spirit and in one mind for the preservation of the gospel of Jesus Christ, he is not just saying that we have to stand up for all of the points of a systematic theology. He's saying at least that, that we have to we have to hold on to the truth. Because if the truth goes away, what do you believe? There's no more truth. It's not just the truth, though. You have to hold on to the excellency of what is being communicated. In other words, he's choosing the word gospel on purpose. He doesn't just say the Christian message. The gospel is a proclamation of promises, of hope, of glory, of excellencies. It's literally the good news or the glad tidings that have come to you. And so when he says that's what we are to do, that this is what it would mean to have a public faith, what he's saying is that we, in the words of Peter, that you have to sanctify The Lord God in your hearts and always be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks you a reason for the hope that is in you. Now we've all heard that verse before. Did you notice that he does not say for the message that is within you? He said the hope. Now tell me that as a human being, that that is not a universal message Universal desire that we would have hope. What do you do when your family member doesn't have hope? I don't care if they're a Christian or not a Christian. Do they or do they not want hope? Do you not want hope for your friends and for your family? It's interesting that that's how Peter ends up putting it: sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and always be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks you a reason for the hope that is within you. It's good news. It's a glad tiding that we would be preserving. Or think of, for instance, Ephesians chapter 3, verse 10. There's this consummation That is taking place where God spells out all that he's doing throughout history, and then he tells you why he's doing it, and he says, so that those in heaven could see the wisdom of God. To have a public faith, to be practicing a public faith, is to be standing in one spirit and in one mind for the preservation of the good news that Christianity Can give you the hope that you have always longed for. That Jesus Christ has wisdom like no other person has wisdom. No other machine has wisdom. And it goes on down the line. A greater excellency, incomparable in every measure. That's what we're to hold on for. You know that the during that day the Apostle Paul put In 1 Corinthians, that this was presented to the world, Jesus Christ, the gospel, him being the good news, hope, wisdom. And the Greeks saw the wisdom of God as the foolishness of God. How no one can rise from the dead. And the Jews saw the strength of God as the weakness of God. Do you see how the world ends up getting confused and calling that which is not What it is? It's they're calling wisdom foolishness and strength weakness. And what we are called to do in our particular practices is to be united as a group of people in our partnership, through in our public faith, we are to all agree with one another that God is to be praised for all of His attributes. Jesus Christ is my hope. Jesus Christ is my comfort. Jesus Christ is my wisdom. And you hear it all together as a great That's the picture that he has here. The question becomes, though, um Not just that which is more true, but that which is more beautiful. And the problem that we end up experiencing, though, is that right when we say that Jesus Christ is wise, or comforting or hopeful, someone else says, No he's not. And so you have a yes and you have a no always. And that brings us to our next point, which is the terror of public faith. You can see here that the thing that he is concerned about while he's away from them is that they would continue in if they're going to continue anything, please continue your public faith. And being excited about the hope that you have, etc. , in Jesus Christ. Be of one mind on that. Be of one spirit. But you have to realize in verse 28 that I also don't want you to be excited in any way terrified by your adversaries. So there's opposition, there's terror that is present. I just got done watching I don't I didn't think it was a good movie really, but I just got done watching 13 It's a uh about the s the hidden the thirty thirteen hours hidden soldiers of Benghazi or something along those lines. And I think you remember in the news actually with Ambassador Christopher Christopher Stevens, the complex was overtaken and he was killed. Uh there was also a CIA, I don't know w which parts were fiction or whatever, but the CIA um was next in their siege and you could see the great hate for the American presence. And now I'm sure there's a lot of different reasons for the hate One of them you can pick up uh one scholar says you can pick up on these kind of things telling why why is why is there this hate? Uh why tear down the diplomatic compound is because they're competing visions of reality. And you can see this particularly in like how a city is structured. Not just in what people say, but what they do and what they build. So for instance, what are the tallest buildings here? Commerce. What are the tallest buildings there? Mosques. Alright. So you you get a little picture of a difference in worldview, and the one worldview can have a intense hatred for the other. And I think that there's a similar thing going on here with the opposition or the terror that they would have been experienced within the Philippian church. You can read about this church and about how they were beaten in acts. and how they were drugged before governors. You can see throughout the other parts of the scripture, for instance, in Acts 14, we looked at in our last series where they claim that Paul was Hermes and that Barnabas was Zeus, and they tried to sacrifice, and then uh they were incited against them and Then stoned him to death. There was an opposition there against a pagan system. We don't really have that problem here. There's also opposition against Stephen in his speech against the temple. system. So you can see these terrors that go throughout the scriptures where the Word of God is present and he wants to say yes to the wisdom of God, there's always a no present and it can come in different forms, whether it's pagan or whether it's Jewish in as we see within the scriptures, but for us, it actually is not either one of those. If I told you that you needed to put your idols away, you're not gonna have a problem with that. Because you don't have idols in the proper sense of the term anyway. Buddhist or Shinto population, maybe that would be relevant, but it is not for you. What for us is a problem, the terror that ends up creeping in for us, is called secularism. It's just like us to come up with an ism which seems non-threatening. It doesn't seem like it would do any damage, a secularism. What's your greatest fear? Secularism. It doesn't sound scary, secularism. But it ends up being that which we're facing. It ends up being the terror that we face in having a public faith. This is what secularism says. Here's some of the mantras. This is these are true beliefs, and you may have these beliefs. You may be secular. We don't need God to explain the world. Science does the job. These are explanations. As to why people think the way that they do. We don't need God to explain the world. Science is doing that job. Doesn't that have an air of plausibility about it? We don't need God to be moral or good people. Religious religions only cause war. God has been subtracted from the imagination of modern people, one person says. This is really interesting in relationship to the prior point of what the of the good news, the gospel of Jesus versus Caesar. We're in the same spot. Listen to this. The secular promises to free us from value judgments. It promises to free us from narrow-mindedness, from prejudice. It offers moral support for equality and human rights and the betterment of humankind. And it promises a life of personal meeting and freedom and peace of mind. And it's all based on human resources alone. without God in the picture. Now isn't that a picture of our nation and the road that we are going? That we are going, that we buy into these things. Another author says if you don't think that secularism is a terror against the Christian uh viewpoint, the Christian truth The Christian excellency, try telling this is this is one author. He says, try telling people with heavy investments in the third world that one of the major gospel issues today is global. Try telling people who believe they have a right to inflict their military solutions on the rest of the world or who make a lot of money. From making and selling weapons, that the Lordship of Jesus stands for a radically different way of resolving conflict. Try telling people whose lives revolve around sexual immorality that the Lord Jesus summons them to use their bodies in a Or in Paul's case, try saying Jesus is Lord under the very noses of people who are living by the gospel that Caesar is Lord. This is the terror that we face. It's secularism. And when you do begin to say those things, you will not just induce anger. Anger is almost we're almost beyond anger in our culture. You will in fact though induce disappointment in you. People will be dis Disappointed in you. Your family will be disappointed in you. You will be looked at as that you are absurd. You will be ridiculed. And that cuts to the American heart. If we were in a different culture, maybe shame would be the issue. But for us to have somebody who is disappointed in us, even if they're even if their disappointment doesn't make any sense and it's derived from some strange law, just to have somebody look at us strange hurts us. We're very sensitive like that in our country. And in our culture. I I think you remember the story that I told you. It's a it's a story that captures the American heart within the church. You remember this when I I had a friend Brian Lapiccolo who he had a uh other friends and there was this one guy in the school like we all have a guy in the school and we always made fun of him and we did different things to him and we never thought it really bothered him because we were all just having fun and then Brian told Me that he found in his senior yearbook that when they were all had the opportunity to write uh a little phrase, a motto from their favorite U2 song or whatever it was going to be, this kid wrote Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will break my heart. That's exactly how we feel when people are dis Disappointed in us. And that's why it ends up being so difficult for us to be able to deal with the secularism, because we end up looking absurd. We end up being excluded. We end up being a dis Disappointment to those that we love, even our wives or our husbands. And so it ends up being very powerful. It's different than being beaten. I've met men that have been beaten also. I've met women that have been beaten for the Christian faith. But this is different, and it's still a kind of terror that we have to deal with. If we are to have a public faith and we're to be expressing, you know what, Jesus is my And they look at us and say, Well, that's disappointing. Jesus is my comfort. Oh, great. Thanks for the platitude. Why don't you put that on a Thomas Kincaid painting and maybe it'll sound better. By the way, I I don't like Thomas Kinky. But when you see that you're supposed to be sharing your public Faith in a way that shows Jesus to be incomparably excellent than anything that the world would offer. Disappointment in our culture at least. And the question becomes for us in the final point is how in the world are you supposed to have the strength to undergo that? I think there's a number of points throughout the book where we can discover this. I'm just going to focus on one that he puts here that may be a little surprising to you, and that is the strength for our public faith. How can we have the strength to keep He says in verse 28, he gives this reason that may go by you. Uh it went by me and until I was listening to this one. Pastor or reading him. And it says that you would strive with one mind for the faith of the gospel. We talked about that. And that you wouldn't be in any way terrified by your adversaries. We talked about that. Which is to them a proof of perdition, but to you it is a proof of salvation. It's evidence of salvation. And if you were to to follow this theme along within the scriptures It's spelled out so beautifully again within 1 Peter. He says in 1 verses 6 through 8, and this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while, if need be, you have been grieved by various trials. Why? Why would we why would we do that? Why would we rejoice being grieved by various trials, having terror in our lives? being disappointing. Because this is that the genuineness of your faith, being much more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to praise, honor, and glory. at the revelation of Jesus Christ. So he ends up giving a reason here to say that these things, that Jesus Christ grants these things, look at the Language there, he actually says that it has been granted on behalf of Christ for you not only to believe in him, but to suffer for him. And that the re one reason that you can have, and you can think gives heat to gold in order to remove the impurities from it. For you to become the kind of person and to have the sparkling faith that Jesus Christ has promised to you. Do you remember? I remember being excited about reading that Jesus Christ is both the author and the perfecter of my salvation. Well, this is how he does it. And if you're excited about having the salvation that he speaks about, then this is the best way. This is the best way that he would be your faith being even more precious than gold that perishes, though it is And now think of the ways in which you now connect with every major biblical figure that runs Throughout the scriptures. Look at the pattern and the consistency of God. Think of how you're a Joseph. Think of how the suffering that you've been called to, and yet you will be, he'll, he'll, the great alchemist will turn this into something where your faith is strengthened. Or think of Father Abraham, where he has to raise the knife to his son. This is a great trial and experiment of his face. What does God say to Abraham after he He does that. This was a test that I would see. And it ends up being a test a test for us. It puts our love to the test. Our hearts are prone to wander. And so he brings these things into our lives in order to make sure that our love for him r starts to grow more pure and more pure and more pure. And think of the testimony that he's got to be able to do that. Is creating. Not only do you say that Jesus Christ is my comfort, you do so in the middle of pain and suffering from a God that has granted the suffering to you. That's why this is that that's one of the reasons why we can get this. It puts love to the test and it establishes it. What is more valuable. You know, we see modern uh analogies to this. I don't mean to trivialize this subject, but I actually think it will stick with you if you think about God in some sense and Analogous to Mr. Miyagi in the Karate Kit. I know we just took a real horrible turn here. But Daniel Russo does everybody know what I'm talking about? Have you seen the Karate Kit? I'm looking at blanks. Okay, right. The real one, yeah. The first one. Sand the floor, Daniel. Paint the fence, Daniel. Watch the car, Daniel. Daniel son. Daniel's son. And Danielson is not excited about doing any of those things, especially by the time he gets to the end because it's so painful, he doesn't understand. But then Mr. Miyagi gets into the picture and he says, Okay, now wash the floor. And Mr. Miyagi throws And he's able to block the kick or the punch, or paint the fence, and he's able to block this. You remember all of those parts? And I think the same not the trivial lies, but the exact same thing is going on, even though you can't see God is making you into a person that can have a strong public faith, not just that you know the truth, but that you are in love with Him That you are in love with him, that you find your comfort and your hope and your wisdom in him. It's all been tried. Oh, you think he's wise, let me put you through this. And you come out because of the Holy Spirit, you come out saying, I still think. He's wise. By God's grace, I still think he's wise. You see what he's doing for you? It's the real dynamic for change that we see here. Do you want to change and be a good human being? That's the promise here. This is the only way. America will tell you you could change in other ways. You don't have to go through suffering. If you've read Pilgrim's Progress, if you're reading that the summer Mr. Worldly Wise Man tells you you could you could have this another way. You don't have to go through the pain. But don't believe him. People are disillusioned for believing them and then they die. This is the real way that we can change and be the human beings that we want to be. It's through Jesus Christ. This is how we can have a public faith. We practice our public faith by being together, being united. Here's a summary. Being united for the sake of the preservation of the gospel. But you have to recognize that there's going to be opposition and adversity. There's going to be terror. And our terror is secularism. But we can have the strength to go through this if we understand that Jesus Christ grants the terror to you and he's using it to make you more in love with him. That's the whole sermon. Let me let me um just say one last thing. When you think about I think the hardest part of the sermon for me, the hardest part of this passage for me, is to recognize that I'm going to be a disappointment to people. I've and I I do I do know that I'm a disappointment to a lot of people. Parti and and it it ties to my faith. Because I have become a Christian, I'm a disappointment to some people. And I'm Imagine that you're a disappointment too. And here's the here's the interesting thing is that Jesus Christ is not asking us to do anything that He Himself did not do. I remember reading The Hiding Place, and Cory Tenboom's sister, I think she made this beautiful dress for herself, and she always dressed to the nines. And when the soldiers came, they ripped her dress off of her. You know how embarrassing it is to be naked in public? Do you know Jesus Christ was naked in public? Do you know why he was humiliated? Do you know why he decided that he would keep the cup, he'd hold on to it, he'd drank the whole thing right down to the bottom? Was it because he was a sinner? It was because of you. And that helps me because now I get to ask myself the question, I ask you the same question. If Jesus Christ is willing to be a dis Disappointment and humiliated for your sake. Could you be a disappointment for him? Could you be humiliated for his sake also? I think that we can by the power of the Spirit. Because we feel how loved Lovable he is. Let's pray. Father As we read earlier, as you sent Jesus Christ into the world, so too you send He sends us into the world. And we are not above our Master. And so we We will meet terror as we seek to be partners with you, having a public faith. Father, this cup before us looks difficult, but we pray That we would drink the cup that you have given to us out of a love for the one who has drank far more from a far more difficult cup of humiliation and disability. Disappointment and shame. Lord Jesus Christ, glorify yourself through us. Amen.