As we have just recently started doing, I'm going to ask you now to go back into an attitude of prayer, but with a different focus. I'm going to ask that you pray that the Lord God will give you So I ask now that just for a brief moment you pray to the Lord. And that you pray personally that you may hear what He has for you to hear this morning. Let's pray. Open our hearts, Lord and God. Speak to us through your word. Speak to us, Lord God, by your spirit. And grant that we Joy, with joy, we may receive it. For it is in the name of our blessed Savior we pray. Amen. We're continuing in our study through the Gospel of Matthew. We're up now to the end of chapter 14 and we're picking up in chapter 15. I would ask if you would to turn to those uh those chapters, uh chapter 14, picking up in verse 34. And we're eating down in chapter fifteen through verse twenty. So please turn to that passage. Probably do that. When they had crossed over, they came to the land of Genasareth, and when they when the men of that place recognized him, they sent into all that surrounding region, brought to him all who were sick, and begged him that they might Then the scribes and the Pharisees, who were from Jerusalem, came to Jesus, saying, Why do your disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread. He answered and said to them, Why do you transgress the commandment of God? Because of your children Tradition. And he who curses father or mother, let him be put to death. But you say, whoever says to his father or mother Whatever profit you may have received from me is a gift to God, then he need not honor his father or mother. Thus you have made the commandment of God of no effect by your tradition. Hypocrites Well did I say a prophesy about you, saying, These people draw near me with their mouth and honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. And in vain they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men And when he had called the multitude to himself, he said to them, Hear and understand. It is not what goes into the mouth, the mouth that defiles a man, but what comes out of the mouth, this defiles a man Then his disciples came and said to him, Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this saying? But he answered and said, Every plant which my heavenly Father has not planted will be uprooted. Let them alone. They are blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind leads the blind, both will fall into a ditch. And Peter answered and said to him, Explain this parable to us. Jesus said, Are you still also still without understanding? Do you not yet understand that whatever enters the mouth goes into the mouth But those things which proceed out of the mouth come from the heart, and they defile a man. False witnesses, blasphemies. These are the things which defile a man. But to eat with unwashed hands does not defile a man. The Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Sometimes the degree to which we sinners twist things And make them appear as if they're something else is to me just truly amazing. The modern word for this, the one that has come into being to kind of speak of what I'm talking about is called spin. A famous talk show host calls his program the No Spin Zone. He says this with a straight face when the whole program is about the way Bill O'Reilly spins things. Especially when it comes to religion. The guy knows virtually nothing about it. she would just be quiet about religion. But spinning things seems to be almost a national pastime. Spin is about all we read, is is is uh about all we read or hear. And some of it is just plain terrible. Now this is not just the partial birth abomination that we have always that we have grown to almost just accept across our country. This is a full-term infant. And her spin was that it is the right of a woman to choose, and that supersedes even right up to the last day of deliverance The idea that that mass of tissue in her womb is a human being. Now that's ugly to think But people often push the facts in order to justify doing outrageous things. And abortion is only one of the more visible and outrageous Examples of this hypocrisy. All of us are guilty of it. All of us are guilty of this tendency to spin things by coming up with excuses Is rationales to justify doing what we want to do. You got a trivial example, you could see the person saying, oh I can just have one more piece of cake because after all calories on your birthday don't count. That's not in the same league with the abortion thing, but it is the same tendency. It's of the same essence. And when it comes to serving our Lord, we do it even There. Sometimes we push and shove God's word into tight little cubbyholes. Do you know what a cubby hole is? Do people know that? Cubbyholes are those little holes that used to be On desks, you know, that had a place where you could put things in the little cubby holes on a desk. But anyway, we tend to twist uh scripture and make it fit into the These tight little cubby holes. And why do we do that? It's because we don't like what it says. So we want to make it say something else. We spend God's word. We take the word uh keep Keeping the Lord's Day as the Sabbath. And we figure we go through all kinds of machinations to keep from having to do that and to justify doing what the world says we ought to do on Sunday. The reason why that comes to mind is that I know that there's a ten mile race that's going on in Annapolis this weekend And you notice how they specifically schedule those kind of events on Sunday? It's almost as if they're warning to make a test between what we will God's people do. How about forgiving God's people, forgiving other uh God's people for what they've done to us? How do we push and shove God's word around so as to make it so that forgiving them is something that we really don't have to do Or honoring Christ with our lives. Now, whenever we fail in these things, we you find us making excuses, and we spend God's word in order to To justify it. When the real problem is that we're not seeking to serve God at all, we're seeking to serve ourselves. And that is Exactly what Jesus is confronting and dealing with in these verses. Jesus is here confronting the hypocrisy. That infests our sinful hearts. And he shows that this sinful hypocrisy will blind us to how easy. Essentially stupid we are being. There are two examples of hypocrisy in this passage. There's the hypocrisy shown by the Pharisees and their insistence on ceremonial washing of the their hands before eating. And there's the hypocrisy of these Pharisees in their policy towards withholding money even from needy parents by designating it for the temple. And the last one is brought out to highlight the former. And let's look at each of these just to illustrate how far we sinners will go to justify ourselves. thing in the world we need to do here is today is to leave with this self-righteous smug attitude that we're so much better than these Pharisees because we don't do the kind of stupid things they do. If we do that then I have failed in what I'm trying to keep Let's look first at this hand washing business. Then the scribes and the Pharisees, who were from Jerusalem, came to Jesus saying, Why do your disciples transcribe the tradition of the elders. For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread. Now here we see the Pharisees. He's doing what we all try to do sometimes. They try to reduce righteousness before God down to some ceremonial thing that they do. Here it is the ceremonial of washing of hands before they eat. Now notice this is not a cleanliness issue. Certainly it had cleanliness ramifications to it. It's a good thing to wash our hands before eating. It is particularly a good thing for children to wash their hands before they eat. But the Pharisees are not just accusing Jesus of having slobs for his disciples. There's nothing in this passage about the disciples actually eating when the Pharisees make this complaint. They're not sitting around a meal. Jesus is healing people. Now these Pharisees have traveled 90 miles from Jerusalem down here. To confront Jesus, and it's obvious that they came with the purpose of confronting him about these disciples doing this. Therefore, there must have been some spy traveling around with Jesus and the disciples. disciples sending little missiles back to uh Jerusalem saying you ought to see what these guys are doing down here. Can you believe it? They don't even wash their hands before they eat. Could also playback on the uh most recent miracle of the feeding of the five thousand. But they jump on this as a way to spin things in such a way as to show that Jesus himself, who is responsible for the The activities of his disciples is in fact leading his disciples and all who listen to him into unrighteousness before God. You see, Jesus and his disciples are violating what is said here to be the tradition of the elders. That's a body of oral tradition that existed among the Jews of the time and had been built up over the years. It went back hundreds of years. And even the Pharisees admitted that this body of teaching Sorry about that. Righteousness of Israel, because it enabled the righteousness of Israel to be protected against inadvertent violations. If they were ritually pure, if they built up a life around specific ceremonies, if they if they caused their life to be lived in a disciplined fashion that would remind them through these imposed disciplines that they were a special people, a special priesthood, a special people for God, if they could do things that would remind them of this If they dress right, if they wore their beards in just such a way, if they avoided certain foods, if they constantly reminded themselves that they belong to God and were God's people, then they could put a hedge between them and those actions which would truly cause God's wrath to fall upon Israel. Sound all that bad when you put it this way, does it? Well shoot, you know. If I have to guard against uh pornography, wasn't it true that Jesus told me that I ought to just discipline myself to never turn on a computer? I mean you know, if your right hand offends you, cut it off. Uh shouldn't we have rules like that? If you constantly remind yourself that you're a child of God, if you build your life around a discipline that will reinforce that, then you probably will be able to avoid committing those really big sins, right? The sins that are going to bring God's wrath down, not on you, but the whole nation. If we did that, then we would be right. Why? Because we would adhere to a higher standard. more precise, more comprehensive law than the law of God. We would put on ourselves a heavier burden than even God does, and therefore we would never get to the point to where we have To deal with the burden God says. Now, brothers and sisters, stop and think about that for just a minute. What I just said. If you weren't cringing in your seat, you should have been. Because what you just heard was spin. The Pharisees were teaching that the people would become righteous by but obeying a law that was more extensive, more comprehensive, and more demanding than God's law. You've got to be kidding me. Can you think of anything more difficult for a man to do than to love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength? Can you imagine a law that is more demanding than the fact that you're supposed to love your neighbor no matter how irritating he is? Is there any law more comprehensive than that? This law the Pharisees were pushing was not more difficult than God's law at all. It was infinitely more easy than God's law, and thereby was the problem. It was infinitely more easier because what it hid from them was that deepest part of their heart where they showed That's what they really loved was themselves. It allowed the state of righteousness to be placed within the hand of the individual. Washing your hands before a meal? It's a piece of cake. Loving God with all your heart and Loving your neighbor who is a real pain, now that's a law. But these Pharisees put it differently. They spun it differently. A person becomes righteous by building their life around ceremonial acts of righteousness. And brothers and sisters, by the standards of God's holiness, Is true holiness. That is just as vile, that is just as much an abomination as partial birth abortion And yet, every one of us in this room, one way or another, has been and perhaps still are guilty of it Every one of us daily is tempted to do something easy so as to convince ourselves that God will love us because of that, even though we hardly This sin in our heart, or we're doing that thing in secret, or we are in some way or another far from him in our daily walk. We harbor hatred in our life, and we trust that God will delight in us simply because we don't act on that hatred and action. We forget God throughout the week and live as the whole rest of the world lives, and then we trust that God will be happy with us. Because we show up for Sunday school. We try to spend God's word our way. That way we don't have to deal with the real sin. The second way hypocrisy shows up in this passage is much more difficult for us to see right away. He answered and said to them, Why do you transgress the commandment of God? Because of your transgression. Tradition, for God commanded, saying, Honor your father and your mother, and he who curses father or mother, let him be put to death. But you say, Whoever says to his father or mother, Whatever profit you might have received from me is a gift of God. Then he Now this is a bit more obscure to us. We understand the hand washing thing, it's it's pretty straightforward. But the issue that Jesus points to here is not something we see Every day. The Pharisees had a tradition that allowed a man to designate a part of his estate, his livelihood, if you will, to the temple to be the distributed after his death, it's something like setting up a trust fund, if you will, for a benevolent cause. And it's that which Jesus is talking about talking about here. He uses the example of a man going to his parents and saying this, look, mom, dad, you know, it's still 2,000 years in the future before they have this thing called social security. And the four oh one K just ain't hacking it. We know you're in tough straits. We know that it's hard for you to live. You're old. You're not not able to work, your life is increasingly scary. And I know you need money to survive. I know you need to need help to survive. But mom and dad, my hands are tied. I've got all of my estate tied up in this trust fund, and though I can still benefit from it in my own life right now. Whatever profit you might have expected from getting that or me helping out with you, it's just not coming. I've donated a di Designated it as a gift to God. Now, according to the Pharisees, this was not only okay, but this man was showing sincere righteousness before God. Why Because he is essentially saying that he loves God more than he loves his parents. This man was a man to be imitated. This was good stuff. This man was righteous. Now this is hypocritical spin. It's spin that should make a politician blush now that we see what what it is. God never has told us ever that it's okay to violate one commandment in order to keep another one. God's law is perfect, satisfying the soul. God's law always acts to point out the deepest need, the deepest, most hidden core of our soul, and to bring our self-justifying hypocrisy And Jesus is here teaching that righteousness before God is not measured by how much we give to benevolent causes even to the church. Righteousness before God is measured by the love we have for Him and by the way that we show that love we have for Him. If God gives us a family to raise Or an extended family to support, then he expects us to use the resources he gives us to accomplish his godly end. Yes, God expects us to tithe. God commands us to tithe And I do not know of any man who has ever gone broke by tithing. But faith teaches us that God provides us enough income that we may do, we may meet all of our stewardship examples as well as meeting our ties. He expects us to be good stewards and to figure out how they That is to be done. Now notice that this man does not talk about depriving himself of things in his own life. He isn't lowering his standard of living in order to give a gift of God, which would be more Like what the poor widow did who gave her two mites. And that woman went away justified for giving to the church, as it is. Rather, this man is using wealth in kind of the same way that the Roman Catholics used to use indulgences. He is seeking to do something that at his death will help offset his standing before God, whatever that means may be such that God is going to show more mercy on him because of this gift that he's given to God's temple, which is what essentially indulgences did. In the Roman Catholic religion. By having a large donation made to the church at his death, even though at the end in the interval he is keeping his money, and probably even drawing interest on it while watching his famil his parents struggle. And this man calls that righteousness. The Pharisees called this righteousness. Jesus points out in no uncertain terms, and he says, This is sin. No wonder Jesus Jesus was told by the disciples that the Pharisees were offended. And it's no wonder that Jesus says they ought to be offended. They ought to be ashamed of themselves. Now the third thing we see in this passage is the pathway of true righteousness before God, and it is that righteousness which comes from God. Now I have to make clear here, in case there is any doubt about what I am saying, that the righteousness of which we are speaking in this passage is that righteousness which Which is associated with improvement of our sanctification. We are not speaking of that righteousness Righteousness that causes us to be saved. The righteousness which alone brings salvation is not within our power to do Either before we have been born again or after. There is nothing, brothers and sisters, we can do to put God in our debt Do I need to say that again? Nothing. What did I leave out? Nothing. There is nothing we can do to put God in our debt. Even if It was possible for us to love the Lord our God with all our heart, our mind, our soul, and our strength, and even if on occasion we actually did love our neighbors as ourselves, even then God doesn't owe us a thing There is nothing that is nothing more than what we ought to do. Every creature of God owes his creator absolute Absolute obedience from the heart. If you're born in this world, you're born into this world by the decree of God, He is your ultimate creator, and as a result of that You owe him as a creature your obedience. In doing that, that does not mean mean that God is obligated to give us anything because we did it. The fact that God offered Adam in his original state of righteousness a chance to To do that, to gain eternal life by perfect obedience, was in and of itself a gracious and magnificent gesture on God's part. It was an open healing What he did was to open up a way that man could live his earthly life with God and continue into an eternal life with God God. But Adam blew it. We all know he did. And that covenant with God made with man is closed to us forever as a pathway. For salvation. It simply is no longer possible for any person to give God perfect obedience unto the end of fulfilling some r reason why God would thereby uh grant him eternal life. But there are Requirement to obey God in all things still remains. We are to strive to love God and show our love for God by doing righteous deeds. doesn't put God in our debt. The only saving righteousness that we can have, the only righteousness that that we can possess, the only righteousness that alone grants us entrance into heaven and gains us the right, the privilege to live with God forever, is that righteousness that has been given to us by God for and on the basis of the work of the Lord Jesus Christ Christ in fulfilling God's perfect demands for obedience on our behalf. That's it. There is no other saving righteousness than His. Imputed to us. But there is a righteousness that we can display, and toward which we must aspire, and which we must We can grow and improve, and that is the righteousness of sanctification. That righteousness that comes with a man or is exhibited in a man who is so in the Love with the Lord Jesus Christ and understands, at least in part, just how wide and deep his love is for us as fallen sinners. So that his whole life, as far as he can do it, within the limits of his own sin, is dedicated to showing forth that love that he has for our Lord Christ. It is appropriate in such a case, as the Bible itself does, is to say that such a man is righteous, as we read about with such people. as John the Baptist's father and mother. But Jesus here explains that this man is righteous, that this man is sanctified, because his life is showing A heart that does not view washing hands as a way of gaining favor with God. A heart that would never rob God of his His tithes, but neither would it for a moment let his father and mother starve. This man is growing in wisdom. And he's growing in that way by searching the scriptures and calling on God for help and striving diligently to keep himself from the about. Those are the things that defile a man. And a man who has been transformed, or a woman or a child who has been transformed from the inside out will hate those things. By their very nature. They are disgusting to him. And he will long to grow in righteousness before God because he wants to be like his Christ. What does the uh letter to James say? Pure and undefiled religion is this to visit orphans and window widows in their trouble. Which means to bring widows and orphans gifts to help them in their dire straits. That's what James is talking about. It's not that you go And give them a little card. You go with a sincere desire of saying, How can I help? And to keep oneself unspotted from the world. Which is to hate those very things that Jesus mentions in this passage. James is not saying that this saves us, nor is Jesus saying that Such behavior saves us. James and Jesus are saying exactly the same thing that people who love God will love him from the heart. And they will Act on it by doing things which are from that heart those things that God wants them to do. That brings us, I think, to conclusion and after Application, which is fairly broad, I admit, but one which I hope you will consider. I asked your brothers and sisters, you know, on both sides of this pulpit. Ask myself as I ask you, what spin are we putting on things in our lives? Where are we doing that? How are we, consciously or unconsciously, self-justifying our lives and our actions in them? Where are we just accepting our sinful behavior and sloughing it off by actually accusing God by saying that's just the way God made me? That's spin. That is self-justification. That is saying you don't understand. If you really understand understood then you would accept the way I am and the way I am acting. Sinning is what I do, and people just have to deal with that. Where in our lives are we trying to make up for sinful behavior, for example, as this as the Pharisees were speaking of about the man and his mother and father. Where in our lives are we trying to make up for those sins that we really don't want to change? That we don't want to face and change. And we make up for it by doing other stuff. Doing easy stuff. It's always easier. And we hope and we think that God will accept those things in lieu of true repentance. Where are we thinking? Okay, God knows that I do stuff that I'm not proud of. God knows that. But there are other things I do. Little things here and there. And you just go through a list and we talk about all these little good things that we do. And what we're really saying is that okay, God's gonna have me come before him and he's going to just like that sinful man who made the gift to the temple, he's going to look at the bad things I've done and he said, okay, yeah, you did those things. But look at this good thing you did. And therefore, hmm. You know, you're in. Brothers and sisters, that is trusting in works. That is a different God. And that is a gospel that will hear those who practice it will hear the Lord Jesus say, Depart from me. I never need you There is only one saving grace, and that is the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. The things that we do will never offset. Good things we do will never offset that which is sinful. That's the same thing as washing our hands before a meal or dedicating a large gift to the church. That is the sin of the Pharisees. And God help us we can be guilty of it too. If you're here today and those that challenge that I've just offered has Perhaps pricked your conscience in some way. Or perhaps you feel the stirring of the Holy Spirit in you saying there's things in your life you really need to look at. Then here's Hear this. Turn to the Lord Jesus Christ, who alone has furnished you with the ground by which any man may be saved. Turn to Him and rest upon Him for the grace that He has shown. On you. And expect from him that he will in fact receive your true confession of repentance. And that you will understand what it means to be forgiven of those sins. But never doubt brothers and sisters he's going to ask you to rise from your knees and to go forth and sin no more for that is his His pathway. And he expects you to follow it. Let's pray.