Please turn with me to Colossians chapter 3. We'll be looking at verses 5 through 11 this evening. And we'll close our service with Come All Christians Be Committed, which gives you some sense of where we're going in the sermon. Please follow along. I'll read from five through Thanks, Snake. I'll read from five to eleven. Oh I I don't my battery is dying, so you'll have to help me out. Do you want to do that real quick? Okay. Very good. Thank you. Chapter three, verses five through eleven. Therefore, put to death your members which are on the earth: fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. Because of these things, the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience, in which you yourselves once walked when you lived in them But now you yourselves are to put off all these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language out of your mouth. Do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old man with his deeds and have put on the new man who is renewed in knowledge according to the image of him who created him, where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcised nor uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave nor free. But Christ is all And in all. Let's pray. Lord, we ask that you would teach us these words that you've given to us from your apostle. Pray that your teaching would lead us to put off our past, put on the new, in the name of Christ. Nowadays the internet classroom and online education is booming. I attended seminary, at least partly online. You can take a master class in guitar with True Fire. You would have access to some of the best guitarists in across the world. from this from this online program. You can take master classes in writing with master class who have these uh well-known authors like James Patterson. You can take cooking classes on Udemy or learn how to speak like a uh a TED speaker on Udemy. Through education, we can learn in these online classes to do just about anything in life and to be just about anything in life. Life, it seems like the possibilities are endless. But based on the sermon from last week, let me ask you a question in relationship to that. Could you become a Christian through online education? It's a bit of a trick question. In some sense, yes, you could receive the message of Christianity and hear the gospel through online seminary courses or online education. But the point that Paul was making last week is that you can not gain the Christian life through educational technology or technique. That sure you can gain a lesson from another person, but it must be Christ through his Spirit to make you alive again. To put to death the old person and to make you alive in Jesus Christ. He, and he alone, our Savior, through His Spirit, must put your old self to death with Himself on the cross and raise you to new life in his own resurrection. Now that's what Paul taught in chapter 3, the first four verses which he looked over last week and exposited. This evening, Paul speaks more specifically on the Christian life. I want you to see how Paul progresses here. Notice in verse 1 These commands. Paul progresses through these next couple sections through commands. In verse 1, notice this command. Seek Seek those things which are above. And then in verse 2, there's another command. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth. And this week, we already looked at those two commands. This week we'll look at two more commands. You can see there, beginning in verse 5, put to death And then we'll look also in put off. And so let's begin with the third command. We looked at the first two last week, and now we're moving into the third one. Put to death the earthly member or limb. Chapter 3, verses 5 through 7. So let's take a look now at chap at verse 5 Notice that the command in verse 5 is preceded by therefore. Therefore, put to death your members which are on the earth, and then he has a list here. This connects the therefore connects the command with the previous statements that have been made about what Christ has done through his Spirit with you as a Christian. The Christian life. If you have died to the old way of existence and have been resurrected to a new existence, if that new way of life will be fully revealed when Jesus returns He's essentially saying now with this, therefore, start to show it now, even though it will happen in its fullness later, by putting to death the old way now. That is his point. And actually, Paul doesn't just say put to death. He says put to death your earthly members. Members here, I think he means a part or a limb. He's thinking about the like the member of my body would be an arm. Or I could have ten digits, and those are all ten members of the body, a limb. And I suspect that Paul is using a vivid metaphor which Jesus used already when he was teaching If your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off. And cast it from you, for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. In Civil War, when men were shot or inflicted with shrapnel or just a straight bullet or cannonball or whatever it is that they'd be afflicted with. Their limbs would, of course, receive this injury, and one of the most dangerous things about this is the development of gangrene. If the gangrenous limb remained without treatment, then the bacterial infection, blood infection, could spread to the whole body and cause septic shock and eventual death, which Well that's why it was so important. And if you were to ever watch a Civil War documentary or a movie like the Free State of Jones, off went the limb. In order to be able to save the person from the toxicity that could spread through the whole being. And likewise, Paul is encouraging the removal of our limbs, but not our legs, not our arms, not our fingers. He says here in a list the limbs that he's talking about, the kind of members to which he's referring. We put to death in verse 5, or cut off the limbs of fornication, uncleanness, Passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. If you were to do a word search on these words, these are very general words. They can refer to a lot of different specific situations Interestingly, almost all of the terms refer to earthly ways of viewing your physical intimate relationships with other people. I'm speaking euphemistically because we have a mixed crowd. Intimate physical relationship with others and may in fact be tied to prostitution cults. There's a lot of language. That matches up with that. But you can see how a person would view their body and how they're supposed to share their body with others before marriage. And a lot of these words have to do with that. Apparently they were struggling in this culture on how to view intimate And interestingly, Paul puts the whole list under a category that I find very interesting. Take a look at verse 7. His lists in his letters have always fascinated me. I've always tried to understand how he pick and choose which ones he would give in his lists. Some lists are longer and shorter. And so when we look at verse 7, there's a great help to us as to what he's thinking. All of these things that I've listed, whether it be uncleanness, passion, evil desire, or whatsoever, these are things in which you yourselves walked when you lived in them. In other words, your past. He's telling us to put to death the limbs of our past. And Bradley has already started to lead us into these kind of thoughts, but I find this very helpful to us in our Christianity. I think it leads us into a place of deep repentance, which I'll talk about later. For the Colossians, the past involved physical involvement with temple prostitutes. And I imagine So I know you that that wasn't exactly your past. But we all do have a past. And it's a good question for you to ask what gangrenous limbs from your past are still attached to your body? More than that, more than it just being passively attached to your body, are you presently nurturing them and keeping them alive? Things that would like to wither and die. Are you keeping them alive? Are you watering them, the sins of your past from day to day? What sins from your past do you still nurture Now before you answer that completely, I want to move on to the next point in the next set of verses because there's a hinge here where we're talking about Things from the past is the hinge, and it gave a list above it, and there's going to be a list below it, which I still believe are things from the past So I want to move to the next point, and the next point is this the second command. The first command that we're dealing with tonight was to put to death the infected limb. Cut it off. The second command is to put off the old man. It's another metaphor for speaking about the same thing. Put off the old man is his next command in 8 through 11. Paul is going to continue the list of the old man. He says that we should put off all of these. Says, but now you yourselves are to put off all of these, and then in my translation I have a colon, which is a good idea because he is saying all of these, then he's going to get a list of all of the things that we should be putting off. But now you yourselves are to put off these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language out of your mouth. Do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old man with his deeds Now, when you start to look at the words here in this list, the first one is anger. Anger, in this context, is that smoldering coal lit by another violating your will. Have you ever felt that smoldering coal? Wrath is when that coal catches It catches those things in you on fire, and you begin to breathe venomous threats onto people. Now, breathing fire is really the point here, too, when you start to look at the rest of the list, because we move from that burning coal in anger to wrath, which is that outburst, and then This m the Paul is really focused on sins of the mouth here. Through that anger we can begin to be malicious in our relationships and the way we speak about people, the blasphemy that can come from our mouths, the filthy language, and the lying. All from that initial smoldering coal. And thus more is added to the list of limbs from our past that must be put to death or cut off. That past is a hinge there, and on either side are these lists that are given to us that we are to put off. It's two commands: put to death, put off. Now these two commands provide us as Christians with an opportunity for very deep repentance. And I hope that you'll take advantage of the opportunity that the Holy Spirit gives you here. I want you to think of an iceberg for a moment. You're on a ship, we'll call it the SSS, the SSU. How about that? SSU, you're on a ship and you see an iceberg as you float by. What do you see? What you see above the surface is a kind of ice hill above the water. It's kind of small. And then you I ask you the question, is that the size of the actual iceberg? I mean that's the mistake that people have made in the past that has been treacherous. Is that no, that's not the actual size of the iceberg Do we know that the m the majority of the mass of the iceberg is below the water? It's beneath the water. And Paul is giving you the opportunity to see your sin in the same way. Usually we will focus on our sins from just in the moment and in the present, and here he's giving you the opportunity to look back into your past. And to see what is still rearing its ugly head in the presence. You look at the hill of sin in the same way that you would look at the hill of ice above the water on the surface of your life But he's also talking about under the surface and in the past. And here are some questions. What earthly ways of relating to God and other people have been a part of your history? Decisions that we made as a child, as children, decisions that we made for years do not just go away. Ways of thinking about the world and thinking about God and thinking about what people owe us and what we owe them. They don't just shrivel up and die all the time. They stay with us. There's patterns of sin and thinking that form, and that can still remain with us like a gangrus limb hanging off our body, sucking away nutrients. You know it becomes even worse when I began to think about this, it that a repentance became real deep. I'm not going to repent for other people's sins. But I did begin to see that sin is passed down from generation to generation. There are things that have been evil that have come out of my own mouth that I heard my grandparents say. What about your parents? And what about your grandparents? Sure, we inherited a great deal of good from them. But what about the things that we shouldn't have inherited? Is it possible that your grandparents had an earthly view, a physical intimacy, one that would not have pleased God? Is it possible that that view was passed on to your parents? Is it possible that you are perpetuating the sin that your grandparents and your parents have in your own life and you are passing it on to your children? Is it possible that you are perpetuating the sin in lives that aren't even a part of your family just because they watch you and look up to you? I give the example of physical intimacy because that's the example that Paul uses here with fornication and uncleanness and passion and covetousness, which is idolatry. The other example he gives is this the sin with our mouth And this one's easy to track back to parents and grandparents. Your anger and your release of anger with your mouth into malicious speech, speech that tears people down or blasphemy or lying. Is it possible that we could see the same earth earthly speech pattern throughout your family history? And your father, your uncles, your ants. And since families are influenced by the culture around them, whether it's Irish or Italian, whether it's Pasadena or Severna Park There are cultural influences. Is it possible that a toxic culture still has its grip on you? Still attached, that you are somehow adorning yourself with malicious, slanderous, and blasphemous speech? That has been passed down from generation to generation. You know what's a type of speech that's passed down from generation to generation? And it's a wake-up call for every one of us. Racism. How many times have we heard a father or a grandfather or an uncle say something that was completely unfair to another human being just based on the color of their skin? Or maybe on their gender. These are things that you end up taking on that you don't realize that you took on. And Paul is calling our attention here to say, we need to cut it off. It ends here. We will no longer be a generation that perpetuates the sin, whatever it may be. And I think it's interesting if you look back here at the scriptures. Where he says here in verse 10 that you're to put on the new man who is renewed in knowledge according to the image of him who created him. And then he brings out these cultural distinctions and the baggage that each culture brings with it in verse 11. There is no Greek nor Jew. circumcised or uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythians, slave nor free. And you could add Cretan to that list too, just from thinking about this morning. But Christ is all, and he is the one that is in all, working within you. To establish a new culture, a new way to be human, a way that cuts off the past, that puts those things to death. And Paul is expressing us to this concisely in two commands: put to death your members which are on the earth, those things in which you once walked and lived in, your past. And in the same way, you must put off all these, all these things with your mouth, the ways that you think about sex. We're not alone in this. In verse 10, and I'll end with this. This is our hope. The Spirit Himself, in verse 10, is renewing us in the image of our Creator. And here is the thing that He's calling us to do, therefore. Not to lift up ourselves from our own bootstraps, but to join the Spirit in His work. You know, that's an excellent thought for you to have as a Christian, not to walk into a situation with ingenuity and some kind of arrogant power in your mind thinking, how can I change this situation? But instead walking into a situation and asking this question, how is God already at work? And how can I join Him and His power? And I want you to ask the same question about you and those who are seated around you. How was God at work in your life? It says here in this passage that He is renewing you in the image of your Your creator, that you wouldn't perpetuate sins from the past, no matter what culture, but rather that you would perpetuate the work of the Spirit. Peace, gentleness, self-control. Let us keep in step with the Spirit. Let us put to death and let us put off what in fact Jesus Christ through his Spirit Is putting to death and putting off in you. Let's pray Father, we thank you. We thank you for these words. These are these are deep waters. There's a lot of work to do in pondering these words and thinking about how to personally appropriate them, especially with such general terminology. But we get a an inkling and a sense of the kind of work that needs to be done. It is the work that you are already doing. We pray, Lord, that we would not quench your spirit. We pray that we would not resist your spirit. We pray instead that we would keep in step with your spirit and the work that He is doing to remake us in the image of you, our great Creator. You are to be forever praised In the name of Christ, Amen