Tonight we'll look at Colossians chapter 3, verses 12 through 17. We won't I won't be preaching on all of those verses. Over the next few weeks, we'll we'll meander through them. seeking to to look at all of the parts. But let's listen to the whole, it's verses 12 through 17. Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercies: kindness, humility, meekness, long-suffering, bearing with one another and forgiving one another If anyone has a complaint against another, even as Christ forgave you, so you also must do. But above all these things, put on love, which is the bond of perfection And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body, and be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. And whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word that you have given to us. And we do ask that in the hearing of it that you would work effectually through your Spirit, Lord Jesus Christ. That you would help us to grow into your image. This is a bold request, but it is a request that can only be sent to you. You alone have the power to transform us into new creation. Lord, we know as you have revealed in your worst word that this will be done progressively. And over time and fully upon your arrival or upon our death, as we in the twinkling of an eye are able to be with you face to face But Lord, we ask that there would be progress and that our progress would be evident to all. For your glory, of course. We ask these things in your name. Amen. We've been tracking through the individual elements of chapter three by noticing the commands. It's an easy way to step yourself through chapter three. If you take a look at chapter 3, verse 1, you see our first command: seek those things which are above. In chapter 3, verse 2, we see our second command: set your mind on things above. This is a little curious and unfamiliar and unfamiliar way of speaking, but both of those commands refer to a life They refer to a city, a new creation, a new way of being that exists in the future that is yet to be fully revealed. However, we have been given a guarantee. We've been given fragments of this new life. And what we will have full in the future, we can begin to build our lives on now, to act out now, because the Spirit has been given to us now. If we are going to live this new life, then the old life must be abandoned. It only makes sense. And so we see another command in verse 5 of chapter 3, which is put to death. Put to death the old life. The Apostle Paul uses the metaphor here, of the same metaphor that Jesus used, of cutting off the limbs putting to death the limbs and he ascribed uh each limb as a kind of sin as a way to to communicate well with folks. The metaphor of sin is the limbs of our body, and we must remove or put to death the Gangrus members. And then in verse 8 of chapter 3, we see another command. To put off. Paul uses the metaphor of clothing here, not the limb. Anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, and filthy language are likened to articles of clothing that should be removed This evening we move out of those negative commands and we move into the positive. I want to look at this in two ways: who we are and what we should wear. Verse 12 begins this positive section. Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercies. You can see the positive nature of this already Verse 12 begins with an identity statement. And so our first point and heading is under who we are. It's an identity statement as the elect of God, holy and beloved. It's actually, if you were sitting there during that time that phrase itself would be astounding based upon the history of Israel and the fact that that was their designation or their name. And notice first that this identity statement, as I've mentioned, was common for God's people, Israel. And for it to be pronounced of the Colossians means there has been a radical shift, a shaking of both heaven and earth. By God through Jesus Christ. Part of the new covenant is that God has opened the doors of his family to all nations. All languages and tribes may repent and reconcile to God through Jesus Christ. That was the good news. And it is the good news today. The Colossians did just that. This sapling church plant, the Paphros told them to turn from the gods of their culture and to be reconciled to the only God Through Jesus Christ. And they did, and they pledged their allegiance. That's what the first chapter is all about, them recounting their love of God and love of each other. I want you to notice also in this identity statement that it chunks Or groups, or is the heading or the genus or the category or the aisle, if you want to use a metaphor of the grocery store, of all of the previous commands into a specific context. It's very helpful. You look at all those commands that I told you about in verse 1, and verse 2, and verse 5, and verse 8, and all that goes along with them, and you can really lose what Paul is doing if you do not get this one part in the identity statement. The context. The earthly behaviors of five and eight are behaviors that must be eradicated, sure, throughout a person's life. But Paul is drawing attention here to those who are a part of the church. The church community, in other words. The heavenly behaviors which we are about to study are the behaviors that should adorn or clothe or characterize or be the badges of identity of a church community. And I've mentioned this two weeks ago that that's how Paul progresses. He starts with the church, and then in verse 18, he's going to speak about marriage. And then he's going to talk about home life in verse 20. Then he's going to talk about work life in 22. You see the different domains. Right now, in these verses, are the domain of church. And what it means to be a community of Jesus Christ. Last week we spoke, therefore, about deep repentance By not perpetuating your family's sins. Anger can be passed down and racism can be passed down from uncles and fathers, and we can perpetuate it by picking it up and carrying on the sin mentality. We want to sever from that Last week we spoke about that kind of deep repentance of severing those family sins. And this week we must realize that with this general identity statement, That all along in those commands, Paul is telling us not to bring those ways into the new family, the church. It's not enough just to sever from the old. You must recognize that you're a part of the new And that's where this positive thing comes from. You have been brought into a new family, and it is called the church, and it transcends all nationalities, whether barbarian, Scythian, slave or free, male or female. That's his whole point there. It transcends it all. I want you to notice third in this identity statement that we are no longer, I've already begun to allude, a certain identified as a certain nationality in a sense. Sure, you can be a U. S. citizen, and Paul brought attention to his Roman citizenship, and there's a place for that. But ultimately, as we read this letter, or we read 1st or 2 Peter, our country is awaiting for us in heaven. And we'll be brought when Jesus Christ returns. In essence, then, we are a nation which transcends all nations. We are a people that shall inherit the whole earth. And this citizenship and identity as the elect of God, holy and beloved, must begin to be lived out now. We can live as citizens of the country that is to come. Knowing that we shall inherit the whole earth, because we are the meek in Jesus Christ. Now that's just who we are, and there's much more to gain from that. You can see all the work that God the Father, through Jesus Christ and His Spirit, has done. In that God has chosen us to be his holy and beloved, to be the new Israel, the fullness of the Israel that he always intended, both Gentile and Jew, joined together in Christ. We know what citizenship does not look like as we begin to think about our citizenship in verses 5 and 8. Citizenship doesn't look like that. Those aren't the marks of countrymen. And each has five vices. But we can ask the question, what does it look like to have this kind of identity? What does it look like for us to be a part of a church community And other relationships later on. Now, to stay with Paul's clothing metaphor, you can ask the question for this next paragraph: what is it that we should be wearing as citizens of this country? You know, it's really telling if you have a moment like this with a church, if it's a new church plant and you can't visit them physically, and you have only so much parchment and time. And maybe ink. When you're going to tell somebody what it looks like to be the church, you're going to choose really important things to say. You're not going to choose things that aren't essential. And so what he tells us here to wear, I'm sure, was right on for the Colossians themselves, and I'm sure it's right on for us, things that we need to focus on. One commentator says that having taken off the shabby clothes appropriate for the old age, we are to be fitted with the beautiful new robes appropriate for our new position. And I just wonder what those new robes are. that Paul will describe. That's what he does here and what not only who we are, but what we are to where. And this is really just a list. As we take a look here in this passage, it's a list of five Just as the other, verse 5 and 8, were a list of five vices, now we have a list of five virtues that we would put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness. Long suffering. And we'll get into 13 and and some of the others in the following weeks. I just want to begin with those first five. He begins by saying that we are to put on tender mercies. If you have the NIV translation, I did not check the ESV of the NASV, but here in the NKJV we have tender mercies, in the NIV it says compassion. If you were to look across the scriptures and do a word study here, to be a member of this country, to be united to Christ and be being remade in his image, The idea is to have a sensitivity to the needs and the sorrows of the individuals in your church. To be that kind of person. Kindness completes that tender mercy. You have sensitivity to the needs and sorrows and You have the power to act and to do something about the need and the sorrow. Time and again, when I looked up the word kindness, I was very surprised to see how much it was an action word. completing the sentiments that we had towards others. We would see a sorrow, we would see a need, and we would do something about it. I imagine that this is exactly what James had in mind when he says: when someone comes to you in need, you don't say, Be well and have a good night. You do something about it. Whatever is in your power to do, that's what you do. You give your time, you give up your space, you give up your money or your resources. So you can see how those two things go together and what it means to be a part of a church. And he goes on and he talks about humility. Humility really starts to take this tender mercy and this kindness and flesh it out in a picture of Christ Himself taking on flesh. I'd encourage you to study Philippians chapter 2 if you want to understand humility and to pray. The picture of humility is Christ. All glorious, all powerful, all privileged, becoming a servant, voluntarily going without for others' gain. He thought of others and what they needed, and he was willing to sacrifice in order to bless others, and that is humility. It is thinking of others at least as well as you think of yourself. And I would say more. More than yourself. I think that's really where the difficulty lies. It's the humility part. You can begin to be attuned and sensitive to the needs and sorrows of individuals. You could see if you were to look around within your own resources and your time and your space that you have some kind of power to do something about it But then when it comes to humility, actually giving up something of your own to where you would be without, where you would lack for another person to gain, that's very, very difficult. But that's what it means to be a part of a family within the church. It's beautiful. It's the image of Christ. The last two are how to work out these qualities with others. Notice the last two in the list of the five, at any rate, meekness. and long suffering. Meekness here isn't just a repetition or a synonym of humility. It's talking about gentleness. It's interesting that Paul speaks about this word also, or uses this word in Galatians chapter 6, verse 1. He says Brethren, if a man is overtaken in any trespass, you who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness. Considering yourself, lest you also be tempted. It is from a place in recognition of our own sinfulness, our own struggles, our own confusion. Our own ignorance, our own decisions that we would be able to be gentle and have a spirit of gentleness with another person, not condemning and looking down our nose at them as if we could never make the same mistake. I would say as uh those who have or who are a little older, established in their careers, or have had children, or have moved on and are empty nesters, that please be careful in looking down your nose at a teenager. And condemning them. One of the things I've noticed most about those who are still in high school or are just beginning college is that they feel a lot of shame. And on top of their sin, for you to continue to not deal with them in gentleness is just to make the relationship even worse So I would consider this an ultimate command for us, that we would be meek, that we would be gentle. Especially with our youth. And then lastly, and thank God that Paul put this in here, he must really know church life. And I love the translation in the NKJV because it doesn't say patience, it says long-suffering. And that really gets at it. Patience can seem like you just let time go by and all you have to do is wait long enough for the clock to tick so many times and then you'll have what you want. But here it's very clear. It means there's somebody that's difficult in your life, and the Lord is asking you to bear with them for some time. And that's church life, isn't it? Difficult people at different times within their lives, struggling with different things. And the point here is that we're not to give up on each other. When we're our most difficult, we're to be long-suffering. We're to be gentle, humble and kind, and then we're to put on mercies. This is a picture. Of what heaven itself will be like. It is the reason why all the tears will be wiped from your eyes because of the tenderness that is present in the new heavens and the new earth. It's who we are and it's what we wear. Now I hope that you notice that this list of positive clothing is a list that is shared in the other Pauline letters These are the same items, or some of the same, as the fruit of the Spirit, for example. Or if you were to look through his letter, you'd find these same things that he's encouraging each of the churches in different areas of the Mediterranean world towards these things. These must be very important to him. The list includes items also from Peter's letters and James's letters when James talks about wisdom versus foolishness. These were lists that were shared amongst the apostles, the ultimate picture of what it means to be human. For Paul, the metaphor is clothing. And that helps us to understand. We replace the rags of the old life with the clothing of the new. It's a lovely metaphor. And it's interesting that each of the lists, whether it's the vices or the virtues, are in groups of five. I hope you notice that. It's five, ten, fifteen. With those five, obviously not a coincidence, it invites us to compare and to contrast and to wonder about the relationship. And I don't have all the answers as to why Paul chose groups of five. But we know, for example, that we can begin to compare the lists, and there's really only two options in this passage. You can enter the church, you can be a member of Christ's people. And you can relate to your church family like you have related before that, an earthly relationship, or as the earth relates to itself. We can relate as the new creation, heaven. The earthly option is you can enter in and you can be angry with each other. That's on the list and the vices You can talk behind each other's backs. You have that choice. And you can lie to each other. When somebody asks you how you're doing, you can say fine when you know that you've been in a depression for six months. You could lie Or you could combine them all. You could be angry and talk behind their back and lie about that person. You can do it in different kinds of orders. Or you can have the heavenly option, because we've been given heaven. The Holy Spirit to work in us. Us as heavenly beings of the new heavens and the new earth. We can be sensitive to the needs and the sorrows of each other We can do something about those needs and those sorrows. We can sacrifice our comfort, our space, our time, and finances to help each other. We can care about others as least as much as we care about ourselves And when fellow church members are sinning or are confused or they've had a bad day or month or years, we can be gentle. With people who are difficult and hard-headed, we can suffer long with them because Christ suffers long with us. We can and we can be dressed as God's elect, holy and beloved. You know what's really beautiful about these lists? Is that if you start to study the words, do you know where you find them most often? In descriptions about God. It's really beautiful what's happening here. Jesus Christ, through his spirit, is remaking us into the image of our Creator, as he said earlier here in Colossians. It's a real opportunity for us to see the glory of God, not only in the scriptures, but in our very selves, as we become in the and grow in the image of Christ. It is a glorious calling that has been given to each one of us to be God's elect, holy and beloved, and it's an ultimate test. To find out if we really love Him. And as we're growing in our love for Him, for that which we love, ultimately we become. Let's pray.