We're now going to be turning to the book of Titus, and I really encourage you to have a Bible in front of you. It's so many different reasons why that's a good thing. By the way, I am a technology fan, but I do not appreciate the Bible digitally. And here's the reason is that the technology for on your phone or on your iPad will readjust the paragraphing or the which sentence is on which page, and it messes with your memory. If you have a hard back or a softback Bible, then you will actually remember where it is basically in the book or in that letter, and then you can very easily turn there when you need to. Maybe that's a personal problem I don't know. But let's stand. And I will read. It'll be Titus chapter 3, and we'll be looking at the first seven verses where the preaching will come from. But I'm really going to end up running through the first two chapters for you in a brief summary. So let me read the first seven verses. Remind them to be subject to rulers and authorities, to obey, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no one, to be peaceable, gentle, showing all humility to all men. For we ourselves were also once foolish, disobedient, deceived. serving various lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful and hating one another. But when the kindness and the love of God our Saviour toward man appeared Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, through the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour. That having been justified by His grace, we should become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Please pray with me. Here is your word. Unless it is accompanied by your spirit, it will fall upon dull hearts and ears. And so we ask, Holy Spirit, for your illumination. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen. Please be seated. I have other arguments for a real Bible as opposed to a digital one too. You can see me afterward. I got a really good one that you'll never expect. It involves pipe smoking. So see me afterward. We're in our quorum deo series. Let me try to orient you to this series with a little bit of a different imagery. The Hebrew people, you'll remember, from the book of Exodus, they passed through the Red Sea. You can see the clearing for them to go. They gathered at the base of Mount Sinai. Moses ascends Mount Sinai to receive the law of the covenant, and yet Moses later receives another detailed description from God concerning the plans for the temple. Excruciating detail. Excruciating detail. The temple foreshadowed the plan of God. The letter to the Hebrews explains this well. The different kinds of sacrifices in the different places to offer the sacrifices, the different rooms, were typical, that is to say, they were foreshadowing the reality that would be in Jesus Christ. The sacrificial significance of the temple becomes obvious when you read through the letter to the Hebrews. Yet the temple has another set of details that we often overlook, and I've mentioned these to you before, and they're just as significant. The temple displays imagery from the Garden of Eden. The menorah being the tree of life, the cherubim guarding the holy of holies, being the angel posted outside the Garden of Eden that we might not enter back in. These symbols of Eden combined with the sacrifices. To present you with a timeless truth, and that is that God wants you to return to his presence. And that's why we're saying quorum deo, living before the face of God. Jesus Christ has begun to accomplish this already. He's gathering people back into the hit back into the presence of the Trinity. This sermon series seeks to establish this fact and to teach you what it means in its most basic and foundational levels. What does it mean to live with God? In a world that wants you to be ashamed of him, to be ashamed that you would live with him. The Holy Spirit is where we began. He taught us Through Isaiah 6 about the Father's holiness, and then the Holy Spirit taught us in Genesis chapter 3 about our sinfulness and the fourfold death Two weeks ago, the Holy Spirit taught you about the love of the Father, and last week about the grace of the Son, and this week we move to the Holy Spirit here within this passage. Now, what I'm going to seek to do is to teach you about the Holy Spirit, but you'll notice that this is not a dissertation. on the Holy Spirit. You can't actually find one within the scriptures. And I want to deal with the text honestly. I don't want to rip it away from its context. This is not a systematic theology. I don't want to be honest about that. So, you are going to learn about the Holy Spirit in the last point of the sermon, and it will come out of a particular teaching of the text, but you'll receive all kinds of timeless truths about him, and you'll see what I mean. Let me orient you a little bit to this letter and what's going on. I think it can be helpful for us to realize how alike we are to the people that are written within these very pages here. The truth about the Holy Spirit that we'll be learning today is that he regenerates. You see that in the title of the sermon, the regenesis of the Holy Spirit This truth is discovered within the Apostle Paul's teaching in Titus, which is about community and Christian society. Now, in the early 1700s. There was a man named Reverend Archibald Stobo. Anyone know of this man? Excellent. He's a Scotsman, which makes him okay in my book. He has he he set sail as a missionary from Scotland to the Caribbean and he was seeking supplies and so he ended up harboring at St. John's Island or Johns Island near Charleston, South Carolina. Has anybody had the privilege of visiting Johns Island? Isn't it wonderful? It's lovely. The whole South Carolina area there is lovely. And while docked there, he's docking to receive supplies so that he can go do what God has called him. And while docked, there's a hurricane that sweeps through, as you can imagine, which was just a kind of experienced uh um here with it with our very own South Carolina, and it destroys his boat. It dismembers it. Boat is dismembered. And as a good Scottish Presbyterian, he decides that this is God's way of telling him that he's not meant to go to the Caribbean, but that he should be planting a church here in South Carolina. And so he does. He in fact ends up being the cause for the Presbyterian churches all through Charleston. And it's quite interesting if you were to go down there and receive us. receive a tour. The church that he initially plants is is John Island Presbyterian Church. And you can visit it. It has the original pews and wood and siding and everything right there. Very interesting. Still has a uh wood stove right in the center of the church, so you can stay warm. Stobo's Presbytery is still in Scotland. He's a missionary now, right? And they still had an interest in his work and they would correspond with him. And you could imagine I actually haven't gotten a hold of any of the letters. But you could imagine the kind of contents of that letter. It would say, perhaps, dear Reverend Stobo, we thank God for your safety and of course your resolve. God Himself has given you this work to do. We ask that you don't perform the work all by yourself. Therefore, as soon as able, establish qualified men as officers, both deacons and elders, etc. You can picture that. You can see the work that needs to be done. And that's exactly what's happening here. If you see the beginning of this letter to Titus, that's in fact how the Apostle Paul begins. The letter to Titus, Titus is a native of the island of Crete, and Paul writes to Titus giving instruction For this fledgling church plant, Paul gives basic instructions for Titus to plant a Christian community or to establish by the power of God a society of Christians on the island of Crete. That's what this whole thing this whole letter is about. Now let me just show you and work our way to chapter three so you can see how this fits in. The very first thing you end up seeing within this book is the formation of a Christian society, and that in two ways. Notice in verse 5. Chapter 1. For this reason I left you in Crete that you should set in order the things that are lacking, and appoint elders in every city as I have commanded you. You see this? He's establishing the leaders first and foremost in this Christian community, and then he's going to give a list of qualifications in verses 6 through 9. By the time we get to chapter 2, there's another formation that's happening. Not only leaders, but he's establishing the society at large. Look at what he says in 2. 1. But as for you, speak to things which are proper for sound doctrine, that the older men may be sober, reverent, temperate. Now notice in 2 2 it says older men Then in verse 3, he's speaking to the older women. Then in verse 4, he speaks to the younger women. Then in verse 6, he speaks to the younger men. And then in verse 9 of chapter 2, he speaks to employees and business owners. or slaves and masters. This is the formation of a Christian society. Paul's giving him basic instructions to be able to do this. But he also relays and reminds Titus about the founders of the Christian society, not just the formation of it. The founders you end up seeing here in chapter 2, beginning in verse 11 For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts It begins to start to mention the members of the Trinity and how they contributed to the formation of this society being the cause. It was his grace as it appears in Jesus Christ. His grace or his gifts have appeared in this world, verse 11. Especially the grace of Jesus the Christ, verse 13 and 14. And it even speaks about the deeds that Jesus had to do in order to establish such a community. That is to say, he had to live an obedient life. Verse 13. He also had to offer up his body for death. And then it states in verse 14, the main goal. Why did Jesus do all these things? He gave himself for us, verse 14. that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. Now that's a constitutional status or statement about why a community is formed. You have the formation of the community and basic directions given in terms of leadership and normal citizenry. And then you have the founders, the true cause of how all this happened. Jesus did his work. And these people believe that, and in believing they have been saved, and therefore Jesus has gathered these people as a community that are his own special people. and they are zealous for good works. Now that brings us to where we are. Now you see the the meaning of Titus, the flow of Titus, so that you can judge whether or not I'm speaking from the scriptures, which is very important for you to be able to do. When you move into chapter 3, Paul is going to switch a little bit. And he's going to ask a basic question. And it's within these questions and the answers that we will eventually learn very important truths about the Holy Spirit. The question that he's asking. Is why they have become so prideful. And what can they do about it? Now I want you to notice something on at the end of chapter 2. Look at the very last phrase that's here. Why does he say that? Why does he say, let no one despise you? What could bring a person to say that to another person, to a young church planter? I think it's because people were despising him. That seems simple enough. He would say things, he would exhort them, he'd speak and rebuke with all authority. And yet he would be questioned and he'd have problems. Paul is cluing us in on the fact that the Christian church has developed a moral sickness. It's a moral sickness that can infect any Christian society. In fact, all Christian societies suffer from this. And this is going to be our focus. First, Paul is going to define the sickness. And then Paul is going to provide three antidotes to the sickness, and the third antidote is going to reveal an astonishing truth or truths about the Holy Spirit. So try to write that down if you can so you don't lose me. You ready? Here we go. I'm gonna I'm gonna say it again. Because um, you know, it's easy to lose me. I'm I got my notes. You don't have my notes. I can give you my notes, I guess. Moral sickness of Christian society. And first we're going to look at the definition of the sickness and then three antidotes. The definition of the sickness, and then there's going to be three antidotes, and the third one is going to reveal a lot about the Holy Spirit that's really important for us as church members. Okay, that's what we're doing. So first let's take a look now at 3-1, and it's the sickness of a Christian society. Remind them to be subject to rulers and authorities, to obey, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no one, to be peaceable, gentle, showing all humility. Now here's the presumption that I believe that we should bring to what Paul is saying here. If we take the flow of the text, especially verse 15, and we can see that there would have been some difficulties there in the congregation where he would have to say to Titus, Let no one despise you. And then we look at at uh chapter 3, verse 1, and we see this list of things that they should in fact be doing. I think the presumption can be that they were struggling with doing these very things. That is very reasonable. So he says, speak evil of no one. So then we would say, make sure that you're commending people. Be peaceable, maybe they weren't being peacemakers. Be gentle, maybe they were being harsh. And if he's asking them to show all humility, then they must have been a prideful bunch And here is the sickness of the Cretan church, I think, should be summarized, and really this is what Paul is saying is that they had a smug pride. An insolent and smug pride. Now, pride is the personal evaluation we feel upon comparing ourselves with other people. And you can imagine that ever since they had received The sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit, and they're still living in the city of Crete, which is known for drunks and liars, according to chapter 1, verse 12 or 14. then it would be easy for them to look down upon those who were still in the gutter. In other words, they had been lifted out of the gutter, but now they're looking down at those who still remain. But they're doing so in such a way where this is this smug pride, it's a personal evaluation that they feel and an elevation that they feel upon comparing themselves with others. You look at the person next to you, you compare yourself to them, and then you find yourself superior. That's the essence of pride. Smug pride is your desire for the one you judged inferior to feel the pain of that inferiority and to kneel before your eminence. That's smug pride. Pride is the look you see on a boy's face when he hits a baseball for the first time. Have you ever seen that? Smug pride is when the boy teases another boy for not being able to hit a baseball. Pride is working hard to buy your first basic car, night and day washing dishes in some dirty restaurant Smug pride is driving your father's red corvette to school and looking down on every other driver. We all had experience with that person. And that's the sickness that we see here within the Christian church. The Cretan Church has a smug pride. And the Apostle Paul is trying to convince them of that. And more so, he's trying to give them an antidote. Now here's the first antidote to this pride. Antidote number one. Remember your past. He says this in verse 3. He gives the word for in verse 3, and that should signal to you that he's giving the ground or the basis or the reasons for how they should get rid of this. He's showing them or reminding them things about themselves so that they could begin to fight the sickness. Remember your past. For we ourselves were also once foolish, disobedient, sieved, serving various lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hating and hating one another. There's a list, there's a total enumeration of total corruption. Notice the totality of it. There is a corruption of mind. You are foolish. You were deceived. There is a corruption of will, disobedience, serving many lusts. There is a corruption of emotion. You are envious and you are hateful. There's a resistance within us, however, even after seeing this list, that would allow us to continue on in a kind of smug pride. If you are diagnosed with the sickness of smug pride, but then a person were to come to you and say, Well, you need to remember your past, and they would say, You remember when you were corrupt in your mind? Remember when you were depraved in your will? Remember when your emotions were uh you should have been embarrassed of the way that you responded emotionally and affectionately to things? How would you respond to them? Pride so much has a grip within our own souls, we'd say, I once was born and now I'm found. That's not me anymore. And you can immediately move back into a position of superiority next to another person. Which is why you need to combine antidote number one with antidote number two. Now it's it reminds me actually of the same thing that we would need to do with children in order to reduce their fevers. Some viruses have crept through homes where you feed the child ibuprofen And before you're able to give ibuprofen again, the fever spikes and you need to switch the Tylenol and you need to go throughout the night going back and forth in order to keep the fever down. And then in the same way, when you administer antidote number one here for the sickness of Christian society, that is to say, remembering your past, the fever can spike even while doing so. because you can claim that you're no longer like that. Which is why we see, antidote number two, remember your part. You remember your past and then you remember your part. And you can see this in verses four and five of Titus. But when the kindness and the love of God, our Savior, toward man, appeared, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us. Here's the question. What part did you play in your moral restoration? If you're no longer a liar and a drunk, if you're no longer a Cretan, what part did you play in the re-establishment of moral restoration? It is very clear in verse 5 that the only time a human's contribution is mentioned is to show that humanity gets no contribution. It says, not by works of righteousness which we have done. Now, this is even more astonishing if we consider the person who is writing. It's the Apostle Paul writing to the fledgling church as uh being uh managed by Titus. Think of the Apostle Paul. If anyone else thinks he has more confidence in the flesh I more so circumcised the eighth day, of the sock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews, concerning the law, a Pharisee, concerning zeal, persecuting the church, concerning righteousness which is in the law. Absolutely blameless, speaking of sacrificial law. This is how Paul typically thinks. And he is able to say here in this letter, That it is not anything that you would add. In fact, he says this in other places in 1 Corinthians and 2 Corinthians, his conclusion is on the whole matter: he who glories, let him glory in the Lord. And this is just a repetition of, say, for instance, the prophet Jeremiah: Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, let not the mighty man glory in his might Nor let the rich man glory in his riches, but let him who glories glories in this, that he understands and knows God That's where the glory would come from. And so you can bring the two antidotes. Antidote number one, remember your past. And then you can bring it in, and you can remember your part, which is antidote number two Antidote number one, with remember your past, you can put up some defenses against that, and you can say, I'm no longer like that. But then antidote two comes rushing in and it says, But even if you are not a drunk, even if you're not a Cretan or a liar. Then it's not because of you. It's not because of you. It's because the members of the Trinity and the work that they have had in you. And now here comes antidote number three. And this is where we can begin to see the Holy Spirit. You can see number one that you are to remember who you used to be, number two, that any change that took place in you is not what you have done, but is according to his mercy that he saved you. And now number three, it keeps going right along in verse six. Or in verse 5, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us through the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit. And here's Antidote number three, and it's remember the third person. I want to clear away a difficulty, number one. Here you see you see the phrasing it says washing of regeneration There are people that have made a mistake in thinking that once you are baptized, you are then saved or regenerated. And they'll use this passage on you. But that's obviously what's not going on here. What is said, I'm not going to spend long on this because I know that that's this is not the time. But really what is happening here is that the the baptism is not the cause of the renewal or the regeneration. It's just a sign. of what the Holy Spirit has already done within you in the case of a believer's baptism. Or the sign of the faithfulness of God to our children and what He and what we dedicate them toward. That's what's going on here. It's not speaking about baptismal regeneration. But the second thing is giving a cause. The cause is attributed to Jesus in verse 6. And the Holy Spirit in verse 5. In other words, any moral reformation in you is not your own doing, but it is a super natural act of Jesus through the Holy Spirit. Now, here is where the whole series begins the transition for Quorum Deo. We have gone through God's holiness as a precondition to understand our situation as humanity. We've talked about our sinfulness to understand another precondition. And then we immediately moved into the love of the Father, which is the plan of redemption. This love of the Father is most expressed and seen in the grace of the Son, Jesus Christ. His grace is seen in conquering the fourfold death through his own death and through his own life. That's what you heard last week in the sermon. Now notice the transition that's happening here. When you speak about Jesus' death and Jesus' life or the love of the Father, you speak about past events. You speak about past objective events that have been in fact accomplished. Now, it says, let me give you this example. Let's say that you became a Christian when you were 22 years old. The love of the Father and the grace of the Son, the work that he had already done, was it not already done for you as that person? Did Jesus not already live for you? Did Jesus not already die for you? So what's the difference? The difference is that you didn't know about it. It had not dawned on you. You were like Nicodemus and the others that Jesus was talking about. You were unable to enter into the kingdom of God, nor could you see the kingdom of God because you were blinded Now here's the big shift in the series. We're seeing all of the objective past events that have been done The supernatural acts of Jesus Christ and his redemption come to life now through the application of it by the Holy Spirit. In other words, you have a split here in the series. Before we were talking about redemption accomplished, and now when we move into the Holy Spirit, we talk about redemption applied. That's the difference. And now everything that you experience within your Christian life, regeneration is the thing we'll be talking about this morning underneath this heading. It's because the Holy Spirit has been sent to you. to bring you the gifts that Jesus Christ has earned for you when he was walking the earth. That's the big shift that we see. The love of the Father, the grace of the Son is now beginning in your life. Because it's the work of the Spirit. And the very first work that He gives according to this is the regeneration, that there is a renewal and a regeneration of us. You can see this clearly in the passage. Now the word is interesting. It's palagonesis. Now isn't that interesting? I mean, aren't you just interested to death? Palagonesis. I want you to notice the word though. It has the word genesis in there. And that's really helpful for us in understanding the work of the Holy Spirit. A re-genesis is taking place. Isn't that beautiful? Isn't that poetic? There's a re-genesis that's taking place. You should think of the Genesis account, do it. Think of the Genesis account and what's taking place. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was on the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. Now think of Crete. The darkness of that culture. The formlessness of its civility, the void of wisdom and understanding. And now we see with the gospel being preached, And the Spirit accompanying his word through the proclamation of the apostle and the word of Titus himself, that so too now the Spirit is hovering over Crete It is hovering over other places, and he brings what was once spiritual darkness and what was without form and void, and he says, let there be light. Awake, O sleeper, and see your Christ. You can think of Nicodemus again, that you are blind until the Holy Spirit regenerates you. And here we see evidence of a whole group of people that have been gathered through Jesus Christ through the regenerative work, the re-genesis, the regenesis work of Jesus Christ. One gentleman that we're familiar with experienced this, and he said, Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now I'm found, was blind, but now I see. And you end up seeing within the passage that the Spirit is not leaving any ground uncovered. He regenerates the mind, he regenerates the will, he regenerates the emotions and the affections. In fact, that's why Paul can say this is the way that you used to be. You used to be totally depraved in your mind. You used to be deceived You used to be totally depraved in your will. You used to be disobedient. You used to be totally depraved in your affections, in your emotions. But look at what the Spirit has done. He has breathed on you, and he has recreated you in the image of God. These are the images that we end up receiving from the Apostle Paul throughout his epistles. The divines captured this very well in question 67. What is effectual calling? Effectual calling is the work of God's almighty power and grace whereby out of his free and special love to his elect, and from nothing in them, moving him thereunto, he does in his accepted time Invite and draw them to Jesus Christ by His Word and Spirit, savingly enlightening their minds, renewing and powerfully determining their wills. So as they, although in themselves dead in sin, are hereby made willing and able freely to answer his call and to accept and embrace the grace offered and conveyed in the gospel. Now, isn't that a beautiful summary of the entire doctrine of that we would end up that we see here in the regenerative or the regenesis of the Holy Spirit? And it's just the beginning. We have five more sermons on the Holy Spirit because his regenesis of you is just the beginning. He began with Jesus Christ, who's the first fruits of all those to come. And when you see beginning in you has to come to a final end, where once the Holy Spirit will renew even your bodies It's all a part of the same work. It's all a part of the recreation of all the earth and all the heavens. And you have been sucked into that. He's applying all of the implications of the work of Jesus Christ. And we have people, we have ourselves that want to have smug pride. Can you imagine? These are three pills for you to take. Christian society, our society does struggle with this. I'm telling you right now, it struggles with this. I see it. I see it within myself. I see it at other levels. The sickness is smug pride. The antidote is to remember your past. When the fever begins to spike, remember your part that you contributed nothing. And to prove that even further, take the third pill and remember all of the regenerative work of the third person of the Trinity. Who is the Holy Spirit? It is him that spoke into nothing. And he said, Let there be light. That is the reason why you rose from the dead. Now, I want to end with two examples. The General Assembly this year, another really exciting topic, debated whether or not to permit a study committee on the ordination of women to the diaconate. The assembly was divided because of the suspicion of impure motives amongst the brethren. Under the guise of providing valuable resources, they would say, to the church during a time where much pressure is placed upon the PCA churches to ordain women, they presented the motion. Two parties ended up being formed Those for and those against the study committee. Those for the committee look down upon the other party as uncaring about the women in their churches, and that's the way that they would say it. Don't you care about the women of our church? And they would say it like this, don't you care about the women of our church? They thought of themselves as biblically superior, and they are in fact not all, but some were smug. Those against the committee looked down upon the other's party as well, and they would say in a tone of insolence, why don't you just read your Bible? And now I find this to be very interesting when we consider our society. Because here's another instance. Recently, a student at the Enerald Community College reported to me that one of his professors rejects Christianity. And especially Calvinistic Reform Christianity because we are arrogant, smug, and insolently prideful. Now, how is it that I'm making the exact same observation as a secular professor? There might be, because there's some truth to it. Now I need to make a distinction. And here's the distinction that needs to be made. I'll let you know how I voted. Number one. I voted against the study committee. And I believe that it should have been voted against. But that's not the point here. Number two, the non-Christian professor at Anorona Community College is wrong in her rejection of Christianity, and I would tell her so. Here is the real point, and here's the real problem. The truth is not the problem. The truth is not the problem. It's that it's not accompanied with humility and love. Even though we are right and they are wrong on both points, we have no right to have smug pride. And you can begin to take the pills. Do you remember who you used to be and the kind of things that you used to think? Do you remember your disobedience and your undisciplined emotions? Was it because of you that any good change has taken place? Did God look down on you and he thought, There's one worthy of my love? Ah the intellectual repartee that I'm looking for. Apparently God's British, sorry. It was because of the love of God and the work of Jesus Christ that any change has taken place In fact, it took the great regenerating work of the Holy Spirit to accomplish any progress of anybody's soul, especially your own. So we may be convicted. We may be a community, as it says in chapter 2, Jesus commands, he gives us insight into his will. He does everything that he's doing so that he can have his own special people zealous for good works. And good works rest upon truth. And it takes the great regenerating Holy Spirit to accomplish any progress in this. And so we may be convicted and we may be zealous for good works. But we have no right to have smug pride about where we are right. No right. And that is where the problem is. And I want to leave you with three quotes from the man who wrote that hymn. Amazing grace. His name is John Newton, and he knew the grace of Jesus Christ just like you do. I want you to hear these three conclusions that he drew. I am not what I ought to be. I am not what I want to be. I am not what I hope to be in another world. But still I am not what I once used to be. And by the grace of God I am what I am. Whoever is truly humbled will not be easily angry nor harsh or critical of others. He will be compassionate and tender to the infirmities of his fellow sinners, knowing that if there is a difference, it is grace alone which has made it He knows that he has the seeds of every evil in his own heart. And I save the best for last. Although my memory is fading, I remember two things very clearly. I am a great sinner, and Christ is a great Savior. Let's pray