Next major section, and what we'll see in this section is Jesus' whole ministry taking on a different tone. He is not changing in his personal uh in his person or in his message, but you'll see that the drama of his life is taking on a different character and he is responding to it in various ways. We left off in chapter nine with uh with uh Jesus telling his disciples that the harvest was uh plentiful but the laborers are few and so he then goes in the first part of chapter ten And he calls the disciples, and these are to be his fellow laborers in the vineyard or in the harvest And so it is that at that point, with that context, that we pick up now with verse 5 of chapter 10. And you can follow along with me, if you will, as we read down to verse 23. These twelve Jesus sent out and commanded them, saying, Do not go into the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter a city of the Samaritans. But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And as you go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand. Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out demons. Freely you have received, freely give. Provide neither gold nor silver nor copper for your belts, nor bag for your journey, nor two tunics, nor sandals, nor staffs, for a worker is worthy of his food. Now, whatever city or town you enter, inquire who in it is worthy, and stay there till you go out. And when you go into a household, greet it. If the household is worthy, let your peace come upon it But if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you. And whoever will not receive you, nor hear your words, when you depart from that house or city, shake off the dust from your feet. Assuredly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in that day of judgment than for that city. Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore, be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. Be beware of men, for they will deliver you up to counsels and scourge you in the synagogues. You will be brought before governors and kings for my sake as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles. But when they deliver you up, do not worry about how or what you should speak, for it will be given to you in that hour what you should speak. Now, for it is not you who speak, but the spirit of your father who speaks in you. A brother will deliver brother to death, and father, his child, and children will rise up against parents and cause them to be put to death. And you will be hated by all my all by all for my name's sake. But he who endures to the end will be saved. When they persecute you in this city flee to another For assuredly I say to you, you will not have gone through the cities of Israel before the Son of Man comes. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding of his word Be still and know that I am the Lord Sometimes God wants us to just know stuff That's Psalm 46 that I just quoted. And basically God in that passage is saying, stop doing stuff and know that I am the Lord. I want you to know that, because if you know that, it is going to make a difference in your life. It is going to settle in, it's going to take over your life And there is the difference in your life that I desire. What I want you to do is know this. In Psalm 46, he goes on to say that that which I want you to know is that I will be exalted in the earth. I will be exalted in every nation. And then drifting from that to another passage in Jeremiah, God also wants us to say that there is a manner in which he is going about doing things in the world. In 20, or Jeremiah 1 and 20 31, we see there, among other places, that God goes about in the world doing things, causing his name to be exalted in all the earth. Through a process of building up and tearing down. Tearing down and building up. God is the one Who builds up. And God is the one that tears down. God is every bit as much at work in building up or in tearing down a a nation or a church or institutions that no longer honor his name as he is in building up those institutions where that witness to his power is not present prior to it. You see, God wants us to know these things. And today, that is the application, is to know something. It's the hardest type of sermon to preach. Because when you preach it, people keep saying, okay, but what do I do? And the answer is no. Know it. It is the knowledge itself that bears fruit. It is not the specific call to a particular type of action. This passage we're looking at today is ultimately God wanting us to know something, just like in those other verses. Chapter 10 in Matthew is primarily intended for us on this side of the cross, differing from the people that it was spoken to, but on this side of the cross Matthew 10 is speaking to us about something we are to take to heart. We're to learn from it about something. It does require a response from us, of course, but mostly the response God requires of us is that we embrace it as true. We are to embrace, using the words of Jeremiah, God, as the God who builds up and the God who tears down. And we need to see this. We need to get one other thing very clear about this whole way of approaching this passage before I get into it specifically. So we got this business about God wanting us to know something about himself. And then we have next that God wants us to know something about what's going on in history Paul in 1 Corinthians 10 tells us that God's dealings with Israel, God's dealings with Israel, his historical dealings with his Israel is there for a purpose It is there for our instruction. And Paul goes on there, notice instruction, it's something that we're to know. And Paul says that we who are in this the end of the ages, those upon whom the end of the ages has come, We are to look on the way that God has dealt with Israel and we are to be instructed by that. So God wants us to know about himself, but he also wants us to know about how he is dealing with his people Israel in a specific way. Because they are to be our example from which we learn both about God and about how He treats His church. Chapter 10 in Matthew is above all else Above all else, Matthew 10 is about Israel and her place in history. Jesus is only indirectly speaking to us on this side of Pentecost. His immediate audience is the people of Israel. From that they are who he is sending his harvest uh workers out to reap from. And one of the great difficulties people have with this very complex chapter is that people forget that its teaching is directed towards the people of Israel and not to the later church. He does indirectly speak to us. But what he is saying is look, watch carefully, learn from this. Look at what I tell my people Israel and then look at how they respond to it in the rest of the book of Matthew and throughout Acts and throughout all of the New Testament times. Look at how this instruction that I'm sending out, the harvest is beginning, and see what happens to Israel. And then as Paul tells us in Romans 9 through 11, Israel is to be Israel was the first branch on a tree. And if they have been cut off Then those of us who have been grafted onto that tree should learn from their mistakes so that our branch continues to prosper. Matthew 10 is here for our instruction. Because through it, Jesus Christ reveals to us how he is going to deal with Israel. This passage is only about Israel, and we must learn from it so that we may know How God deals with his people in every age. So that's a fairly lengthy and complex introduction. If I haven't lost you already, we'll proceed to the text This one is one where you have to keep your thinking caps on. This is not grammar school Bible teaching today. Matthew 10, as virtually all theologians agree, is one of the most difficult passages in all of Scripture. Verses 5 and 6 and verse 23 are the reason. There are three verses there that make it really tough. In verses five and six, if you look at it, Jesus tells his disciples that they're to go only to the people of Israel. They're not to even go to Samaria, which is kind of half Israel. And they're certainly not to go to the Gentiles, to the Greeks, to people like you and me. They're only to speak to the people that God has given the land to, the land of Israel Now we have to ask, why would Jesus do that? Why would Jesus, in this first sending out of his disciples, restrict them only to the Jews? I mean, Jesus came to save the world, right? John 3. 16, God so loved the world that he gave his son. Well, how does this fit? How does that work that this passage is directed only to Israel? That makes it a difficult passage to deal with. Verse 23 is another very difficult verse. Jesus tells his disciples that they will not have gone through all of the cities of Israel before the Son of Man comes. What in the world does that mean? I mean we're here. We haven't seen Jesus come back in the second coming. What's going on here? What does that mean? And that makes this passage difficult also. Therefore, I think that what Jesus wants us to know as we look at these verses, what we're to understand, is that God, through Christ, is bringing the gospel to the whole world. But he's bringing the gospel to the whole world through a two-step process. A two-step process. Now, think of this chapter 10 and his commission to his disciples Think of that in terms of the Great Commission that comes in Matthew 28. It's the only way we can really make sense of it. This is the same thing Jesus is telling his disciples, go. And he is telling them not go into all the world, but rather go to Israel and make disciples of them and baptize them and teach them to obey. That's what he's telling them to do, summarize up. So chapter 10 has to be understood in balance and in opposition, if you will, to Matthew 28, where the Great Commission is. Where Jesus tells these same disciples then in Matthew 28 to go and to make disciples of the whole world. So we see the first thing we need to know is that God's process of redemption is a two-step process. This is how God is going to be exalted among all the nations. That's what we said in Psalm 46. God wants us to be instructed in how He is going to do it. He is going to bring His gospel first to the Jews and then to the Gentiles. And then in the light of how they respond to it, how the Jews respond to it, he is going to take it to the whole world. Chapter 10 is not directly specifically toward us, the post-Pentecostal Church, but it is the same message that we are to receive. And we are to take to the world in our turn. But here Israel is in the spotlight. Israel. The gospel has come to Israel. And that's what we start. Now let's look carefully here at what Jesus tells his disciples. Jesus has called his disciples to be workers in the harvest, as I have mentioned. And we saw that in Matthew 9. 37, and then in the first four verses of chapter 10, as I indicated. So Jesus is sending his church out into this harvest. Israel will be the first fruits. The people of Israel will bear the first fruits. Now notice the message that they are to take. Preach to the people of Israel and say to them, That the kingdom of heaven has drawn near. It has arrived. Now, we don't normally think of a gospel message that way. You'll hear people say, boy, every time you get in the pulpit, you have to preach the cross. Every time you get into the pulpit, you're supposed to say, look at the cross, look at what Christ said, don't you come to Him and be saved from your sins. Well, that's not the first message Jesus proclaims, is it? Jesus comes to the church and he says, this is what you are to proclaim. The kingdom has drawn near. It is not drawing near. It is not being on the verge of coming in. The underlying text is very clear. It's here. It's here on the day that Jesus spoke to these disciples. The kingdom of heaven is not something future. The kingdom of heaven is now. It has arrived in the person of Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, because it was his mission and it continues to be his mission to establish this kingdom throughout the whole earth. So here is something else that we must know. We must know this as a fact of our life, brothers and sisters, and far too many of us really don't know it that way. We have to know it as a fact of the life of our lives that the kingdom is here. We're living in it. We're living in Christ's kingdom. If you by faith have been united to Jesus Christ in his life, death, resurrection, and ascension, you're in the kingdom of God. Embrace that reality Embrace the truth that that is your life is to live it out within the context of this kingdom and its power. For that is the message that Jesus has sent his church to proclaim. It's real. This kingdom, you don't see it, uh you can't drive down Highway 97 and say, okay, you're leaving Anirundel County and going into the kingdom of God. That's not to say Arundel County's not in the kingdom of God. And Arundel County. But I wonder sometimes. So it may be invisible. That doesn't mean it's not real. It is as real as the United States of America is real. It is as real as any social construct of human conditions. It is as real as the house you live in. It is as real as the structure of your family life. It is as real As you understand it, enter into it, and make it manifest. And as we as a church enter into it and make it manifest. If the kingdom of God, which is here, is not being made visible to people, it's not because it doesn't exist, it's because the people of God are not showing it forth. And why? Because they really don't know that it exists, in the sense that God wants us to know it. That's the message that the church was to take to Israel. Notice that it was not framed as a gospel of personal salvation. Jesus didn't come and tell his disciples to come and say, let me tell you about Jesus, he's got a wonderful plan for the rest of your life. Jesus doesn't start with our personal lives. He doesn't start with our felt needs. He doesn't start with the things that may be making us miserable. He doesn't tell the disciples to go and fix people's problems. He doesn't go and say, leave your people with no other challenges in their life. Heal all of their sicknesses. Yes, he tells them to heal as demonstrations of power. But the kingdom of God is not about living without any challenges. It's not it. It's how we understand those challenges and the difficulties that we face. There are many blessings that are to be found in the kingdom. It is a power, a kingdom of power. But what people must know is that that kingdom has come. And that the blessings that it offers, it offers to those who enter into it. The overarching message. That Christ gives his church is to proclaim to the world that the kingdom of heaven has come. It is here. It has arrived. Now the next thing that we are to notice as we progress through this passage is how God will deal with people with individuals and with houses and with cities and with nations based upon how they respond to this message How God deals with individuals, with a family, with a nation, with a church, with a people group. Is based upon how they respond to the gospel when the gospel is brought to them. Jesus tells the disciples that as they go, expect this. This is realistic ministry. This is what ministry really is all about. It's not about going out and from day one through day end having everything, people just flocking to hear the message and responding joyfully to it. Yes, that should be part of it, but that's not the totality of it. Jesus says that there will be people who hear this good news and they will be glad. He says, when you find them, go into that house where they are and bless that house. And and we will get into this at some point in the future. When Jesus says bless a house, he's not talking about just saying a few words. He's talking about bring blessings to that house. Do good things with them and to them. Heal the sick, raise the dead, those things. For those who receive you, For those who receive you, those who have faith, do good things with them Because that's what Jesus did. How many times already have we heard Jesus saying, As you have had faith, so it is done to you. Faith is a prerequisite for the good works and the miracles and the power of God to be at work in people's lives. So, you come, you the church, come into the people of Israel's houses, you settle there, you bring peace and blessing to them, and those who hear the good news and are glad Let your peace remain on their homes. They have been brought into the kingdom of God, and the power of God will stay behind as you leave. There's going to be another group of people. The gospel is a two-edged sword. It's very effective, but it cuts both ways. There will be those who hear the good news. And they don't want any part of it. Jesus says, so be it. That is also fruit. You cannot fail. The gospel will produce its effects on those who have been prepared for eternity by the living God through the power of His Holy Spirit, they're going to rejoice and feel glad. But those who know not God have no work of the Spirit in their heart. The gospel was then, remains today, foolishness and a stone assembly. So be it. Jesus says. That's part of your message. In Luke, this time, or in this particular time, that's going to be the effect of your ministry to Israel. You go first to the Jews, you are going to preach this, some will believe with rejoicing, some will not believe. And that is exactly what we read in Luke 2, where Simeon tells Mary about this baby Jesus. that he will be a sign to the rising and to the falling of many in Israel. There will be a building up in Israel and a tearing down in Israel. The name of Jesus, when it is proclaimed, some will rise and some will fall. And those who reject their message and despise Jesus and do not change. Jesus tells them, leave that house, leave that city, shake the dust off your feet. Sodom and Gomorrah will have a better time of it than those people. Now have we got to the touchy-feely part of the service yet? This is serious stuff, isn't it? Stuff we're supposed to know. Now here's what we see for Israel, and here's what we should learn from her. This is the message that's gone out to her. And what we should learn from this, the central principle is this: that how a person or how a nation is treated by God or is treated by God will be determined by the manner in which that nation or that people or that individual responds to the good news when it is preached to them. Their history will bear out And reflect their decision before the gospel. Chapter 10, we see Israel, the ancient church of God, being put to a test. Just like Adam was put to a test, just like Noah had to believe God and build an ark and was put to a test, just like Abraham was put to a test when he was told he had to sacrifice his son Isaac. Here we see Israel being put to a test. How are they going to respond to the message that these disciples are going to proclaim to them? They go about in obedience to his command and they preach the gospel. The question is this, will Israel respond with joy and gladness and inherit all the blessings of the kingdom that they have been prepared throughout the ages to do? Or would they turn their backs on the gospel? And would they embrace another gospel? A gospel that is not a gospel at all? And would they find themselves like Sodom and Gomorrah subjected to the wrath of God, rather than receiving the blessings of his kingdom? Will this people group be cut off as a branch of God's true church? Chapter 10 gives us a framework in which we understand all of subsequent church history, New Testament history. The difficulties in this passage, especially when we come to verse 23, are cleared up if we see that it is concerned with a specific timeframe. If we see that it is concerned with a timeframe essentially beginning with the birth of Christ, but most importantly and emphatically kicked off here in chapter 10, And stretching through all the rest of the Gospel of Matthew, all the way through the book of Acts, and all the way through the end of the New Testament up to the fall of Jerusalem. That is the period of testing for the people of Israel. For it is during that period of time that the gospel went out to all to as many cities in Israel. as it could possibly get to in the timeframe that God had allotted it. You look at the history of Israel during that chapter, or during that period. And what do we learn? We see that the disciples did what they were told to do. They were filled with the Holy Spirit at Pentecost to complete the work after they started it here. And what do they do? These disciples went to the people of Israel. Paul was called later to go to the Gentiles, but he always, whenever he went to the Gentiles, who did he go to first? Pardon? He always went to the Jews first and taught so. So the idea of reaching out to the Jewish nation continues during out that period period. Jesus raises from the dead. He ascends heaven. He leaves behind witnesses. 500 of them, so I'm alive. These people take the witness of Jesus and his life and what the Jews did to him, like Peter, and they say, this man whom God raised up, you crucified. He preaches these things that the kingdom has drawn near in the person of Jesus Christ and that has been proven by Jesus raising from the dead. And ascended to the right hand of God the Father Almighty, he has come into his heavenly Jerusalem and is even now ruling over men and nations. That message went out. So we see in chapter Matthew 28, which is the parallel to this passage, that after the resurrection, Jesus says, now it's not just the land of Israel, not just this geographic boundary of Israel. Now go to the world. The second step is the second phase of his plan is to take place. The question now, prior to after the death and resurrection and ascension, the question the people of Israel had to face is this. In the light of Jesus Christ risen from the dead, are they even now still going to remain in disbelief? Is the hardness of their hearts so much that even when a man is raised from the dead, they won't believe it? We know what the history is. We know rather than embracing the kingdom of God and the message of God, they persecuted the Church of God. We know through subsequent history that they codified this and built it into their very fabric of their teachings. We know that they were not content, just to say we didn't believe it then. But they established it as a basic idea of their identity as Jews that Jesus was not the Christ. So as a nation, they turned away from the gospel. They turned rather towards the works and law. As a people, they rejected the good news. And brothers and sisters, in 70 A. D. , God's wrath fell upon that nation. It continued to about 125 A. And in that period of time, the people and the land of the Jews ceased to exist as a separate nation. God visited them with a judgment that was worse than that which fell on Sodom and Gomorrah. When they saw him come in judgment on the people, the truth of verse 23 comes in. There were those in that first generation who lived long enough to see God's wrath displayed upon his people. They saw God's first church dispersed They saw the fulfillment of the prophecy in Hosea where those who were called who