Let us now turn to the word preached. We'll be looking at Colossians chapter one, verses one through eight, with a focus on three through eight. I'd ask that you'd follow along in your Bibles, that you'd have them open. And I tell you, it's so much easier if you have a physical Bible and not a digital one. At least it is for me. Okay. And so I'd encourage you to use a real Bible. Please follow along as I read from Colossians 1, 1 through 8. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy, our brother. To the saints and faithful brethren in Christ who are in Colosse. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and your love for all the saints. because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel which has come to you, as it has also in all the world and is bringing forth fruit as it is also among you since the day you heard and knew the grace of God and truth, as you also learned from Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf Who also declare to us your love in the spirit. Let's pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we know that this letter is all about the glory of Jesus the Christ. Lord Jesus, as we go through this letter, we pray that you would magnify and glorify yourself, and that you would glorify the Father And that you would do so by giving us your spirit in increased measure that our minds and our hearts would be illuminated, truly illuminated, that the illumination would not just lead us to theoretical knowledge, but to worship. We pray that we would sing to you because of what we hear here. We pray that we would turn to you and rely on you, that our lives would be devoted to you. because of this letter. Be with us on the ongoing weeks as we seek to grow in maturity in you. We ask these things in your name. Amen. John G. Abbleson, he was a director of the movie Rocky. And that was uh an immense success. It's still a success today. I uh uh the uh younger students who are under thirty, have you seen the movie Rocky? I'm sorry. There was another movie that he directed. Have you seen Karate Kid? Okay. Not the um newest one, but the old one. The Karate Kid. Well we can talk afterwards. He directed the the Karate Kid and that also was a blockbuster. The movie Karate Kid Revolved around a young man, Daniel LaRusso, and his sensei named Mr. Miyagi. Mr. Miyagi agreed to coach Daniel in karate And if you remember the scene, it was classic uh training scene in the eighties, which is kind of typical for eighties movies, where he called Daniel over promising to teach karate, and instead he had Daniel sand his cedar deck in the back, like this. And then he had him paint the cedar fence like this. And he had him wash the car by hand like that. And Daniel LaRusso became impatient when he sees Mr. Miyagi. He thinks Mr. Miyagi is basically using him to get chores done And that he has been swindled, and that he's not learning any karate. Then Mr. Miyagi asks Daniel to show him how to sand the floor, how to paint the fence, and how to wash the car. And as he's showing him at that moment, there's a reality that dawns on Daniel LaRusso that actually he has been maturing in karate all along because each of the movements Were karate moves or blocks in this case. And if you haven't seen the movie, it's actually a great little scene. And he went away encouraged because he didn't know it, but all along he had been maturing. in the way that he had desired to mature. He was advancing in a skill or growing in maturity, and that's always encouraging. We all long to mature in our pursuits. Now that's a dumb 80s reference. But the truth is universally true is that we do long to mature in this way. Don't you enjoy it when someone says, you have really progressed in this. Paul instructs Timothy, let your progress be evident to all. And he expects Timothy to accept that as a truth, something that he would desire, because it's so universal amongst humanity. We want to advance. We want to progress. Do you want to mature as a Christian? Is the question that's being asked. an answer within this letter. It's actually assumed, which is why we've put on the cover of this bulletin for this series, Maturity in Christ. Paul is writing this letter for Christians to mature. He writes all of his letters that Christians would mature, and there are some specific ways in Colossians. That he wants to see some maturity. But maturity in Christ is the main theme of this letter. I'd like it if you could turn to chapter or take a look at chapter 1, verse 28. I just want to show you that this is coming out of Paul's mouth himself. If you want to understand any of the books of the scriptures, you have got to find the main theme or melodic line that runs through them, that orients and unifies the whole. Here we find it in 128. Him we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man. Perfect in Christ Jesus. To this end I also labor, striving according to his working which works in me mightily The end goal here for Paul's ministry is stated that he wants to see them mature. This is a statement of his whole ministry, and so it can be said of all of his letters. And so it is in addition helpful to see that after this, 128, Paul will now show you the specific ways in which he'd like to see the Colossians to mature. And this is the reason why he's written this letter. And so when we get into chapter 2. Let me just read this for you for a moment. For I want you to know, notice that there's in 2. 1, for I want you to know what a great conflict I have for you. He spoke about in 128, the conflict he has for all the churches. Now he's going to bring that word repetition down into specifically for the Colossians. And he's going to start naming the ways that he wants them to mature in verse 2, that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love And attaining to all the riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the knowledge of the mystery of God, both of the Father and of Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. These are the ways in which he seeks for the Colossians to mature. You have in two one a specific struggle. But the real heart of it, the turning point and pivot or consummate part of Colossians, I almost, I was tempted to call this series Colossians 2, 6, and 7. Because it really is the heart of this letter. And here he states, in summary form, everything that he'll talk about in the letter after that verse. But this is really everything that Colossians is leading up to in chapter 1, and everything that follows in Colossians 2 is found in 2, 6, and 7. As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. Rooted and built up in him and established in the faith as you have been taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving This is the turning point or the pivot of the letter. It says here that as you received him in the past, now walk in him. Rooted and built up in the faith as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving. Everything that Paul is going to say is going to contribute that they would mature in these specific things. And thus Paul wants to see them living out a life of the one in whom they live. And that's why it's maturing in Christ. It's actually a profound statement to say for maturing in Christ. This will be spelled out in practical ways what it means to have maturity in Christ. Let me just show you in chapter 3, starting in verse 18. Notice how it says, wives, submit to your own husbands. Husbands, verse 19, verse 20, children, verse 21, fathers, verse 22, bondservants, chapter 4, masters. He's going to go through all different kinds of vocations and life pursuits. Everything is to be lived in Christ. And we'll get to that when we get to that. I want you to to uh yeah, so so specifically notice that in chapter two, eight through twenty twenty-three lists several I'm sorry, the chapter 3, verse 18 and following has all of these ways that we'll get to in maturing in Christ. Now I want you to notice one other thing In chapter 2, verse 8, after he has stated the heart of his letter, the heart of the maturity that he wants to see within them, there's another element that that goes into this letter. Take a look at chapter 2, verse 8. Beware lest anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit. Now notice that in chapter 1, verse 28, he says He states his goals for the maturity and then directly afterward says, I want you to be warned about philosophy and empty deceit. And then he states his goals of maturity again, and then he warns them about false teachings and immaturity. This is another element that goes into understanding this letter that he lists several immature teachings from immature people among the Colossians. So, as said in chapter 2, verses 6 through 7, it's the heart or the brain of the letter. And just as your heart or brain affects all of the parts of your body, and those parts of your body are only truly understood in light of the brain or the heart, so too, chapter 2, verses 6 through 7 must be kept in mind while reading through Colossians. And it's even true for our passage tonight. When we take his goals for maturity and we realize that there is opposition present for this community of people, we can see really the whole picture of what he's trying to do. To do within this letter. He's writing to a specific group of people who are struggling with people that are getting in the way of their maturity or who are pulling them back or destabilizing them. From the maturity that they already have. That's really a good picture of any Christian life. Now, as we go to our passage, In 1, 1 through 8, in most Bibles it is entitled Paul's Thanksgiving. I wonder what it's entitled in yours. This section, this is a good title, the editors entitled this section, Thanksgiving, because this section begins with Thanksgiving in 1, 3-8. You see there in verse 3, we give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. So that makes sense that you would call it that. And the thanksgiving is one long thanksgiving. And so why not call it Thanksgiving? That's a good idea. But it's also a major motif through this letter. I'd encourage you to read through Colossians, just looking for Thanksgiving. It's all over the place. They're key points. But it's also there because Thanksgiving, and the editor was aware of this and putting together these titles, is a formal part of a letter. And so it orients us as readers to understand the structure of what's going on here within a letter. When I say it's the formal part of a letter This is what I mean. If you have Microsoft Word, or if you use Mac Pages, or if you use Google Docs, if you want to write a letter to someone, they have templates that are already made for you. And the fact that they have templates tells you that there are forms of letters that are accepted within our society. You can just download a template and use that because in Western society letters look a certain way. They have an address, they have a greeting, they have an ending. And that's the cultural form. Paul's culture had forms for their letters also. That's helpful for us as we're trying to get our heads around what he's writing. Paul, for the most part, follows these forms. He gives an address. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God. And Timothy, our brother, to the saints and faithful brethren in Kalah, who are in Calash, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ would be found on the top of most letters, whether Jewish, Greek, or Roman. It would end in uh how how this letter was penned. There's a specific form that he pretty much follows. We do see some exceptions within Paul because there is no thanksgiving in the letter of Galatians, for example. However, Paul is not copying and pasting thanksgivings from one letter to the next He uses thanksgivings as a cultural form, but he modifies them according to his purposes. They're not pro forma, in other words He uses this thanksgiving in 3 through 8 to assure the Colossians that they are true Christians and that they have received the true gospel. That's the twofold purpose that he has here. They've been knocked off balance and have become insecure in what they have received. And in who they are. And so Paul, in this Thanksgiving, and he'll continue with the rest of the letter, but he wastes no time. Even in the Thanksgiving, he's going to begin to reassure the Colossians that they are true Christians and that they have received the true gospel. Others were telling them that they were missing out on something. Sure, you received some of the message, but you've missed out on the fullness of the message. That's a theme that we'll pick up on in Colossians a bit later. Perhaps some of you have heard, maybe not experienced this, maybe you have, maybe you've heard of this in some Pentecostal circles. If you have not received the gift of the Holy Spirit, which then resulted in the gift of speaking in tongues, then maybe you are a subclass Christians, but you certainly haven't received the full God. That would be a teaching that we're familiar with within our culture, and I'll go over some other ones as we get towards the end of the sermon. That sure you heard a message about Christ, but there's this there's more out there for you. If you could just get a hold of these mysterious teachings that haven't been revealed yet. to you yet. And that explains a lot of what the language that Paul uses in this letter. And so here's the big idea When you are feeling destabilized by those who promise more, we must return to true Christianity and to the true message. Here's another way to say the same thing: get back to gospel basics. Just get back to gospel basics. And the gospel is Christ. He fills all in all. Everything is in Christ. And so I want to look at this under two parts, true Christians and the true gospel. True Christians and the true gospel. So let's take a look at this Thanksgiving. This is the condensed message where we could uh there could have been twenty-one there could have been a twenty-one volume sermon. There is so much in here. So we'll have to wait to unpack all of the, I mean, I'm already starting to unpack a lot of the themes of the letter because they're all present here within the Thanksgiving, which is how Paul writes. So I'm not going to fully develop these things, but let's take a look at this first with the true Christians, as he says here, beginning in verse 3. We give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you. Now notice verse 4: Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, And of your love for all the saints, because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven. Paul, as he does elsewhere, did you notice what he does there? Paul, as he does elsewhere, uses a familiar triad. There are three things present within those verses: faith, love, and hope. And these are the signs of God's gospel work in them, which is why he is giving thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Because these are the signs, the badges that God has worked within these people, and they need to be reassured of that. They're not missing out on some fullness elsewhere. God has acted within them Now, if you want to see an example of this, you could, on your own time, see the same threefold faith, hope, and love as hallmarks or badges amongst the Thessalonians. Here's 1 Thessalonians. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers. Remembering before our God and Father your work of faith. And labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. Do you see the three? Now listen to what he says. For we know, brothers, loved by God, that he has chosen you. Because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. These are marks or badges of the work of God the Father and of Christ the Son and of the Holy Spirit within these people The distinguishing mark of those who belong to Jesus, the anointed Messiah, are that in 113 of Colossians, if you take a look. He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love. There's been a grand transference that has taken place. We've gone from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of the beloved sun. But here's the question. How do you know if you have been transferred? And Paul is saying, most basically, faith, love, and hope. This is a new exodus. And those who have crossed through the Red Sea of Christ's work have signs as God's chosen and elect people, and it is faith, it is love, and it is hope. But it's more particular than that, which Which is, we're very thankful for that. Because faith, love, and hope has been turned to mean anything within our culture. Notice that it doesn't say faith, it says faith in Christ Jesus. And faith needs definition and context. Notice in verse 5, it says, verse 5, because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you heard before in the word of truth of the gospel. This is something that could be heard. In verse six, it becomes intelligible, something also which has been heard. As it's going out in all the world and is bringing forth fruit, as it is as it Is also among you since the day you heard and knew the grace of God in truth. And now I want you to take a look at chapter 2, verse 6. Here it really starts to unfold what he means by faith. As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him Then he goes on and he says, and established in the faith as you have been taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving. So receive there in 2. 6 is a technical term relating to receiving an established tradition of teaching. Something worked out and passed down among generations. And so therefore it's synonymous with what we read in 2 Thessalonians 2. 15. So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that were taught by us, either by our spoken word or by our letters. That's to what he's referring to. referring to. Those that that that message of Christ that they first received. And we see this also in 2 Timothy 3. 6. Now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep always From any brother who is walking in idleness and not in accord with the tradition that you received from us. Faith, then, this first mark is the intelligible teaching and way of life passed down from the apostles to the churches, both the Old Testament and the New Testament. It's not just a funny feeling. It's not a vague understanding. It's not an understanding full of an filled with ambiguity. It is a clear understanding of Christ Christ and His work, of the Father and His work, of the Holy Spirit and His work. Now I want you to remember that this is a church plant. You'll notice as you're reading through this that he Mentions Epaphras, who is the church planner. And so here's what we have in terms of the tradition. Christ communicates to Paul, both from his prophets in the Old Testament and directly, because Paul received revelations of Christ. Paul then delivered that tradition or message to Epaphras, and Epaphras delivered that message, that apostolic teaching, to the Colossians. The Spirit permitted them and gave them ability to accept and understand the teaching, to be faithful to it. Paul emphasizes faith in Christ Jesus, and it is a good lesson for us today. It's not just God. So many Christians you say, well, do you they say, oh, I believe in God. That's not enough. So does pretty much every other religion. Here, it's the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ that you would have to believe in to truly have faith in Christ Jesus It is faith in Christ, which means these are specific words in this context. It's the historic Messiah, Christ. the one that they've been waiting for in Psalm 2. It is the historic Jesus from Nazareth that you believe that he is the Christ. And therefore it is who Jesus is. It's what he has accomplished and what he has commanded us to obey. That's the faith. That's the mark and the badge, the first instance that we see to reassure them of their true Christianity. But the second thing we see is love for all the saints, and this will be much quicker. It's very interesting that it does not just say love, it is love for all the saints that he points out as the mark or badge of the true Christian. We've established now that it not only must we have a relationship with Christ who is in heaven and to return to earth, but we must also have a relationship with the Saints on earth. So there is both a vertical and a horizontal aspect to the true Christian. This is a special love that is given from heaven. Take a look at verse 8. Who has who also declared to us your love in the Spirit. If it were James, he would say, heavenly wisdom. As we had just learned. This is a love that has been given by the Spirit that unites all of the saints. And in our confession, it is known as the communion of the saints. And the deaconates serve this aspect and work of the Spirit. It is a love above your ethnicity It is a love above your nationality. It is above above your biological family. It is a love that transcends your social status. Take a look at Colossians 3, verse 11. I'll start in ten. And have put on the new man, which of course is the work of the Spirit. and in all. To associate, in addition, with Christians was not advantageous at the time. If you remember from the teachings in the book of Hebrews, to associate with Christians could mean confiscation of your property in jail. So this was a big deal to say that they loved the saints, loved the very people that would have converted to the teachings of one who was supposed to be arrested or cast out of the city, namely Paul. So this was a big deal for them to do this. This is the love of the saints that he calls them to and reassures that the Spirit has worked within them. And lastly, we see the hope, but it's not just hope, it is hope that is laid up in heaven. The hope here is not a general optimism or desire. I hope it's seventy degrees this week. That's not what he's saying Biblical hope is an assurance of the promised blessings merited by Christ. You can see this in Colossians 3, verse 1. If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth. That's the hope. The things that are laid up in heaven with Christ that we await. This is really helpful, and I'm sure it was very helpful to the Colossians because laid up in heaven makes it crystal clear to the Colossians and to us. That they were not experiencing those blessings now, which I believe that those teachers, the immature ones, were promising to them. Can't you imagine someone coming along and saying, Look, I know you've got part of it, but oh there's So much more for you if you were to just receive these mysteries. Heaven could be yours now. You know the appeal of that. I'm sure they appealed to them like that. But we know that's not how hope is. And all those things, therefore, that are laid up with Christ in heaven, being hope, are not present realities. We exist by faith. Or as it says in Romans 8. 24, for in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we await for it with patience. And that's the hope that was instilled with them. It is possible that the opponents were promising them heaven now. And so this is particularly helpful to them. You could see how persuasive that could have been for them. This is very helpful to us. Ministries today try to tell us that they have reached some heavenly mystery, and if you only join their ranks, then your life can be great. Or you could live your best life now. How about that one? You can make connections and better understand scripture. Sure. I don't have a problem with that. As you grow in maturity and understanding your scriptures, you will see things more clearly. But these folks that do this, they're promising something different. So for example, there are not within our midsts, I imagine, but teaching going on within the church today is what I mean, that you can have a sinless life now. It's called perfectionism. Promises that you, if you have enough faith, could have power over sickness now. You can cast out the demons now. You can have that kind of powerful prayer ministry. Promising to have no more struggle with fear of man. We care too much about what people think of us. I can get you over that. I have anxiety. I can cure your anxiety. There are different ministries and books that show up on Amazon every day promising some grand uh participation in the heavenly world from some thesis that has now been published. The key to success. If we just gained a deeper, full understanding of justification by faith, then we would truly enter into the heavenly life. Paul's point is this. If Jesus is not the Christ, then we have We have uh we have, I'm sorry, if Jesus is not the Christ, then we have no point, and our hopes in him are the most to be pitied. Because Christians are staking everything and waiting for most things to take place in the future when Christ returns. These folks are promising us everything now, and when Paul teaches us, he says the majority of what is given to you by Christ. I promise, still awaits Christians for the future. Sure, we have been given the gift of the Holy Spirit, and we see our growth and our sanctification beginning now, but there is more, I believe, waiting for us in the future. Than we have at present. And this is the first reassurance that we see within this Thanksgiving section. Despite what others have said, the Colossians have received the only signs that matter. Faith in Christ Jesus. Love for all the saints. Hope in what is to come that is laid up in heaven in Christ However, the Colossians were running into trouble with regards to faith in particular, that belief, the receiving of the tradition. How could they be sure that they had received the full teachings from the Apostle Paul? When if you notice in the letter, Paul has never actually been there in person. How do they know that a paphrist delivered everything to them? And that brings us to the second main point, which will be 10% of what you just heard. You will not be receiving a whole second sermon. Here's the second one. This is the true gospel which goes to their reassurance, and I'm going to make this point really quick. Thanksgiving. Verse six, which has come to you as it has also in all the world, and is bringing forth fruit as it is also among you, since the day you heard and knew the grace of God in truth. What he's saying here is that the same gospel message that has been changing others throughout the whole world is the same message that they have received. Therefore, take confidence in the message that you have received. And now take a look at verse 7. As you also learn from Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who was a faithful minister of Christ on our behalf. Now notice the repetition there. Why would he say the lear you have learned from Epapharis, our dear fellow servant, who is a faithful minister of Christ on our behalf. What he's pointing out here is that you did hear a message from a qualified messenger. And his name is Epaphras. He's the one that planted the church. In fact, he is a faithful servant. And this meant a lot to the church because this message now with this letter is coming from the Apostle Paul. Considered an authority amongst all of those communities. Brad and I were talking about this before the service. This is a I hate that I have to use this example, but it comes across well. It would be like receiving a letter from the president or from the Pope. Or from the Pope. This is uh the uh the whole idea because we're aware of what's hap aware of um the Pope's authority in some circles. I hate that analogy, but I hope that you get what I'm saying. He writes as the official spokesman of God, and they knew this. And so now that Epaphras was commended, they could commend the message and know that they have also received the true gospel. And that's the thanksgiving. He assures them that they are true Christians and that they receive the true gospel. What a gracious beginning and foundation to Paul's maturing ministry! Immune teachers can shape Christian confidence, but getting back to faith in Christ Faith in Christ Jesus, love for all the saints, and hope in the returning Son, as delivered by the Apostle Paul and his co-workers, brings healing reassurance for them, and it brings it for us. It helps us to get back to basics. Here's one I'm going to ask in application, and then I'll end. I'd ask that as we are going through this letter in the evening, that you would devote yourself to the letter. Too often I'm finding as the pastor that I'm preaching on this and the only time you're some are interacting with the letter is when I'm preaching. You really need to be reading the letter over and over and over and over and over again, rehearsing it, making observations. Let me just say one of the keystones of being a Protestant is that we have no Pope. We have no Pope. We have no interpretive pope. I'm not the interpretive pope that gives the uh the ex-cathedral announcement. Of what the scriptures mean up here. You must be like a Berean and test what I say according to the Scriptures. And to do that you must know these Scriptures And so I'd encourage you, by way of application, as we set out on this series, read this book over and over again. Chase after me to discuss it and discuss it with one another. Go back to apostolic teaching. You must immerse yourself. I just opened my beehives and making sure that they were doing okay. I made some slight observations and then based on my observations I drew some conclusions as to what was going on with the queen with within the hive. And then I started thinking some more about my observations and the conclusion that I drew. And I realized, you know, actually I I don't think I observed very well, and I think I might have drawn the wrong conclusion. And so I went back in, I brought a bucket next to the beehive so I could just sit there and stare and stare and stare and observe and observe. And observe, and I came up with a different conclusion as to what was actually happening in the hive. And all it took was not a scholar, not some professional bee guy sitting there, but just some observation. And that's the same with you. Observe, observe, observe this letter as we go through it. Really get to know it. Devote yourself to understanding it. Paul has your best in mind. The promise that is offered to you in this letter as the Holy Spirit ministers it to your heart is for you to get what you want, which is maturity in Christ Jesus. Please pray with me. Father, we thank you. We thank you for the execution of your decrees and Christ, we thank you for your spirit that has superintended the writing of this letter. And I do pray for your people. I pray that they would devote themselves to the observation of your word. Lord, I pray that we would take this letter seriously as written from the very messenger of God, one that you spoke to directly, one that you gave insight into the Old Testament. Pray, Father, that we would take that seriously and that we would show we take it seriously by dedicating ourselves to the understanding of it and not just opening this letter for the first time. Pray Father that you would give us the time to be able to do that, the patience, the community, the conversations and discussions that need to be able to take place that we can understand. And I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that as you give us diligence and carefulness with your word, learning how to handle it and making the right observations and drawing the right conclusions. That you would take those truths that we receive. And just as the Colossians received truth from Epaphras, that we would receive from this letter, and that they would mature, we pray that we would mature. We pray that as we receive Christ Jesus, as we receive you, that we would walk in you, that we would be rooted and grounded in the faith That we would return back to basics and we would do so with thanksgiving. We ask these things in your name. Amen.