I encourage you now to open your Bibles and turn to Mark chapter twelve. We're going to look at the first twelve verses. An event in Jesus' ministry, a teaching of a parable. and his explanation of it. I would ask you to please stand if you're able, and we stand as we read God's word. We stand out of respect for our God whose word this is. Mark chapter 12, verses 1 through 12. And you may want to put a marker there or keep it open as we continue in our study this morning. The word of the Lord. Then he began to speak to them in parables. A man planted a vineyard and set a hedge around it, dug a place for the wine vat, and built a tower, and he leased it to vine dressers and went into a far country. Now at vintage time he sent a servant to the vine dressers, that he might receive some of the fruit of the vineyard from the vine dressers. And they took him and beat him and sent him away empty handed Again he sent them another servant, and at him they threw stones, wounded him in the head, and sent him away shamefully treated, and again he sent another, and him they killed, and many others beating some and killing some Therefore, still having one son, his beloved, he also sent him to them last, saying, They will respect my son. But those vine dressers said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours. So they took him and killed him and cast him out of the vineyard. Therefore, what will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the vine dressers and give the vineyard to others Have you not even read this scripture? The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. And they sought to lay hands on him, but feared the multitude, for they knew he had spoken the parable against them. So they left him and went away. The flower fades, the grass withers, but the word of our Lord stands forever. Please be seated. We have a situation going on in a vineyard. Rebellion in a vineyard. We're going to be looking at the this passage, and we're going to see primarily that the truth that's being taught here is that apostasy results in rejection. That's what we're seeing in this passage. And I want to first go ahead and define apostathy. It's a term that you may be familiar with. But more likely than not, it's a term that has been confused in our minds and what it means. The word apostasy comes from a Greek word, apostasia. It's an adjective that's derived from a verb that means to remove or withdraw oneself, to stand apart from. And the English definition, according to Merriam-Webster, is the act of rebelling against, forsaking, abandoning, or falling away from what one has believed. And it has a secondary definition, the abandonment of a previous loyalty. Well, I don't know if you've given much thought in your life to apostasy or to those who are apostates. So I'd ask you, when you think of an apostate, who do you think of? Not too long ago, I heard some people being referred to as apostates when the Baltimore Ravens came into existence. These people were Washington Redskins fans. And when the Baltimore Ravens came about, they gave up their loyalty to the Washington Redskins. And they became Ravens fans. Or the the similar kind of thing could be said of those who were Orioles fans. And when the Nationals came around, they abandoned their loyalty to the Orioles and became Nationals fans. Well, obviously these kinds of apostasy. This is pretty trivial, isn't it? We usually don't call something that trivial apostasy. But the important thing to consider with apostasy is what exactly is one forsaking? What exactly is one rebelling against or falling away from? So when I think about a really good example of someone who was a good apostate, I think of Martin Luther. This year marks the 500th anniversary of the Protestant Reformation. And Martin Luther is probably the most famous apostate in the history of the world, and he was an apostate from the Roman Catholic Church. He abandoned his loyalty to the Romanist system. He abandoned his loyalty to the Pope in favor of his new loyalty to Jesus Christ and to his word. Now, we don't typically think of apostasy as a good thing, right? Martin Luther, a good apostate. But again, it really is whatever the person is rebelling from. Or forsaking that determines whether apostasy is a good or a bad thing. So let me rephrase this question and put it this way: When you think about apostasy, could there be a situation And a situation from history that comes to your mind. When you think about people turning away from previous beliefs or forsaking and abandoning a loyalty they once held, who do you think of Well, our Lord Jesus Christ addressed such a situation in this parable, didn't he? And this parable we're exploring in this passage from the ministry of our Lord, in his mind, He was giving a story about the saddest and the most significant apostasy that could ever occur in human history. An apostasy which he knew would ultimately result in his horrendous and painful death on the cross. Now, brothers and sisters, it's important for us to remember where we are in the progress of Jesus' ministry as we come to examine this parable. According to Mark, the events of this teaching happened just two days after our Lord Christ Entered Jerusalem as a conquering hero. He was hailed as the son of David and given a triumph that the world had never before witnessed. Now, I d I don't know if you're familiar with triumphs, but in the Roman times, a triumph could only be granted by the Senate. The conquering general would come into the city, and if he wanted to have a giant parade, he couldn't just do it. The Senate had to grant it to him. Well, there was no Senate or ruling body that granted this triumph to the Lord Jesus. It was God Himself who granted it to them. Granted it to him. It was God Himself who had the cult there. It was God Himself who made the people give this triumph. to Jesus. And even when the the chief priests and the religious leaders come and they say, Tell these people to be quiet. They shouldn't be saying these things about you, what does Jesus respond? He says, if they're quiet, if they're silent, these rocks would immediately cry. It's the Lord's doing that Jesus is entering Jerusalem as a conquering hero. And the very next day from that triumphal entry, he comes upon a tree that by all of its appearances should have been bearing fruit. And when he comes upon it and sees no figs on that tree, he curses it, and it withers. The Lord cleanses the temple of his father, and drives out the money changers, and drives out the seas. And because of all this, because of everything that's happening, the chief priests, the Pharisees, the religious leaders of the Jewish system come to him and they ask him, by which authority he's doing these things. By what authority he is driving them out of their temple. Well then, do you remember what Jesus says? You can see it right there in your scriptures if you if you've got it open, you just want to turn a page. Jesus says to them, Okay, I'll tell you by what authority I do these things, but you have to answer me one question first. The baptism of John. Was it from God or was it from man? And these religious leaders, they talk amongst themselves and they come up with a cop-out answer. We don't know. Well the Lord says, okay, I won't tell you either. I won't tell you by which authority I do these things. And then the Lord turns right around and gives them a parable that explains the authority by which he does these things. Our Lord Jesus Christ addressed this situation and the teaching that we're going to explore this morning. In Christ's mind, this story that he's going to tell, the saddest and most significant apostasy in human history. Is an apostasy that we need to consider. We need to consider because the authority of Christ These religious leaders were blinded to it. They were blinded by their own self-interest. They were blinded by themselves. They could not see the system in which they served and worked. As being beyond only for them. And so Jesus, in answering them with this parable, he's delivering it to these self-focused and self-centered men And by God's grace, the Holy Spirit has preserved it for us that we who are sometimes blinded by ourselves and by our own interest would be reminded of that truth that is in This passage. The truth that apostasy results in rejection. Apostasy results in rejection And I'm gonna examine this under two headings this morning. We have The Progress of Apostasy, which is mankind rejecting God. This is in the first eight verses, verses one to eight. And then we have the results of apostasy, which we'll see in verses 9 to 12. So the progress of apostasy, looking at the parable itself in the first eight verses, and then the results of apostasy looking at verses nine through twelve. Let's dive right in. The progress of apostasy. We look at these workers in the vineyard And let's look at verse one again together. Then he began to speak to them in parables, and this is the parable we examine. A man planted a vineyard, set a hedge around it, dug a place for the wine vat, and built a tower, and he leased it to vine dressers. And went into a far country. The first act of rebellion in this vineyard was a rebellion against God's authority. The workers, these wicked vine dressers, reject God's authority, and they reject it in two ways. The first way they reject it is they reject God's design. And look at this first verse. He says that the man planted a vineyard. And if you're familiar with the book of Isaiah, Isaiah chapter 5, there is another parable about the Lord's vineyard. And it's very clear in Isaiah 5, verse 7 that the vineyard of God is his people Israel. God has brought this vineyard into existence. And not only has he brought it into existence, but he's put a hedge around it. He's put a fence around it. He's demarcated boundaries. This is his vineyard and no one else's. And it also serves as a as a protection, which is what the Lord did when He separated the people of Israel from the rest of the nations. And when he gave them specific rules and regulations to keep themselves separate from the people of Canaan. He dug out a wine vat. And I'll get to that in a second. That's a little bit more detailed than what we may be familiar with. And he built it a tower. And the tower would have served multiple purposes. It would have been a storehouse for the produce of this vineyard, but it would have also been a place for the people who work there to live So not only would it the do we see in God's design that he he wanted a vineyard specifically for himself He wanted it to be set apart from all other vineyards and all other lands, but he also had a great purpose for this vineyard And this is the second way that the people, these wicked vine dressers, reject God's authority. They reject his purpose. Now, I said we'd come back to this wine vet. What you may not be familiar with is in order to have a wine vat in first century uh Palestine, there was a lot of work involved. Right? You can't just call up a construction company. They didn't just bring a uh uh backloader and they dug a giant swimming pool in your backyard So at this time, uh in the research I've done, they found that what they would have to do to find a vineyard, they had to find someplace that had a piece of bedrock. They had to have a solid piece of rock. And when it says that he dug out the wine vet, that's not just digging dirt. That was chiseling out a gigantic a huge tub to catch all of this wine. Now the reason I bring this up is because nobody goes through all that effort unless they expect to receive wine. You don't need a wine vat unless you expect there to be wine. So if if the fruit that the Lord expected was just grapes, he didn't have to go through all that. And I think it's important for us to see also that the purpose of this vineyard is that he wanted this produce to be done and to be given to him by other men by these vine dressers. The Lord leased out the land, the Lord of the Vineyard. He leased it out and he went away. If he expected it to be brought about just by his own work, then he wouldn't have had to lease it out Now we also see that the Lord's purpose is very evident when we look at the next two verses. We look at verse two, and it says that at the vintage time he sent a servant to the vine dressers that he might receive some of the fruit of the vineyard from the vine dressers. So obviously this word for time and it says uh vintage time, that's not really there in the in the Greek. It's just a word that means a specific time. Right, and we can think of it, it's the same word that we use for seasons. If we say we're in the springtime, it would be that word. So we know that the the Lord of this vineyard gave plenty of time for these vine dressers to do their duty Of all the work that he designed, and for the purpose of bringing forth fruit, wine from his vineyard. Yet when the Lord sends his servant, what do the vine dressers do? They rebel. They reject God's design. They reject God's purpose. In so doing, they reject God's authority, and they find themselves in deep rebellion. Well, our God is amazing. And so when He's telling a story about someone in authority, the Lord Christ makes those who are in authority also amazing. The Lord of this vineyard, what does he do? At this point, when his workers are in rebellion, what is it that he should do? He should really just uh napalm the whole vineyard, right? Just be done with you. But he doesn't. He sends another servant. And so we will look now at the way that these servants reject God's mercy. We've seen in the progress of apostasy there is a rejection of God's authority. Now we have a rejection of God's mercy. And the first point about this mercy that I want you to see is that it is unwarranted mercy. They rejected the slave of this Lord of the vineyard. They did not deserve a second chance. No one in this situation deserves a second chance, yet the Lord gives it to them. He sends another servant And he sends another servant for the same purpose to be given the fruit of his vineyard. It is an unwarranted mercy that these workers, these wicked workers, are rejecting And this one they threw stones at him. They wounded him in the head. I I don't know about you, it gives me this kind of impression of Almost like mean kids, right? Mean children. They're throwing rocks at this guy. They don't respect him at all. He's just a slave, after all. He's not a uh a renter of the vineyard. He's just The slave. And so they treat him shamefully. But then again, in verse 5, again he sent another. After they treat that one shamefully, the Lord of the Vineyard still doesn't give up on them. He sends another, and another, and another. The mercy of the Lord that is being rejected by these workers is a long-suffering mercy. And our God is just like this: He does not give up on you. He continually sends his mercies to you. Now we saw that the vineyard is Israel, or I hope we did. And you can look at Isaiah chapter 5 and get a better picture of that for yourself later this afternoon. We saw that Israel is the vineyard. Who would be these servants? These servants are the prophets. These servants are the men that God had sent to his people, to these vine dressers, and these vine dressers. Are then the chief priests. They are the religious leadership to whom Jesus is speaking this parable. And they have been given mercy after mercy, prophet after prophet And what did they do to the prophets? Well, they did the same thing that these vine justice did to the Lord's servants. They beat some, they killed some. In general, they just ignored them. They rejected God's mercy. They rejected His unwarranted mercy, and they rejected His long-suffering mercy. But this, the Lord of this vineyard is something truly amazing? He's not a person like you or I. I wouldn't do this. I know I wouldn't. After having my slaves and my servants killed and sent away and these people rebelling against me, I would not do what the Lord does next. Take a look now with me at verse six. Therefore, still having one son, his beloved, he also sent him to them last, saying, They will respect my son These workers had rejected God's authority. They had rejected God's mercy, and now they reject God's love His beloved son that is sent. This is not a slave. This is not a servant. This is a person who should be given all the respect that is given to the Lord of the Vineyard. The beloved Son is sent. He is the last. This is the last chance for these workers. And it In the New King James version that we're using, it's a little unclear because it says therefore still having. In the original, it reads more like, and he had yet one remaining. So we get this idea that the Son, it's not just that the Son is his beloved son, and that is amazing, but he is the last. There are no more that are going to come. Because there are no more servants. All of them have been killed by these wicked vine dressers. And we see what happens next, the God's love being rejected, the beloved son is sent, and then the beloved son is recognized. We see that the vine dressers, it's not as though they just killed this one thinking he was another slave or another servant. They knew he was the son. And they said among themselves, This is the heir. Come. Let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours. Does that not strike you as some really backward logic? Right? Marlon, I really like your house. I think it's fantastic, so I'm just gonna Just gonna take it from you. It doesn't work that way. And it shows uh it shows that these wicked vine dressers had a very skewed view of reality. If they thought this is how it was going to work. So I started looking into this and and I found that there was some precedent that if you rented your land to a bunch of people And they were working the land, and then you died without an heir, so there was no one to take it. It was fair that they couldn't just be evicted from the land because the Lord didn't like that. He didn't want people to be left out in the cold and on their own. Again, that's a little strange. I don't know if I would go about using something like that as a way to run my life I would not be thinking in these ways, and yet these wicked vineyards were, these wicked vine dressers, were thinking that if they killed the son and the the landowner died without an heir, that it would just become theirs and they wouldn't get kicked off of it It. And so what do they do? They reject the sun. They reject the love of the Lord of the vineyard who's sending it to him. And I want to make sure that we're clear on this. The reason I call this God's love. It's because he he didn't have to. Now, obviously he didn't have to send any of the slaves or the servants, but he certainly didn't have to risk his only son To do this. He would only do it if he loved these men and he wanted them to turn. He didn't just want the fruit of the vineyard. He wanted these workers to repent. and to turn back to him. He wanted them to respect his son in the same way that he wants us to respect his son. So we have seen the wicked vine dressers in the progress of their apostasy, they reject God's authority, they reject his mercy, they reject his love. And now we need to consider how this might apply to us. All of us tend to vineyard, don't we? Mine has redheads. Pretty quickly. But all of us have a vineyard. And we need the right perspective on our lives. The right perspective on God's design and purpose for our lives. Why has He given these things to us? Is it just so that we can have the joy of children? He expects fruit. Our God expects the fruit of repentance in our children And so our job as vine dressers, I love that it's vine dressers in this parable because they didn't plant the vine, they didn't create the vine, they tended. They don't make it grow. They tend the vine. They trim little bits here and there. They give it water when it needs it. But it is the Lord who makes the vine grow And it is the Lord who brings about the fruit of the vine, but the tenders, the vine dressers, us, we're the ones who have to do some work and to get it prepared so that when the Lord is ready to exact his payment, it's there. So I ask you for your children, and obviously there are those who don't have children yet, but you also have a sphere of influence that the Lord's given you, a life, people that are uh that look up to you, things like that When we look at this, do we see it only as for our own work, just for us to have something to do? Like the vine dresses did. They treated it like it was their vineyard to do whatever they pleased. Do we treat our lives as though it's just ours to do whatever we please? Or do you see your life as being given to you specifically To serve God and to bear fruit for His kingdom. Fruit among your friends. Fruit among your professors at college. Fruit among those that you love in your family. Now, this should uh should remind us of Pastor Jesse's sermons from the last few weeks, the diligent fear. When we realize that we're not tending our own vineyard, but we're tending someone else's, that should be a certain kind of fear unto diligence. That would make us want to do better and want to do more in order that the work that we're doing is honoring to the Lord of the Vineyard. And as we read in Psalm 118, the Lord's mercy endures forever. He is so good to us in giving us this great vineyard that we work in. Shouldn't we be giving him as as much of ourselves as we possibly can? Shouldn't we be giving him all of us, all of our thoughts, all of our spare time? All of it should be devoted towards producing fruit in his vineyard that he has put us in. And the last application from this section: Jesus Christ, the Son of God. What do you think of when you think about Jesus Christ? Do you think of God's great love and mercy? Do you think of the fact that He was given for you? It's because of your sin that he was sent. It's because of your rebellion that he had to come. It's because you have killed and murdered his servants, the slaves, the ones who have been sent by God. And so he had to send his son in order to reclaim you. What a great and awesome God. He loves you so much he wants you with him This is the Son of God. This is the proof. And it should be all the proof that we need. And so I ask you: how well do you know this son? Would you recognize him? When he shows up to your vineyard? How well do you know Jesus Christ? Now remember, I'm preaching to myself too I had to ask myself, do I know more about Middle earth and Frodo's journey to Mount Doom than I do about Jesus Christ's journey to Mount Doom? Calvary. Am I more willing to talk with people about Star Trek than I am to talk with people about the gospel of God in Jesus Christ? Christ. Is his son really that amazing to me? And so when I think about that, and I think about what is it that we have to do in order to know the Son, in order to love Him as we should, we have to know God's word. We have to be in God's Word. There's no other way. There is no other way to know Jesus Christ except by the Holy Scriptures. And so if you do not know what you should believe about God and you don't know what duty God requires of you, then how can you ever truly hope to bear fruit for him in the vineyard he has put you in Now you might be saying to yourself, well, I'm not really all that concerned about bearing fruit. I'm only seven years old, eight years old. What kind of fruit could God really expect of me? But let us be reminded that the Lord can call any one of us home at any time. Our last day might be today, and He may come and show up ready to receive the fruit. fruit of the vineyard. And what happens to those who don't care about producing fruit? What happens to those who don't have something to bring forward? The contractual arrangement with the Lord of the Vineyard. Well, let's see what happened to these vine dressers. What happened to these wicked tenant farmers? We're going to look now at the result of their apostasy in verses 9 to 12. Therefore, in verse 9, what will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the vine dressers and give the vineyard to others. This is justice. The results of apostasy will be justice from God. He destroys the apostates and he replaces them. God does not abide apostasy. He does not abide turncoats. He will destroy them. And very much so, this came true in 70 AD. When the Roman Emperor Titus conquered Jerusalem, raised the temple to the ground, not one stone lay upon another as Jesus had predicted. Prophesied. They were completely destroyed. And what happened to the church? What happened to the people of Israel, God's beloved people? Their tending was given over to others. The wicked vine dresses were replaced, replaced by the apostles, the disciples of Jesus, replaced with you, brothers and sisters. For you are now the tenders of his vineyard. You are now those who keep the church. I want us to see also in verse ten and eleven from this quote, which is also from Psalm 118, which is amazing to think. When they were saying Hosanna, Hosanna, blessed Is the son of David, blessed be the one who comes in the name of the Lord? That's from Psalm 118. This is also from this very same Psalm. First, I want to point out that this is the intentionality of the result of the apostasy. This is not an accident. It's no accident that this is true justice. The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. Scripture interprets Scripture, and if we look at Acts chapter 2 or Acts chapter 4, you'll see what Peter is talking about. When Peter is preaching his sermon at Pentecost, he says. Pretty much the same thing. Because he's teaching these religious leaders that this man that you guys thought was a false prophet This man that you rejected, he has been risen from the dead. This is the Messiah. This is the chosen one. And there's no response that anyone should have except to repent of their unbelief, to repent of their rejection, and to see what God's marvelous work is to make the Son this special. Servant. The stone that was rejected by man is the stone that is now exalted by God. This has been his plan since the beginning. The seed of the serpent is at war with the seed of God. And the Lord promised that He would send from His seed one who would conquer that serpent. Serpent. And that is this the Lord Jesus Christ. He was rejected as being a stone of no value whatsoever, and now he has been exalted to the most important stone. the chief cornerstone, the head of the corner as it's called. This is the stone that all angles are judged against. This is the stone that all other stones are judged against. And Jesus Christ is the judge of you, brothers and sisters. You will be judged against him, and the whole world will be judged against their response to the Son. Do they reject him? Has the Lord enabled them to receive and embrace him? Well, finally, we see in verse 12 the reality of the result. We have apostasy that has led to a rebellion, which is a rejection of God. And now we see the results of this rejection in the reality of what happens to these religious leaders. Verse 12 And they sought to lay hands on him, but feared the multitude, for they knew he had spoken the parable against them. So they left him and they went away. Do you recall what I read before our intercessory prayer from the beginning of Psalm 118? You put your trust in God and you don't need to fear anything. If your trust is in the Lord Almighty, you do not have to fear men. You don't even have to fear princes. And yet what happens to these guys? Well they they experience the removal of God's power. They're terrified They are terrified of the people. And even though the deepest, darkest thing that they want right at that moment is to grab hold of Jesus so he can't say any more of these inflammatory, derogatory things about them. And yet they are afraid to do that because they see that the people recognize. Now, I don't know about you, but wouldn't that make you second-guess yourself? If you thought that everybody else was wrong and you were afraid to do what was right, wouldn't that make you kind of question yourself and say, well, maybe this maybe I should look again. Maybe I should look again and So these religious leaders, they knew exactly what they were doing, and they're now experiencing the removal of God's power because they are so terrified that they could be wrong, because they are. They also experience the removal of God's presence. This is a self-inflicted result for them. They leave Jesus Christ. They go away from him. Would you could you could you leave God's presence if he were right here with you? Brothers and sisters, God's presence is always with us. This is one of the beautiful joys of what God has done in sending his beloved Son to us. So that's we we see the parable, we've seen the progress of the apostasy of these wicked vine dressers. We see the results of their apostasy, and they are heinous results. They no longer have God's protection. They are afraid of people. They do not have God's presence. And so I asked you, brothers and sisters, what can we expect if we turn away from God? If you reject God's Son, shouldn't you be destroyed and replaced in your vineyard? Whose vineyard do you really work in? And I'm not trying to make anybody feel too uncomfortable. But this is how it works. If you don't do God's will, you will be destroyed and you will be replaced. It may not happen until the very end Look at the Roman Church. They were the tenants of the vineyard for a thousand years, and then they gave up the faith. They became apostates. And what did the Lord do to them? Well, he removed their blessing as tenants of the vineyard, but he has not yet destroyed them. But he they have been replaced. And that's what we celebrate with celebrating the Protestant Reformation. And this is a church in the tradition of that Reformation. The Lord loves his bride. He loves his church. We can't just do what we want with her It's not up to us to decide how we want to worship God. We have got to do it as He requires. We must produce His specific fruit. He has a design and a purpose for his church. We have to put ourselves and fit ourselves into his design and into his purpose. And that's why we have a doctrine called the spirituality of the church. The church's purpose is not to end world hunger. The church's purpose is not just to help those in need. This is, of course, a component of it. We are to To do what we can for widows and for orphans. But that's not the Church's primary purpose. The Church's primary purpose is to point people to the Son of God, Jesus Christ, and to let the Holy Spirit do the transforming work in their lives. Now, I don't want you to misunderstand me. I'm not saying that we just sit on our thumbs and don't do anything. I'm saying that what we have to do is we have to prioritize what we do in order of God's design and purpose. We don't just do a bunch of programs just for the sake of doing them. We do them with prayer and with purpose. And I would say to you that in your life, if you are doing things backwards, If God is the second thought, if God is the secondary purpose and priority, then you may need to begin to look at how His design And his purposes should be worked out in your life. Seek his will first, seek the kingdom first, and everything else will be added unto you. Brothers and sisters, Jesus is the judge. He is the deciding factor. Many have, many will reject him. But it is God who has made him the only way to go to the Father. It's the only way to gain everlasting life. So if you're having conversations with unbelieving relatives or you are talking to your children or you're just uh doing one of those I don't know if you do this, I do it. It's a I do a little morning pump me up in the car when I get to work, look in the mirror and remind myself who I belong to and why I'm there. I'm not just working a job to pay bills. You're not just working a job to pay bills. God has given you all that He's given you to bear fruit for His kingdom. Now I want to leave you with uh one last application and then uh and then we'll recap before we finish. I don't know how familiar you are with the history of the Presbyterian Church in America, but there was one point in time In the 1700s, when the Presbyterian Church was the church, it was the dominant religious system in the Americas. And now that's obviously before there was a country But every aspect of culture in the Americas was influenced by the Presbyterians. The revolution itself was influenced by Presbyterians and the Presbyterian Church. The culture was influenced by the Presbyterian Church, the system of governance influenced by the Presbyterian system and Presbyterian polity. And I ask you, do you see that still? Do you see Presbyterian influence in society now? We don't. It's not. Because there was a point when the Presbyterian Church became apostate. When they abandoned their previous loyalty to the Word of God as the infallible and inerrant word. When they abandoned doctrinal truth In order to embrace a kind of liberalism. And we've seen it happen. The early church, the early Presbyterian church split over differences in how we should do revivals. And then they split again over differences in how we should do missions. And they split again and split again. It happens almost every hundred years. And it might happen again. The point of this is, we have got to be very careful with what we believe. You've got to be very careful with what you set your heart upon as being God's truth. It had better come from this first. And then trust those that God has given to the church, the the Westminster Divines, our our our fathers, who gave us a a great outworking of the system. And our elders here in this church. So I ask you: if you don't know what you are to believe about Jesus Christ, you don't know that what God wants of you, his design and purpose for your life, speak to our elders. Don't let another day go by. Speak to them. Speak to our pastor when he returns. That you can get a better understanding of how you should be treating God and reading your Bibles and serving Him and working for Him. So as we conclude, we saw the wicked vine dressers doing wicked things. They were Israel. They abandoned the Lord God. They abandoned his design. and purpose for them. They rejected his mercy. They rejected his love in the form of his son that was sent to them. And this is what we have got to work out for. My friends, heed the warning of this passage. Rightly understand your position in God's vineyard, and recognize his design and purpose for your life, and for this church, his church. Embrace His authority. Remember His great mercy to you, this unwarranted and long-suffering mercy that was given through His Word and through His servants, even now as you sit under the preached word. of God week in and week out. Let it empower you. Let it enable you to work and to produce fruit for Jesus Christ's kingdom. And you must embrace Jesus Christ Himself, the only begotten Son of God, sent because God loves you and He didn't want you to be condemned, but to have everlasting life through Jesus. Christ. This is the Lord's doing, is it not? This is marvelous in our eyes. Jesus was rejected. He was murdered by the wicked tenants. So that they could gain his inheritance. Well, Christian, there's only one way to share in Christ's inheritance. Do you know what that is? That's to be covered in the blood that was shed when these wicked people rejected him and killed him Flee from the apostasy. Don't even let it take root in your life. Beg our Father in heaven to empower you, to embrace Jesus Christ, to give your every thought, your every breath. Your every goal, your every decision. Give it over to Him. Give it to Jesus Christ completely. And remind yourselves daily that God is your God, that you are his beloved son or daughter. And that you live in his vineyard, you work his vineyard, and you must diligently strive to remain true to him to bear fruit for his kingdom. Let us pray Our Father who is in heaven, holy, holy, holy is your name. We thank you, God, that you have given us the privilege of being part of your kingdom, to work in your vineyard. And Lord, we ask that you would help us not to be like these wicked vine dressers, but that we would see this rightly. We would see our lives belonging to you and needing you. This is your world, Father. We belong to you. We work at your pleasure. We exist at your pleasure. We stay alive at your pleasure So Father, help us. Help your people to stay true to your word, to be devoted to you In every aspect of our lives, every single day, and that, Lord, our purpose, as tenders of this church, your vineyard, we would do it in a way that honors and glorifies you. That we would not seek our own will in our own way, but yours alone. For God, you are our God. We trust in you. We will not be shaken We love you, Lord, and we pray in Christ's name. Amen