Eighteen through twenty-seven tonight. If you need a Bible, can you raise your hand and I'll have someone bring it to you where where you can see on in the bulletin that I actually have the passage from which I'll preach, but we're going to do a review, so you're going to need a Bible. So that you can go outside of um the chapter. Great. So it looks like everyone has one. Very good. Picking up at James one, eighteen to the end of the chapter. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we might be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. So then, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. For the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Therefore, lay aside all filthiness and overflow of wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word Which is able to save your souls. But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he's like a man observing his natural face in a mirror. For he observes himself, goes away, and immediately forget what kind of man he was. But he who looks into the perfect law of liberty and continues in it, and is not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this one will be blessed in what he does If anyone among you thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his own heart, this one's religion is useless. Pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this To visit orphans and widows in their trouble, and to keep oneself unspotted from the world. Please join me in prayer. Lord Christ, we ask what this passage asks. We ask that we would not just be hearers of your word, but that we would be doers. That we would not be confused or deceived. that we would understand what your purposes are for your word, and that we would work in a line alignment with your designs. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You can be seated We have not heard from James lately. Perhaps maybe in your individual reading. But I feel like it's been years since I've gotten the opportunity to get back to this book. And so we needed a little bit of an orientation just to remember what we're doing here. If you notice the bulletin on the front, we have a name change. The cover did say Faith at Work. Well, it's certainly a book about Faith at Work, as I've had the opportunity to keep studying and Keep reading the book even though not preaching. I think it's clearer to say that James is after the constant Christian It's another way of saying he's seeking for this group of people to be stable, to be, I actually heard someone say the other day, he is a solid Christian. That's what he's after. The solid Christian. If you look at the introduction of the letter, take a look at verse 1. It says James, the bondservant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. That's actually unique If you were to look at some of the other letters, you would see that James or that other authors, other apostles are writing to specific churches with specific problems. Here you can see he doesn't have a specific church in mind. Presumably, he's receiving reports from missionaries abroad from these various churches, and he decides to write a letter not to any particular church but to a group of churches Which is why this epistle, this letter, is catalogued as a general epistle or a Catholic epistle, meaning universal for all. It has a general audience or a universal audience. Now you have to ask the question, what does James seek to accomplish with these Christians scattered throughout the area? I don't think he has uh particular single event in mind, but he is hearing reports. And if you turn to chapter five, verse nineteen, Rather than just being a random verse at the end of the book, I actually think it captures the theme very well. Verse 19 in chapter 5, if you turn there, brethren, if anyone among you wanders from the truth. And someone turns him back, let him know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his way will save a soul from death and cover a multitude of sins. I think James is is practicing what he preaches, that he's seeking to do the same thing, that he's seeking to help those who wander. Now we can wander in a lot of different ways. And you'll find that as I work my way through here, you'll see that you can wander into the world. You can wander away from your responsibilities. You can wander from God's designs for his word, as we'll see tonight. You can wander from his intentions for wealth and for power. And he wants to bring these Christians back. He wants them to be constant. He wants them to be solid, not wandering. Not confused, not perplexed, not dismayed, not disheartened. And that's why we have the cover of the bulletin, the constant Christian. It's the goal for your life, to be constant, to be steadfast, to be the person that we can rely on, a solid Christian. The Christian who does not wander is constant. And the constant Christian is the goal. Now I'm going to bring the theme of constancy to bear on verses 18 through 27, but let's review with that in mind. The first chapter up to that point. The first lesson from James in verses 1, 1 through 4, is about trials and troubles. So he's encouraging them to rejoice. Apparently they weren't. Apparently they weren't rejoicing. Apparently they were dismayed by trials And so that's a kind of wandering. James needed to bring them back to the path and help them to understand Jesus' purpose for trials, and not that they would rejoice in the trial itself. Who would do that? Well you can rejoice in what Jesus Christ is doing through trials, and that's the lesson that he gives. It's about a crucible. It's about being refined. It's about becoming pure gold. 100%. The second lesson comes from their lack of wisdom. They've wandered from knowing what to do about certain situations. They couldn't see the wise, godly path, and so James does not want them wandering around, wondering what path they should take. And so he tells them, if you want wisdom, if you don't want to wander around, if you want to know the path, the right way to go down, then you would ask God in prayer. Ask him for wisdom. He gives liberally. That's what you should do. And by the way, the point of the passage is not for you to store up some amount of extraordinary faith and to become and to wring your hands wondering if God is actually hearing you because you don't know if you had enough faith poured into the prayer or not. That's not the point. It's actually a common sense remark that he makes. He's talking about double-mindedness in this lesson. If you're double-minded, it means you're with the world sometimes, and sometimes you're with God If you, seeking the purposes of the world, are asking for God in prayer for him to fulfill those purposes, well, that's quite silly. Why would God fulfill purposes that are directly against him? That's the point. So if you're double-minded, don't expect anything. Thirdly, if you're a poor or a rich Christian, life can be discouraging and complicated. The poor are tempted to grieve over their social status, as you can see. Here in verse 9, let the lowly brother glory in his exaltation. The poor are tempted to grieve over their social status, but he points out there's much to celebrate. Glory. in your exaltation. The rich brother in conversion to Christianity can detect the financial sacrifices that he may have to make. And it's quite encouraging for James to say, remember about riches that they're temporary. But you, because you have become a rich Christian are not temporary. And that, of course, for the rich Christian is a blessed truth to have. It's a healthy perspective provided in his newfound faith that James gives And fourthly is deception. This is going to continue all the way through our verses to the end of the chapter. Deception is a major theme, I'll show you in just a moment. And this is verse 16. Do not be deceived, my beloved brethren. We can be deceived about who is responsible for sin. So he goes through in the verses just prior to that. Who is in fact responsible? Where does temptation come from, and how does it consummate in the giving birth to sin? We are deceived also, as it says in verse 17, about God's providential goodness. Sometimes we doubt that He would actually provide for us, but have no doubt, because God is the giver of all good gifts. He takes care of his creation, every cattle on every hill. So there's lots of ways, as you can see, and we're not even through the first chapter yet, to wander. And that's why he needed to write the letter. Lots of ways to wander from a stable and a constant faith. This evening, James continues in his purpose, and it really is focused and overshadowed by deception. Now I want to flip around in the Or I want you to I want to point to a couple verses to show you that deception still overshadows this section of the book. I want you to observe James' concern about deception. I've already showed you in verse 16. Take a look at that again, though. Because he says, do not be deceived. Well then he's going to continue the theme in verse 22. Notice how he says again, but be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. He also will repeat that again in verse 26. If anyone among you thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue, but deceives. There's a self-deception there. He deceives his own heart. Now in this section, what are they deceived about? Well, the other thing that you should have seen just in me going through those verses is the word. He's very concerned about this group of people from various churches being deceived about the purposes of God's Word. What am I supposed to be doing and for what purpose in my Bible study? That's really what he's answering as we sit under preaching or we study. ourselves. We could be deceived about the use of God's word. Notice in notice again the theme carrying through all these verses. In verse 18, he speaks about the word of truth that brought us forth. In verse 19, again, he speaks about hearing. There, of course, it is hearing the word. And in verse 21, he says, receive with meekness the implanted word And then in verse 25, it goes on to talk about the perfect law of liberty, which of course, if we were to have a conversation over dinner, I can show you he's referring to all of Scripture there. And not just the Ten Commandments. And so you have two themes that are coming together in verses 18 all the way to the end of the chapter. They are deceived, and that is the way in which they have begun to wander about the word. And perhaps you have been deceived about the word. Maybe you need to hear what the purposes of God's word are so that you can have a better Bible study, that you might sit under preaching, and it might be more productive and fruitful for you. Well, here's the big idea that I'd like you to hear for tonight from these scriptures. The constant Christian receives and obeys the scriptures. That's what it means. That's the true purpose of the word, and that you are to receive it and you are to obey it. It's the end result, obedience. So I want to begin. Actually, I think my outline in the bulletin Let me see here. No, this is fine. I'm going to actually add a point to the to this, but you can hear when I'll announce it when it comes and you can write that down. So the first thing I want you to see is the birth by the scriptures in verse 18. Let's step through all these verses together and see what the purpose of God's word is and see if we've been deceived. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we might be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. Now, beginning here in verse 18, James paints a picture of God intervening into human life. You notice the shift in the paragraph prior to that, there was a lot of focus on human responsibility. Here in verse 18, look at how it's really speaking about the work of God. It's of his own will. He brought us forth by the word of truth. And then it talks about the purpose of it. There. God of his own free will brought them forth to new life. He's speaking about Christian conversion and regeneration here. God, the Holy Spirit, accompanied the preaching of the Word, the Word of Truth. And it also says what the purpose is here. It's already giving us insight into the purpose of the Word. His purpose was to have a harvest, or as he puts it, first fruits. Now, if you were to open up a encyclopedia, you could get a huge article of what first fruits are. I think he's rather simple being simple here, in that the first fruits in this context are those of the first harvest. It's the first crop. And in the sense of it being first fruits, it also is especially dedicated to God. That's what firstfruits were, those things taken from the first harvest. and dedicated to God. And that's what these Christians are. I think also that James is focused on creation and new creation within this verse. In the verse prior, take a look again in verse 16 Do you not be deceived, my beloved brethren. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and comes down from the Father of lights, with whom there's no variation or shadow of turning. It's speaking here of God's providence of his continual provision for all of creation. And then in verse 18, I think he's talking about his new creation. And so God is the God of both creation and new creation. He is the God of all, and all things are onto Him. The Father provides all good gifts for and from His creation. And the Father newly creates some in his image to reinstitute his designs for this world. That's verse 18, so let me summarize it, because that was a lot of information. Are you ready? Verse 18. This is all going to connect, so you really need you to follow this and try to take notes. God, through the scriptures, the word of truth Is regenerating some people in order to renew his image and designs among humanity. That's what it says there. That's what God is doing. Now I want you to see how James moves from that truth that God is bringing about a new creation, that humans may fulfill his designs. I want you to see how that truth in 18 carries on into verse 19 and the rest. God used his word to recreate people in his image. That's verse 18. That's the birth in verse 18. God, uh the point of nineteen and the rest is that God intends for his word. Notice that in 18 that the birth happened by the word, and then in nineteen there is still a continuation of the ministry of the word. The point of 19 and the rest is that God intends for his word to not only bring forth initial birth and conversion, but to be used for Christians to keep growing more and more into his image. and according and for the purposes of his designs in the new creation. For example, in 19, the point is to keep listening. Take a look at 19 with me. So then, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear. He's not speaking here of generally keeping your mouth shut, although that might be wise. I'm sure you can read that in the Proverbs. He's speaking here still of the Word. Notice the whole context is about the Word here in 18 through 27, that you are to continue listening, not in general, but to the Word of Truth. The picture, really, is of the young Christian who listens once and then argues with everyone who does not think like them. Perhaps God, I'm wondering now if in line with this truth that God gave us two ears and one mouth for a point. Maybe there is a reason for that, particularly when we first are converted. Now that's the birth by the scriptures and how it's supposed to continue as we're young, we're to continue to listen to the word and for it to have an effect within our life for the ministry of God. Now the second point that I want to bring out, and I'm not sure if this is in the bulletin or not, it's the reception of the scriptures. Is that there? Alright, the reception of the scriptures. So this is our second point. First, we have the birth by the scriptures, and I hope that you can see the birth taking place in verse 18. and that it's by the Word, and that it's for particular purposes and designs by God. That's what the Word was used for. It's an instrument to accomplish those purposes. Well let's now go on to the second point, which is that we are to have a reception of the scriptures. There's a receiving. Now, here's the connection. It's like a set of steps. If I had more steps here, I only have two steps. You could label each step, and each step is a part of what he's saying here in his argument. Number one, verse eighteen, step one, born again. That's what the word was used for. Step two: keep listening so that your works change from unrighteous anger to something productive. Keep listening to God's word. That's step two in your infancy. Step three is here in verse 21 is to receive the word with meekness. So there was an initial movement by God, there's a beginning, and you're listening, and now you're moving into a time of Really receiving and submitting your soul in humility. You can see the steps and the stages of how we would interact with the word. It's receiving the implanted word with meekness. And this involves a few things. As you can see in 21, he mentions that you, first of all, should lay aside all filthiness and overflow of wickedness. Notice how he says that in verse 21. I don't think that this should be surprising to you because I've already showed you what the design of God's Word is, that it's for you to be a part of the new creation, to To be in his image, newly created. And so it's not a surprise that he's going to say in verse 21, then, that part of receiving the word with meekness and humility is to lay aside everything that is unholy. Everything that is a part of the old creation, everything that's unjust and unwrong and wrong and that brings us trouble. It's going out the window. It's going being thrown in the dustbin It's what we would expect knowing verse 18. The purpose of the word is always to get rid of filthiness and overflow of wickedness. Before conversion, you wickedly denied Jesus. Some of you don't have that memory because you grew up in the church, but some of you do. And if you do, that's what it was like. Yet by God's own will he subdued your will and he gave you faith in God and his work through Christ in the Spirit, and he did that through the Word. There was a harvest of righteousness from that. You did a good work, you believed in Christ The word will continue to squeeze all the evil out of you, is what he's saying here. It's the purpose of it. It's what the Holy Spirit will do with the Word. It's the purpose of the word. There's really, I hope this isn't too silly for you, but there are really two people in life. Did you know that? There's two kinds of people. There are those who throw away half-filled toothpaste bottles and those who squeeze out every single drop. I've seen people obsess in getting toothpaste out of the toothpaste bottle. Bible. There are contraptions to get all of the toothpaste out now that you could, yeah, well anyway. Do you get you get the point? Those are the two kinds of people, and that's a that's a decent image. For what the Holy Spirit is seeking to do with us, according to this passage, by the Word. God intends for you to be the second kind of person, the kind of person that doesn't leave any toothpaste in the tube, so to speak You're the second kind of you're the second kind of person not in regards to toothpaste but with your sin. He gives you the word, the spirit accompanies the word, you study the word, it's the main instrument, and all the sin in your life would be squeezed out. be nothing left, that you'd be that kind of person. The question we've got to ask is how? How is it? I'm talking about toothpaste. We all know how to get toothpaste out of the tube. But how is it that this is supposed to work? What are the dynamics here? And the answer lies in the submission of our wills, as he says in 21. That we are to receive with meekness the implanted word. Meekness is the idea of submitting our will to God's will. It's leading every thought captive to the thoughts of Christ. God communicates his will through his word. If you read the word and do not submit your will to his with humility and weakness, Then you are frustrating the design and the purpose of the Holy Spirit with the Word. So you can already begin to see and size up what the purposes of the Word are within your life. And here's the question. When you read the scriptures, Christian, do you repent of sin exposed and submit to God's design for your life? What is your Bible study and listening to the ministry of the word like? Is it like what has been described here? Well, he's not saying these things to beat you down. He understands that we become deceived. Have you been deceived about what the purposes of the word are? Because he's telling you that you're supposed to be changed by your Bible study. It's the purpose of the word. If not, then your Bible study is just another area of life where you are wandering Maybe you don't know that Bible study was meant to lead to change, and I guess now you can consider yourself to be deceived no longer. And you can get to work on that. So here he speaks generally of what the word is supposed to be doing, or what the Spirit does, in fact, do through the Word. He awakens us to new life. He brings the word so that we can continue to listen in our infancy and that we could grow to the point where we could receive with submission and meekness. He speaks of how wickedness and filthiness are to be squeezed out by the Word and the ministry of the Word through the Holy Spirit. But that's still pretty general. James is now going to move into some concrete examples. He's going to move from speaking about things negatively of what we should be laying aside, and he's going to speak positively about the fruits of the work. that we would have in our word. And so now we come to the third point, which is obedience to the scriptures. I guess I did keep the points. It's obedience to the scriptures. Here are all of the steps. At the risk of beating a dead horse, I want to make sure that you're seeing the steps that he's giving to you. This is so important for you, Christian. You were brought forth in verse 18 by the word of truth. In verse 19, you were taught to be quiet and learn. You have one mouth and two ears for a reason. Keep listening to the word. And then in verse 21, as we take the next step, you're to receive it with meekness. You've heard what it says. Submit to it. Allow all of your thoughts to become captive to the command of Christ. And here in verse 22, there's a final act, and it's to act on the word There's the bringing forth, being quiet, receiving, and finally the doing. That is taking you in stages of maturity in the ministry of the word within your life that you could become a Christian that is more and more constant. And using the word according to the designs that he has. So in verses 23 through 25, James is focused on the great deception. This is the great deception of the Christian's life. You think that it's okay to just read God's word? And he's saying that's a deception. It's meant to be read and to be acted upon. And he's going to give you a ridiculous and silly example. Of what he's talking about. That's the purpose when we get into verses 23 through 25 of that strange analogy here of someone looking in the mirror. Let me read it to you. But be doers of the word and not hearers only deceiving yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man observing his natural face in a mirror, for he observes himself, goes away, and immediately forgets what kind of man he was. But he who looks into the perfect law of liberty and continues in it and is not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this one will be blessed in what he does. Now you're going to want to study this more because this is a difficult analogy And there are different ways to take this. I'm going to tell you I take it. I believe that I'm right. I think I'm just taking a literal way that he's saying it. But the key really is to see in verse 25 that he's calling the analogy, the analogy of the forgetful hearer. So whatever we're supposed to learn, it's about someone who forgets. And it's supposed to be reducing the position to absurdity. That you would never want to be like this. And so you have to keep that in mind too. What's something that you really shouldn't be forgetting that just seems so silly Well, let me try to draw it out like this. This is, I think, what James is saying, perhaps in a modern context. Imagine putting lipstick on. Some of you don't imagine that. Ladies. Ladies, imagine putting lipstick on. And accidentally, as you're putting on the lipstick, you accidentally, I don't know, you have a convulsion and you move it like this. And the lipstick smears all the way up your face, and you kind of look like you're ready for Halloween. You see it in the mirror Something distracts you, and you turn away for a second, and just within that second, you have already forgotten what you look like in the mirror, and you go out and you just live your normal day. Now, wouldn't that be crazy if someone forgot something that quickly, that important, to a woman? That you not look like a clown throughout the day and have lipstick all over your face? That's what he's trying to do here. That's what he's saying. Reading the word and forgetting that your reading was for the sake of obedience is just silly and ridiculous. You should not be forgetting that. It's always been the purpose of the Word. For God to speak and for you to obey. So, let me bring this to a close. James doesn't want Christians wandering. Christians of the first century, or Christians like you. And in these verses, therefore, James gives instructions to keep them and us from wandering from God's purposes, in this case, for the Bible. The wandering Christian reads the Bible with little to no purpose. Sometimes you may hear a few truths, but that's not enough, apparently, according to these verses. And sometimes that's because you're just too busy talking. When you should be listening. As for the constant Christian, don't be deceived. The purpose of the word is your continued growth. And that means not just reading. but doing. That's the point that James is seeking to bring out for you as a Christian. And now let me leave you with a few examples. I don't believe they're actually the only examples that you could use In the application of this sermon, I think that they are especially relevant to James and his day. I think they're still relevant to us, but I think you could think of more situations than this. Let me just leave you with a few ways in which you should be obeying the word. Control your tongue, number one. You can see this in verse 26. And then in verse 27, visit orphans and widows in their time of need. And lastly, keep yourself unspotted from this world. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word You have sent your only begotten Son to us. And Lord Jesus Christ, look at all the work that you have done, your cross work, and now we are seeing your ascension work. We're seeing that you have sent your Holy Spirit to us and you, Holy Spirit, are taking the Word of God and you are working the will of God into our lives. We ask that we would take these words to heart. We ask that you would keep us from deception. Keep us from believing it's okay to just read your word. Help us to obey. Give us aid and assistance. We ask in the name of Christ. Amen. Let's stand and