Please turn with me now. We're going to look at Colossians chapter one. We'll be doing verses 19 and 20 this evening. I'm going to begin at just the right at the top of chapter one because I'm going to be doing a little bit of a review, and I just want you to see a thread that runs through here. Please follow along in chapter 1 to verse 20. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy, our brother, to the saints and faithful brethren who are in Colossae Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of your love for all the saints. Because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you have you heard before in the word of truth of the gospel, which has come to you as it has also in all the world, and is bringing forth fruit as it is also among you since the day you heard and knew the grace of God in truth, as you also learned from Paphras, our dear fellow servant Who is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf, who also declared to us your love in the Spirit. For this reason, we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you. And to ask that ye may be filled with the knowledge of His will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding, that you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God strengthened with all might according to his glorious power, for all patience and long suffering with joy, giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the Son Saints in the light. He has delivered us from the power of darkness, conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. For by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth. visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him and for him, and he is before all things. And in him all things consists, and he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he may have the preeminence. For it pleased the Father that in him all the fullness should dwell, and by him to reconcile all things to himself, by him, whether things on earth or things in heaven, having made peace through the blood of his cross. Please pray with me. Father, we ask that our faith would increase, that these words would go deep into us, that we would believe in your faithfulness and the equipping. That you have given of Christ, and that we would give our lives over to him, knowing that he is sufficient for all things. In the name of Christ, Amen. I recently heard someone say that they're having trouble relating to God the Father. I wonder if you've had the same issue or the same thoughts or any friends that have expressed the same thing. They say they're having trouble relating to God the Father because their earthly father was cruel, abusive. or just plain intents. I'm sure you've heard that before. Some of the struggles that we can have. If someone asked you Just exploring this same thing. If someone asked you to describe God the Father, how would you characterize him to your friend over lunch at Panera Bread or something like that? Something like that. Or wherever you'd be, Chick-fil-A. How would you describe him? How would you characterize him? What we see here in the Apostle Paul is him characterizing God the Father. When we turn to Paul writing in Colossians, we gain a very different picture of God the Father than we may have heard from a friend who had a bad relationship with their earthly father. That's not the picture we get of our heavenly father at all. It sounds strange that I would bring up our Heavenly Father where we are in this passage. If you remember the last sermon, we were focused totally on the person and the glory of Christ in the Christ Hymn or Creed. So why am I speaking about God the Father? I want to show you a train of thought that will help us to understand this next section that we're moving into. There is Christ here present in the creed and in the hymn, but I want you to see the overwhelming mention of God the Father throughout this passage. And what's going on here. Notice first in verse 2. To the saints and faithful brethren in Christ who are in Colossae, grace to you and peace from God our Father. I could actually start it in verse 1, where it says, by the will of God, and I believe that's God the Father. And so then we also have it in verse 2. Now skip down, take your finger and go to verse 12. Giving thanks to the Father. Who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance and the saints in the light? He, the Father, has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of his love. And then it switches to talking to about the Son of his love. God the Father is the driving force so far in this letter. Now, what's interesting, if you were to take a heavy ball and you were to start to roll it, it would go sometime, not only from the force of throwing it, but there's this inertia And the same thing is happening here within this passage. The discussion of God the Father has developed a kind of inertia. And to read this passage correctly, you have to keep looking at this passage through what is the Father doing. And then you'll begin to understand what Paul is saying here. Notice, for example, that it continues down into the Christ Hymn. He is the image of the invisible God, the Father. Christ as the firstborn, we know this isn't referred to him being a creation, but rather that it's a reference to Psalm 89, verse 27, which says this. And I will make him the firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth. Who will make him the firstborn? God the Father. Again, it's the focus. Now look at verse 16. All things were created. All things were created through him and for him. Where do we see God the Father there? Does not he lie behind the divine passive? where it says all things were created through Christ by, an implication is by God the Father. And Christ is the means or the mediator by which he would do so. The Father through Christ is accomplishing these things. All these things are listed, it says here, concluding in verse 18. That Christ would have the preeminence. I want to point out to you that preeminence has the same root word as firstborn. That we see in verse 15. And thus we've really come full circle. The point is that God the Father has appointed Christ to be Lord of Lord and King of kings, even of angels, demons, or whatever. That's the main focus and the inertia that keeps rolling us through this passage, and it's not going to stop at verse 18, but it's going to move into verse 19 now. Notice how the word father comes up again. For it pleased the Father. That in him all the fullness should dwell. And then it talks about how the Father has Christ reconciling all things to himself. The inertia is the Father. Now as we approach our actual passage for tonight, which is nineteen and twenty, the inertia is still going. And I've pointed out to you already how verse nineteen already refers to God the Father again, and nineteen and twenty are going to keep doing doing the same thing. Here's the teaching of the passage. God the Father has empowered Christ to renew this world in peace. That's great news for us. That God the Father has empowered Christ to renew this world in peace. Now I want to look at this under empowered and Let's begin in verse nineteen under the title Empowered. It continues on. Verse 19 is usually a proof text for the incarnation. The incarnation is the teaching that the eternal Son of God took upon himself human nature So that the Godhead and manhood were inseparably joined in one person, named Jesus. And we learned about that last week. Verse 19 at least does in fact refer to the incarnation, but it means more than that. Based on this context, Paul is asserting that the Father gave everything to Christ. Needed to empower Christ for all of God's work. The same Father that you heard about this morning and whom Christ put all of his trust in Psalm 22 is the same Father that has prepared a Christ for you in whom you may put all of your trust. That's the basic message that we're seeing here. Verse 19 means at least the incarnation, but based on this context Paul is asserting that the Father gave everything to Christ needed to empower Christ for all of God's work. Now, the Westminster Confession of Faith supports this interpretation that I'm giving. Listen to this and listen to it carefully because it is older language, but it is very, very important. Please pay attention to this. The Lord Jesus and His human nature Thus united to the divine, was sanctified and anointed with the Holy Spirit above measure, having in him all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge, which is a phrase from Colossians. In whom, now listen to this, in whom it pleased the Father that all fullness should dwell, the reference here in Colossians. To the end that being holy, harmless, undefiled, and full of grace and truth, he might be thoroughly furnished to execute the office of a mediator. And surety. Those same men who had dedicated their lives to the study of the Scriptures see the exact same thing here: that God the Father is empowering Jesus as the Christ with everything that he needs to give us full salvation. He is fully sufficient. He put all power and judgments into the hands of Christ and gave him commandment to execute the same. You should in fact be thinking of Psalm 2. Ask of me and I will give you the nations. It's exactly what's happening here. It's mixed, however, with Christ as king and Christ as priest, because we know that the great Messiah will also be from the order of Melchizedek. The incarnation, the gift of the Holy Spirit beyond measure, all Christ's wisdom, Christ's purity and moral blamelessness. His divinity are all given to him so that he may execute the plans of the Father for His church. That's what he's pointing out here. That's where the inertia takes us as we move into this first verse of 19. The other day, I was hauling dirt around the side of my house to be able to fill out my raised bed gardens. I bought the dirt at a local nursery. The wheelbarrow that I used, unfortunately it was a neighbor's, and it was old. After one load, the handles where it's attached to the actual bucket of the wheelbarrow down there where the bolt is by the wheel. snapped after one load. It I took two pieces of wood and I screwed them on either side of the wood handle and it ended up looking like a kind of splint that you would make for someone's leg if you were on a camping trip. That's what the wheelbarrow looks like now. I can't wait to return it to this guy in my neighborhood. That's actually not biblical. I need to buy him a new uh a new um handle. So Uh but it looked like a splint that was made on a hiking trip. And the question, as soon as I had put that splint on that wheelbarrow and I filled it back up with dirt in order to be able to finish the job My question was, did I reinforce the wheelbarrow enough to carry the loads of dirt? The same question is being asked here. The question of this passage is: Did God the Father reinforce or empower Jesus enough to carry the load of fixing this world? What is your answer? We know that fixing the world is not a small task, so you can imagine what it means that he has the spirit without measure. And when people came face to face with that kind of power, like Peter, or in the Transfiguration, or in the resurrection and the ascension, or Paul on the Damascus Road. Fixing the world is no small task, but the point here in the beginning is that God the Father has created no small Christ for you. He is sufficient. Different philosophers and political theorists have promised a fix for the world. And it's a shame that we don't remember our history, or at least most of us don't. Because all of those political theorists and philosophers have failed us, whether Marxists or what have you. They've all failed us in trying to fix the world. Millennia have gone by, and all merely human endeavor has failed. However, God's plan for peace in this world is not a merely human endeavor It is given to the God man. God empowered Christ to renew this world in peace And now we can begin to see him fleshing this out, that it is Christ to whom God empowers the Christ, who is Jesus, and now he does so that he would bring peace. And we see this in verse 20. Let me read that for you, and please follow along. And by him to reconcile all things to himself by him, whether things on earth or things in heaven, having made peace through the blood of his cross. The Father is still active. Did you notice that in verse 20? And by him to reconcile all things to himself? Do you see that? The inertia is still rolling. We're still actually talking. About what God the Father is doing through his Christ. He's still active, reconciling all things to himself. Human beings don't reconcile themselves to God. God reconciles human beings to himself. He's the one fully doing all of the work. Paul highlights one portion of the work of Christ, and he says, peace through the blood of the cross. This peace is a peace between the church and the people of God. Have you ever heard anyone wanting peace? Are there still calls for peace in our land? Some people have kind of given up on it But I think overall, if you were to ask functionally, are people seeking peace, they surely are. What are the solutions that you have come up with to solve the angst, the pressures, and the pain? In your life? What are the solutions that you see on Amazon? What are the solutions that you see on Netflix? What are offered to you online? This is a peace between peace and the church. The world calls allow for peace. We've sought it through education. We've sought it recently through outlawing religion. We've sought it by becoming a Zen master and joining Eastern religions. And for millennia, these are not new things. We could take a course in religion and see that these things have been around from the beginning, after the fall. Each of these things, presented to us as solutions, if we were to remember our history, have always failed to give us peace. And do you see why they do so? Because the only religion which is Christian the only religion that could truly bring peace is Christianity, and the only reason that Christianity can truly bring peace is because it relies upon a Christ who has been empowered to reconcile us to God that the curse might be removed You see, the problem, we have been trying to define it as education or a religious problem, but the problem is our relationship with God. You have to trace the problem back to the source. You know that? If you have a problem, you've got to go back to the source to see what the to be able to fix it. And so when we look at the scriptures and we go back to the source of the problem of all of humanity at the dawn of the rest of history When we trace it back with our finger, the problem of all peace in the world is that there is no peace with God. No peace entered after corrupted relationship with God. That's the source. God removed humanity from his presence, barring them from entrance to paradise, and we have felt that barring ever since. All that could be for human life cannot be because we are barred from it. Since then, and because of not relating well to God, the earth is full of the curse. That's what you're experiencing in your day-to-day life. I'm sure you could give me a thousand ways in which you feel like your life is cursed or difficult or where you don't have peace. But the message here is that God the Father sent Jesus to open the doors of the garden again. It's that big After the crucifixion of Christ, the temple veils split, showing that Christ Himself reunites and reconciles God and man, making peace between the two. Making peace between even nations. And perhaps there's, because of the language here, maybe now humans, because of Christ, are going to be at peace with angelic forces. This is what it says in 1 Corinthians 15, 21-24. For since by man came death, speaking of Adam, by man, meaning the second Adam, Christ, also came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ all shall be made alive. But each one in his own order, Christ the first fruits. After those who are Christ at His coming, then comes the end, when He, Christ, delivers the kingdom to God the Father, when He puts an end to all rule and authority and power. You see, it's not a decision just about a decision that you make at Bible camp. We're talking about peace across the entire face of the earth. A new creation that has begun with the first new creation who is Christ, that in all things he might be preeminent. The first fruits of the new creation of God, Jesus. So the point, of course, is that Christ is capable, because of the empowering of God the Father, of accomplishing this worldwide and heaven-high peace. To who else shall we go? You are the Christ. He will put an end to the angelic wars He will put an end to our wars. He will put an end to the war between our old desires and ambition and our new life found in the Spirit. That's the message that God the Father has empowered Christ that he would bring peace to all of this world Now that is excellent news. The difficulty is believing it. As Christians It is typical to acknowledge the words of Scripture, but to functionally deny the reality of those same words with the way that we live our lives. Imagine this truth. God the Father empowered Christ to renew this world in peace. Imagine how that would change your life if you were devoted to it. If you believe that in your bones, as much as you believe that your hand is right in front of your face, if you're holding it in front of your face, Believing it at that level. But we functionally deny the reality of those words in our lives. It's very difficult. If you've grown up in the church or attended church for some time, it's easy to nod. Christ is all powerful. God the Father empowered Jesus. These are the words that I've heard my whole life. If I were to ask you what's spaghetti dinner, do you believe that God the Father empowered Jesus? Oh yes, of course. Is Jesus powerful? Oh yes, Jesus is so powerful. But if we were to examine our lives, we would find that we don't see the power of Christ in them. Where's the gap? What's going on within us? It's because there's a functional denial of the truth. In fact, if I were to ask you, you could probably give proofs. For why you believe God has given power to Christ. Can you think of some biblical stories where Christ is powerful? No matter who you are in this room, you could probably think of something. And yet, that same power that we hear about in the words of Scripture, we don't see in our lives. We don't see ourselves living by the truth that God has empowered Christ to read. There is not that hope. There is not that love. There is not that faith that would accompany it, at least in degree. So the real question, though, then, is do you live In the power of this truth? Do you live in the power of Christ Honestly, most people have chosen to see Christ as insufficient for the task of burying our lives. If you were to think of him as the wheelbarrow and the little splint that I did, you probably would have looked at my wheelbarrow and said, It's gonna break, Jesse. You're just making it worse. And it actually ended up working. And I wonder if you look at Christ that way, if you get down into the details of your life, not what you nod at when I'm up here at the pulpit, but when you get down into the details and decisions of your life Is Christ sufficient for the task of bearing the load of your life? Do you truly believe that? Are you relating to Him in such a way where we could see that? We have problems, Christ doesn't answer, we move on to other possible solutions. That's basically how an American Christian life can be And actually, America's project right now is to figure out how to live without God in any area of life. There are actually books being published. On all of the ways that we've learned how to live independence under God in all of the areas of our life, books are being published by atheists showing you how to live in those same areas of life with no thought of God whatsoever And that kind of stuff is epidemic, and we can catch the cold of our culture And I believe that it has infiltrated the church. That in some sense, in degree, I'm not saying we're all faithless. I'm just saying in some degree Christian Christians have joined America and functionally denying the sufficiency and the power that has been given to Christ to bear the load of our lives. What happens in the details? Christians included have joined the epidemics of depression, anxiety, fear, unlawful anger, divorce, abuse, grumbling, and complaining I'm not saying that we should be sin-free at this time. That itself would be an error. But the rate at which these things have developed within Christian life shows that there's something wrong. What does the world tell us the problem is when we say that we are depressed, that we are anxious, that we are fearful, that we are angry, that we are grumbling, and that we are complaining? What is the problem? Isn't it a psychological problem? Isn't it categorized that way where it is a psychological problem and if that you were to receive some kind of medication, or if you could get someone to take hot stones and line them down your spine Then everything would be fine. The Bible doesn't put it that way. The Bible, as I've already mentioned, any element of the curse always has to do not with a psychological problem But a relational one. It has to do with how you are functioning in your life in relationship to God the Father and Jesus the Christ. How do you actually relate to him Do you say that you trust him, but you never put your trust in him? That's really the question. Because that's what happens. When your relationship is unhealthy with him, you get depressed. You become overly anxious and full of fear, and you have unlawful anger, and you abuse other people, and you grumble and you complain. It's a relational problem. That's what happens in poor relationships with God And it's really usually rooted in unbelief. At the bottom, it's unbelief. This is what happens. Whether, no matter how you are relating to God right now, God stands relating to you. He has said things to you. He has addressed you. He has made promises to you. God tells you who He is. He in this passage has done so. God tells you who the Christ is and what he is accomplishing. He tells you his promises. He addresses your circumstances. And at the bottom of it all, we simply do not believe him. We can nod in the middle of a service. But when we are under pain and pressure, do you actually believe what He has said to you, what He has promised to you, how He has addressed you? That's the question. Let me give you a picture of what I believe this looks like. And I would encourage you to take Matthew 8, 23 through 27 and meditate on it for some time. In relationship to these questions. I just want to ask the question of this passage where Peter is in the boat and Jesus stills the storm. I want to ask, how are they relating to Jesus? And what goes wrong when they relate to him wrongly? And how does Jesus relate to them? And you can ask those same questions at home. And I would encourage you to do so over and over and over again. And I'd encourage you to do that whole thing with Philippians. Now, here, let me read this to you, Matthew 8, 23-27. Now, when he got into a boat, his disciples followed him. And suddenly a great storm arose on the sea, so that the boat was covered with the waves. But he was asleep. Then his disciples came to him and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us. We are perishing. But he said to them, Why are you fearful? O you of little faith? Then he arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. So the men marveled, saying, Who can this be that even the winds and the sea obey him? How did his disciples relate to him initially? How were they relating to Jesus while he was asleep? Jesus, of course, arose and he gave them a new word to remind them, really, of actions, to see who he was, an attestation of his person. How were, according to Jesus, not just how did the disciples relate to Jesus, but what is Jesus' expectation for how his disciples should have related to him in this instance? How were they supposed to relate? They related as if Jesus wasn't empowered by the Father to control all things in heaven and earth. And so they became fearful. They forgot, in fact, who he was. He had already revealed himself by this time as the one sent by the Father and anointed by the Father and the Spirits for this task. And how does Jesus relate to them? Jesus chides them for their lack of unbelief in who He is. And that's what happens to us, isn't it? When the pressure and the pain comes in, all of what we think we know of God goes right out the window. And it truly shows you who you truly are and how you relate to him. And I'm going to tell you right now that that is a mercy because you can now bring to God who you actually are. And ask him to change you. Tell him that you want to love him, you want to trust him, and that in your unbelief you want belief. That's what we learn from this, and you can learn many other things. You're not on a physical boat with Jesus. I get that. However, you are in the storms of life. Let your soul rest in the power of Jesus. Remove yourself from the same plagues and epidemics of our culture. Ask him to remove you. We sang a song this morning, Be Still My Soul. And listen to this line. I hope that this blesses you. Be still my soul, though waves and winds still know his voice who ruled them while he dwelt below. Amen. Let's pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, you have done all things To empower Christ for his task to be the savior of your church and of your world. Lord, we have seen how he has created as your mediator of creation. the stars and the sun and the moon and all the planets, and you have also placed him as the head of the church, that we might be able to lay our trust in him who is capable of all things. And yet we are such poor, faithless creatures. When we compare ourselves to this and who he is and how we actually believe him to be, we fall far short. You know that. And being that we are already reconciled to you, how much more shall you sanctify us even now? When you began to sanctify us while we were still sinners. Definitive sanctification and now progressive, we ask that you would help us with our faith, that it would grow, that when you communicate to us, when you address us, when you promise things to us that we would simply believe you. Lord, please give us belief in what you have said. Said to us, and allow that to shape our lives, in the lives of our children and of our families. In the name of Christ, Amen