Let us now attend to the Lord's word diligently. And I will ask for your diligence this morning in looking at Deuteronomy. You can see that we have quite the reading ahead of us. It is my responsibility to make sure that what the Lord has said is clearly laid out before you, and the best way to do that is to choose The segments of Scripture that should go together and not to divide them into small little pieces when it was never meant to be. And so we have a longer scripture reading this morning. I'd ask that you'd work hard to make sure that you hear all of it, for it is the word of the Lord. This is Deuteronomy two, verse two, and we will go to three twenty-nine. And the Lord spoke to me, saying, You have skirted this mountain long enough, turn northward. And command the people, saying, You are about to pass through the territory of your brethren, the descendants of Esau, who live in Seir. And they will be afraid of you. Therefore, watch yourselves carefully. Do not meddle with them, for I will not give you any of their land, no, not so much as one footstep, because I have given Mount Seir to Esau as a possession You shall buy food from them with money that you may eat, and you shall also buy water from them with money that you may drink. For the Lord your God has blessed you in all the work of your hand. He knows you're trudging through this great wilderness. These forty years the Lord your God has been with you, and you have lacked nothing. And when we pass beyond our brethren, the descendants of Esau who dwell in Seir, away from the road of the plain, away from Alath and Ezion Gaver. We turned and passed by way of the wilderness of Moab. And then the Lord said to me, Do not harass Moab, nor contend with them in battle, for I will not give any of their land as a possession. because I have given R to the descendants of Lot as a possession. The Amim had dwelt there in past times, a people as great and numerous and tall as the Anakim. They were also regarded as giants, like the Anakim, but the Moabites call them Amim. The Horites formerly dwelt in Seir, but the descendants of Esau dispossessed them and destroyed them from before them and dwelt in their place. Just as Israel did to the land of their possessions, which the Lord gave them. Now rise and cross over the valley of the Zerod. So we crossed over the valley of the Zerod. And the time we took to come from Kadeshfarnia until we crossed over the valley of Zared was thirty-eight years, until all the generation of the men of war was consumed from the midst of the camp, just as the Lord had sworn to them For indeed the hand of the Lord was against them, to destroy them from the midst of the camp until they were consumed. So it was. When all the men of war had finally perished from among the people, that the Lord spoke to me, saying This day you are to cross over it are the boundary of Moab. And when you come near the people of Amman, do not harass them or meddle with them, for I will not give you any of the land of the people of Amman as a possession Because I have given it to the descendants of Lot as a possession. That was also regarded as a land of giants. Giants formerly dwelt there, but the Ammonites called them Zam Zumim, a people as great and numerous and tall as the Anakim. But the Lord destroyed them before them, and they dispossessed them and dwelt in their place, just as he had done for the descendants of Esau who dwelt in Seir. when he destroyed the Horites before them. They dispossessed them and dwelt in their place, even to this day. And the Avim, who dwelt in villages as far as Gaza, the Kafarim who came from Kaftur, destroyed them and dwelt in their place. Rise, take your journey, and cross over the river Arnan. Look, I have given into your hands Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his land. Begin to possess it and engage him in battle. This day I will begin to put the dread and fear of you upon the nations under the whole heaven, who shall hear the report of you and shall tremble in being anguished because of you. And I sent messengers from the wilderness of Ketamath to Sihon, king of Heshbon, with words of peace, saying, Let me pass through your land. I will keep strictly to the road, and will turn neither to the right nor to the left You shall sell me food for money that I may eat, and give me water for money that I may drink, only let me pass through on foot, just as the descendants of Esau who dwell in Seir and the Moabites who dwell in Ar did for me until I cross the Jordan to the land which the Lord our God is giving us. But Sihon, king of Heshbon, would not let us pass through. For the Lord your God hardened his spirit and made his heart obstinate, that he might deliver him into your hand, and it is this as it is this day. And the Lord said to me, See, I have begun to give Sihon and his land over to you. Begin to possess it, that you may inherit his land Then Sihad and all his people came out against us to fight at Jahaz, and the Lord our God delivered him over to us. So we defeated him. his sons and all his people. We took all his cities at that time, and we utterly destroyed the men, the women, and the little ones of every city. We left none remaining. We took only the livestock as plunder for ourselves, with the spoil of the cities which we took, from Arur, which is on the bank of the river Arnon, and from the city that is in the ravine as far as Gilead There was not one city too strong for us. The Lord our God delivered all to us. Only you did not go near the land of the people of Amman, anywhere along the river Jadak or to the cities of the mountains, or wherever the Lord our God had forbidden us. Then we turned and went up the road to Bashan, and Og, king of Bashan, came out against us He and all his people to battle at Edri. And the Lord said to me, Do not fear him, for I have delivered him and all his people and his land into your hand. You shall do to him as you did to Sihon, king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshphon. So the Lord our God also delivered into our hands Og, king of Bashan, with all his people. And we attacked him until he had no survivors remaining. And we took all his cities at that time. There was not a city which we did not take from them sixty cities, all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og and Bashan, all these cities were fortified with high walls. gates and bars, besides a great many rural towns, and we utterly destroyed them as we did to Sihon, king of Heshbon utterly taking the men, women, and children of every city. But all the livestock and the spoil of the cities we took as booty for ourselves. And at that time we took the land from the hand of the two kings of the Amorites, who were on this side of the Jordan, from the river Arnon to the Mount Hermon. The Sidonians call Hermon Syrion, and the Amorites call it Sinir. All the cities of the plain, all Gilead and Al Bashan as far as Soka and Edri, cities of the kingdom of Og and Bashan. For only Og King of Bishon remained of the remnants of the giants. Indeed, his bedstead was an iron bedstead Is it not in Rabbah of the people of Amman? Nine cubits is its length, and four cubits its width, according to the standard cubit And this land which we possessed at that time from Auror, which is by the river Arnon, and half the mountains of Gilead and its cities I gave to the Rubenites and the Gadites, and there's a continuation, a distribution amongst the Israelites, and I'm now going to jump to verse 21. And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, Your eyes have seen all that the Lord your God has done to these two kings. So will the Lord do to all the kingdoms through which you pass. You must not fear them, for the Lord your God Himself fights for you. Then I pleaded with the Lord at that time, saying, O Lord God, you have begun to show your servant your greatness and your mighty hand For what God is there in heaven or on earth who can do anything like your works and your mighty deeds? I pray, let me cross over and see the good land beyond the Jordan, those pleasant mountains and Lebanon But the Lord was angry with me on your account and would not listen to me. So the Lord said to me, Enough of that. Speak no more to me of this matter. Go up to the top of Piskah and lift your eyes toward the west, the north, the south, and the east. Behold it with your eyes, for you shall not cross over this Jordan. But command Joshua, and encourage him, and strengthen him, for he shall go over before this people, and he shall cause them to inherit the land which you shall see. So we stayed in the valley opposite Beth Peor. Let's pray O Father, may your name, O Son, may your name and Holy Spirit, may your name be glorified this day. And may we find rest in you. In your power, in your loyalty, and your commitment. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Thank you for hanging in there with that reading It is all one piece. It's actually chapters one through four are a single the first sermon of Moses and Deuteronomy and they would have heard all four chapters. I actually don't feel sorry for you. Uh and he would have given this whole book at perhaps a single sitting with no lunch break. Let me read one more piece of scripture to you For our Lord Jesus Christ has shown me, speaking of Paul, that I must uh soon leave the I'm sorry, Peter, that I must soon leave this earthly life. So I will work hard to make sure you always remember these things after I am gone. This is what Peter says in his second letter. He was seeking as a pastor to protect his congregation from false teachers by reminding them of momentous events, in particular the transfiguration. If I could remind them of all that God had done, perhaps they would be strengthened for what they would face now and in the future. Those are the thoughts of Peter as he wrote that letter. I asked, what are you facing today? Peter's congregation was facing something. This new generation that Moses stands before is facing something. What are you facing? What will you face tomorrow and in your future? Whatever it is, whatever trouble awaits you, based on the pattern of Scripture, you will need to remember what God has done in the past. The past is very important to your present and is important to your future. In fact, chances are if you feel defeated in the present, you have forgotten the works of God from the past. Maybe today is the day to know them for the first time, or at least some of them. Many teachers in the Bible ministered through reminding. That's what Peter was doing. That's what Moses is doing. This is a ministry of remembering. And so our title of our sermon is Recollection Part 2. Moses is not an exception. In Deuteronomy, Moses stands with the second generation, reminding them of the first generation and God's work amongst them. Last week, he reminded us of the grace of his election of those people, the grace of the establishment of a structured leadership amongst those people. And he reminded how those people rejected his grace, and they did not mix what he communicated about himself. With faith, as the author of Hebrews sought to remind that group of people. The ministry of reminding is through all the scriptures, and that's what we find here. And so I'd like us to remember three things this morning. The same three things that Moses presents to us in these chapters two and three. First, he wants us to remember three relatives. In verses 2 through 23, he wants us to remember two kings, and then he wants us to remember our God. And so let's begin with the first remembrance or recollection and remember the three relatives that he places before us here in chapter two, verses two through twenty-three. I'm just going to point out some particular verses that epitomize. Or summarize what he's trying to do here, and you'll get the gist of his teaching and his sermon without getting lost in historical details. Chapter 2 picks up with the discipline of the first generation. Notice in one, it picks up where we left off in the story last week, where they have to turn because of their disobedience and journey into the wilderness of the way of the Red Sea as the Lord spoke to Moses. They skirted or encircled a mountain that's called Mount Seir for many days. If you were to look on the map, Mount Seir is located in modern-day Jordan. Just a little bit if you're facing the map to the right of Egypt and to the west of Saudi Arabia. It's right there down the bottom of Jordan. It's I mean Saudi Arabia, north of the Red Sea, if you can Picture that map. You can look it up when you get home. But as you can see in verse 2 of what he says here, God spoke to Moses and he told them to lead the people northward away from that mountain which they had been traveling around. If you go by the population that is revealed to us in the book of Numbers, then about two million people are going to begin traveling together northward. That's quite a group of people. Any surrounding city to in which they would enter would freak out. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine hearing that there's two million people in South Carolina that are gonna head up here into Maryland? Do you know how much that would change our economy and the way that we do would do things? Do you know how you would the kind of traffic you would meet Uh I mean imagine that. It would be a crisis. Would there be looting? What kind of people are coming up from South Carolina? I know some good from South Carolina What about traveling? What about food in our area? In the ancient world, a large population passing through your city could take everything if they were big enough. And so this was a problem. That is not what happens with the Israelites, with these first three relatives that we see in chapter 2, in these first beginning verses. Notice in verse 6 that they are moving north. And in verse 6, there's this repetition that you're going to see with all three of the relatives that they are to buy food from the surrounding nation in which they or country that they're in. and that they are to buy water. The first stop in verse six is Edom with the Edomites. And they will not meddle, verse five, with the Edomites. They shouldn't mess up their regular living. They should just pass through politely. One reason is that the Edomites are the descendants of Esau. That's why I said these are three relatives. And therefore they are the relatives of Jacob, their forefather. God had given the area to Esau, and Israel should not challenge God's property distribution. This is exactly what the text says there in these first several verses. Now, I want to move along to each of these relatives, and so we come to our next one. The second land, as they're traveling northward, which is about an 11-day journey if they just went straight there. The second land through which they had to travel is connected to another relative, Lot. Moab. It was the city's name, and the Moabites were the people that lived there. It was one of Lot's sons, and you can find this uh uh in the earlier stories in the scriptures. Moab borders Edom by the river Zerid. Take a look at that in verse 13, just so you can can kind of follow along here as we go from one relative to the next. So you can see that Edom borders there on the Valley of Zered, and so they need to cross over. And now they're going to end up in this different place, but they should still treat them with politeness and respect and not challenge God's property distributions. Well, they're going to continue north from there. They've moved from the Edomites to the Moabites, and they're eventually going to arrive 38 years later. in modern day or just south of modern day Syria. You can get a picture of this if you look on a map. They're going to continue north above the Dead Sea to Amman, verse 19. And when you come near the people of Amman, notice the repetition of the phrase that Moses is giving here as he tells this story and reminds this new generation. Don't harass them. Don't meddle with them. Buy food. Buy water. God has given this place to them. Don't mess with God's property distribution rights. Those are the Ammonites, with the same instructions. And this is 38 years later, and he gives us an editorial comment that the reason why it took so long is because the Lord did not forget the discipline that he would be. Giving that evil generation. That they would have to wait until they have all fallen dead within the desert, until they are able to enter into the new land. Now you can get lost in all of the details, and I'm hitting the high spots of that to try to resist getting lost in all of the foreign names that I mispronounce them. and all the foreign lands that I mispronounce. But I don't want you to get lost. You may get lost in the historical names and the historical places, and you may not be able to see the map in your head. But I do pray this morning that you would not lose sight of how Moses is telling a story for sermonic purposes. He seeks for God to be clearly glorified in his power and his might as he relates the story of how they cross through the relatives' lands. What he wants us to see and to admit as he tells us about the Edomites, the Moabites, and the Ammites Is to see that God is in control of absolutely everything. Did you notice that as I was reading You expect God to be in control of his people. He has been like a shepherd carrying his sheep through various places. But then when we get to these other places that literally have other gods before them, the way Moses relates to them and he says, God is in total control of what all of these people have. God has a national, a global, a heaven and a earth controlled. He controlled the nations that did not worship him or that did worship him. They may not even know his name, and he controls them. The Etobites, the Moabites, and the Ammonites fought giants to get their land, it says. But it also says that behind the fight Where they put their trust in military power and maybe felt broad-chested as fighting men. It says throughout these examples that it was God back behind everything, predetermining who will have what land And where their boundaries begin and where their boundaries end. Did you notice those phrases as we went through? I have given this land to these people. as a possession. I will determine who owns and who dispossesses or owns in the future. And that is the major question That Moses is raising in this sermon, not only for this group of people standing before the Jordan, this new generation, but us. Are you aware No matter your age here this morning, are you aware of the massive control of our triune God? Do you realize the kind of control that He has? If we were to look in the New Testament, it is very interesting that Paul picks up on what's going on here in Moses' sermon in Acts 17, verse 27. six. And this is what he says. From one man he created all the nations throughout the whole earth. He decided beforehand when they should rise, when they should fall, and he determined all of their boundaries. And this was an apologetic to that nation. You know, we often have you ever seen a news reel or uh something on YouTube where The Chinese government has decided to bring out all of their missiles and planes and military personnel and parade them before the people so that the people are instilled with a sense of Of security and confidence that we could take over the world with our military strength? Have you ever had that thought for your own military when the blue angels fly by and you feel the power of our military? And you think, oh, surely we are secure? That may be one of the reasons why we have blue angels. What we learn here, what we learn here, is that no matter how much we portrayed our military to assure us Of our national sovereignty, we learn that a sovereign nation has no power unless the sovereign God permits it. Just ponder that for a moment. You thought, as you grow older, that your life was fragile, let me take you to another level. The borders of nations are not held by walls, ultimately, only by Yahweh's choice. You are fully in his hands and at his disposal and at his choice. And that should make you tremble and never want to be his enemy. That's what Paul's point was in the Areopagus. Get rid of all these gods that I just saw in your city and turn to the only one who controls all nations and has given you food and wine to drink. Allow his control to humble you. That's what it was meant for this new generation. And may you teach those around you that peace in America and enjoyment of all national resources is from God alone. And may this lead us and our neighbors to seek God in Jesus Christ and to worship and to follow Him. Not presidents, not military. Not your own wit or technology, but in Yahweh alone. One day everyone will find out this truth. Do not allow it to be a day that is too late for you Moses wants us all to remember these are not things I'm making up. These are editorial comments and theological interpretations that are placed in the sermon Itself. Moses wants this new generation to remember the massive control of their God. And he begins, therefore, by reminding God's people of three relatives: the Edomites, the Moabites, and the Ammonites. And this, furthermore, he wants to go further, and he highlights God's massive worldwide control, and he continues his ministry of reminders by remembering two kings now in the text. This begins in verse 26 and will take us through 3. 11. And I sent messengers from the wilderness of Kedamoth to Sihan, king of Heshfon. That's our first king that is before us. In 226, we meet Sihan. Unlike the Edomites, the Moabites, and the Ammonites, who eventually let Israel through or around their land, King Sihon will have none of it. Notice that there's a peace treaty sent before Moses in the text. But unlike those relatives, this king decides to reject it. And this wasn't entirely the full control of the king. It was a predetermined plan, although the king is fully held responsible. It is foreordained and acted out by Yahweh. Notice that Israel follows the same strategy as before. We will buy food. We will buy water. But God hardens Sihan. Take a look at verse 36. Where he will then harden him that they would utterly destroy the city. This is literally what it says from Auror, which is on the bank of the river Arnon, and from the city that is in the ravine as far as Gilead, there was not one city too strong for us. The Lord our God delivered all to us. And this new generation was meant to hear this. The Israelites were never a group of people that should be able to take King Sihon, and yet here he is being taken. and all of his cities. But then it moves on to a more difficult king. You remember the king with the iron bed? Here he is. We are introduced to the second king in 3-1, Og. All indications show that King Og was a very different kind of enemy. There's no peace treaty. No option to even speak of buying food or water or to have safe passage. It says in verse 1 of chapter 3, then we turned and went up the road to Bashan. And King of Bashan came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Edri. There's an immediate battle. King Og instantly engages Israel in war. And I presume that this is because of Og's confidence. He had 60 fortified cities High walled, barred gates, all signs of military strength and wealth, confident in his military. And you know, as I've mentioned, that this is the guy that has a 13-foot-long bed, because I think he's about 11-foot tall. And six foot wide, because he has so many muscles. Those of you who know Arch van Devender, he is too short to be a relative of this man. And as verse 11 says, if you take a look with me there, for only Og, king of Bishon, remained of the remnant of the giants. They had giants before them. And nevertheless, it didn't make any difference. It didn't matter how high the city walls were. It didn't matter if they had automatic weapons. It didn't matter if he was from a race of giants or not. Because God had already decided the issue. That is the kind of power that is laid before this group of people. God has made up his mind. Yahweh has determined that his selected people will win. And you can see this in verse 2 of chapter 3. And the Lord said to me, Do not fear him, for I have delivered him and all his people and his land into your hand. You shall do to him as you did to Sihon, king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshphon. Complete takeover takes place. And we took all the cities at that time, verse 4 of chapter 3. There was not a city which we did not take from them, sixty cities, all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan. And thus we see the pattern emerging. Have you noticed the pattern that is present here within his word? And Moses' sermonic intent. In the same way that God allowed the Edomites, the Moabites, and the Ammonites to take the land from giants, there were giants that lived in the land before them. In the same way that Israel, before this new generation, on their way northward, had taken land from those who were stronger than them. His sermonic intent is to prove, so too will God give you the land for which you fight in the future. It was meant to broaden their chests and to instill them with confidence in their God and what He was accomplishing. All of it was God's plan. His disposal of the peoples to ensure that his own people would have a sense of confidence and not make the first mistake of the first and evil generation. If God is for them, and this is honestly a question I want you to ask yourself about this group of people and about you. If God is for you, Please tell me who could be against you. If God is for you, who could be against you? That's the whole point of Moses' sermon, actually. If God could is for you, who could be against you? That's his point It's the point of all of the historical details that you heard in the long reading. It's the point of the ministry of the reminder. The ministry of reminding is to remember the power and the promise of their God. And it's actually our last point. It's brought out explicitly. This is a very short point. It's in chapter 3, verses 21 through 29. So that you wouldn't have to guess and wonder what the point of the sermon is. Moses says Remember your relatives. Remember your two kings. But most of all, throughout all of those remembrances, you need to remember your God. After allocating property in Israel in 12 through 20, which I skipped over, he's just allocating the different parts of the land that they just wanted the different tribes of Israel, the women in the livestock get to stay back, the men have to go forward to fight. After he does that allocation, Moses brings the point of his narrative into high relief. And this is what he says in verses 21 and 22. And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, Your eyes have seen all that the Lord your God has done to these two kings. So will the Lord do to all the kingdoms through which you pass. You must not fear them. For the Lord your God Himself fights for you. That's the first conclusion that we have to reach about God from this sermon of Moses is that God fights for his people. And there's a second one in verse 24. O Lord God, you have begun to show your servant your greatness and your mighty hand. For what God is there in heaven or on earth who can do anything like your works and your mighty deeds? And thus we have two truths. We have a foundation and a house built on top of a foundation. The foundation is that God is the Almighty Creator and Sustainer and Controller of heaven and earth. That is who Yahweh is. The triune God. It has been established in the way that He controls the nations. It is an example of the kind of power that he has and possesses at his right hand. But there is a second truth built on top of that foundation, and it is this: this same God fights for you if you are his people. Can you imagine standing there that day? What if you standing there that day as the new generation mixed Moses' sermon with faith? What if it dropped into your heart and you realized This God is my God. Would it have changed everything for you? Would you have been able to see the people that were dwelling in that land as the old generation Saul? Would you have made your parents' mistake? Oh, if it dropped into your heart, everything would change. That's what happens in the ministry of reminding. Through remembering the massive control, Israel's three relatives and two defeated kings, Moses calls all of God's people, whether you're standing by the Jordan River or not To remember that God is your mighty creator, he is your sustainer, because he is the sustainer of heaven and earth, and that it is this same God that is fighting for you. If God is for you, Christian, who could be against you? What could be against you? This is the great tragedy of our age, that we have forgotten who was in our corner. Do you know the Almighty God? Are you his person through Jesus Christ? These stories are for you. They are given to God's people to remember. It is a ministry of reminding to us also. You know, um you wonder if this new generation as they kept uh growing older and then they had children and then there's there's the children's children and It it could become more and more difficult to pass all these historical details details down. Was it a a thirteen foot bed? Was it eleven foot bed? Was I can't be right, a thirteen foot bed That can't be right. Giants? Come on. J. R. O. Tolkien. That's that's his kind of stuff. No. I'm def I don't like sci-fi or You could see how it could uh get ruined. But you know there's something in the text here that he leaves that's precious It's precious for all people. In verse 28, you couldn't forget the stories and what God was accomplishing because they had given them a main person called Joshua. To lead them into the new land. And did you know in the Hebrew what Joshua's name means? It means God saves us. And so all they would have to do, if they forgot the length of the bed, they could just repeat one phrase to their grandchildren. They could say Joshua. And they would know, if they did the translation, that God is the one that saves us. They would remember the most important thing, the whole thing that this sermon proves. And for us, it is the same. Did you know that Jesus is a derivative of the name Joshua? And it has the same meaning. God saves. You could forget all of the historical details of this. You could even forget the name Joshua, but every time you hear the name Jesus, you must remember and let this ministry of reminding come back. Back into your mind, that it is God who is fighting for you. It is God who saves through Jesus Christ and His Spirit Through Jesus Christ, God the Father is conquering all the giants Even the most ancient of giants. Jesus Christ Himself has his foot on the neck Of the most ancient of giants that there is, and that is the serpent, the devil. The sin in our hearts that manifests into our hands and into our filthy thoughts. The guilt and the shame, the separation from God, the separation from self, the confusion of relating to other people. All evil that we see upon the face of the earth, all injustice, the devil himself, sin and guilt and evil and the devil They rush out onto God's people like King Og of Hesbon. There's no peace treaty with them. There's only trickery and deceit to conquer you and to destroy you and to mar the image of God. And they seem inconquerable. They seem like they have fortified cities and high walls. There are sins that beset us that we seem like we can't shake. And disturbances in our lives that no book seems to help. They seem to have Walls and gates of defense that we could never climb in our own strength. But God the Father, through Jesus Christ the Son, and by the power of his Spirit, will take them all. He rides on his white horse in the book of Revelation and he comes and he takes every city His flag is a flag of victory. There shall be no defeat. I understand. More importantly, God understands that you are trudging through this wilderness. But hasn't Has he given you everything that you need? Can you wait on the Lord by remembering who your Lord is? Can you keep your eyes on the hills, looking on the horizon, for salvation to be present? Psalm 121, I look up to the mountains. Does my help come from there? My help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. He will not let you stumble. The one who watches over you, he doesn't sleep The Lord Himself watches over you, Christian. That's what Psalm 121 says. The Lord stands beside you as a protective shade. When the sun gets too hot, he makes a tree grow up over top of you. The sun will not harm you by day, nor the moon at night. The Lord keeps you from all harm and watches over your life The Lord watches over you as you come and as you go, both now and forever. Whatever you face as you walk humbly with your God, remember this from the ministry of reminding from Moses. Verse 22, you must not fear them, for the Lord your God Himself, He fights for you. What's pretty? O Lord our God, Father of Abraham and our Father, we thank you for this ministry of reminding that you have given to us. I pray for your people that they would know your power and that they would know your mercy, that they would know your protective care. There are so many difficulties just in the lives of this room. lives behind this pulpit. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that your will would be done on earth as it is in heaven. And we ask that you would save our children and our relatives, and that you would come quickly. Come with victory in your right hand and peace forevermore in your left. It is in your name that we hope, Jesus, for you alone save us. Amen.