Let us now turn to God's Word to hear it preached from Deuteronomy chapter one. Now I'll be reading the first chapter of Deuteronomy. Oh yeah. This is the fifth book of Moses. It has traditionally been called Deuteronomy, beginning in chapter 1, verse 1. These are the words which Moses spoke to all Israel on this side of the Jordan in the wilderness in the plain opposite Suf, between Paran, Tufel, Lathan, Hazaroth, and Dizahab. It is eleven days' journey from Horeb by way of Mount Sayir to Cad Now it came to pass in the fortieth year in the eleventh month, on the first day of the month, that Moses spoke to the children of Israel according to all that the Lord had given him as commandments to them. After he had killed Sihan, king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, and Og, king of Phashan, who dwelt in Ashtaroth, in Ed In the on this side of the Jordan in the land of Moab, Moses began to explain this law or Torah instruction or teaching, saying The Lord our God spoke to us in Horeb, saying, You have dwelt long enough at this mountain. Turn and take your journey and go to the mountains of the Amorites, to all the neighboring places in the plain In the mountains and in the lowland, in the south and on the sea coast coast, to the land of the Canaanites and to Lebanon, as far as the great river, the river Euphrates See, I have set the land before you. Go in and possess the land which the Lord swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give to them and their descendants after them. And I spoke to you at that time saying, I am alone am not able to bear you. The Lord your God has multiplied you, and here you are today as the stars of heaven and multitude. May the Lord God of your fathers make you a thousand times more numerous than you are, and bless you as He has promised you. How can I alone bear your problems and your burdens and your complaints? Choose wise, understanding, and knowledgeable men from among your tribes, and I will make them heads over you. And you answered me and said, The thing which you have told us is to do is good So I took the head of your tribes, wise and knowledgeable men, and made them heads over you, leaders of thousands, leaders of hundreds, leaders of fifties, leaders of tens, and officers of your tribes. Then I commanded your judges at that time, saying, Hear the cases between your brethren, and judge righteously between a man and his brother or the stranger who is with him. You shall not show partiality in judgment. You shall hear the small as well as the great. You shall not be afraid in any man's presence, for the judgment is God's. The case is too that is too hard for you, bring to me and I will hear it. And I commanded you at that time all the things which you should do. So we departed from Horeb and went through all that great and terrible wilderness which you saw on the way to the mountains of Then we came to Kadeshfarnia. And I said to you, You have come to the mountains of the Amorites, which the Lord our God is giving us. Look, the Lord your God has set the land before you. Go up and possess it. As the Lord God of your fathers has spoken to you, do not fear or be discouraged And every one of you came near to me and said, Let us send men before us, and let them search out the land for us and bring back word to us of the way by which we should go up, and of the cities into which we shall come. The plan pleased me well. So I took twelve of your men, one man from each tribe, and they departed and went up into the mountains and came to the valley of Eskol and spied it out. They also took some of the fruit of the land in their hands and brought it down to us, and they brought back word to us saying, It is a good land which the Lord our God is giving us. Nevertheless, you would not go up, but rebelled against the command of the Lord your God, and you complained in your tents And said, Because the Lord hates us, he has brought us out of the land of Egypt to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites to destroy us. Where can we go up? Our brethren have discouraged our hearts, saying, the people are greater and taller than we. The cities are great and fortified up to heaven. Moreover, we have seen the sons of the Anakin there Then I said to you, Do not be terrified or afraid of them. The Lord your God who goes before you, he will fight for you, according to all that he did for you in Egypt before your eyes And in the wilderness where you saw how the Lord your God carried you, as a man carries his son, and all that way you went up until you came to this place. Yet for all that, you did not believe for you to pitch your tents to show you the way you should go. In the fire by night and in the cloud by day. And the Lord heard the sound of your words and was angry and took an oath, saying Surely, not one of these men of this evil generation shall see that good land of which I swore to give to your fathers. Except Caleb, the son of Jefuna, he shall see it, and to him and his children I am giving the land on which he walked, because he wholly followed the Lord The Lord was also angry with me for your sake, saying, Even you shall not go in there. Joshua, the son of none, who stands before you, he shall go in there. Encourage him, for he shall cause Israel to inherit Moreover, your little ones and your children, who you say will be victims, who today have no knowledge of good and evil, they shall go in there. To them I will give it, and they shall possess it. But as for you, turn and take your journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea. Then you answered and said to me, We have sinned against the Lord. We will go up and fight, just as the Lord our God commanded us. And when every one of you had girded on his weapons of war, you were ready to go up into the mountains. And the Lord said to me, Tell them, do not go up nor fight, for I am not among them, lest you be defeated before your enemies. So I spoke to you Yet you would not listen, but you rebelled against the command of the Lord and presumptuously went up into the mountain. And the Amorites who dwelt in the mountain came out against you and chased you as bees do And drove you back to Seir, to Hormah. Then you returned and wept before the Lord. But the Lord would not listen to your voice nor give ear. to you. So you remained in Kadesh many days, according to the days that you spent there. Then we turned and journeyed into the wilderness of the way of the Red Sea, as the Lord spoke to me, and we skirted Mount Seir. For many days. Please join me in prayer. Lord God, this is a great and solemn occasion for us to read these words as your people, as have been read for thousands of years. Lord, there are many ways in which Satan has kept us from hearing these words. We ask that you would deliver us from the evil one, and that your will would be done on earth as it is in heaven In the name of Christ. Amen. The book of Deuteronomy, oh boy. The book of Deuteronomy begins in verse one saying, These are the words which Moses spoke to all Israel. Without a doubt, for thousands of years, people of God have benefited from these words of Moses. And yet today, these words some of you may be hearing for the first time, yet having attended church for a long time. In addition, generally speaking, these words of Moses have fallen on hard times. Presumably, when Moses speaks, the people of God are still to listen. And yet I find, and I wonder, I think you find also in the experience of the Christian Church today that the that the ears of the Christi Christian are plugged to this book of Deuteronomy and really to the First or Old Testament in general. Certainly, the New Testament seems to promote the plugging of our ears to not hear these kind of things, at least the way people teach them. They say the New Testament itself says that That this is a bit uh out of date and irrelevant to even have a series on Deuteronomy. Recently we've had public announcements on how it's really not that important to read the Old Testament Testament at all. And they would use verses like this from Romans chapter 7. But now we have been delivered from the law, having died to what we were held by. So that we should serve in the newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. These verses can be multiplied that seem to set the book of Deuteronomy against what we would see as the teaching It is a major difficulty within the church, and it has won over people's hearts, if not theoretically, at least functionally. But we have to admit, if we were just to be reminded of our basic Bible knowledge, that using those New Testament verses and plugging our ears against Deuteronomy Is only really not looking at the full story. It is a misinterpretation of what God intends. For example, just consider the Gospel of Matthew in light of how we plug our ears. The Gospel of Matthew, wherein Jesus does not stop his ears or the ears of God's people from Deuteronomy. Rather, he sought to give God's people the right understanding as opposed to the misguided efforts of the Pharisees and Scribes. That's often not seen, but he says, You have heard that it was said, but I tell you the truth. And all of those are citations of Deuteronomy He sought to give God's people a right understanding, not to throw it in the trash can. Jesus in Matthew quotes Deuteronomy twenty times. Did all of you appreciate God ministering to you through the book of Psalms? Jesus only quoted that one 13 times. The Psalms are obviously a source of comfort. But were we asleep when the Psalms began with: Blessed is the person who delights in the Torah. The exact word that is used in verse 5 of Deuteronomy, Torah being a broad word meaning teaching or structure, instruction, or law. And in fact, scholars argue that in the Psalms we witness the embodiment of Deuteronomy in the life of the king because the king was ordered to have a copy of Deuteronomy, his own copy in his midst. That he would know it. What we need, which is one of the reasons why this series has been chosen and why I have been provocative with the cover of your bulletin. I hope you share it with people and you can you can start a little argument. What we need is to reboot our perception of the first test. Testament and of Deuteronomy in particular. And that is one of the reasons why I've chosen the Gospel of Moses. The Gospel is the good news of God's grace, and we find such grace throughout our past. passage this morning. We find such grace throughout all of the First Testament. God is a God of grace and a God of glory. And so let us begin, as we look at this passage, to see God's grace in Deuteronomy, in the Gospel of Moses, which I believe was given to him through Jesus. Jesus Christ, or the second person of the Trinity. And so let's begin by taking a look at the first eight verses and just notice the grace of God as the scene is set in these first verses. I'm not going to reread all of the verses. You just sat through a whole chapter. I'm just going to point out to you different places and so that you can follow along with what's happening First, notice that these verses are written in the beginning in the third person. What you see here is that an editor has compiled and he's making editorial remarks. There is a narrator who has recorded first where Moses addressed Israel. They traveled from Mount Horeb or Sinai to Kadesh Barnea. Kadesh Barnea is a very important place in these sermon. Sermons of Moses. You can see this in verses 1 and 2. And he brings out in particular that it is in verse 5, east of the Jordan in the plains of Moab. This is where he's going to address this group of people before they enter in. To the promised land. He records not only where Moses addressed Israel, but in verse 3, if you peer down, when he addressed Israel. This is real history. Now it came to pass in the fortieth year, in the eleventh month, on the first day of the month, that Moses spoke to the children of Israel, according to all that the Lord had given him as commandments to them In addition to this, it's not just what Moses had received initially from the Lord, but 40 years later. This is him speaking to the younger generation. And so Moses has had 40 years to meditate. on what the Lord has said. He records not only where, not only when, but then in verse 8, he records why he addressed Israel. Take a look at verse 8. See, I have set the land before you. Go and possess the land which the Lord swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give to them and their descendants after them. God in his grace was faithfully giving the grace he had promised. It's how the whole book begins, and it's not a coincidence that it would begin with such a statement of grace The narrator, therefore, is recalling God's relationship to Abraham, to Isaac and Jacob, and he sets the scene as a scene of grace before you enter into anything else. It is actually the story of every Christian, is it not? The story of an effectual call that's irresistible. It's just a different set of people from a different country. Abraham was in Ur living as a pagan, and the Lord effectually called him out of Ur. God chose and called Abraham God-initiated. And this was true for Isaac, and it is true for Jacob, and it was true for the rescue of these people from Egyptian slavery. It is a general truth that we see repeated throughout all of the scriptures in the beginning of this document: that God takes perhaps the weakest people on the face of the earth and he makes them his people. And thus Deuteronomy begins with the same truth that we find in the Second Testament, or what we call the New Testament. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to shame that which are mighty, that no flesh should glory in his presence. It is the same story for them as it is for us. And this is the scene. The scene is set as a scene of God's grace. And now, after we get through those first eight verses, you can see the quotation marked beginning in verse 9. And we move into our second observation on the Sermon of Moses, where it properly begins. Moses begins by recollecting, after the scene is set, the gracious installation of the God graciously installs a leadership structure for his people in verses nine through eighteen The Lord had blessed Israel, verse nine, as he promised Abraham, making them as numerous as the stars in heaven, carrying them all the way through. This promise is accomplished Moses in verse 12 did not have enough time in the day to shepherd all of God's people. This is following Jethro's advice. He says, How can I alone bear your problems and your burdens and your complaints? And so by God's grace, Moses established a leadership structure to shepherd the people. He chose wise, understanding, and knowledgeable men from among them. From their tribes, and he made them heads over them. God gave his wise and understanding men so that righteous relationships would flourish in the community of God's people. That should remind you of the entire book of Proverbs and all of Psalms. This is brought out in particular in how those leaders should judge in verse 17. You can see the demands that are placed upon them, the judges, that that if you you are to not show partiality and judgment That you are to hear the small as well as the great, that you are to not have the fear of man, but to give God's judgments. This is a righteous community. A place where justice reigned, where favoritism did not, a place we all would love to live. And this same grace continues for God's people now. It's really a mirror image. Do you remember in Acts 61 and 6. 1 when there was a conflict amongst God's people? When they had just been gathered. When the Greeks complained against the Hebrews, they thought that the Greek widows were neglected during the daily distribution of food. You remember this? The establishment of the office of the diaconate? By God's grace, what did the apostles do? Therefore, brethren, seek out from among you seven men of good reputation, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. And there we have deacons. What an image of what we see here within Moses, the same thing being established over the people of God. And it continues in Titus as Paul establishes these church plants with Titus in the lead. For this reason I left you in Creteis, that you should set in order the things that are lacking and appoint elders in every city as I commanded you And Paul provides further insight as he connects the establishment of leadership back to the direct grace of Jesus Christ. And he, Jesus, himself, gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints, for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, which is exactly what we find here in Deuteronomy. The picture that you have present here in the beginning of this book is not of a grumpy God who grumpily burdens his people with law and then taskmaster is placed over them To make sure that their faces are rubbed in the dirt in regards to the law. Which is often how this book is characterized. That, in fact, would be a picture of what was happening in Egypt. They made the law's demands more unbearable for the people of God. That's not what we find here. God did not deliver them from a taskmaster to be under him as a worse taskmaster It's not the picture we find at all. We'll look at this more fully. But there's a picture that is painted in chapter 4 of Deuteronomy. Put there just a couple Pages over that start to get you into the spirit of what is going on here so that you can understand these sermons from Moses. Chapter 4 four beginning in verse seven or I'll start in verse five. Surely I have taught you statutes and judgments, just as the Lord my God commanded me that you should act according to Therefore be careful to observe them, for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples who were here. All these statutes and say, Surely this grace nation is wise and understanding people there that has such statues and righteous judgments as are in all this law which I set before you to this day. Does that sound like a grumpy situation? The mission here goes beyond even just what we see here with Moses and God addressing the people. It goes on to the restoration of all of mankind to be able to walk. Walk with God. For there in the darkness of this world finally to be a light shining forth that people would know that Yahweh brings redemption That he removes them from slavery, that he brings them out of Sheol and death and hell into a safe place on the rock of Jesus Christ. That's the message. The picture is of mankind restored to walking with God again as a witness to the whole world that they may walk with God again. It had been lost in the garden and it's being restored. Jesus arrives with this mission. He establishes New Testament leadership as a means to have a consistent witness to this world. It had been lost under the leadership of the Pharisees and scribes, and so he replaced them. And he established his apostles. Nor do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all or who are in the house. Therefore let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. A paraphrase of what we reason Read in this sermon from Moses. The administration, it is true, and some of the administrative details have in fact changed, but God's grace has always been the same under this covenant of grace. Since he offered those animal skins to Adam directly after the fall, and you can argue that grace is present even in the fall. God graciously chooses his people to be his people and for him to be their God. God knows of our fallen condition and his mission, and so he graciously gives Jesus, and Jesus installs New Testament leaders in his church, just as we see the forethought of it here in the book of Deuteronomy with Moses. He has always been gracious enough that when he gathers his people, he provides them with wise Leaders to lead them into grace and into truth with Jesus Christ as the head and the king. And so we see him setting the scene, we see him installing the leadership in Verses 9 through 18. And now we come to notice in verses 19 through 33 that the hardest struggle for these this group of people was not In accepting the laws that we see within these pages. But it was actually to believe in His grace. Verse 19 picks up the recollection of Israel's journey, and we're going to hear more of this as Moses continues in the rest of the chapters. They departed from Horeb through the wilderness, and they were arrived at Kadeshabarnia. This is Before they took the hundreds of thousands into the land, some of the leaders, you take a look in verse twenty two suggested to Moses that twelve men be chosen to go and spy out the land. He's recounting stories from before to this newer generation. We all remember these stories. I hope you've heard them in Sunday school Moses agrees, and so he chooses one man from each twice each tribe. The twelve spy out the land, and they come home with a sampling of produce from the land. And some good reports. If it were to happen in Maryland, they would have come back with Maryland blue crabs and sweet corn. And they would have said, Oh, this land is good. And rockfish. And rockfish. They would have said something similar to that. And they have this produce of their land. It was encouraging. But then the reports begin. The rumor starts to go from tent to tent or dwelling to dwelling that the Amorites lived there, and so too I guess the equivalent for today would they would say, well, there is Dunbawk in Pasadena that we have to worry about. But anyway. Apparently, the Amorites were a populous people. The Anakim were known for their fighting ability and were considered giants. Take a look at verse 28. I want you to see this, and we'll see this more next week also. Where can we go off? Our brethren have discouraged our hearts, saying the people are greater and taller than we. And then it talks about their specific cities. Some of the these Anakim, specifically, that he's talking about, were known for their fighting ability, and they were considered giants, taller than we. Some estimations were that the Anakim were a unique people that grew 8 to 11 feet tall. And though the reason why I say that, I'm doing some of my own reasoning and comparing it with Some of the estimations on uh Goliath. But if you take a look at chapter three, verse eleven in Deuteronomy, take a look there real quick, and I want you to see one who was uh a relative who's part of the Rephaim or related or kind of like the Anakim. In verse 11 we have Og. Quite the name. And it says, For only Og, king of Bashan, remained of the remnant of the giants. Indeed his bedstead was an iron bedstead, and apparently was kept to where you can see it. It was nine cubits in its length and four cubits in its width, according to the standard qubit. A cubit is one point five feet feet and therefore his bed was thirteen point five feet long. And so give a little headroom give a little foot room and I'm thinking he's about eleven foot tall and uh and then it's made of iron because he's so big that wood wouldn't work. And so you can see why the reports were a little discouraging to their hearts And so they start this news of despair amongst their tent. You can see in verse seven that they went back twenty-seven, going back to ver chapter one, that they went back to their houses and they complained. And you complain in your tents and said, Because the Lord hates us, he has brought us out of the land of Egypt to deliver us into the hand of the emperor. To destroy us. Have you ever said anything similar to that? Lord, you must hate me. After all that He has done for us Maybe we'll utter it we utter it under the under our breath. Maybe we never utter it at all, but it's present in our hearts when something like giants Tempt us to something like this. Moses tries in verses 29 through 30 to bring the people back to their senses. He says, Then I said to you, do not be terrified or afraid of them. The Lord your God who goes before you, he will fight for you according to all he did for you in Egypt before your eyes And now this is being reiterated in the text over and over again. I don't want to spoil next week, but it's reiterated over and over again next week also. Notice just in the first paragraph of Deuteronomy that the facts are sparse, and yet he mentions in verse number three, in the sparse editorial comment, After he had killed Sihan, king of the Amorites. Why does he mention that fact Why are past victories brought up in a sermon? So that they can have present courage. Do you remember last week when we talked about Pondering and memory and meditation and how you're supposed to be a bee, going off to search for the honey of God's past victories to bring back to your pale and difficult situations. That's what Moses is doing here He's bringing up all those whom they have defeated, particularly the Egyptians in this Exodus event, where they had formed a song. Where Yahweh was the divine warrior going before them and conquering all of their enemies. The question before them that Moses is raising is, who is taller? How big would God's bed be? And would it be made of iron or would it be made of titanium? If we were to do c how many cubits is he? And that's what Moses is doing in 29 through 30. He pled with them to remember all of the protective and victorious grace given to them in the past, especially the Exodus. And they couldn't hear it. Wow, we are so like those people. They couldn't hear of the past graces and victories of All they could hear were the anxious worries and fears. All they could see were the portraits of giant people. The voice of worry and fear pushed away the plausibility of a great God who would accomplish everything through his mighty grace. They were small, it was true. They did not have the military fight that their enemies would have, but they had God. That was the point. And it's the point for every Christian throughout every generation. He has chosen the weak things of this world, and he will be victorious through us, through our prayers and our praises that he has inspired through his Holy Spirit, as Psalm 8 teaches us. It continues to be the story. God tells us that we will be and have much trouble in this world, Jesus repeats. But do not fear because he has overcome the world. And yet we fear the world. We fear that the world is right and that following Christ is a waste of time. That's a feeling of time. We fear that the world is right and that we should start living for ourselves, for money and for power. And of course, God hears the doubts. And he hears the evil thoughts expressed about him. He hears it now, and he heard it then in verse 34. And the Lord heard the sound of your words, and he was angry. And he took an oath. Based on their continual lack of faith and grumbling, God swore an oath that none of that evil generation would enter except for Caleb and Joshua And they were forced. This is the remainder of the story. Despite they were trying this silly repentance, and they were chased by the Amorites like bees chase a person away from a spot or yellow jackets. They would be forced to wander in the desert for 40 years until that older generation of mighty men died out and only the children remained. who stand at the beginning of this book of Deuteronomy delivered to them. The older generation were not kicked out of God's family now Necessarily. They just couldn't enter the promised land. And I reasoned that because in fact Moses could not enter either. And surely Moses is still a child of God's electing grace. And when we see them wandering through the wilderness next week, we'll see that God, it says specifically, provided for all of their needs, even in the midst of the wandering, in the discipline. There could be another point here that there is disciplinary grace, but I didn't give that point. That's really the whole point of chapter one, and it is the whole book of Deuteronomy, is what I'm trying to get across here. Each of these sections as I hope you read this book over and over again. This book is about the grace of God and Jesus Christ. The gospel that Moses received, I believe, is from the pre-incarnate Christ. And you can read Hebrews to see how Moses just followed the pattern which God showed him on the mountain. The pattern which has come true in our ascended Jesus Christ. They were preached the gospel, and so too are we. That's the whole point. The grace of God and our need and our struggle in embracing His grace That's quite a surprise. You thought you were going to have trouble embracing law. And it starts off saying you're going to have trouble embracing his Grace. Really turns it on its head for us. God sets the scene for us with His electing grace. God's sustaining grace. He gives us To us through installing leadership was our second point. But it's not just about God relating by his grace to his people, it is about how God's people relate back to his grace. And we find it exceptionally difficult to do so. That hasn't changed, has it? Many have misunderstood Deuteronomy and Moses Moses is not primarily a legislator of law. He will pronounce law, but he's not a legislator. He didn't make up one law on his own. He is a pastor. He is a prophet. He is a shepherd of God's people. That is how he is described in this book. It is how he talks about himself. Moses is giving in Deuteronomy motivational sermons. Moses wrote down three sermons. You can look at this in In chapter 31, verse 24, he wrote down three sermons and a song or a poem. That's what the whole book of Deuteronomy is. And it's for all of God's people, for all generations. To sit under his teaching. Why? Why is it important for us to know that God gives electing grace and the grace of leadership and the grace of past victory, such as the Exodus? And the answer is always unbelief. We see the New Testament authors picking up the teaching that Moses just relayed to us. Particularly Hebrews chapter four. Therefore, since a promise remains of entering his rest, let us fear lest any of you seem to have come short of it. For indeed the gospel was preached to us as well as to them, speaking of this generation. But the word which they heard did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in those who heard it. People have always struggled from the beginning of the ages to accept the grace of God in Jesus Christ Whether it is Moses and the gospel preached by him or the gospel preached by New Testament authors, we need it all because of the great danger of unbelief. In Deuteronomy, the younger generation stands at Kadesh Barnia. Would they doubt as their parents did, who wandered for 40 years? That's the question before them all. Or will they mix the words of promise with faith? We'll get into the prophets in future sermon series. They continue to have a real struggle with us like we do, which is why they They go into that exile. And Jesus shows up because of our problem of unbelief, giving us his spirit that we might believe and then cry out to him: help us, Lord Jesus Christ, in our unbelief. At Severn Run, you don't stand at Kadeshvarnia. You have all of the accoutrements of modern living. You stand in Ann and Ronald County, but you stand before God in the same way. Will you neglect God's grace? There are so many ways to do so. Covenant children, you have heard the word of promise for possibly your entire life. life. You have watched God's work in your life and in your parents' life and in the life of the church And the question that is before you, as your Sunday school teachers give you his promise every Sunday, will you mix what you hear about God and his grace with Your own faith and not just the faith of your parents or the parents that are around you. Will you take some of you regret in your hearts being baptized as infants Because you wish that you could somehow own it today and be baptized now. And that's a real misunderstanding. You should glory in the baptism that was given. To you, setting you aside all these years that you would be dedicated to hearing the promises to you, and that you could stand here one day and you could say, I believe in the promises, I believe that God is faithful to me. I look at all my past victories. I look at my past baptism. And I look today that he won my heart just as he said he would. Will you neglect His grace? You've watched for many years, what will it be? Will you mix the words that you hear today and the experiences that you've had with faith? Will you own your faith? Those of you who have had faith, has your faith begun to weaken? You've been standing for a long time. Listening to the same words. You ever notice that good preachers only preach through the same set of books? There's you could have heard this before. Deuteronomy You still hear God's words, that's true. You still show up the church, but have the words lost their life and their color to you Are they strengthening to you the opinions of other people and the significance of situations can become bigger than God? Did you know there's giants in Andorto County? There's giants in Saverna Park. There's giants in my house. There's a lot of giants in my head and in my heart. And that can be difficult, and it can make God seem really small. Like he is in a four-foot bed. This is a sign. If things are bigger than God, if if people are big and God is small, this is a sign that the Word of God is around you but it is becoming unmixed from you. We talked about this in the book of Hebrews when we said that we are like leaky buckets. You can be filled up, but you must diligently attend to your faith in mixing the word with your faith because you're a leaky bucket All those things you once believe about God will leak out in a second around the right person, around the right situation, and you know that it's true. You thought, now I'm strong, and then something comes around That corner just kicks you in the gut, and you wonder, where is my God? All of us experience that. Jesus Christ knows that. And so He ministers to us by Hirit through His Word, even the sermons of Moses. In the book of Deuteronomy. A neglected book by the New Testament church of this day. I once knew a man that studied all about God's sovereign grace. He was a great Calvinist theoretically. He knew all his theology. He read the Institutes. That's what Calvin wrote, that popularly that people read. But I noticed this: I've never seen him pray. Which tells me he doesn't understand the sovereignty of God one lick. Later in life, however, he began to practice He couldn't start his day without prayer. What changed? That is a perfect example for us to see Jesus Christ working in the life. began to pray was mixed with faith. Here's the formula. Sovereign grace plus a mixture of faith equals prayer. There are a million other examples that Jesus is working out in the lives of his people. Working them out of unbelief and into belief that they would not be like this former generation. And God in his grace has given us the example of this generation who wandered in the wilderness that we would diligently attend to the preaching of God's word, that we would mix it with faith and prayer. You, seven runs, stand as that generation stood before the gospel of Moses, three sermons and a song. Will you embrace God's grace? That's the difficulty. Will you embrace the grace of his law within your lives? As Jesus said, do not think I have come to abolish, and here's my paraphrase: do not think that I have come to abolish Deuteronomy and the prophets. I have come to fulfill them. And amen to that. Praise God that we are being remade in His image, and that we can be a light to all of those who need justice and love and peace and hope and faith. and belief who need a Savior who is Jesus Christ, the King of Deuteronomy. Let's pray. O Lord God, we in awesome wonder consider all the works that your hands have made through Jesus Christ, namely the Church. Lord Jesus Christ, all the wisdom that is set before us and your angels, that you are gathering together a Deuteronomic group of people that will accept your yoke as light. The grace of your leadership, your officers, the grace of your electing love that brings them to your leaders, the grace of your law, the grace of past examples, the grace of your victory. Oh Lord, there are many giants in this world, but you have overcome our giants. Lord, we believe. Help us in our unbelief. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.