About 1-1 through 14. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, through the will of God. To the saints who are in Ephesus and faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. Just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace by which he made us accepted in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace, which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence. Excuse me, and prudence, having made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he purposed in himself, that in the dispensation of the fullness of the times he might gather together in one all things in Christ. both which are in heaven and which are on earth, in him. In him we have obtained an inheritance, being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. that we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of his glory. In him you also trusted, after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. In whom also, having believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession to the praise of his glory. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I ask that you would bless your congregation through the reading and the preaching of your word, that you would especially show them the glory of your grace In the name of Christ, Amen. I wonder if any of you tuned in to the in the last song that we just sang. Did you notice the underlying biblical stories that are part of the song? Uh if you did, then in the how firm the foundation there's uh an allusion to the exodus with the deep waters there's at least an allusion to to the Son of man showing up when during the time of Daniel with the the fire that God ends up controlling in order to sanctify us. And uh perhaps there are other one there other ones there also. All of these hymns, really, if you pay attention, or most of them, back behind them are the stories of the scriptures. That's important to keep in mind as we enter into Ephesians here today. We're looking at the first 14 verses a little bit at a time. The first two verses are obviously a greeting, and you would see these kinds of greetings in letters all across the world at that time. But then as we get into verses 3 through 14, if you had the opportunity to study it in the original language, you'd see that it's one long sentence And it would be difficult, as you can see all the different prepositional phrases that are a part of it, it would be difficult to just cover it as a single unit. So we've been breaking it down to look at what are some of the different things that God wants us to know here in this first part of Ephesians. The way that we're trying to hold everything together is that there's a repeating phrase throughout this section and in the rest of Ephesians, and it's in Christ. So we've been focused on that and we're trying to understand why is it that he keeps repeating that? Why is that so important? And I I'm hoping that each time we get together you see a little bit more of why we want to say that. I think tonight it actually might be the m the clearest way because we're going to talk about redemption. So far what we have covered together, if we begin by way of review in just verse number one We made a note that the apostle designates himself as an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God. This is another way of saying that God himself set him, Paul, aside to have authority to bring a God-given order. to the new creation, his church. And that would be the same for the other apostles too, though the Apostle Paul was given a great deal of responsibility compared to some of the other apostles. We went on also in that first sermon in this series to not only see that the Apostle Paul had been called to a specific vocation. But so too are we called to a special vocation. And that's what he means by the word saints, that we are set aside as those who are faithful or loyal in Christ Jesus. that he has given us a new identity. Did you hear that in the reading uh in our bulletin here today that um in the assurance of pardon When he says that you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people. He called you out of darkness. You once were not a people, but now you are a people. All of that has to do with being a saint. And we covered that in the first sermon. That was a vocation in Christ, if you wanted to summarize that. I'm going through this so that if you wanted to, you could make a little note, and if you want to read Ephesians on your own, you can get started this way. The second sermon, we covered the family of God in Christ, or the family in Christ, and I ended up focusing on two Two points really to bring that out. Number one is in verse number two, Paul talks about God as our Father. Now that's family language, right? And in verse number 3, he repeats it in moving into a time of praise, but refers again to God as our Father. So family is on his mind. And if you keep going into verse number five, this was the third point or the second point that I had brought out, and that is that Jesus Christ, having predestined us to adoption. which is also also a family term. And that is how far we have gotten so far within this series, that there is a vocation in Christ And there is family in Christ. And now we move into verse number 7, and you'll notice a repetition again of the in Christ or in the Messiah, this time with the pronoun in him. And so it's not only in Christ our vocation or in Christ our family, but now in Christ we have redemption. And that's what we're going to look at this evening. That is that in Christ we are redeemed. In Christ, we are redeemed. And I'm hoping that actually this um portion of teaching will further explain all of the in Christs that are a part of the passage. It says in one seven to read the full thing. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace. And the main point here tonight is in Christ we are redeemed. Now sometimes when I try to make a main point like I did this morning, which what this morning I tried to sh to share with you, we're allowed to judge. Now that can be really difficult when the passage says, don't judge. So I got to spend a lot of time helping us to understand exactly what was going on there. Well, with this passage, when I say in Christ we're redeemed, and then we look down at the passage and it says in him we have redemption, I don't need to do a lot of work on that particular point. What I think we can do though is because this is one of those words that you've perhaps heard for a long time and never stopped to understand, I think what we can do is we can ask the question, what in the world does he mean by redemption? What does he mean by redemption? Now, so let's try to answer that together because I think that'll be really helpful in understanding what is the grace that God the Father is doing here through the Son and His Spirit. Redemption, it's really helpful here to be able to read the original Greek because it's just a normal verb that you would see all over the place that means too loose. It just means to loose. And when I say to loose, I mean like if you had tied a rope around my wrist and then I say, couldn't you loose me from this leash that you have me on? Loose the leash. Or if you wanted to look at it in other contexts, you could think of yourself as being a slave and in shackles. And then the shackles are loosed. That's the idea. And I use that last example because that's the main thing or the main picture or the main story that should be present on your mind. The main biblical story here when we talk about loosing or redemption is the redemption or the loosing of God's people in the Exodus from their slavery to Pharaoh. And of course there is a another kind of exodus, the Babylonian exile The Babylonian exile is talked about actually with a lot of imagery as if they went back to Egypt and were in slavery. And that was on purpose because The Exodus is the major story that God has chosen for us to understand what redemption is. Redemption is a loosing in the way that God's people were loosed from Pharaoh. in being brought through the Red Sea and into their inheritance in the promised land. And you'll actually notice in the verses that are after this idea of redemption, he starts talking about inheritance. What Paul is doing here is he's really retelling the story of Israel with what has been revealed to him in the gathering up of the Gentiles. So redemption so far, what I've said to you, it is it is a loosing in a similar way to the loosing of slavery from under Pharaoh or within the Babylonian exile. That can be brought out just to For you to be able to see that this is a major emphasis and the way that God wants us to understand redemption is that I can ask you this question. When did Jesus Christ choose to reveal the nature of his redemption. But on the Passover. He chose that on purpose. Now the Passover goes back to the Exodus story. And if you start to understand the Passover, that's a story of redemption. So Jesus uh chooses to reveal who he is and what he is accomplishing, the redemption he is accomplishing on the feast of the Passover. And that is on purpose, because he wants you to go back to that story of the Exodus to understand what is it that he is accomplishing, what is redemption. You could find in the writings of Paul that you are, as his family, being adopted into his family, that you are loosed from sin. That you are loosed from death, that you are loosed from the devil, that you are loosed from there are a number of different things. If you were to continue reading in Ephesians or in the other Apauline letters, you'd see that you are loosed from the futility of your mind You are loosed from an evil mindset. You are loosed from debauchery. And then Paul ends up summarizing this by basically saying, you are loosed from the flesh. And you are now remade and walking in the Spirit, so keep up with the Spirit, or stay in step with the Spirit. All of that has to do with redemption is a loosing that happens. But we're not just loosed from Satan and his powers. We're not just loosed from the old man that dwells within, that used to have dominion, but no longer does. We are not just loose from something, but we are loosed to something. And I'd like you to hear that in Ephesians 4, 17 through 24, although it's all over Ephesians, once you start to see this theme. Ephesians is really um about our redeemed people and what Christ has accomplished in redemption. It says this in Ephesians 4, 17 through 24. This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord that you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk in the futility of their mind, having their understanding darkened. being alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart, who being past feeling, have given themselves over to lewdness, to work all uncleanness with greediness. But you have not so learned Christ, if indeed you have heard him and have been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus, that you put off concerning your former conduct the old man which grows corrupt according to the deceitful lusts, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that you put on the new man which was created according to God in true righteousness and holiness. So there is a loosing from this old way of life that Paul just painted a picture of, but there is also a loosing to, and Paul summarizes it by saying that you have actually been recreated in true righteousness and holiness. That you are a new creation. You've been loose from one thing. And actually the best way to talk about this is to follow the apostle's guidance on this. He says In Romans and some other places, he says, you once were a slave to sin, but now you are God's slave. And it reminds us that there was once a time when we were bound to serving a particular path of life and mindset and really sphere of existence. But then through the redemption of Jesus Christ, you were unloosed from that. You were redeemed from that and brought into the service of someone else. in a different sphere of existence. That's what's going on. Now you could think about that with the Exodus story, couldn't you? What did the God's people do every single day 24-7 before they went through the Red Sea? They did nothing but serve Pharaoh. They made a simple request, we would like a certain amount of time off in order to be able to worship our God, and he said, No, all of your time is mine. You are in service to me. God going through the plagues, reasoning with him, then eventually redeems them, breaks the bonds that he had on them, and then they move into the They go through the Red Sea and through that baptism, they're now completely devoted and consecrated to Him. And there are consecration ceremonies where he says, I have done this, I am your king, and here is a summary of how you will serve me, and he gives the Ten Commandments. For example. That's the Exodus story, and that's what's going on here. Redemption is being loosed from slavery. B basically you could say to the kingdom of Satan, to be incoming a slave or servant in the kingdom of God. That's what redemption is. Now How can we understand that in relationship to saying in verse number seven in verse number seven, in him? We have redemption. We understand what the word redemption means now. The best way to just understand it is through the stories of the scriptures, where you see redemption in the Exodus. But what do we mean when we say in him we have redemption through his blood? Well immediately it tell it brings us to the Exodus again, of course, with the Passover lamb. Blood is mentioned. Uh the the lentil and the doorposts, of course all of that is supposed to be a part of this. But I think the best way to get at this in him is to see that Jesus is the one as our champion. Who wins the redemption for us, and that's why it's in him we have redemption. You did not earn your or redeem yourself The Israelites didn't find their way out of Egypt. They had the Egyptian army on their back and they had a Red Sea on the front, and there's no getting out. It was only God who delivered them. And the same thing is with you. It is only in Christ, or it is Christ Himself who delivers you. I'd like to give you an example that you could even talk about with your whole family, and that is seeing What I mean here by a champion by looking at 1 Samuel 17. This is the story of David and Goliath, and this is where the word champion is used. In 1 Samuel 17, it says this in verse number 4, and a champion went out from the camp of the Philistines named Goliath from Gath. whose height was six cubits and a spand. Now when you look at this word champion, which is uh Ish Benayim, The literal translation of that, which is used all over the place, is just um the person who's in between. The middleman, the intermediary. And that's the sense that the translators are trying to get at by choosing the word champion. Because it's not just anybody who's in between, it's someone who's in between who's going to fight for you Who will win the battle for you? And that comes out in the story, actually. This idea of there being a champion. It says in 1 Samuel 17, 8 through 9. Listen to this agreement The armies are not going to war against each other. It's going to be two representatives and whoever wins, the result of what the champion has done spreads to all of the people with whom they are associated. Those Philistines that are in Goliath will become servants if he loses. All of those who are in David Would become servants if he loses. Listen to this. It says, Then he, Goliath, stood and cried out to the armies of Israel and said to them, Why have you come out to line up for battle. Am I not a Philistine and you the servants of Saul? Choose a man for yourselves and let him come down to me If he is able to fight with me and kill me, then we will be your servants. But if I prevail against him and kill him, then you shall be our servants and serve us. Do you see the transaction that's going on? These two men then are acting as representatives or in-betweens or champions, and whatever they accomplish or don't accomplish will affect the entire nation. All of those who are in one or in the other will receive the benefits or the curses based upon the actions of that single individual. And so therefore in 1 Samuel 1751, therefore David ran and stood over the Philistine. After he had knocked him in the head with the stone, he took his sword and he drew it out of his sheath and killed him and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled. Now the story doesn't go on in any more detail and that's something I'm still thinking about, but I guess I'm not surprised they did they didn't stick around and just like offer their hands and say, Oh, looks like we're serving you. the Israelite army had to gather them up in order for the agreement to stand. But that's not the focus here. The focus is that you would see how David and how Goliath were acting as champions, and that that is an analogy for you to be able to s understand what it would mean for Christ to be your deliverer or for him to be your champion. Jesus as a representative is sent down into the valley. And it whatever he ends up accomplishing for himself, whatever victories he wins for himself, you receive the benefits of that in the same way that the Israelites would receive the benefits of whatever David would accomplish within that fight. And we are told within the scriptures that Jesus Christ overcomes The principalities and powers, that's at the end of Ephesians chapter 6. That Jesus overcomes sin, that Jesus overcomes death. That Jesus overcomes Satan himself. He triumphs over all of these things. That's the kind of language that's going to be used within Ephesians. And because he is the one that has triumphed You benefit from it because he is your champion. So all of those things that used to hold you in bondage because he beat them You're set free. Not just him. He's not the only one enjoying freedom. He has set you free. He has set you free. And that's what it means. for you to be redeemed in Christ or in the Messiah or in the King is that he is your champion and the results are all the things that we have been listing so far in Ephesians. You now, because of what he has done as your champion, you now are set aside in service to the Father You are now set aside, and you're no longer a part of whatever family you thought you were a part of. You actually have been grafted into the family of Abraham, the family of God by faith. And that ends up being summarized here within the word redemption in Jesus Christ. I hope you notice as we come to a conclusion here that what Paul is doing is he's really following the story of God's people in Ephesians. I mentioned this is a long Greek sentence, lots of prepositional phrases. If you want to be confused, this is a great place to go But if you would like to get your feet on the ground and understand what's going on, I'd encourage you when you read the first fourteen verses and really the rest of Ephesians is Look for the biblical stories behind what Paul is saying. Can I point out a couple to you as we come here to an end? Where else in the scriptures have you heard about God making a family? By someone that he chose. Isn't that the story of Abraham? Where he calls Abraham out of Ur, and then he's going to make him into a family. Yeah, there was definitely some misunderstanding as to the kind of family that God was forming there to be his real people, that not everyone who is physically circumcised is circumcised of heart. But God's plan has always been to form a family. And Paul has just told you that story when he said, in Jesus Christ and his work, you have been adopted. Now, when he talks about that, we've got to remember that family talk, he's saying, you have become children of Abraham by faith. You are the sons of Abraham. You are the daughters of Abraham. You are Israel is what he's pointing out there. Now that's the beginning of the story. But then it goes on just like it does within the story, uh just within the scriptures and the way that it's ordered. We have Genesis first with Abraham. In Genesis 17 especially, and then we go on in the story and we move into Exodus and we get into our verse here today with verse number 7 and it talks about redemption. And of course he's referring to the Exodus now. That's the Exodus story that's underneath of this. for you to be able to understand that by grace there has been a great exodus for you. And it again has been accomplished And you are receiving the benefits of the accomplishment by your champion and your deliverer and your king and your messiah and your Christ who is Jesus. He is the one that has done work to where your bonds have been loosed. I think a part of our experience then is slowly but inevitably having actual experiences of the loosing. Some of us have experiences that are a bit more abrupt than others, but all those who have the spirit actually have redemption applied where they see that there is this kind of progress away from Satan and his kingdom and toward the kingdom of God. And so we not only see it within the scriptures, we not only see in the scriptures that we're made a part of a family, that we were foreordained to be so Now we not only see in the scriptures that there is this great exodus, but we start to experience that something has been loosened. That we're not under the same powers, that though we struggle, there's not that same kind of dominion. And the point here that he's bringing out, remember this is a section of doxology and praise, is that all of this was accomplished by the love of the Father sending his son. to be your champion. And for all of these reasons, Paul points out, and he says to you, would you join me, essentially, in giving praise to our God for the glory of his grace? Would you you see the glory of his grace? Would you join me in praising him for that? That's the story. The next time that I'm, I was just told that I'm not preaching again in the evening until June. That's a surprise to me, but so be it. We have missionaries coming and that kind of stuff. So hold on to this sermon Because when we come back, you'll see that the next set of verses have to do with an inheritance. And the inheritance moves the story further from the Exodus now into the promised land. And that promised land was just an analogy to the true inheritance that we receive as God's people, which will be heaven and earth. We will inherit heaven and earth, and we'll talk about that. at another time. In the meantime, I encourage you, as God's people, to reflect on the mercies of his grace. Reflect on what has been loosened and the new relationship that you have been brought into. to your God. And I encourage you even this evening to give him praise for how gracious he has been to you. Let us pray.