Eighty two Psalm of Asaph God stands in the congregation of the mighty. He judges among the gods How long will you judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked? Selah Defend the poor and fatherless. Do justice to the afflicted and needy. Deliver the poor and needy. Free them from the hand of the wicked They do not know, nor do they understand. They walk about in darkness. All the foundations of the earth are unstable. I said, You are gods, and all of you are children of the Most High, but you shall die like men, and fall like one of the princes. Arise, O God, judge the earth, for you shall inherit the nations. Let us pray Father, in our society, people tell us that we shouldn't talk about two things: politics and religion. And Lord, we deny that assertion on both accounts. We pray that you as our great King would strengthen us this evening. Help us to understand you as judge and your work with us now. Not only in the future, but now. And Lord, we pray that you'd help us to understand your mercy. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. And speaking to um Brad, uh rolling out of Brad Swastik, about the Reformation service, I told him I said, this is gonna be a little long. He said if there's ever a service where there are a group of people that don't mind a long sermon, it will be the Reformation service. And so I now proceed with sixty-six points of observation. No, I'm just kidding. I do want to begin with some observations with you I want you to notice first, and I really do encourage you to keep your scriptures out and to look to see what the Spirit has given us this evening. And I want you to notice first That God, or in the Hebrew, Elohim, is the main subject of our psalm this evening. As I thought about them being the main subject, it reminded me of subjects in photography. Holly and I signed one of our children up for a photography course. And one principle she began to follow was making sure that her subject matter was clear. In other words, apparently I'm not a photographer But apparently, when you look at a picture, we're supposed to know what we're looking at. We should have something that our eye is drawn toward and we are to focus upon. And then everything else in the picture is in reference to that. If you'd ask that same question of what is the subject matter, what is the eye to be drawn toward here in Psalm eighty-two, then the answer lies in verse one. As I mentioned, it is Elohim or God. The psalmist places God at the center, and he locates everything else that he mentions in this psalm in reference to him and his work through Christ and the Spirit. That's the first thing I want you to notice. Now here's the second. The main object in relationship to God is in verse set 1b. Take a look. Right under the first verse A. Look at verse set B. And it is the same word used for God, but in the plural. Here it is referred to as the gods, and in the Hebrew it is the Elophims. If you scan the Psalm, you can see that God's here, lowercase G refers to those officials who are responsible for the maintaining of law and order and of the good within a society. At the highest level, lowercase g, gods includes archangels and their law and order It will from that heavenly realm descend even into kings and presidents and parliaments and senates And you can keep going down, actually, and arrive at father or mother in those kinds of offices. That's the second observation that we might understand that lowercase G gods and what's going on there. Now here's a third. Elohim, God, the only God, speaks to the Elohim's gods, in verses 2 through 4. First, notice that he raises an accusatory question. Things are awra here. They're not the way they're supposed to be. God is the judge of the judges, is a way to put it. God as the king of the kings and God as the Lord of the Lords calls them to account for their unjust judgment. You can see in verse 5 that God does not ask this question that we see in 2 through 4. He does not ask this question for theoretical concerns. Or to be unnecessarily exacting of them, but because of the consequences of what happens when someone with such influence rebels against God. As little Elohims. They are meant to uphold goodness and order like the Elohim. But instead they, verse 5, are ignorant. They are walking about in darkness, resulting In a tectonic shift across the earth. Instability, it says here in the scriptures, in the foundations of the earth itself. That's the kind of influence that they have as kings. And of course, when I start to read this to you and make these observations, we can't keep these kinds of things in the past, can we? Doesn't this remind you of some things within your own life? The shaking of the foundations of earth, has it not felt that way the past two years? I think that it is, in fact, biblical language of your experience of social unrest over the last two years at least. God has granted and continues to grant and will continue to grant power to little Elohimes. And we have had experience with little elohemes like Fauci or Trump or Biden or Pelosi or Hogan. And I'm not saying anything negative about them. I'm just saying what the consequences are if they get out of whack. That their decisions relative to their place makes the earth strong. And the people of the earth strong, or it begins an entropic movement in a chaos. They could turn the whole world upside down. They have that much power granted by God. Some people in the world, some institutions of the world. Now that's number three. And here is the fourth observation. Through commands, God reveals his good and beautiful intent for the little Elohims There is an often recorded title for discourses within the Reformation era that goes something like The Beauty of Magistrates. And it is from things like this, they are meant to defend the poor and the orphans. Verse 3 They are meant to do justice to the afflicted and the needy, verse 4. They are to deliver the poor and needy from the hand of the wicked in verse 4 You can again see why they are called little Elohims. They are meant to image the one and only true God who does all of those things, always bringing goodness and strength to people. Honestly, however, those commands, even in the context of Psalm 82, those commands end up highlighting not their goodness, but the tragedy of them. The tragedy of their poor and darkened decrees and dictates and their governmental misdirection. Seeing the beauty scarred and the good turned to evil Makes us thankful for verse seven. It is a strange thankfulness, but it must be present. That we are in some sense thankful that they will be removed eventually and fall like other princes who are evil which have reigned. In other words, there is a kind of thankfulness that evil is not forever. And now, a fifth observation Though other scriptures give other responses to unjust judges, here we see the psalmist rise in one response, that is, throughout the Psalms, especially in verse eight. Did you see the climax of the psalm? What is to be done? It is a lawsuit prayer petition Arise, O God. Judge of the earth, for you shall inherit the nations. He brings the case before Elohim, who stands in the congregation or the assembly of those rulers. He petitions him to arise and judge since the nations are his ultimate inheritance. And you can immediately begin to see the Christological significance in that verse. You can begin to see why we chose Christ alone on the front of our bulletin. For this reformation service. We know from the whole canon of Scripture that God the Father has ordained for Jesus to rule in righteousness, defending and restraining and conquering all his and our enemies. You can see in verse 8 of Psalm 82, all of Psalm 2 that was just sung. That they should kiss the sun before it is too late. And so I've given you five observations here, but if you were to pull them all together into a major teaching for us tonight on this Reformation Sunday. It would be this. God the Father has not abandoned you to wicked rulers He hears the prayers of you, his saints, and he rises through Christ to judge the world in righteousness. What a sweet truth that is. And I'll repeat that for you. God the Father has not abandoned us to wicked rulers, but hears the prayers of his saints. and rises through Christ to judge the world in righteousness. And now I think there's two things, I'm sure there's many things, but it there's two tonight that I want to bring out that are that God requires of us based on these This truth, the summary of these observations. And the first that I believe will be most helpful for us in application of that truth is to believe that Christ judges now. This is good news, especially in light of other scriptures. For example, in Proverbs chapter 13, verse 12, it says this: Hope deferred makes the heart sick. This proverb came true for many over the these last two years. Christians ended up retaining a kind of hope in a remote future that maybe one day God will be awake and active. But it is someday in the future. And therefore their hearts became sick because hope was deferred. There was no real relief today. Now, it is true to say that God has appointed Jesus Christ to judge the world in finality and in the future. That is true. He will do so once and for all. But the main application here is that Christ judges the world in the presence of the saints also. That there is a kind of temporal visitation, if you will. As he seeks to restrain evil from the earth and maintain a level of order. And this is all included within his name of judge People struggle with the idea of him being a judge. Mostly we have in our mind a picture of a judge in a court on the last days announcing guilty or not guilty. But there's so much more to that term. The biblical sense of judge includes far more than just the sentencing aspect at a once-for-all event. The judge is like a sheriff who keeps the town in order, also. You can look at this in the scriptures as judges are established, for example, David, and how the first thing he does is clean the place up. For Christ, this will include a final judgment to restore the world and its final order, but it also includes Christ's gracious restraint of evil and chaos today. And that is good news. And it answers or begins to answer our original proverb: hope deferred makes the heart sick. That is true. But hope is not deferred. And therefore let our hearts be glad. I think what can happen though, in that um series of sentences that was just said, hope deferred makes the heart sick, but hope is not deferred, therefore let our hearts be glad, is that the second sentence ends up being denied, either explicitly or just functionally. We don't really believe that hope is not deferred. We still think it is deferred. That seems to be the experience of our lives. But I want to challenge you in that experience. Perhaps you don't know that Christ defends or restrains in the present, and perhaps you don't know that because you have not been paying attention. to him acting in the present of the believer's life as we see within Acts, which carries over into our lives being in the same era of the church I want you to compare two well-known passages I'm sure that you've read before. The first one is from Acts 4:24 through 30. They are acting out what we see in Psalm 82. They raised their voice to God with one accord because they were under affliction of corrupt rulers like Herod and Pontius Pilate. And they said, Lord, you are God who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them. And that is another way of saying, you are Elohim, because that is the word that is used within those creation accounts. Lord, look on their threats and grant to your servants that with all boldness they may speak your word. That is the prayer. That He would rise and that He would judge in such a way that the church can do its work. And then look what we see in Acts chapter 12, 21 through 24. Then immediately an angel of the Lord, not an angel of angels or an angel of somebody who owns an angel, it's the Lord's angel. And he strikes Herod because he did not give glory to God, and he was eaten by worms and died And then it says this in reference to that prayer in sa in Acts chapter four. But the Word of God grew and multiplied You tell me that Christ is not in a the sense that I'm using it judging now amongst corrupt rulers Can't you see the connection there? And the examples can be multiplied and multiplied. The early church called Elohim to arise that they may accomplish their commission to speak the word. God the Father, through Christ Jesus, then struck Herod dead for getting in the way. Consequently, the word grew and multiplied. And so clearly, God through Christ rises to judge the world in righteousness, even in the present. But there's something else that must be applied to us tonight. Because I think so far what has been said really feeds all of the anger that we have experienced over the last two years. And I don't really think I should leave you there. And here is the second application, therefore. There are many applications, but these are two that I think will strengthen you tonight. Though God the Father through Christ judges now, I would encourage you To pray that he would judge in mercy. This is very serious Though God the Father through Christ judges even now, I do pray that you would seek in prayer, that he would do so in mercy. I have noticed that men especially want only one kind of judgment on our leaders, the kind that Herod received with worms And a busted gut. But I want to tell you that there is some legit although there is some legitimate legitimacy in that, I do want to remind you Of just the heart of Paul, who was under the rule of such leaders. I want to remind you first of the heart of Paul from Acts chapter 26, verses 28 through 29. In speaking to Agrippa. Then Agrippa said to Paul, You almost persuade me to become a Christian. And Paul said, I would to God that not only you, but also all who hear me today, might become both almost and altogether such as I am Except for these chains. Now that, just right off the bat, is a different kind of heart. He lived under difficult rulers far more than you have, actually. I don't see your chains. And yet look at his heart, even for Agrippa, an idolater. And the second thing I want to say in why we should develop this mentality: that though he judges now, we should pray that he judges in mercy. Is that we might remain consistent with what we have asked for ourselves. We are solid in our arguments that our leaders are little elohi. I just gave you so much fuel to hate people more today. We are solid in our arguments that our leaders are like little Elohimes and they are meant to display the image and the right rule as The Elohiman, look at what they're doing. Look at what they deserve for smearing his reputation and his image. They need to be held accountable. And we end up saying it in anger. And when there is anger at that level, there is no room for humility. There is no room for mercy. And so what I would like to do is I would like to just feed you your same anger and your same argument. But instead of using the word little Elohim, which you are not, because you're not a ruler I just want to take the example of a father. If you are a father here, and then if you're not, just uh draw the analogy. You are called a father because you are meant to display the honor and the gravity and the tenderness and the wisdom of your heavenly father. I hear many people these days say, I cannot relate to God the Father because I had a horrible father. And I say that's backwards because you're not supposed to know what a father is by your horrible earthly father, but you understand what a father is through your heavenly father. And that ends up bringing up a major question for us. Do you fall short of the glory of God as a father, just as the little Elohimes do for Elohim? And yet here is the problem. In recognizing that you do so, you long for mercy. And you know that the only reason why you stand or do anything good or there is anything good that comes from you is because Christ has had mercy upon you. And has made you perhaps some semblance of our Father who art in heaven And so I say, why not pray in humility, understanding the condition of a little Elohim, because we are but little fathers I'm not saying that that's the only relationship that we have, but I think it's something that we need to consider. Why not pray for God to judge them mercifully as He has judged us mercifully? If I were to bring all of your acts and words and deeds over the last ten years out onto the carpet, how would you stand as a father? Why not pray for God to judge them mercifully just as you would want to be judged? Couldn't that just be a part of our prayer? Maybe we could pray other things. But maybe that could also be a part of our prayers. Maybe it could be a part of our attitude. I encourage you to read Titus chapter 2. The bottom line is this. God the Father has not abandoned us to wicked rulers. But hears the prayers of his saints. In Christ, he rises to judge the world in righteousness. It's a done deal. It's a done deal even now. In the present time, Christ defends and maintains order. I hope you have some experience to testify of that fact. We have experience of that here. Christ in his wisdom rises especially when his people pray. May his people pray not only for judgment in that one sense, but may we from humility pray that he would have mercy. Please pray with me now.