Please join me in diligently attending to God's word by turning to Deuteronomy chapter four. I'll be reading chapters 4 through 20. Just kidding this morning. Just joking. Today we're only going to be doing 10 verses. It's going to feel like that. It's going to be great. So please attend with me to Deuteronomy chapter four, verses one through ten. Now Israel Listen to the statutes and the judgments which I teach you to observe, that you may live and go in and possess the land which the Lord God of your fathers is giving you. You shall not add to the word which I command you, nor take from it, that you may keep the commandments of the Lord your God which I command you. Your eyes have seen what the Lord did at Baalpaor. For the Lord your God has destroyed from among you all the men who followed Baal of Paor. But you who held fast to the Lord your God are alive today, every one of you. Surely I have taught you statutes and judgments, just as the Lord my God commanded me That you should act according to them in the land which you go to possess. Therefore be careful to observe them, for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples who will hear all these statutes and say Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people. For what great nation is there that has God so near to it as the Lord our God is to us? For whatever reason we may call upon him. And what nation is there that has such statutes and judgments and righteous judgments as are in all this law which I set before you this day Only take heed to yourself and diligently watch yourself, lest you forget the things your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life, and teach them to your children and your grandchildren. especially concerning the day which you the day you stood before the Lord your God in Horeb, when the Lord said to me, Gather the people to me, and I will let them hear my words, that they may learn to fear me all the days they live on the earth. And that they may teach their children. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for these awesome words that you have given to us. And we ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that through your Spirit you would give us ears to truly listen. We ask that these words would be stored in our hearts and they would become the pathway for our life. We ask, in other words, for the new covenant, for your spirit and for our heart to be changed. In the name of Christ, Amen. A poem on the fly. The Lord in His wisdom made the fly and then forgot to tell us why. On celery Cell celery raw develops the jaw, but celery stewed is more quietly chewed. On a word to you husbands. To keep your marriage brimming with love in the loving cup, whenever you are wrong, admit it, and whenever you're right, shut up. These words are set up in a particular way. Could have said the same thing in a most boring way. It brought a certain delight and giggle to our lives. And that is one of the roles of poetry. It's one of its purposes, it's one of its gifts to mankind. Poetry can engage our funny bone or can express our deepest longing and pains, which are not funny at all. We have experiences in these past sermon series with different poetic devices that we've seen in David and the Psalms. We've seen them especially in Proverbs, poetic devices we're noticing all over the scriptures, and this morning is is uh not any different Would you ever guess that Deuteronomy is set up in a poetic device? That there are poetic devices all throughout this book in order to help us to bring uh laughter to our lives, to bring faith to our lives, to bring hope to our lives to address us in our deepest needs and our pains. It's all here, poetry serving us again. And Moses uses that. The whole book of Deuteronomy is structured in a particular way. It is like a jewel set in a golden poetic structure. And we find the same thing here, and I only bring this up as For the same reasons that Moses would use it, and that is to help us. To help us to be able to listen to our God, the most difficult thing for a human to do. To listen to God. In verses 1 through 10, they're placed in what scholars call a concentric order. But scholars point out that because it's in the number 7, that the order may resemble the shape of a menorah or lampstand that would be in the tabernacle. And so we have arranged the verses in your bulletin so that you could see how they would be set up. You've seen the same structure as represented to you as ripples in a pond. when we were going through Proverbs. Here you can see this as a lampstand. And we'll follow this structure. You can see that there are two A's, A and A prime, on either side of the lampstand. Working its way up climactically to the center, 4-7, said our God is great. It's the whole point of what Moses wants to bring out to us, and we'll get there as we travel through three points looking at this time. This uh sermon that Moses is beginning here in chapter four, or continuing, and really a preface to the commandments. I want to look at this at under verses one through five. Listen. Verses 9 through 10 educate and verses 6 through 8 motivate. You notice that we're moving from the left of the candle lampstand to the right, and then we're going to the center. for the last point because that's the climax of this whole preface to Moses' sermon. And that menorah there is for you. Just for you to be able to remember and to track along. And so let's begin as Moses commands the people as God's mediator to listen in verses 1 through 5. What Moses has to say needs their attention, it needs our attention. It is very serious what's going on here. And thus he uses these often repeated words that you will see throughout Deuteronomy. It's something for you to be aware of. Have you heard of the tagline, Shema? The Shema, okay, this is what this is what we're dealing with here. It means to hear or to listen, Israel. And that's what he's saying here in Now, O Israel, listen to the statutes and the judgments which I teach you to observe. Very sermonic, isn't it? He's as a shepherd is giving his sermon to these people that they would listen. The words that they must hear and that we must hear, he says in verse 1, are the statutes and the judgments. Those are the ones that Moses taught them to observe, and he's seeking to expound on those. Statutes are the laws like dietary laws, laws for clothing. Judgments are the Ten Commandments, or really the Ten Words And we're going to meet both of those once we start getting into this overall exposition that Moses is doing. Right now we're just in the preface. We'll see this in chapters 5 through 26, plenty of time in the law. In verse 2, he begins to add more information, however. He tells us not to add any information. He says, to these things which I've instructed, these judgments and statutes, should nothing be added. And based on the context, the best way to understand this is relationally to our God. Look at how nothing added in verse 2 is followed then by Moses reminding this group of people of a tragic event that took place. He names it here in verse 3. Bael Payor. You shall not add to the word which I command you, nor take from it. And then he says, Your eyes have seen what the Lord did at Baal Payor. Somehow adding to the words And this event that took place at Bael Payor are connected. And I believe the connection, when revealed, helps us to understand what he means by don't add anything, and that it is best understood relationally. You can find Bael Payor in Numbers 25, 1 through 9. And let me just give you a brief summary of this After Israel defeated Og, king of Bashan, you remember the the giant king the giants, they encamped in the plains of Moab, and while there the men of Israel became very attracted to the Moabite women. The picture seems to be that they began to relate to the women in religious sacrifices to the Canaanite goddess of fertility, Baal. Men became attracted to women who were not of God's people. The women seduced and tempted them to where they were became not only interested in the women, but the God of those women. And in response, God disciplines his people through a plague, taking the lives, as recorded in Numbers, of 24,000 people. The plague stopped once Phineas demonstrated pure loyalty and devotion to his God for the people. And in Numbers 25, 18. There is a comment that helps us to understand the whole event from God's perspective. God says the Moabites seduced you into worshiping Baal. God characterized the event of them adding to his words, there was a synonym that he used, seduction, giving themselves over to the seduction. This is the language of a woman seducing someone away from their spouse, which will be repeated throughout all of the scriptures. In other words, God looks at his relationship with you As an intimate relationship between a husband and a wife. That's not unusual. There's an entire Old Testament book written about it. Unfaithfulness, therefore, ends up being the language of cheating on him. And that is the whole point, and it provides the lens for do not add to these words. Moses pleads with God's bride to remain faithful to God in their marriage relationship. He's essentially saying, listen, hear the vows of the marriage, and do not add to the vows. You shall not add to the vows of your marriage. We're going to have an open marriage. Do not add to the marriage vows wherein you give yourself permission to be unfaithful in some way that you have justified in your own head. Remained loyal to him. You can see that we are on the right track in the interpretation of this from verse 4. Look at the contrast. But you who held fast to the Lord your God are alive today, every one of you. You are still in that living relationship with him. The contrast then is between loyalty and disloyalty, holding fast and letting go. The word here actually is to cling. Have you heard the phrase in regards to marriage, leave and cleave? He's stating the same thing for your relationship with him: leave and cleave. There must be a leaving and a cleaving, not only in a human relationship of marriage, where you would not be ruled by the old authority of your family, but that you would now become the new parental or authority unit. In the same way you're moving authority structures to where you are placing yourself under the Lord your God, not under Baal or any other authority that we could choose. You know, this relationship continues. It's very interesting to me that Jesus himself, in speaking to John while on the island of Patmos in Revelation 4, verse 13, brings up the same event of Baal of Peor. And he encourages them, his church, to stay devoted to him. He says, hold fast to me. And he warns them against the exact same seductions that they faced within this passage. I'd encourage you to read that this afternoon. Revelation chapter 4. And you can see it there addressed to that church, particularly in 13. It is a of continual concern to our Lord that we do not add to these words, that is to say, to become unfaithful. No matter where you turn in the scriptures, actually, you will find humans struggling to stay faithful to Yahweh. Let me tell you right now. You think it's difficult to relate to your teenagers or your two-year-old, not to compare you teenagers to two-year-olds. So sorry about that. I love you. I do, I love you. Uh It is far more difficult to relate to God than it is to human beings. To relate to God is first and foremost with Moses to listen to him Him. And we find that exceptionally difficult. We are forgetful. We are forgetful people. Wherever you turn within the scripture, humans are struggling to stay faithful to Yahweh. And Moses knows this. And so Moses begins by snapping everyone into attention where he says, Listen, listen to what I have to say, and don't add to what I have to say, what the Lord has revealed to me. I know that you are prone to wander. Listen, hear. Do not forget. We should, with devotion, be listening to God. But it's not only for ourselves, and that this is where we move into our next point, and since we're following the candle, we're going to jump down to verses 9 through 10. We don't only just listen for ourselves or have any Some kind of self-awareness. We must listen for the sake of our children and our grandchildren. And this is spread across this congregation, whether they are your biological children or adopted children, whatever. It just means the younger generations that you have a responsibility to educate them in 9 through 10. And so these are the candles on the right, B prime and A prime. 9 and 10. Verses 9 through 10 tell us some of the educational practices that can help all generations to be devoted to listen. It's hard. It's hard to hear. And so he gives us these ways to where we would not forget. Of course, they must be accompanied by the Spirit And his efficacious influence, but the problem is our loyalty and our forgetfulness. And you can see this in verse 9. So skip down there with me. And see what Moses says here in his sermon. Only take heed to yourself and diligently keep yourself, lest you forget the things your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life. Teach your children and your grandchildren, especially this one day that we would remember. Consummation of the Exodus in some sense, Sinai. Diligently, did you notice what he says specifically? Diligently keep God's work before your eyes Moses in verse 10 highlights the day when God descended before their eyes on Mount Horeb or Sinai and gave the ten words. And Moses selected before this, if you remember the stories that we've gone through, he placed again before their eyes Israel's rebellion, the defeat of King Sihon King Og, and lately in the same passage, Bael at Peor, placing before their eyes that they would remember specific events specifically of his intervention. And all of these are tied in a single narrative thread back to his rescue in Egypt. Make taking them from slaves to Pharaoh who are building the house of Pharaoh to slaves of Yahweh building his tabernacle. The Exodus starts the whole ball rolling of pictures of Yahweh rising as a mighty warrior. and conquering. That's the picture. There's actually a reference to Yahweh as mighty warrior all over the place and uh in numbers. 25, I believe it is, reference to a book we don't have called The Book of the Wars of the Lord. Him as the mighty warrior conquering. The idea is to keep God's works before your eyes and the eyes of our children and our grandchildren. That's what Moses is giving an example of. You can learn from him on just how he chooses to do it God kept or enscripturated his works, that we would always have him before our eyes. And he, in his works, has even made known to us that his providence is, that further works would be for our eyes. And throughout the history of his people, he has symbolized his works and instituted them in sacraments. I don't know if you've been to the Bible Museum or not, but one of my favorite exhibits was a table. It was just a long table where people would go to eat. It represented tables across the land in all of their different languages where the family would sit down and they would talk about their God And so you could see there was a projector above that would project all of the dinner plates all of a sudden on the table, and how they would distribute the food And how the father was leading the family through the symbolism, for example, in a Seder meal, of how each piece of food stood for an event or a work of God And you can think of how that took place before the Exodus with the Passover, and how God's people were instructed during that time to celebrate that Passover over and over again, to keep his works before their eyes. And the children, when they were watching, they were supposed to explain to the children, this is what this means. I want you to see our God and what he has by faith and to see what he has accomplished for his people. And the grandchildren, each generation rising up and listening to the fathers and the grandfathers and the great-grandfathers about the mighty works of God being passed down through the generations. And we have that here even for us today with the table set before us. It is a continuation of instituted signs and seals, keeping the work of God before your eyes. It's exactly what's going on. We must listen and hear the bread and the wine today And although the children cannot take the Lord's Supper, who have not given evidence of their own faith, being able to discern the body of the Lord. They should be watching you partake of the bread and drinking of the wine or the grape juice. And afterward, or maybe in a whisper, even during the hour, you would say, This is a representation of the faith. That God has given to me in his covenant, or however you would explain it to your child, or afterward, when they're asking questions on the way home, keeping God's works through Jesus Christ before their eyes And he has given you concrete signs and seals to do so. How generous of him, knowing that we're such tangible creatures. And of course we could say the same thing about baptism and improving it every time we see One baptized. The instituted signs and sacraments are commanded ways which God's community can remember, where we can listen again, where we can hear. And I'll just bring up, although these aren't mandatory for us, the liturgical calendar, we are not bound as a church to celebrate certain holy days. They have not been commended However, I believe that there is a great benefit in informally following the calendar. If for nothing less to just remember God's works and place them before our eyes in an orderly fashion, why not have Advent calendars to do so? Why not in Christmas remember the incarnation and Monday Thursday, the Lord's Supper, and Good Friday, his crucifixion, and Easter, his resurrection, and Pentecost, the sending of his spirit. Speaking all the year long about all of the mighty works of God the Father through Jesus Christ and the Spirit The whole year could be a giant remembrance and reminder and a listening and a hearing of all of the works of God, whether you follow those specific holy days or not. You could just be on a good Bible reading program. These are times to educate. And you have a responsibility to educate. This is a great time for a plug for you to volunteer for Sunday school. Just keep that in mind. What a awesome ministry to be able to share God's works with our children. And uh especially through our Sunday school program here. We are to listen, Shema, here We are to take those things dropping into our hearts. As we listen, we mix it with faith, it becomes real to us. God is alive. Through his word and his spirit. And as we have our relationship with the living God, we begin to educate the next generations, not telling stale stories. But sharing our living relationship with God and our knowledge of Him and His events with our children and our grandchildren. And lastly, right dead center of the Lampstand. We are to be motivated and to motivate. These are the inside candles, and I'm taking it really from C to C. with seven at the center. If you're looking at the uh lampstand there on your bulletin, verses six through eight are the interior candles. There's a one that's most interior, which is uh not considered a branch, but the trunk itself, which is verse seven. And these give us motivation to do so. God's people are motivated to listen and educate. Why? Why would you want to do these things? I hope it's already coming through a little bit as to why. I haven't verbalized it, but I hope it's just spilling out why we would want to do so. And I hope that you have heard this throughout the service. We would want to educate in order to witness to those who do not know the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. It's very interesting to me that Moses has a myssiological focus here in the passage. That he is concerned about those who do not know Yahweh, that do not know the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And you can see this in these verses. Notice that there is a quotation here. Let's begin in verse 6. We are to be careful to observe these. This is going to be our wisdom in the sight of the peoples. Okay, they've come up, other nations Who will hear all these statutes, and now we have a quotation as to what the nations will say, still in verse 6. Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people. And the focus is not really for Israel to be to to be able to boast in themselves, obviously. All of the credit is going to go to their God. And that's the point. That all the nations would begin to fear Yahweh. And you can see this, the nations themselves and what they will say about Yahweh's great works amongst his people and establishing them as a wise and understanding people. is the one of the main motivations of this. The nations are watching and drawing conclusions about God from his people. It is a great comfort to know That people from other states do not draw conclusions about the state of Maryland from how the Orioles do. There's a similar thought going on here. I I was thinking as I was reading this that uh as we were picking a guitar instructor for Jack We searched around for different instructors. We wanted a professional musician. And what we did was we watched Can He Play, the musician himself. That's a really And and then we wanted to see, well, what did his students look like? Could they play after being with him We wanted a good teacher, and we wanted it to be shown in his students, for there to be a testimony or witness to this man's work. And likewise, something else, something like that is being said here. We as God's people are a testimony to the competency and the glory of Yahweh. And in case you think that's just an old-fashioned idea or that puts too much pressure on you, too much focus on being a person of good works, listen to Romans 2:24. The name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. It is still a focus. It is a focus in Titus. It is a focus in Ephesians. I encourage you especially to look at Titus. It is a focus amongst Jesus as he repeats the same focus that we see here in chapter 4. In Matthew, Matthew chapter 5, verses 13 through 16, listen to this with ears that can hear. You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt loses its flavor, how shall it be seasoned? Is it then good for nothing but to be good for nothing but to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men? If you are not bringing glory to your Father, you're of no use. You are the light of the world, Severn Run. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden And nor do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. Let your light so shine before men. Why? So that they could see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven, because he is the one that is responsible for your good works. You are the fruit of his vineyard. So what do you say about a farmer that can't grow fruit? Tell him to get a different job. No, but that shouldn't be said about our God. Jesus repeats this in John 15. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit. So you will be my disciples. As the Father loved me, I also have loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments. and abide in his love. Amen. This is our first motivation. It's others centered that don't know the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. That they would see how great their God is by the works of your hands, especially Your willingness to give up your own interests for the sake of other people, perhaps even your own life. Now there is a second motivation that actually I believe helps us with the first, because that's sacrificial love is very difficult for humans. We don't listen and we don't sacrifice naturally. And so this second motivation that we'll see helps us with the first, and that is directly in verse 7, the center of the lampstand. For what great nation is there that God has so near to it as the Lord our God to us, for whatever reason we may call upon him? And again, the emphasis is not upon the nation, it is upon how great the God is who is over this nation. The Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. There's a contrast that's going on here that's implicit within the text. If you were to read through all of the stories and get a sense of what's going on here and why he's communicating these things. There's a contrast to the other nations that are surrounding them. They are competitors for loyalty and devotion. You already saw in Baal of Peyor, That although they had seen with their own eyes Yahweh descend upon the mountain and speak from the fire and the cloud, that they had already gone over to the Moabite lowercase G God. And so he's pointing out again that everyone will know that God is great. Our God is the only God, and our God rules over all gods, even though they're not real gods. Our God is the greatest. Our God is the most lovely. Verse 7. One of the reasons that is that He is near and He is involved in our lives. Can you believe this statement? There were no gods in the nations that were like this. There is no God that is uh recommended to us no nation that is like this that we read of. You may call upon him, it says, for whatever reason That he is near you. As we read in the Great Commission from Jesus, I will be with you to the end of the age. What God is like that Verse 8, He has graciously given us the law that we would know how to relate to God and to each other. That's the purpose, that we could become human. again knowing how to relate to our God, loving God, and knowing how to relate to each other, loving our neighbors. That's the point. The point is that God is great. He's greater than all else that could ever enter into our lives. As we ponder the poetic lampstand of this passage, we are taught that our loyalty is a problem. And we therefore must listen and remember, so that we may remind all generations and witness to them that our God is great. When your children or friends hear you talk about the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, do they walk away saying, his God is great? And maybe there's a little parenthetical remark, at least in his mind. But they would still feel the power of what is coming from you, even though they may disagree. Or has God been sidelined? That he's maybe as good as Amazon Prime with two day shipping. Those are the temptations that we have within America because we don't usually have temples where we might visit other gods, but America herself contends with our loyalty to God. God. The promise of two-day delivery is not a joke. It means that Amazon, the world's largest marketplace, can give you whatever you need now. They will be with you till the end of the age. And the whole that is the way that everyone presents themselves. All you need is me. Make me the center And all of your life will begin to make sense. That's what they're doing in advertising. And that's what we face. We fall for it because we don't listen. And the good news is that whether we stumble or keep stumbling, our Lord Jesus Christ still lives and he will not let us fall as his people. Even if it takes discipline, just as they need it at Baal of Payor, and they will need in the exile, he calls out, those who have ears to hear, listen to me. And he does so with each generation. No one was excited in my household about the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. We were Christmas and Easter Christians, and yet Jesus Christ Himself sent his people, not a part of my family, to give me the message We cannot get in the way of what Jesus Christ is doing. Jesus sends out his spirit In his people, teaching us to obey all his commands. Jesus gives us his word and sacraments to pass all his good works to the next generation. If you want to remain seated, he'll stand someone up. Jesus works in you, he works in me, and he is showing the whole world that God is great. And that he is doing great things. If the focus had to be upon the church, our God would always be, in the end, the verdict would be he is incompetent and he doesn't know how to grow. But Jesus Christ is the great Son. He is Israel and rises as the church himself, representing God the Father before the nations. And do you know what has happened since he has done so? Nations have flocked to him. Every tongue and tribe and nation has seen the beauty of God the Father through Jesus Christ the Son and his Spirit. Jesus Christ has gathered from the nations. They have seen his sacrificial love, especially, which is the ultimate work of the cross. They see his continual good works from the right hand of the Father. As Jesus Christ saves our family members from their own stupidity and addictions, that's Jesus that does that. Showing that God the Father is truly great, truly faithful, and that he deserves to be worshipped What group of people has a God like our God? No one. Now let's learn this together as we are given these instituted signs and seals. Let's see the works of God before our very eyes. Lord's Supper. Let's pray. Please allow me to pray. We'll stand for the invitational song, and I'll ask the elders to please prepare the table. Father, we thank you that your glory is seen through the face of Jesus Christ. What we could not do, you sent your Son to do. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, for being the faithful Son, for being our representative, and not only that, for continuing to be with us, to sanctify us, that we one day also will walk in glory, doing all good deeds unto your glory. May this begin even so now. In your name. Amen.