Matthew Chapter six through ten. Now godliness with contentment is great gain For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. In having food and clothing, with these we shall be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and snare, and into many foolish and harmful lusts which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, for which some have strayed from the faith and their greediness, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. Let us pray. Oh Lord God, I pray That you would make your word and the preaching of it effectual today. O Lord, we just sang to you that you are first in our hearts. And all of us standing here know that that is a desire but not a reality But we want it to be, and we pray that you would use the words of this sermon to bring us closer to that being a glorious fact. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we continued with another phrase telling us what it means to be a healthy church. And we're learning this from the words of Paul to Timothy, as Timothy is setting up or hopes to set up a healthy church in Ephesus. Last week we learned that a healthy church withdraws from false guides. This week we continue with more about a healthy church, but I have a few observations before we get there to the doctrine. So let's take a look at these verses together. The false guides from last week they thought of their ministry as a business to become wealthy. Now we read earlier within the book of Timothy that each worker is worth their wage. So in some cases, it's not wrong that a minister would receive pay. But this is a different situation. They're using the ministry and doing unlawful things in order to gain money by way of it. Now you can see this by just popping back one verse from our passage this morning. Take a look at verse number five, and he says that let me get there myself. Uh they who suppose that godliness is a means of gain. They're not really concerned concerned about the ministry itself or being a good guide or making sure they're speaking the truth. They're concerned about money. Now, this is why Paul begins verse 6 the way that he does, saying, Now godliness with contendment is great gain. He's picking up the word gain from five. And he's bringing it into this next part of the discussion in verse 6. You could, if you wanted to, hear him saying this. Now, godliness with contentment, it actually is in fact a great gain Not the game that they want, but it is does have its own game. And that's the first thing that I want you to notice is the connection between these two paragraphs, and there's a continuation of the discussion here. So all the stuff that you've heard about the third commandment and the fifth commandment. And uh third commandment being at the bottom of the fifth, and the false guides, that's all still continuing here. Paul's still developing the same line of thought. Here he's developing it by way of stating that godliness with contentment is actually a great game. Now that's the first thing I want you to notice. Now here's the second. What you then have following verse six are a series of wisdom statements. Take a look at some of the examples. For we brought nothing into this world and it's certain we can carry nothing out. That's something, you know, everybody agrees with that. I don't care where you're from. We brought nothing in and we take nothing out. It's a fact. It's asserted by every nation. And then in verse 8, you can see he's got another wisdom saying here, and having food and clothing with these we shall be content. And I'll show you where that wisdom wisdom saying is coming from in a moment. But this is how he's going to develop this idea that godliness with content with contentment is actually great gain. Let me appeal to some wisdom for you to show you the wisdom of what I've just said. They're meant to reprove each of these wisdom statements actually, in direct contradiction to those who want to gain an illegitimate gain. These wisdom sayings are meant to prove That riches are not the greatest gain a human can have. God is And godliness, which is right relation with God. That's the greatest gain we can have But instead, love for God and his love for you, that is what makes a person truly rich. God's love for you and your love for him makes a person truly rich. That's the point of those wisdom statements. Now let's get into it just a little bit. First, Paul is going to take us to two different vantage points in this verse And he's going to take us, it's like he's taking us to a mountain over on the left so that we can see things clearly. And then he's going to take us a mountain on the right to see things clearly. And the first mountain on the left is when you're born. You can learn a lot about how you enter the world. And you can learn a lot about life when you're on your deathbed. And we've talked about that before. Looking at it from birth and death brings a kind of wisdom under the guidance of the Holy Spirit. He takes us to that vantage point of birth and death, and he's doing that because this is the wisdom that Job has. Listen to what Job says and how similar it is to what Paul is doing. Naked I came from my mother's womb. And naked I shall return. And then the the uh and then Job continues, getting back to that main point I told you this whole thing was about. The Lord gave And the Lord has taken away, but no matter what, whether in birth or death, or giving or taking, blessed be the name of the Lord. That's where we're truly rich, is when we're seeking our end or have landed in our end, which is making sure that the name of the Lord is blessed. You can see the direct connection of that and the third commandment from the last two sermons. Paul is pointing out that the wise among us find their happiness not in possessions, though they may possess a lot of things. That they find their happiness in God Himself, and they find their happiness in contentment in how He manages their lives. They trust him as a good father. Sometimes he gives. Sometimes he takes away. And either way, whether giving or taking, God is good all the time. Now, the second proverb appears to be related to Proverbs chapter 30, and you're all, I believe, are pretty familiar with this. It says, remove falsehood and lies far from me. Give me neither poverty nor riches. Feed me with the food allotted to me. Lest I be fool and deny you and say, who is the Lord? Or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God. You see how we're right back to the third commandment So I think Paul is meditating on all of these things as a part of wisdom literature, and he's bringing those to Timothy that he would know how to conduct himself in this particular social setting. And again, the main point here is that the name of the Lord would be blessed. You notice how that's true in Proverbs 31? Don't give me too much, don't give me too little. Why? Because I just want to make sure your name is blessed. And I want to carry your name well. That's the second thing I want you to notice about this. First is the game, that it is an actual game. That's the first verse which is In verse 6, and then when we start dropping down into the verses 7 and verse 8, that's the wisdom literature of him showing the real riches of godliness. Here's the next thing I want you to notice. That Paul then provides a contrast in the rest of these verses. There are those who do not accept that wisdom. Despite the wisdom above, many choose a different path. Take a look at the different path beginning in verse number nine. But those, see the contrast there? But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare. And then he continues on. Instead, there's a path out there where you can choose to love money above God. And when they do so, or when you would do so, your your will doesn't remain the same. You don't stay the same person. You become twisted. And the scriptures describe it as you becoming blind and held captive. There's a lot of different images for what happens to a person when they choose this path. You become bent. And the word that you heard Mark use is inordinate. Your desires get out of order. They get rearranged. Now you can notice that he lists a few other things that happen to a person that chooses this path, and I've already read them to you, so let me just list them to you. You become snared and in the trap of the devil. Now it says here in this specific passage that you fall into a temptation and a snare. And if you look at 2 Timothy when he talks about snares, it's the snare of the devil. So that's why I say it's the snare of the devil. If you were to continue reading in those verses, then if you go down that path, you bring harm and destruction on yourselves. It talks about you drowning. And you bring harm on others. It actually says right there at the end, if you keep reading, that you pierce yourself the images of a sword being thrust through you. You pierce yourself through with many scarms. Their twisted will even blinds them to the point where they stray, if you read again, they stray and they leave behind the faith. He says, he switches and he says the word greediness here, or the other word is avarice, that they stray even from the faith, denying the Lord. And you could see why Paul draws the conclusion that inordinate love for money is the root Or is a root or a seed from which all kinds of evil grow? I mean, how many evils did I just list to you? And they were all from that one inordinate desire. Related to riches and grief. So when we gather all these different things together, we have a doctrine this morning. That helps us again to see what a healthy church is and what it is not. And here is. Here's what a healthy church, in fact, avoids. A healthy church avoids inordinate desires. A healthy church avoids inordinate desires Now I threw in a fancy word in the doctrine, which is inordinate. You can break that word down into two parts. The word in means not, and ordinate means ordered or arranged. So it means that a healthy church avoids desires that are ill or misarranged or are out of order. And if you wanted another doctrine that is the same doctrine as this, just put in different words, it's right from that song that we sang this morning: You are first in my heart. And when I say that the healthy church avoids inordinate desires, it means that you avoid making God, singing a song that says, God, you are second in my heart. You are third in my heart. There are other things that are more important to me than you. Can you imagine singing that hymn? That wouldn't be good. But you see the doctrine here. A healthy church avoids inordinate desires. And that word inordinate means not arranged or ordered well. So a healthy church avoids disordering or misarranging or misplacing their loves A healthy church instead orders or arranges their loves well and declares, you are first in my heart, O God. So I studied the doctor in a few different ways, and now I'd like to just drop into a little bit of understanding that more and some application to us as his people. I want to do so under two main titles, and so if you're taking notes this morning, I hope that you are, I'm going to talk about this under a clear case and then your case. A clear case and your case Now, when I say that a church, a healthy church should avoid inordinate desires, that sounds a little bit lofty. It's pretty general. And so I want to get back down to earth here, and I want to give you a case, the specific clear case that the Apostle Paul has in front of him, so you can see exactly what he's saying, and make sure we're not drifting off somewhere. Paul is still writing about false guides. And one reason they are false is that they chose to love money. More than love and honor God. That's the problem. That's why he says what he says in verse 5. Now, this happened all the time in all of the eras of the church. When you look to the apostles who are being confronted with this problem in their congregations that they're planting, you'll notice that they have a few characters from the canon of Scripture that they typically bring up to try to explain to people what's going on here and how we are supposed to view this kind of situation. where a person says, God, you are second in my heart and money is first. And do you know who those characters are? One of those characters, and I'm thinking that this is on Paul's mind, is Balaam. Has everyone heard of him? Bellum uh you can over lunch read this story to your children or this evening read this story to your children before bed perhaps. and and maybe have a little discussion over it, but you can find it in Numbers chapter 22. And this is a famous story because Balaam's or Abala'am's donkey starts talking and saves Balaam from destruction. Do you remember the talking donkey in the Bible? Nod? Yes, you do. Great. Yeah, so that's the story that I'm referring to here. Balaam was at a crossroads. A local king wanted Balaam to curse the Israelites, but God made it clear to Balaam that no matter how much money or land is offered to him. From that king, he must only speak the words that God gives to him. And it appears in a story that Balaam started to fold under the pressure of a bribe. That he was going to say whatever the king wanted to hear so that he could receive an estate and wealth and many other things. But he was saved from his madness by a talking donkey. That's the way that Peter puts it. You can look in 2 Peter 2, I think it's verse 25. There's a whole section there on false guides. And Balaam comes up as one of the examples. Now that's a really clear case of what we would not want to do and what has been done so many different times in the past, that Balaam and the donkey. You could see that if you instead, if the Lord gave you specific words to speak, but you chose to say other words because somebody gave you money, that's wrong. That's a real clear case. Other cases in our life can be more difficult, but it's good to start with a clear one. Now the second character The second character is really a group of characters that stands throughout all of history, but it's just brought up so many different times by Jesus and the apostles that we have to mention it. And those are the priests and the judges Especially from the writings of the prophets, especially from the prophets Jeremiah, Isaiah, Ezekiel, and Micah, as they reflect on Deuteronomy and the covenant that they have with God. And then they look at their leadership or the false guides that are running the show. And I want you to just listen for a moment to some of the descriptions of the what the prophet gives to these false guides in their society. This is from Isaiah 56. 11. They say this. Yes, this is them speaking in the name of the Lord, which we talked about last week. Yes, they are greedy dogs. Which never have enough, and they are shepherds who cannot understand. They all look their own way, every one for his own gain. from his own territory. They would not be able to sing, You are first in my heart. They would say, The brides of the people are first in my heart, and I'll rule in your favor if you give me enough money. Or I'm going to determine national policies based upon what will line my pockets, not upon the divine will of God for his people. And so they are called out as greedy dogs. You can see the reference to financial concern here when they're called greedy. They never have enough. And everyone is after their own gain and their own property or territory. There's another example, these are all over the place, but I'll just give you one from Ezekiel chapter 13, verse 19, and he says this. And this is a question in the name of the Lord. And will you profane me? Here we're back to the third commandment again. And will you profane me among my people? For handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread. So you're gonna you're meant to be carrying the name of the Lord and standing up for a particular social vision that has been revealed to you by way of the Torah, but you're going to go ahead and do things a little bit differently in order to to uh shape society and you're going to do so because people give you handfuls of barley and other bribes. You kill people who should not die. And you kill people alive who should not live. And I want to ask you, just as you know, wise human beings, why would that happen? He's talking about the administration of justice among a nation. And why is it that some people would that would deserve justice don't get it? And those who didn't deserve justice didn't get it. You know what I mean? Money. That's what he's pointing out here. By your lying to my people, who listen to lies. Whether it is Balaam or the false guides which Ezekiel or Isaiah confront, these cases are crystal clear. Instead of telling the truth about who God is, what God is actually doing through his Son Jesus Christ and His spirits, and what He requires actually requires of people, Some people choose to lie about all that, and they do so for money Or other things. They do so because they were offered money or land or something they considered valuable in all of these different cases. Something else took first place in their heart besides the Lord and His ways. And that means that we could start to talk about this in terms of the word inordinate. When the moment arose They arranged their desires so that loving God was arranged lower than the love for money, or the love for fame, the love for prestige, or the love for whatever Their greed, their covetousness, and their avarice or love of money became a root which sprouted lots of different kinds of evil. Think of the evils that you just heard within the prophets. There were unjust judgments that led to the execution of innocent people. There was murder, therefore. There was the seizing of property illegally. There was even, if you think about it, and just going all the way up into our incarnate Christ, the killing of our Lord. Do not forget that Christ Himself was betrayed for thirty pieces of silver. There it is. And that would just be an examination of the inordinate desires of Judas. What about the inordinate desires of Pilate? Why didn't he stop the whole show? Because He was afraid. And what does the scripture say? The fear of man is a trap. And boy was he trapped. So I hope that those cases, those examples, can help you get your mind clearly around at least what Paul was dealing with specifically. And from there, we can now move into your case. And I think as we continue into your case, I'd like you to keep that idea of the silver in mind, the 30 pieces of silver. And we can continue to ask ourselves. Am I like Judas? Do I betray my Lord for things like silver or any other created good That is a very serious question. When I was singing the song with you, and then I had to sing, You are first in my heart. It was bittersweet. Because at the very same time I stopped singing while I was singing, you know how we can do complicated things as humans. While still singing, inside my mind I started confessing. Because I do not keep him first in my heart, but I so badly want to. So I sung it as a desire of hope that one day I would. That one day he really would be my vision. That's the struggle that we have, and we can get at that in different ways. We can get at it by asking ourselves if we're like Judas in certain ways. Where we betray our Lord by or through elevating creative goods like resources or family. Or many other things higher than the Lord. You remember he said, maybe you're surprised to hear me say family. Remember, he said, if you do not love me more than mother and father. And he's talking about that in a very specific situation, but he always ends up at the top, even above our families. And notice that I said that we consider ourselves in light of Judas when we look and see, do we elevate created goods? I didn't say created bads. Created goods higher than the Lord. There are many good things that the Lord has given to us, and none of them belong in his spot And that is very difficult for us because it it can feel so natural and so good to love our family. But if family takes the place of the Lord, then we have a problem. That's just one example. So as we're considering our case, I'd ask you to keep those kinds of questions in mind. But here's the thing. As I start, I can go through this list of are you like Judas? Here's 101 ways you're like Judas. Let's pray. Have a great afternoon. I'll see you this afternoon. at the evening service. Well I won't because I made you so depressed you're not going to get out of bed. But I don't want to do that. I think we all know that when we compare ourselves or when we think about that example I gave you with the song, all of us say Yeah, you have a point. He's not first in my heart. I can actually think of specific examples. So what I want to do is instead, since we're all honest and we say, yes, I am in fact an idolater I am not just an idolater. I am a factory 24-7 producing different kinds of idols. That's who I am, that it is easy for me to love just about anything except for God. That's the kind of creature that I've become. And my desires are easily arranged with God at second or third place at best. Now we all agree with that. So since that's the case for all of us, I want to ask a different question. The question we must ask following that line of thought, and the line of thought of our passage, is how may we as Christians, under the Lordship of Jesus Christ, change this? How may we grow in our love for God? Now, to answer that question, you would need many, many, many generations of ministers to answer it. Because it would take so much time. I just want to focus on two of the answers, and I might give you a free third answer. But I want to look at two of the answers that are given to us in the passage that may be surprising to you on how can I Start to take steps to make God first in my heart and to avoid inordinate desires. Now, here's the first answer, and you're going to find this surprising. You must first pray and diligently work to become content with your life. Now, Paul, that's what Paul says here. Now, godliness with contentment is great gain. And having food and clothing, with these we shall be content. That's what he says in the passage. That there is a love of God that springs up when a person is practicing contentment. Now, contentment Is this, and you may want to write this down so you can keep thinking about it. Contentment is when we freely submit to And delight in God's wise and fatherly arrangement for our lives Contentment is when we freely submit to and delight in God's wise and fatherly arrangement for our lives. Now that is difficult. And one of the things that we immediately do is we say Well, I hear what you're saying, Jesse, but are you is included in that that I just kind of need to let life wash over me and then I can't do anything about my situation? And that if I do try to do something about my situation, then you're going to accuse me of being ambitious in an ungodly sense. And I want to just make clear that I'm not saying that. I'm not saying that God doesn't want you to take responsibility and seek to be responsible with your circumstances. What I am saying, and those of you who have been alive for a little while know the truth of what I'm getting ready to say, is that when you try to take control of your circumstances, You are going to find that you are more limited than you realize. You will find that you only have so many options. Sometimes none, and that even in that situation, you are still called to honor God. That's the point. I am saying that you will, in fact, be at a crossroads to where you have come up against the limits And then the devil will offer you more options, but all of them will be unlawful. And all of them will require that you disgrace the name of God. But there will be more options. If you're in a tight spot financially, and you try all that you can, all that is within your means You have the choice of submitting under your father's hand for a season of pinching pennies. You also have options from the devil, where you could walk down a path that will disgrace the name of God by how you accumulate your wealth Or how you choose to solve the financial crisis, like leaving your family, because it's easier to pay for one than to pay for two or more. But it is an option, not a lawful one. So that's what I'm saying in terms of contentment. You can settle into the season he has given you by freely submitting and delighting in God's wise and fatherly arrangement of your life. Now when you start to do that, this is interesting that I'm telling you this because I'm actually giving you practice before theory, which runs contrary to the American mind. When you start to put yourself into this situation, you're going to have to start working certain things out, like, well, why is it that I could so freely trust this person to take care of me Okay, well let's talk about that. Let's talk about who the Father is and why is it that you can trust Him. And let's talk to other people who have lived with Him and have found that they should trust in Him. And then let's ask the Holy Spirit to give you faith in abundance that you'd be able to trust in him. And there's this whole progression and maturation that would need to happen in you as a human being. And guess what would happen be happening during that time By the grace of Christ, through his spirit, you would be growing in love for him. You would discover him for who he truly is, and when you see him who he truly is, he is essentially lovable. Now I'm speaking there from the scriptures and from experience. That's the first way. It's contentment. Paul has learned godliness and the love of God through contentment, and so too do you. And then we second, we must count the cost of loving the creation more than the creator. The other thing that this passage is filled with is a warning. It speaks in terms of horrific traps and and uh s running a sword through your body. It has all these different images that are supposed to Scare you away from heading down a particular path and to take his warnings. It would be like, hey, don't touch this that full of acid. And then they show you a picture of somebody with their face melted off and you're like, I'm going to stay away from that. Was that graphic enough? Sorry, I don't I think I came from like RoboCop. I don't know how that all of a sudden entered back into my consciousness. I apologize. I am I grew up in the eighties and I'm still repenting. But we have got to see that Paul is giving us a motivation by saying, listen, if you don't want to put God first in your heart because you think everything is so much better, Let me tell you right now, you're going to find out that it's not true even experientially, even if you have to wait till the end of days. And so he gives us a warning here and he uses specific kind of language. He says He does this by talking about a trap that is the trap of the devil. And now I want you to just for a moment, sometimes we go over these images and we don't think about them. Think about a trap for a moment. A trap Is a device in this case that I'm going to come up with, a trap is a device that lures an animal by the promise of some good thing. So for example, there are some people in this world that buy these little machines that you fill up with corn And at certain hours of the day, they spit out corn on the forest floor so that the deer smell the corn and come in to have the feast of their lives. They think that Jesus has returned because everything is just right now. I have all that I can eat. I don't even have to get it off the husk. It's just laying there for me. If I stood there when the feeder went off, it would just shoot into my mouth as a deer. But the problem is that it's going to cost them their lives. And the same is true with us. Think about what acts like bait or corn in your life. If you feel like you are on the outside of society or a society or a group of friends at school, if you feel like you are rejected, And then there is the promise of people approving or finally enjoying you. That could be like bait to a deer. There it is, lying there for me on the forest floor. Finally I'll be included If you want to achieve notoriety or fame among people, even if it's just in your little corner of the world, you know one means of doing that is having a nice house? You know another means of doing that is having a nice car or a nice truck. People stop and they look, they notice, they say, Oh, was this house just featured in Southern Living? And you think, I did it. Your prestige and your fame and your wealth can become a bait And the question becomes, in this moment, what are you willing to do for the friendship that you so naturally want as a creative good? What are you willing to do for a house that would allow your family to function more productively and efficiently? What will be required, if you go down the road in the way that I'm conceiving of this, what will be required in this case is that some kind of betrayal Will need to take place. Some kind of portrayal of how of what God has told you. Some kind of portrayal of your desires towards God and that you are to love Him. And here is a detail that you have to pay attention to. Because Paul doesn't just say a trap. He starts to, and especially if you go into 2 Timothy, he outlines what happens to those who take the bait. Remember, the trap is after the bait. It doesn't look like a trap. Has anybody seen uh Rosaria Butterfield's newest book, Five Lies? Did you see the front cover? It's a beautiful illustration of a beautiful flower bed with an open bear trap in the center of it. So that you would come along and you would take the flower and then the trap. So Paul goes on to develop that here in 1 Timothy and in 2 Timothy, and we sometimes list that. So you have got to pay attention. Once you decide to betray God. You don't just get the bait or the corn. You don't just get the house or the car. You don't just get included or the friendship. There is a trap that slams down on your wrist or on your will or on your soul And you are now ensnared to someone else's will. And Paul says it is the will of the devil. You were once invited into the providential outworkings of God by your voluntary outworkings within your own life following him in love, and you have given that up at least for the time being by going down a different path, and now you are a part of the plan of the devil. That's what Paul is communicating. He actually says in 2 Timothy that you have become captive to the devil, outworking his plans. And then, this is also what Paul is getting at, and this is the details here. The question becomes this: How long since you have your arms stuck in that trap? And then we can start going over to the other language. How long will it be until you can come back to your senses? How long have we lost you? Let me ask another question. Who will the devil hurt through you? What will he destroy through you? And as a diseased root taken captive by the devil, what are the list of evils that you are going to bring into the world? So that's the second thing. That's the other thing that's given to us within the scriptures. It is a great warning. That you would keep God and seek to keep God first in your heart. It may look like everything is just free over here, but I'm telling you right now, it's a trap. The fear of man is a trap. But the love of the word is not. The last thing I'll mention, and I do realize I'm going a little bit long today, so I beg for your patience. The last thing I'll mention that is not in the passage, but is of it is in the canon of the scriptures, is that I would just ask you to reconsider Why God has given to you the Sabbath Many of you, when I start to talk about the Sabbath, you want to quote back to me, the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. That's how I hear you in my head And I say, yeah, it was made for man. And here in this passage we see why he needs it. We are idol factories. Many of you confess that to me because you're so proud to be reformed and to acknowledge total depravity. If you truly and functionally acknowledge total depravity, you will see the necessity of the Lord's day. The Lord's day is not meant to be filled with a bunch of other created goods. It's very easy to fill our Lord's Day with celebrating family. It is very easy to fill our Lord's Day with celebrating our physical rest. I'm okay with all of those things, but they need to remain in second place of the purposes and the spirit of the day, which is a day that we get to work hard. So to speak, and aligning our desires so that our top love is for the Lord. There is no way that you could convince me that you could get your desires straight after six days of really hardly any worship. You think you can get your desires straight from eleven until 1220? You really think that's all that you need as a human being? And so when God came up with The eternal law that all mankind knows that a due proportion of time should be set aside to worship God. Many people get that wrong, worshiping the wrong God. Or suppressing that truth in other ways, he further reveals in his moral law not that you need an hour or an hour and a half. Or that that's what he wants. He says a whole day, one in seven, which until the resurrection of Jesus Christ was the last day of the week And now, until the end of these ages is the first day of the week or the Lord's Day. And that day, that one whole day, those of you who who uh hold to the creation account as a day. It's the same word. It's a day. It's a day that we would set aside And there are many arguments for doing so, but I'm just showing you here from this passage this morning, it is because God knows exactly what you need. The greatest thing that you need is him. And that is the hardest thing for you to realize. So he's given you a whole day with a community. In order to not have inordinate desires. So that's the third one that I'll add. Is that you want to grow in love with God, then start to practice the Sabbath or the Lord's Day. I hope that by seeing the clear cases of Balaam and his donkey and the example of the prophets, that we can begin to see the point of our passage this morning. A healthy church avoids inordinate desires. And by the grace of the Holy Spirit, we keep our love for God above our desire for all other kinds of To help us along with that, may we learn to freely submit to and delight in God's wise and fatherly arrangement of our lives, that is to say. That we develop in our contentment, and let us not take the bait, becoming captive to the will of the devil. Let us truly be scared or frightened By the warning. And I will leave you with this, which are the words of Jesus Christ Himself from Matthew chapter 6, verse 24. Seven run. There is no one that can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other. Or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money. Let us pray.