Please turn with me now as we consider the word preached from Deuteronomy chapter four, eleven through twenty-four. I think you should know by now if you are following along with the prayer that today is about loyalty. But I would like a lake house in Tahoe. No, I really want loyalty. And so do you. It's what the Spirit has given to you, a desire that is sweet. Let's hear from Moses as he gives, as he continues his sermon here in this. first sermon moving us towards loyalty in chapter four, verses eleven through twenty-four. Then you came near and stood at the foot of the mountain, and the mountain burned with fire to the midst of heaven, with darkness, cloud, and thick darkness And the Lord spoke to you out of the midst of the fire. You heard the sound of the words, but saw no form. You only heard a voice. So he declared to you his covenant which he commanded you to perform, the ten commandments or words, and he wrote them on two tablets of stone. And the Lord commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and judgments that you might observe them in the land which you cross over to possess. Take careful heed to yourselves, for you saw no form when the Lord spoke to you at Horeb out of the midst of the fire. Lest you act corruptly and make for yourselves a carved image in the form of any figure, the likeness of male or female, the likeness of any animal that is on the earth, or the likeness of any winged bird that flies in the air, the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground. or the likeness of any fish is in the water beneath the earth, and take heed lest you lift your eyes to heaven. And when you see the sun, the moon and the stars and all the host of heaven, you feel driven to worship them and serve them, which the Lord your God has given to all the peoples under the earth, the whole heaven as a under the whole heaven as a heritage. But the Lord has taken you and brought you out of the iron furnace, out of Egypt, to be his people, an inheritance, as you are this day. And furthermore, the Lord was angry with me for your sakes and swore that I would not cross over the Jordan and that I would not enter the good land which the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance. But I must die in this land. I must not cross over the Jordan. But you shall cross over and possess that good land. Take heed to yourselves. Lest you forget the covenant of the Lord your God which He made with you, and make for yourselves a carved image in the form of anything which the Lord your God has forbidden you. For the Lord your God is a consuming fire, a jealous God. Oh Father, we thank you for your jealousy. And how it has worked out in unfathomable grace. We ask that your grace should be dispensed to us now as grain was dispensed throughout all Egypt during the time of the drought. But not under the first Joseph. Under Jesus. We ask, Lord Jesus, that you would bless your people. We know that you are faithful and we We expect you to feed us this morning more than a father would feed his children. In the name of Christ. Amen. This is a little strange, but in my mind it would be helpful if people were born with theme songs What I mean literally is that we whenever you walked into the room or you came to talk to me, I could hear a little song that would tell me how you're feeling about your life. situations and how you're feeling about me. Although that would be a little scary. So for example, if you were in a bad mood and you're coming into my office, it would be I wouldn't have a smile on my face. Or if you uh had been working in the midst of a trial and you finally had made a breakthrough that you You can serve the Lord even in the midst of trial. And you came to church that morning and you you walked into the Narthex and all we heard was singing in the rain. Something like that. For some reason that would help me to relate to you. That hasn't happened yet. That wish has not been fulfilled. I have no promises In the scriptures that that's what it will be like in the new heavens and the new earth. It may cause a a a lot more problems because then we would know exactly what we're thinking of each other and we couldn't hide it. I wonder, though, if if it could come true, what would your theme song be for the majority of your life? How would you be known when we heard, not when we saw you or knew the sound of your voice, but when we knew your song, what would your song be? I just wonder what that would be. And let's be more specific and and and focus on Deuteronomy chapter four What would your theme song be in regards to God's passion for your loyalty and obedience? Would it be a dirge? Would it be a country song of grief on how much God expects from you and how cruel He is? He even took your dog. That's how country songs go. I just wonder what would your theme song be? It's something I want you to think about as we go through the whole sermon and think about at the end. as we look at different theme songs from different people, by the time we get to the end. Moses wants your theme song to be one of loyalty, but loyalty that flows from love and thankfulness. And how can you get to be singing a song Well, in part it'll be through the Spirit using the sermons that we have here before us from Moses. Moses is seeking to help us as a good shepherd to be loyal to Yahweh. Moses works diligently, in other words, to inspire your devotion, in the correct sense of that word, devotion. Moses has placed before your eyes the great works of God that he has given to his people to remind you about the greatness of God. Do you remember the stories of the Exodus? We sang about that in the second song of the service. The desert desert wandering, the battle with giants, Bael Payor, and the mighty power of the Lord through those plagues. And now, as we are reading these, there's these descriptive moments of the Lord descending on Mount Horeb or Sinai as the next great event to inspire us to devotion. Mount Sinai is brought in for the same picture as all of those other stories with King Og or King Sihan. Or passing through the other nations, it's for the same reason. It's just a different picture. It's the same sermonic reason as all the other stories. It is to inspire loyalty to Yahweh, and not only for this group of people that we're getting ready to enter into the land, but for all people, and especially us under Jesus Christ. Now he does this with really three main images, and I want to summarize this passage under three parts: the fire of God. The forms of God, Gods, and the freedom of God. That's just three F's: fire, form, and freedom. And we'll start here In 11 through 14, but number but verse 24 also goes along with this main section because this is another one of those poetic structures where the ends match each other. But we begin in verse eleven, which is really a continuation of verse ten. So take a look at the scriptures with me. Notice in verse ten, which we heard from heard uh and exposited last week. That Moses was reminding them of that day that they had with God in Horeb or on Mount Sinai when all the people were gathered to him, that they could hear the words, and that they would learn to fear Yahweh all the days of their life on earth, and that they would teach their children the same. And now Moses is going to move into a kind of descriptive detail of the event. Placing God's works right in front of them, just as we had last week with the new covenant and God's works in bread and wine placed right in front of us. Moses is setting this mountain in front of us He has instructed God's people to place God's works before the eyes of their children and their grandchildren, and he is going to set an example. Notice the descriptive detail in verse 11. Then you came near and stood at the foot of the mountain, and the mountain burned with fire to the midst of heaven, with darkness, cloud, and thick darkness. And the Lord spoke to you out of the midst of the fire. This is actually quite rare in biblical literature. How often do you see descriptions like this? Do you ever notice that in a modern-day novel it would describe the color of the character? character's hair and her her eyes and her personality. You don't see that often within the scriptures. It's actually, if you went to seminary, you would hear it under the title of Biblical Reticence There is a reticence or a hesitation to give much detail within the descriptive narrative accounts. Biblical authors do not usually give colors and details, but when they do. You better pay attention. Do you see the colors in the passage? The mountain burned with fire The fire touched the heavens. Can you see it? Darkness, cloud, and thick darkness engulfed their surroundings. This is right after in verse 10 the word fear is mentioned. Now we have some experience seeing thick, dark thunderstorms rolling in. I've seen people get nervous when it gets too dark because of a thunderstorm. Their experience was as if night was descending in the day. Now we weren't alarmed about this, but do you remember was it last year or the year before when there was a I guess a total eclipse? Clips, at least over some of the southern states. And we would if you weren't there, you watched it on TV, and in the middle of the day, all of a sudden it was night And we weren't alarmed by that because we had some heads up and we understood what was going on. But imagine that kind of darkness where you didn't know what was going on, and there was fire engulfing a mountain in front of you, licking the sky. And that this was the way in which God was revealing Himself. In the darkness, the mountain was consumed. And then out of the darkness and out of the fire, God speaks in verse 12, letting them know who he is. Now notice this little editorial comment that just flies by, that they heard the sound of his words and they saw no form. And then he repeats it again: you only heard a voice. This is how God reveals himself. With his words and in his word. Not in images, but in his word And that is what he does here. They heard his voice. This was a unique and a momentous occasion for this group of people. You know, when you when you see events like this, you can In an irresponsible way, abstract off of these kind of events, thinking that you're supposed to have a momentous event where God is speaking to you all the time. In the same way that he audibly spoke to them. You must recognize that these kind of events were very, very rare. Do you know if you read through the scriptures, there were hundreds of prophets? Throughout the scriptures, you know there's only a not even a handful that God actually spoke to or gave dreams or visions or spoke face to face. And we, in our presumption in American religion, think that we can go away on a retreat and God will just speak to us whenever we want. That's never been the way that it is through biblical history. And so you should be relying on that which has been enscripturated for you in this canon of 66 books, not looking for some face-to-face encounter or visions. Don't expect it. Expect for God through the Spirit to speak to you through his enscripturated word, from his apostles and his prophets, as they help you to understand the teaching of his son. But here, in this momentous occasion, God speaks, and the people hear it. He revealed in verse 13 ten words. So he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, the ten words or the ten commandments, and he wrote them on two tablets of stone. And of course, this is an introduction where we're getting ready to see those ten words. That's what he gave to Moses, that they would not forget God inscription them on two tablets of stone. Now this imagery is intense. It's meant to be taken as intense, and you can see that by the descriptive detail instead of the author being reticent. But it begs for significance and interpretation. I've given you some significance in that it was to create a kind of fear within the heart of mankind. But there is more significance. There is an interpretation that is supplied for us in verse 24 to understand how we are to relate to a God like this. What is it that we are supposed to do when He Places this picture before us. And it says in verse 24, for the Lord your God, notice how in 23 it repeats The importance of the covenants and the covenant that was given. And then in 24, it supplies us with the details in terms of its significance. For the Lord your God is a consuming fire. A jealous God. The whole passage, 11 through 24, is enveloped and has bookends of fire. And the fire in the passage means that God is a consuming fire. And the synonym of God being a consuming fire is that he is jealous for you. That is the meaning that he's seeking to portray here before us. It's not the first time that God is called jealous. You can find this in Exodus 20, verse 5, and in Exodus 34, verse 14. And it won't be the last that God is called jealous. In James chapter 4, verse 5 Our God is a jealous God. God's jealousy, don't get this wrong, God's jealousy is not a petty and uncontrolled mood swing. God's jealousy in all these contexts and more, it is God's passion, and this is exactly what this context is doing. It is God's passion for loyalty in his relationship with you. He is loyal to you, and he expects loyalty from you. Now, James 4 is instructive in this regard to provide us with how the apostles themselves would have understood jealousy. Let me just read it to you. This is James chapter 4, verses 3 through 5. Adulterers and adulteresses. Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whoever therefore wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you think that the scripture says in vain The Spirit who dwells in us yearns jealously. Do you see all the words that are collected around the word jealousy and what's going on here? The kind of relationship that is being depicted God's jealousy is like the jealousy or expectation that a husband has or that a wife has that the husband or the wife would not cheat on them. That's what he expects in the relationship. He is on fire, in other words, for our faithfulness in the same way that a married couple is on fire for each other's faithfulness. Are you ridiculous for wanting that kind of faithfulness in your relationships, particularly if you're married Is God ridiculous for desiring that same level of faithfulness in his relationship with you? Sometimes we look at these passages like this and think God asks too much. He's like a Taskmaster. Is it too much to have your wife or your husband not cheat on you? Is that really where our expectations are? Is it too much to commit yourself and want commitment? To live in a loving relationship? That's what's being communicated here with fire, that we would take it seriously. The fire of expected faithfulness. Now he develops this with his next point with forms. He's established that he is serious. Burningly so, about being loyal to us in covenant, and that he is serious about his marriage with us, and that we would be loyal to him. And now he's going to develop this in ways in which They could give up their loyalty. And I have titled this forms in verses 15 through 19. So we've seen the fire of his expected faithfulness, and now we're moving into a discussion of forms that could tempt them away from faithfulness. In 15 through 19 and then verse 23. Take a look at these with me. Notice there's a repeated phrase that runs through this passage, take careful heed to yourselves. And that is a repeated phrase in the book of Hebrews, also, that would do you well to remember when you read both of these books. Take careful heed to yourselves, and notice how he brings up that little editorial comment from the prior paragraph That you would not have forms. You saw no form when the Lord spoke to you at Horeb out of the midst of the fire. Form runs through all of the passage, even the passage on fire. There's fire, and then there's forms. Moses repeats the word form in verse 15 and in verse 12, and the contrast is clear. God has no form He spoke, so follow his words. Other gods have forms. They cannot speak. They are dumb idols. Do not worship their forms. And don't mix the two. Don't try and represent God in a form. Take him at his word. That's what Moses is giving. And then he, as a good shepherd, he lists the ways in which this group of people in this context would be tempted. Moses, interestingly, works. Did you notice the order that he gives? Have you ever heard these same things before? He works in reverse order from the creation narrative, beginning in verse 16. And it reminds us of Romans 1 also, whereas we are to be worshiping the Creator, we have evolved in worshiping the creation, and he works back in reverse order of all of the moments of creation in those six days. He begins in verse 16 saying, For worship, do not make an image that looks like male or female. In verse 17, don't make an image of any livestock or birds. In verse 18, no images of insects, creeping things, or fish. In verse 19, do not worship the sun, the moon, or the stars. And don't get the Israelites wrong, they were not tempted to devote their lives to lizards or to worship dung beetles. Or fish. All of the evidence says that these animals, and the sun and the moon, and the stars, were symbols for other gods of the nations that surrounded them. There was a holy war going on Which God is the true God? To which one will be your God? To which one will you be devoted? That's the Israelite issue. If you were to look through all of their history, their issue is of leaving Yahweh behind and committing adultery with other gods. Baal, for example. We've already had that example And thus, what we see from the shepherd here is a list of temptations that they would avoid, their temptations. God is jealous for a committed relationship, and therefore he helps his spouse by warning her, stay away from these temptations. You know you are tempted to cheat on me with these particular gods. Therefore, be aware of them and be careful. Can you imagine saying that in a relationship? Being that concerned about loyalty that you would know the temptations and that you would warn them against them? Now today, we are not tempted to cheat on God in these same ways. I have been to a lot of your homes And we do not have little idols set up, not in the way that this is communicated, anyway. But we do struggle with faithfulness. It is still a problem. Faithfulness has always been a problem for God's people. And to help us, God has given us throughout all of His scriptures different metaphors than besides this one that we see here with marriage. It was considered cheating on him as a husband when they went over to other gods to marry a different husband or to be with a different husband. But he talks outside of just marriage. To really help us get our brains around being loyal to him, different images that can help us in our devotion to him In marriage, the language is jealousy. That's what we've been primarily dealing with here. And cheating, and adultery, and love and faithfulness. That's all marriage language. But God describes his relationship to us in other ways. For example, he says, you are my sons and my daughters. You should honor me as your father. Submit to me as the head of the household. I plead with you. It's another image. And so then you can think of your earthly relationships that could help you to understand your heavenly one. He says that we are his servants or slaves, and therefore it is his plan that we follow. It is his agenda. We do his work. We serve him. It is not our kingdom, it is his kingdom. He says that we are soldiers. We march to the beat of his drum, not our drum. We fight for his cause, not our causes. We die for the honor of his name and are proud of it. We're not scared of death. And the thing is, and it's interesting to me that all of these are found in the Gospel of Luke, we may violate every one of those relationships in our unfaithfulness. We may be prodigal sons and daughters, and we have a parable about that. We may be unfaithful servants, as it's spoken in Luke 12. Or we may be turncoats and traitors, as Judas was in Luke 6, betraying his Lord for silver coins. And we may betray our Lord. for money. The goal is service. The goal is honor. The goal ultimately is allegiance That's what the first two points of this sermon are about here in this section. That's the purpose of Moses' sermon as a whole. Allegiance is the purpose of the fire of jealousy before our eyes. And it's the purpose that we would take heed, that we would be careful, that we would take warning to stay away from forms or other temptations. That we would remain loyal to our covenant partner. And there is a final motivation here. The final motivation to allegiance to our God is freedom. This is in verse 20 through 22. I'll focus on verse 20 because it is the heart of what's happening here in this book. passage. It is dead center of this kiastic structure. Now do you know what a fulcrum is? If you're in the Christian Academy here, you have to do a project where you you learn about fulcrum's and screws. and I forget the the genus of all of those things, but you can ask Rachel Miller, she knows. But a fulcrum, a fulcrum, I've seen fulcrums, people use fulcrum I've seen men take large rocks and they had to move a log out of the way of something, and they'll take a rock and place it next to the log and then take another log and they use that rock to pry to kick that log down a hill or off of a trail. Verse 20 in this passage Is the fulcrum. It is the prying place of this section of his sermon But the Lord has taken you and brought you out of the iron furnace, out of Egypt, to be his people, an inheritance as you are this day. When folks first read the Bible, I've heard this time and time again. Sometimes they say That in the Old Testament, God is cruel, He is vicious, He is furious, He has no grace, no love, and no compassion. But in the New Testament, God is loving and gracious and forgiving. And full of compassion. And yet, when we look at the fulcrum and the prying place in this Old Testament passage of verse 20, That hypothesis about there being two different gods operating in two different ways falls away Because verse 20, from the beginning of the sentence all the way to the end of the sentence, is nothing but love and grace to his people. And of course, his name is known throughout as that he is compassionate. And 20, of course, is not a rarity Verse 20 is repeated all over the scriptures, old and new, first and second. The hypothesis doesn't make any sense with verses like this. From one end of the sentence to the other, our God is gracious and he is loving. The key word in verse 20 is inheritance. Take a look here, and perhaps you'll study this more later. But the Lord has taken you and brought you out of the iron furnace, out of Egypt, to be his people, an inheritance As you are this day. That communicates all the grace. There's some more grace communicated in the fact that they've been removed from savory out of that furnace. Instead of serving Pharaoh, they're now serving God But that word inheritance has so much in it. It is synonymous with the words that came just before the comma of inheritance. To be his people. He has taken you out of one situation under one leader who is Pharaoh. They considered him a God. And so you could say, he took you away from lowercase G God. To the only true God, to be his inheritance or possession. The RSV does a great job with this translation, to be his possession. Now, Psalm 33 picks up this same verse, and he highlights that we're reading this correctly when it says: Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. The people he has chosen as his own possession or inheritance. You've read the Beatitudes before. Blessed are you, blessed are you, blessed are you, blessed are you And here we have another one in Psalm 33, 12, bouncing off of the fulcrum or the prying place of Deuteronomy 4, verse 20. Blessed are those whom the Lord possesses, who are his people The fact that God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost chose Israel and chose you to be your God is a fact of inexpressible grace, inexpressible love. Now, I want you to turn to Ephesians chapter one. And I just want you to see how this prying place ends up being the prying place of almost every page of Scripture. Sorry, for some reason I'm Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints who are in Ephesus and faithful in g in Christ Jesus, and then if any of you have ever studied this in the original language. We are now going to move into one long sentence. It is a sentence that amplifies the grace of God, and I want you to see that He's speaking here of the prying place that we read of in Deuteronomy 4. 20. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ Just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, by which he has made us accepted in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace, which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence. having made known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in himself, that in the dispensation of the fullness of the times he might gather together in one all things in Christ both which are in heaven and which are on earth in him. In him also we have obtained an inheritance Being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will, that we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of his glory. He is speaking about the glory of the grace of God through Jesus Christ and that he has made you, even Gentiles from so many different nations that are represented in this room. He has made you his possession. You are his people now, and he is your God. And with that comes all of the heavenly blessings In Jesus Christ. One long sentence to communicate to us the prying place of Deuteronomy 4, verse 20. That God has not changed. His grace has become bigger, offering an overflowing freedom to all nations. That they no longer would be stuck under the task-masking gods of our nations, of our culture You know, we have a lot of folks in our congregation and throughout the years who read R. C. Sproul and learn all about the Reformed faith and they get very excited about election. Did you see that in this passage the doctrine of election is a means to an end? If you truly understand the freedom that is given to you by God in your election, it results in something far superior than a knowledge of the doctrine of election, it results in the knowledge of the glory of his grace and of an exceptionally long sentence of worship by the Apostle Paul. And you are called to that same freedom. It is for freedom that Christ has set you free And placing his name upon you. The fact that you are his possession means everything to you, and you can have nothing without you being his and him being yours. That is the kind of freedom that has been given here. I hope that you can begin to sense the meaning of the fire now, the meaning of his jealousy and what he is accomplishing. The meaning of freedom to be able to serve Him. The fire of God expresses His commitment to our commitments And when we start to see the shape of it as it unfurls from the fulcrum point in Deuteronomy 4:20 and going up into Ephesians, as it's developed under the ministry of Jesus Christ and his condescension. God is not a cruel God. This is another example of how great our God is, how compassionate He is and full of mercy. The fire of God expresses his commitment to our commitment in love. The discussion of the forms is just another act of his love warning us away from our temptations. that we would not go over to lowercase g gods, whether it be Baal or Western materialism. He wants our loyalty. And he has set us free. Here there's a picture of freedom from Pharaoh. Here in us now is a picture of freedom from Satan and all of his devices, from sin and from misery. All of the work of Jesus Christ on the cross, his ascension work, and sending his spirit. There is freedom from slavery, our sin nature. It is a freedom by grace for what? Why has he set you free? For you to remain in your old habits? No. For you to continue believing lies about God, no. For you to think that he's cruel in the Old Testament, but not in the New. To fall prey to all of the stupid slogans and teachings that are out there. No. Our Sole purpose is to be committed to our God in service. We are his servants and we pledge allegiance to him, and he has made it possible for everyone to do that. Now, do you know that do you notice that different nations are known for different characteristics? So for example, even the scriptures say this in Titus 112. Paul says, even one of their prophets said about Cretans, those who live on the island of Crete, that they're all liars, they're evil beasts, and they're lazy gluttons. Imagine him setting that setting that out on Twitch. Wow, that was that would not be good, Paul. What would Americans be known for? Maybe some of the same things? You know the first word that came to my mind? Entitlement. Americans would be known for entitlement. And entitlement is the direct enemy of being able to apprehend and appropriate Deuteronomy 4. 2. If you feel entitled to whatever God has given to you, you don't feel thankful for any of it. And thus, the prying point, which is supposed to pry our hearts by the power of the Spirit into a massive devotion to our God and service to Him, our entitlement Removes the fulcrum. It takes the prying point away. It takes out any power. It's dangerous. It's dangerous in us as adult Americans, and it's dangerous in us as teenage Americans. It's dangerous in us as of little Americans. Listen to this story that Jesus gives from Luke 6. 37 Then one of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him, and he went to the Pharisees' house and sat down to eat. And behold, a woman in the city who was a sinner, prostitute. When she knew that Jesus sat at the table in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster flask of fragrant oil, and stood at his feet behind him weeping. And she began to wash his feet with her tears, and wipe them with the hair of her head. And she kissed his feet and anointed them with the fragrant oil. Now when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he spoke to himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would know who and what manner of woman this is who is talking to And Jesus answered and said to him, Simon, I have something to say to you. So he said, Teacher, say it. There was a certain creditor who had two debtors. One owed 500 denari and the other 50. And when they had nothing with which to repay, he freely forgave them both. Tell me, therefore, which of them will love him more? Simon answered and said, I suppose the one whom he forgave more And he said to him, You have rightly judged. Then he turned to the woman and he said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered your house You gave me no water for my feet, but she has washed my feet with her tears and wiped them with the hair of her head. You gave me no kiss But this woman has not ceased to kiss my feet since the time I came in. You did not anoint my head with oil, but this woman has anointed my feet with fragrant oil. Therefore I say to you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much. But to whom little is forgiven, the same loves little. Isn't the picture Of two different people, one who was entitled, the other one who was not. Let me ask you this, and think about this for the rest of the afternoon. What would the theme song of the Pharisee be? I'd love to hear actually from you if you know of a song that would fit the Pharisee in this particular context. If the prostitute in this particular context had a theme song, what would it be? Because that's the theme song that all of us should have. Her understanding of who she was in relationship to the grace of God through Jesus Christ was so immense. The need for forgiveness so great that her heart swolled not just with loyalty, but loyalty is an act of loving service. It's the secret of the Christian life. It is the secret of spirituality. It is boiled down to love. The title of the sermon is How to Relate to God. It is not with entitlement. It is like this woman here. I wonder if her theme song would be Amazing Grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. And she thought of herself as a wretch. But it was not just a heart full of thankfulness. Hers was a heart of thanksfulness which spilled over into service. And so her theme song would also be, Take my life and let it be, consecrated Lord to thee. If it was grace to be set free from Egypt and to give in the land in Canaan, if it was grace to serve Yahweh as God in those contexts. How much more is it gracious to us through Jesus Christ and his Spirit in our deliverance not only from sin, not only from misery, but all of the evil of this creation? How much grace to be given not just Canaan as a single strip of land in the Far East, but the entire creation is yours in Jesus Christ. As renewed. How much more to serve one day our God face to face for eternity? We are the inheritance and possession of the great triune God Yahweh. He is a consuming fire who has released us from slavery that we may be his servants. Seven run. Avoid temptations, for he alone is your God. Amen. Please pray with me. Father, we thank you for this section of Moses' sermons as he is a good shepherd. Through the measure of your spirit given to him as a prophet, speaks to us that we might know the glory of your grace. We thank you that it has continued, and the apostles have written of it, especially in Ephesians, the glory of your grace through Jesus Christ and the heavenly blessings that await for us. Lord, we look forward to our country. Our blessed country, which awaits and is reserved for us in heaven, we ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would come quickly and that you would keep us faithful to the end. We pray these things in your name. Amen.