Chapter five two Do not rebuke an older man but exhort him as a father, younger men as brothers, older women as mothers, younger women as sisters with all purity and Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this instruction that you have given through your servant Paul to your servant Timothy, and that it has been recorded for the sake of our benefit also. We thank you that you've given us these scriptures. We don't naturally just take So we pray that you would work in us today. We ask that your spirit would be with us in large measure. In Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we left with a very important question. Will you embrace your ministry of saving the people around you? We did not narrow the word saving to only a theological sense. There's a lot of things we need to be saved from in our human condition, will you take up the task? Who needs a kind word today saving them from self-pity and discouragement? Who needs a wake-up call? Who needs a thoughtful and patient conversation? How will Jesus Christ use you as a means of his salvation in all of those various scenarios? I wonder. Let us remember that a healthy church works diligently to save each other. Now, as you know, if you're visiting, you don't know, but we're really looking at First Timothy and have discovered that Paul over and over again is showing us what it means to be a healthy church society. So we have one statement after another. A healthy church consists of so and so. Well we have a few observations today and we have another healthy church statement. So Please notice a few things with me. We only have a couple verses this morning to make some observations about. But take a look at verse number one. In verse 1, Paul will now instruct Timothy on how to relate to the people who will be under his teaching that we looked at last week. Who will be under his teaching and his preaching ministry? It will be all kinds of ages and stages. And Timothy's going to have to figure out how to relate to them. And let me tell you right now, there's some bad ways for Timothy to do so. And Paul starts to point those kinds of things out. In fact, if you look at verse 1, he begins with telling Timothy what not to do. Do not rebuke an older man. The word rebuke carries the meaning. It's actually set up, I wish we could all read the Greek together, but it's set up to show you this is really over-the-top behavior. The the it means to strike at someone. Now you can think of me striking at you with my mouth if you want. That would be the idea. Feel like a sword hit ya, cut you, or hamstringed you. It means to be sharp and it means to be stern. You can imagine a young man entering into ministry, who's being dismissed by older people in the congregation, him wanting to fulfill his ministry and then mistakenly overcompensating and getting sharp. That can happen. So it makes sense that Paul would write these words to him: do not rebuke an older man. That's the first thing I want you to notice is what's going on here. And the particular example Although Paul, here's the second thing I want you to notice: that although Paul does not want Timothy to strike at people, he doesn't say, he doesn't just leave it there, he doesn't show what not to do, he shows what to do, and that Timothy still needs to have an act of ministry. He's got to figure out some way to communicate to people. And it needs to be a way where people will listen to him. As far as it depends on him, he will be at peace with everybody How will he do that? And the distinction that Paul gives is there's a distinction between rebuking and being sharp and striking people with your mouth or your body language. An exhortation. Now that word sounds harsh. I exhort you. It sounds like uh really serious. And it can it can be serious, but That's not the distinction that we should be picking up on. The word means to summon or to invite a person into something. It means to encourage them in the sense of, let me give you the rationale that would give you the rational courage to move in this direction. It's not manipulative. It strengthens people, and they feel like they've adopted something that they've chosen to be strengthened in. It's very different. Timothy therefore must urge, not just you'll notice here in that same verse, he doesn't just say to exhort the older men as fathers, but he goes on to say, well exhort the younger men as brothers, and older women as mothers, and younger women as sisters, and to do this thing with all purity Timothy must urge the older men to embrace the faith and practices delivered by Jesus and his apostles. And if you're wondering. Since he's no longer allowed to use manipulation or anger or threatening, his ministry just got a lot harder. So, Paul then, in my next observation, he ends up listing the others in the congregation, and he's characterizing how young Timothy should relate to them. And it's really just reading the verse like I just did. He should relate to the younger men as brothers. That is so refreshing, by the way. Should relate to the older women as mothers and younger women as sisters. And he should do all of this with uprightness, wisdom, righteousness If we wanted to summarize these points of instruction that Paul is giving Timothy, we could do so by saying that Timothy must not coerce his congregation. But he must summon them into loving God and neighbor. And as an authoritative example, We can take our cues from not only what Paul has said to Timothy, but what Timothy will act out himself. We can learn From the lessons as a total church, we can learn from Timothy's example and Paul's example on how they were not coercive. And I'm telling you right now, We are in a situation as the Church of Christ where you cannot, socially speaking Be amateurs. You have got to figure out how to relate to each other and to this world. This is not, I just had uh someone say to me, now is not the time for the church to have an amateur hour. And that's very true. Now's not the amateur hour. So we've got to figure out how to relate in these ways, relate in healthy ways as a church. And and this is relational wisdom part one is the name of this title, and we're And we see what Paul is saying to Timothy. If we wanted to summarize it in terms of a doctrine, it would be this. A healthy church body does not strike at each other. They instead invite and urge one another toward love of God and neighbor. I'll say that again for you. A healthy church body does not strike at each other, but invites and urges one another towards love of God and neighbor. That is a basic posture that we have. There can be exceptions This is the ordinary way in which we should function. There are extraordinary situations, which I'll get into in a little bit. So I'd like to just work this out with you under two main headings, a reminder and a distinction. I just want to deepen this sense of who we're to be as this healthy body that does not strike at each other but invites and urges one another toward love of God and neighbor. I really want to connect it deeply to the kingdom of Christ. And we'll do so with a reminder and a distinction. So let's begin with just a reminder. I like to go over this just because of the history of the evangelical church. having reprehensible ethical reasoning. It's a part of our past, and I want us to keep moving away from it. Not us specifically, but at large. The teaching we see from Paul to Timothy is not situationless. Paul has a certain context in mind when he gives this ethical instruction to this young man. In other words, Paul is alerting us that there will be exceptions to this rule in other situations. Just by the fact that this is one context, and there may be other contexts where Paul would have given different advice or different godly counsel to this young man. Listen to the description of Jesus, for example. This is speaking about Jesus in the Gospel of Matthew. Then he began, Jesus, to rebuke the cities in which most of his mighty works had been done because they did not repent. And then this will go on where Jesus is recorded as cursing the members of the city. Paul is not saying that Jesus was wrong to rebuke at that time and to curse at that time. The way you have to work through that puzzle is that Paul gives different godly counsel depending on the situation. And we can see that it is not absolutely wrong to rebuke or to be sharp in any situation whatsoever, because that would make Jesus wrong in this situation. But Jesus is never wrong. You see my reasoning? I think we accept that because I've said this so many different times, and we see it within the scriptures. The reminder is that we must be careful of over-applying. the ethics of these biblical passages. Remember that as Christians, God intends for us to live in wisdom, and this means at least that we would have many tools in our toolbox, and there are different tools for different situations. We should have the ability to exhort instead of rebuke. You shouldn't just have the tool of rebuke. It makes you an immature person if that's the only thing you know how to do, especially if you're a younger man with an older man. It works against you in that situation. Don't you know that older men don't like being rebuked by younger men? It's like a universal truth What we need to have are other tools in the tool bag in order to be able to accomplish the mission. But when push comes to shove, then rebuke is a tool that you need to grab and you need to use it. But it's extraordinary. Especially with an older man. A few years ago, I wonder if this will be helpful to you. There's a illustration that was helpful to me in this regard. A few years ago, someone told me how uh police officers are trained to think. Now I assume this is true. If you're a police officer and I'm wrong, just tell me later. But I think this basically applies From what I hear, they evaluate situations according to an ascending color system. So when I relate to you, we could be at a green. But when I relate to you, after you've had a few beers, we could be at a yellow. And then you over here on meth, we could be at a red. You see how that ascends? Yeah, meth ascends. We want to stay away from that. That's another application today. They ask, is this a green situation? They ask, is this a yellow situation? Is this a red situation? And they are trained in de-escalation techniques, we hope, in order to keep situations in the green zone. If, nevertheless, they move into yellow or red, which sometimes happens, they need to have the tools for every zone. If nevertheless they move into the red zone, they need to have red zone tools What good is a cop if all he's got is green zone tools? I got green zone tools. I need somebody sometimes with a red zone tool. This is one way to see the underlying principle which Paul is giving to Timothy here, and to us as we seek to be a healthy church. Christians are meant to grow in relational wisdom. And this means that we keep relationships in the green zone ordinarily. But if they go to yellow or if they go to red We have the tools to keep the relationship moving towards good ends. Just because it goes to red doesn't mean our relationships sever and collapse. Because we have tools to recover from red. We know how to act in the red zone. Now I wonder, just very quickly, does that describe you as a person? Or do you get maybe it's subtle hints? That you're a red zone kind of person when oftentimes it's just a green level? That you act inappropriately, that you instead of de-escalating, you escalate things Are you known in people's hearts and minds as the escalator? That's something you want to think about here. And if you answer yes, and we all answer yes, because we're we never are perfect in these areas. If that does describe you, James tells us to cry aloud to God for wisdom. And when he tells us that in the book of James, he is thinking of relational wisdom. He's thinking about how we are going to manage our relationships with each other. We want to cry out to God for relational wisdom, asking Him to show us how to stay in the green zone, even if other people go to red, how to bring them back down into the zone. How to relate. Well, maybe that illustration is helpful. I sure hope it is. And I pray even now that God would give you the good gift of making us all wise in our relationships. Now that's the reminder I also want to cover this under a distinction that will deepen our understanding of what's going on here within Paul. There is an ancient distinction that can take us further down the road in understanding our passage this morning And this is the distinction. I wonder if you've heard this before. There is an ancient distinction between the keys and the sword. Have you heard that? Not seeing any responses except no, I haven't. Okay. There is a distinction between the keys and the sword. This distinction goes way back in history among the Christian tradition. Perhaps you have heard about the keys of the kingdom in Matthew. The imagery does not originate within Matthew. But it goes back at least as far as Isaiah 22-22, and it symbolizes authority or authorization. It's like receiving a stamp on your diploma that you that it certifies that you uh something about you or it's an authorization Some of you are authorized to do certain things, or you have a badge that authorizes you to get into certain places or to receive certain information. That'd be called your clearance Well, the keys were an emblem or a sign that signified that you are authorized in a particular way. When we get to the New Testament, we see that the keys are an emblem showing that God authorizes the church to declare the truth about him. And what he is doing in the world through his son and through his spirit, we have what is called a declaratory or ministerial authority. That is what we are authorized to do. Now, a few weeks ago, we heard Paul talk about this in different languages. Paul described it in terms of the authorization of a building. He said that the church is the pillar and the ground of the truth. At other times, he'll describe the same kind of legitimization or authorization. He'll describe it in terms of us being stewards of a household. That we are stewards of the household of God, and we are to take care of the mysteries that have been revealed about God through Christ and through his Spirit. That have been revealed to us by the prophets and the apostles. That's our stewardship. We're to take care of those things. That's been entrusted to the church. We have the authority to hold it, we have an authority to declare it. The true church. Now, that's the keys. There is another emblem that is also within the scriptures, and that is the sword. And the sword is not the emblem for the church. The church has the emblem of the keys. The sword is for the government. Through the Old Testament, the sword symbolizes the divine right given to the civil government to use force to maintain common good. Now, Paul picks up this imagery using it in Romans 13. Romans 13:4, you're all familiar with this. He says, For he, speaking of the civil leader, is God's minister to you for good. But if you do evil, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is God's minister, an avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil. You see that? Wrath carries with it the idea of judgment and then the ability to execute the judgment also. So they have force to be able to do so. Now, this is the problem. This is why this is a good for us to see these two emblems. The problem occurs when the church ordinarily grabs the sword instead of the keys. Now, I'm not talking about this right now in terms of large actions of the church across the nation or something. I'm really trying to just think about our individual relationships, but this model works for both. The problem occurs when the church ordinarily grabs the sword instead of the keys. And I immediately want you to start asking yourself the question: are you a sword grabber or are you a key grabber? One way to characterize how this happens This is another way of putting the exact same thing, and this is how it's been talked about in our tradition for a very long time. It is when the church and the members of the church toward each other Bypass the conscience of each other, they bypass the reason of each other, and they immediately work coercively upon each other's will. I'm going to say that again. One way to characterize a church that grabs the sword instead of the keys is a church that bypasses reason and conscience and instead works directly directly and coercively upon the will. Now, let's think of an example for a moment. If you were a police officer, which belongs to that sword, Then this would in fact be authorized. We would expect you to take somebody down. In certain situations, if someone does not listen to an officer, they have the right to physically control them. And manipulate them into a place where everybody is safe. But that is not the legitimization of the church We have the right to declare in prayerful hopes of moving the conscience to excuse or excuse that person that would lead them to repent and to believe. We are working in the spirit because this is the way of the keys and not the sword. The Spirit is persuasive in his powers and not coercive in the way that we talk about the civil government. And this means that we ordinarily use certain tools with each other. We are, as a church, as much as you hate the idea of intellectual things, perhaps, we are made In the kingdom of God to reason with each other. Those out there that want nothing to do with Jesus Christ, the way that Jesus Christ has set this up is that you have got to engage in reason with them. You are not allowed to just emotionally manipulate them into thinking that they love Jesus. Because three years later you will see that they never did to begin with. That happens through reason. It happens through showing the rationale. It happens through working and appealing to the conscience. When you are using those tools with human beings, guess what you have got to be? It is the other language that we see in these letters about Timothy. If you are going to reason and work on the conscience, if you are going to be a keys person, then you have got to be gentle. You have got to be patient. And you have got to be prayerful. If you're a sword person, you don't have to be any of those things. Because people are going to do what you want because they're afraid of you. Or You're so sensitive they don't want to break you. So they make decisions not to hurt you, not because they believe what you're saying. Now that's a danger zone. You don't want people doing that. It does not lead to lasting results. If you wanted a passage that captures all of these pieces very well, I'll give this to you. This is something that we reflect on as a session quite often, actually. 2 Timothy 2, 24 through 26. This is still Paul teaching Timothy. And he says this: he says, Timothy, as a servant of the Lord, you must not quarrel. You have got to be gentle with everybody. You have got to be able to teach them. You have got to be able to be patient. You have to do all of this in humility, correcting those who are in opposition. And now here's where we start to get to those other parts. If God perhaps will grant them repentance so that they may know the truth. And that they may come to their senses and escape the snare of the devil, having been taken captive by him to do his will. Do you see the problem that is in front of you? You can't fix that problem with a physical sword solution. All you can do is retain it and put it in a cell. But when it's back out of the cell, it returns to its ways. It's called instinctual drift in the dog world. And it applies here. Instead, we use, as Paul will say elsewhere, spiritual weapons because we fight against spiritual forces. And in fact, if you were to look up this teaching that I'm giving to you right now that has been a part of the church from the beginning, it is often titled The Spirituality of the Church because of the nature of our warfare. The question that we have to ask ourselves if we are going to be a healthy church Based upon this very deep and ancient paradigm that we see comes from the scriptures itself, is this: Have you grabbed the sword instead of the keys? Now, I want to make a clarification. I'm not going to get into this too deeply, but I want to make a clarification. There's a distinction that does need to be made. If you are a member of a family, that makes all of you, you actually have access as a family member to the keys and the sword. because the family is a civil institution. Families, as a civil institution, have access to the sword and in may in certain cases physically coerce for example, their children. I don't want to do that. I'm going to take the stuff that you just put on the table, like mashed potatoes, because I'm two years old, and I'm going to throw it all over the walls. And you, as a parent, have the right, according to the scriptures, to spank your child. You can't do so in a way that is abusive But you have the right to help them physically because you are a part of a civil institution. But Even in that case, if your child is 19 and the only reason that they listen to you is because you spanked them, you're not in a good spot. I'm just letting you know. That's not how you want the relationship to be, and they don't really follow you. And you can't be a leader if nobody's following. As we work with each other, when we think about that 19-year-old, we begin to see of how what the real where the real work happens That there's a kind of temporary thing that needs to be in place. That's why we have this power of coercion even as families. Talks about this a lot in the Proverbs of not sparing the rod and this emotional connection that God gives children to their parents. This is all so that we can make it. But eventually we need to transition over, even in that relationship, to the keys. As we work with each other in the church, and even as we work with our children as they get older, we hope That they would embrace Jesus Christ because it is true and real, not because they're afraid that they will be a disappointment to us. That's not real belief. That can be an aspect of it, but it can't stay there Because we do not coerce in the kingdom of God into repentance and belief. That's not how this works. That's not how you enter into the kingdom of heaven So, with those caveats about the family, I just want to make sure we are clear on all that. With those caveats, let's go back to the question: Do you inappropriately grab the sword instead of the keys? Now, this can happen in a million different ways. As a pastor, I get to see a lot of different things. And I have to learn a lot of different lessons myself. When you have the sword in mind, you could think of something that's way over here on this end of the spectrum. Like do you break each other's noses. That could be a question, but that's more for like the Cretan church. And we already went through Titus. There's other things on the spectrum that may not be that radical, but they're still there on that scale where you are using the sword of coercion instead of working with the person and summoning and inviting them. So for example, this can definitely happen, and I see this quite often, when you shame each other. When you say something and you can see that they don't believe what you believe, you shame them with how you posture yourself toward them. Everybody knows how this feels. And at a certain point, you either lash out or you avoid that relationship. Am I right? How many people here like to stay around a person who continually shames them? Are you really giving in to what the person says because it's the truth, or is it because you're tired of being ashamed? Or this can happen on how we intimidate each other. This can happen in how we embarrass each other if we don't give in, if we if we don't get our way. There are different ways of isolating people and putting them outside the circle. I was just uh listening to something, I don't remember what it was. And I was telling uh the kids at dinner time this interesting fact, one of Dad's interesting facts at dinner time, that uh there was a uh a survey done that uh showed that men are far more likely to strike out against people uh and hurt them physically And that this is one of the reasons why you see a large, larger male population within prison. That's just like a fact. That you see a much lower population within prison among females But the same statistics came back and said that women, although they don't work that way, they embarrass each other and they isolate each other. So I said to the kids that this person, I don't remember what it was, said, so we could summarize these findings by saying Men are more inclined to kill others, and women are more inclined to get others to kill themselves. And I think that second one can be particularly difficult within the church. I don't see people physically lashing out, but I do see ways in which we can really punish each other. If you violate our standards, we could even get it to the point where we would make that person just want to kill themselves. And you know what that looks like? It looks like them leaving the church. Sometimes it looks different and it's far more severe. But that can happen with embarrassing each other. This can happen when we rebuke in the words of Paul instead of exhorting. Now I've watched this a hundred times with other things too. Let me just mention one other thing. I'm kind of hitting on the wavetops here. On things that I can that I have been a part of congregations that I've been a part of for for some time. Some of us have underlying anger issues. And you may not even recognize that about yourself, but you do. You have an underlying anger issue. And when I watch you talk to people, it looks like you are persuading them, but I'm telling you right now, you're not. All that they're trying to do is not make you angry, so they keep nodding and agreeing with you. People pick up on your anger issues that are underneath. Very, very well. They are only agreeing in order to avoid your intensity and to get out of the situation. Let me introduce a term to you that could be helpful to us as a church. All of us have a subtext. There's what we're communicating, and then there's the vibes that everybody picks up on about you. That you exude a certain smell. And it enters into the communication that we are receiving. We would be stupid to ignore it. And we all pick up that you are going to be furious or disappointed in us unless we agree with you. But we don't actually know what in the world you're talking about. You're confusing. Or what you're saying doesn't sound right. Now here's a test that I could give to you, and you have to apply this because it doesn't work in every single situation. If you lead people into the truth, do you want to know If they accept that truth, if you have reasoned with them, if they've been gifted by the Holy Spirit to accept certain truths, do you want to know what the result is if you're a guide to people leading them into the truth? They are very thankful and they love you. And they will probably, depending on how serious it is, give up their life for you, and they'll keep mentioning you for the rest of their life in their testimony. You'll be a name on their lips on their deathbed. Do you want to know what will happen if you're a person who just coerces people into the truth? In the end, they will just resent you because you never listened to them. You didn't consider what they had to say Now there are a lot of reasons why people can resent you, and they can be wrong a lot of the time. I'm just letting you know some of the time There's a test. If people resent you, it might be because you're a sword kind of person, you're coercive, you have anger underneath. Everybody's just agreeing to avoid your intensity. And you are going to have to work on those things according to the lesson that we're receiving here today. Because you are called to be a productive member of society and captured in that little phrase, do not rebuke an older man. is a world that stands in the scriptures where we become a people that are relationally wise and we know how to read the room and we know how to work with different kinds of people and we end up at the end of our days Gaining a title of honor that admits us into an honorary position within the kingdom of heaven. Do you know what that title is? It is Peacemaker. Blessed are the peacemakers. You can take a look in Matthew, in the Sermon on the Mount of their reward. As followers of Jesus Christ, relating wisely with each other will demand That we pay attention to how we come across not only to those who are older than us, but those who are younger than us, those who are a different sex than us. Christ is calling you by the power of the Holy Spirit to be an extremely set, an extremely emotionally and relationally mature group of people because you are a great sign to the whole world of what human society is supposed to look like And I am hoping that these emblems of keys and swords and making sure we don't oversimplify with our ethic can help us be that kind of a mature people It's a beautiful thing. It will demand that we put in the extra work to learn how to make sure We respect each other like our elders. How those who are younger among us do not feel diminished, but know that they are our esteemed brothers and sisters. If as a pastor I hear a younger brother or sister say to me, why are you pulling rank? I already know I'm on the wrong foot. And boy, have I done that a few times. Because it's easier, and you don't have to rely on God to do it. You don't have to pray, you don't have to do anything mature. You can just be a bull in the china shop. Luckily, God has surrounded me with, for example, young men that just look at me and tell me to get out of their face, and then we have to have a conversation, which is nice. But it demands putting in the extra work. And then why would we do that? Because we are seeking each other's good and we are seeking the glory of God. And those are two goals and two prizes that are worth the effort of every man and every woman. in every child. We seek to be, in other words, a healthy church. A healthy church body does not strike at each other We are not a people of the sort. But we invite and we urge one another by the power of the Holy Spirit and with prayers to love God and to love our neighbor. Amen. May that be a picture of us. It'll take time, but may that be a picture of us. Let us pray.