First Timothy chapter six verses one through two. Let as many bond servants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and his doctrine may not be blasphemed. And those who have believing masters, let them not despise them because they are brethren, but rather serve them because those who are benefited are believers and beloved. Teach and exhort these things. Let us pray. Oh Christ, we thank you that by your Spirit you have enscripturated these and preserved these truths for us, not just for Timothy. But for your church. And we pray, Lord, that we would not just be hearers, but doers of your word. Help us to catch the vision that you are casting and what you seek to accomplish with your creation. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Maybe seat him. I want to thank you for letting me uh head over to Trinity last week and preach for them as and administer the sacrament. We had a blessed worship together and It appeared that the Lord was using the words, especially in the preaching, to encourage that congregation. So thank you. Me being there was your ministry. So thank you. And they send greetings to you They did have a congregational meeting last week and they are putting together a pulpit committee to call a new pastor. So that can be quite difficult. So please continue in prayer for them. I also mentioned to the leaders that If they need anything, please check with us. I'd like us to have an ongoing ministry to them and their need. This morning we're continuing or we left off before last week, so two Sundays ago We've been focusing on how we conduct ourselves in our relationships in wisdom. So far, this wisdom is seen by a deep reflection upon the implications of the fifth commandment. Our conclusion two Sundays ago was this. A healthy church stays in step with the fifth command. By not only honoring widows that are real widows, but also honoring elders, especially those doing the work of teaching and preaching and ruling well. Now this week we're going to continue with that relational wisdom as you can see in the bulletin. It's the title again. I want to begin by making a few observations and we'll keep going deeper and deeper here in how we are to relate to each other and to the world. So here's the first thing that I want you to notice is that with with each of these relational wisdom sermons. Paul is showing Timothy the deep wisdom resident within a mature understanding of the fifth command. We hear the fifth command is you shall honor your mother and your father, and then there's something annexed to it as we read. And here with Paul unpacking it, we can see that wow, there is a lot to this. This is just like a Russian nesting dowel. When you pull one dial, you just can keep going, and there's more and more wisdom to be found. As we search the canon for the meaning of the fifth command, we saw honor real widows, honor real elders. Well, I want you to notice first that in our passage this morning, the fifth command persists Because we see the word honor again. Here in verse six one, that servants are to honor their masters. Worthy of all honor. Count their own masters worthy of all honor. So there we see this theme continuing, and that's the first thing that I want you to notice. Now, here's the second thing. Paul provides specific instruction in this section for bondservants in two pretty different situations. So here we have a bondservant who's under what what this is labeled as a master, but it's not just the same situation for everybody. There's different situations going on. And so Paul needs to address these things on a case by case basis, just like we've seen him do throughout his letters. In the very first situation The master is cruel and harsh. That is what Paul means when he says that they are under the yoke. I think that's the contrast that's going on. Some are under a yoke, and that means that they are cruel or harsh, or that yoke is heavy, as Christ would talk about the Pharisees. And so he's addressing that Christi first. And he says to them that if you're in that specific situation, not all situations, but in this specific situation, Paul is instructing Timothy to teach and to command these servants to honor his or her master in that situation. So that's the first situation. Then there's a second situation that is quite different. In the second situation, you can see that the master is a fellow Christian. And that fellow Christian is not characterized as one with a heavy yoke or as a yoke. But as one who is understanding. And in this case, Paul instructs them not to despise them. Now what he's getting at there is Don't take advantage of the relationship. Just because you are equals in one way doesn't mean that you're not allowed to fulfill the societal obligations and duties that you have to him you whom you would call whom they would at that time have called master. So in this case, Paul instructs them to not despise them, but instead, you see what he says: benefit him all the more, because he's one of us, he's one of the beloved. Benefit him one all the more. Give him gifts in how you work for him or her. So that's the second thing I wanted you to notice, and here's the third. It is further worth noting the reasons or the basis, and this is really where we're going to focus today. There is a basis, and there are reasons that Paul provides for this particular instruction to Christians who are in this societal situation as servants. In the second part of the first verse, he teaches that he wants Christians to honor their cruel masters so that the name of God and his doctrine are not blasphemed. So, what Paul is doing here is that he is appealing to Christians to conduct themselves appropriately under their difficult situation. In order that God and his gospel may not be ill-spoken of by non-Christians, and non-Christian masters in particular, Non-Christian masters who may be tempted to think that this whole Christianity idea and this whole leader named Jesus Christ leads people to be untrustworthy and poor workers. So he wants them to work against that. But this, and this is really at the heart of what's what we're going to do today, but this revelation that we're not just acting for the sake of our employer. We're acting to make sure that God's name is honored. That gets us to the heart of what Paul is really after. There's a couple different layers that we've stepped down and we've landed. In seeking to honor God above all. And it reveals the deepest application that you can get with the fifth commandment. It is not just honor our earthly mothers and fathers, but honor our heavenly father above all. Even in difficult situations like this, I don't know how you would respond if somebody was treating you cruelly, and then Paul, who's an authority, says to you, make sure you honor them. I'm not sure how well you do with that But if you were going to do well, it would have to be from a sufficient basis or motive, and you c really can't think of a better one. than that this honors the name of God himself. And that is the ultimate fulfillment there of the fifth commandment. All of it is to the end that the name of God and His way of doing things, what He's doing in the world, that they are honored in this world. That's as deep as you can get in understanding the fifth command. And so our doctrine this morning in summarizing these things is quite simple. A healthy church relates to others in a way that honors God's name and his doctrine. Doctrine is the way that we would do things as Christians. How does God think these things should be done? That's the doctrine that you're taught, how to do those things. It can be used in a couple different ways, but that's what he means here. A healthy church relates to others in a way that honors God's name. And his doctrine. That's another mark of a healthy church. Now, I want to look at this under a couple different headings. I want to look at this doctrine under another command. And a few examples, and then I'll have a couple questions for you. So the doctrine is a healthy church relates to others in a way that honors God's name and doctrine. And we're going to look at this under another command and a few examples. Now, admittedly, we have highlighted here the mature use of the fifth commandment by the Apostle Paul. And it's very exciting to see someone use the law well and bring life to people. And he's doing that. But I hope that you can also see that there's something else going on here. It's interesting to me that if the deeper we go into the fifth commandment, And we start to come out the other end of it, we land in the third commandment. That is pretty interesting to me. I hope that you can see just within our bulletin readings and the phrasing of our doctrine that you see another command at work in Paul's relational wisdom besides the fifth. And we just read through the third We could even say that when we seek to embody the fifth commandment based upon reflecting deeply on Paul's thoughts, we must do so in light of the third commandment. So you for you to get at the fifth commandment, you'd have to put on a set of lenses that are the third commandment to see it well. And I hope that's the I hope that's helpful to you. Now we've read some of the commandment already within the bulletin, but I want to repeat a couple of these things for you and go into a little bit of what's going on with this third commandment because like Matt has brought up We often misunderstand what the commandment is all about. What's the societal vision for the third commandment? We don't usually answer that well. We can find, one of the places we can find the third commandment is in Deuteronomy 5 And it says this: you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. And the confession does a good job of that, especially the annex part. Now, I wonder how you have taken that on and sought to live that out in the world. What does that look like for you? So if the third command was going to bind your conscience, What kind of situations would you be in where you found your conscience bound? There is a very long tradition of looking at this commandment in a very narrow scope. In fact, in light of those various traditions, many people still think that this command only, and that's the key word here, that it only relates to how we use God's name in our speech. And so, if you heard somebody on the sports field say his name in a certain way, you think, oh, he just said the Lord's name in vain. I need to do something about this. Or anytime someone uh hits their hand with a hammer, they choose to say the Lord's name, uh, that bothers you. And and it should bother you. That's fine. My argument isn't that that's not also against the commandment. I'm just saying that's not only the vision here. In fact, it's very it's a very narrow conception of God's heart for this. There are bigger fishkafry, so to speak. You could look at other traditions besides just the speech portion. You could look at some traditions. For example, especially Jewish traditions, where they've become solely concerned on speech in terms of they do not want to mispronounce the holy name of God. And so they choose other names to make sure they don't even come close to that name. And they'll choose names like Adonai or Lord or something along those lines. Now that's good that they would hold up his name in a kind of honor, but again, that's too limited if you think that's what the third command is all about. If you think it's just to do with contracts and oaths, for example, that you wouldn't vow on his name in a irreverent way. That's still too narrow. Now, we certainly have to be careful with our speech. But this is much bigger. A better way to say the third commandment would be something like this you shall not bear or carry or wear. The name of the Lord your God fruitlessly. So let me say that to you again, and this is relying on one of the best Hebrew exegetes of this passage. You shall not bear or wear or carry the name of the Lord your God fruitlessly. And I wonder if we were to start looking at this word in other contexts that we would see how much further it goes beyond speech. And I'll give you one that you can look at over lunch today. And that is Exodus 28, 12, and 19, and there, and you can just read that whole section. And it's the same kind of uh word that's the same word that we're seeing here that you would see within Deuteronomy uh 5. You shall not take You shall not take, I'm telling you, you shall not bear, you shall not carry. And we see that same word showing up in Exodus 28, 12, and following. And it's talking about the high priest who literally wore or had written on him the names of the various tribes of Israel. And the high priest also had on the front of his turb turban he wore Or carried on the front of his turban holy belonging to the Lord. And that is not just symbolism for him as a individual person. He's standing there as a public representative of all of the people of God who are holy to the Lord. Now you have that picture in your head. That is not just talking about how they would talk about God or that they would get the Hebrew consonants right in pronouncing his name. There's something way bigger going on here to bear or wear their names. And for him to bear or wear, we are holy unto the Lord. Now, let's just take a little step forward here in understanding this. It is quite possible According to my readings, that this kind of imagery and what actually happened historically with this people, with that high priest and his garments, it is quite possible that all of this was in direct contrast to Israel's slavery in Egypt. Now, this is an interesting line of thought. It is well known that Egypt and other nations branded their slaves with different symbols showing their ownership. You can have a brand here. and other places. And you would they everybody would know to whom you belong. Here God having freed them from slavery to Pharaoh, puts his own name on his people, showing that he is their God, and they are his people. Now, if that feels foreign to you, then I would encourage you perhaps to think of a more modern day example where Nazi war camps Would put numbers on people in order to designate them as their possession and to locate them in how they think you should think about Jews. They at least that tattoo or those numbers at least signify that they belong to Hitler and his vision for the world. And then imagine in that same scenario, kind of like that scenario, imagine God rescuing them and removing those numbers and instead giving them his name and saying, you are mine And because you are mine, you are free to be at liberty. And I will show you what liberty looks like Comprehensively summarized in ten commands, and I will reduce them to two in the Shema, which you shall say all the time. What does it mean for that people To not bear the Lord's name in vain. Does it mean that they're just concerned about their contracts and how they use their words? This is a much bigger societal vision of what God is accomplishing in the cosmos And it is even true for all of us who are considered Israel today, Jew and Gentile. Now that's a contrast that I hope helps you see what's actually going on here, and Paul's drawing on this This is wisdom that Paul has, and he's giving it to Timothy, and it's inscripturated for us. Bearing or carrying the name of the Lord. Will be used throughout the rest of the scriptures, and they each contribute evidence to the case that I lay before you here today. It will be used of prophets and false prophets. That's our next passage, actually. False prophets, and how they said that they're bearing the name of the Lord, but they're speaking false teaching. We'll get to talk about that next week. So we're definitely on the right track here, folks. And then you could consider, for example, Daniel chapter 9. I'd love for you to read his prayer there. And just focus on bearing or carrying the name of the Lord. Listen to this. He's praying to God, and he says, open your eyes and look at our desolation. And the city that bears your name And right before that, in that same prayer, he talks about how that, the reason why they're in desolation, is because they carried his name in a way that made his name shameful among their neighbors. And now he's saying, even though we did that, for your name's sake, since we bear your name, please take us out of this that your glory may be known once again. I hope that you can begin to see what's going on there. The third commandment then casts a vision that God has for his people. His people are to bear his name before the nations, representing who he is and what he is accomplishing in this world. Not only the speech of Christians, but all of their conduct as individuals in families, in the church, and in general society are meant to be, as Jesus would say, a light to the nations. Now listen to Jesus again in light of this. Now that we have looked at the whole canon, sort of, listen to Jesus' words again about bearing a name. And what that really means, he says, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Isn't that really what it means to bear his name? And that is to say, that his name would be honored even among those who are cruel in how they treat you. And that his doctrine would be held high in high esteem and as wise for human society and how we live Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Jesus is after the same thing there. He's after the third command. He brings up father, so there's the fifth, but he understands the fifth so well that in the end he gets to the third. And that's the main point there. That's the other command that we have to consider here in these contexts. of being a healthy church. If you want to be a healthy church, we must embody the fifth command, but if you really understand the fifth command, then you're going to enact the third. And that means you're going to bear God's name. And you're not going to do so vainly. You will do so as his representative. Now, what's next. thing I want to go into besides just another commandment is a few examples. Let's look at a couple examples. Maybe this will help us to get our hand our heads around this so that our hearts can get to work. I want to look at a concrete example, working out the fifth commandment by walking in the vision of the third commandment. And it's in our same section of 1 Timothy. Earlier, Paul said that we as families And sometimes the church should honor widows that are really widows. You remember the criteria that he gave in those cases. He says, Do you remember what he says? If you don't do that, as a family, if you decide to ignore your mother and your father, you do not honor them when they are specifically in that situation, what does he say? That really can just hamstring you there. Not hamstring you, but you know, it can hurt. It's very shameful. He says, you will be worse than an unbeliever. Now it's not just like a general uh cutdown. He's not it's not like Paul saying, You're mama. I mean it's not just like a, you know. If you don't understand what I just said, just ask me later. What Paul is pointing out is that in Ephesus and everywhere else in the Roman Empire families took care of their parents. It was a general value for that culture and that society that was captured in their literature and in their artwork, and I've already talked to you about that, so we don't need to revisit that. The way to honor and bear the name of their Roman gods was to put their parents on their shoulders and take them to safety and to care for them. If Christians who bore the name of God, this new God that they knew nothing about, according to Paul, who goes to Athens, This unknown God, and they're bearing his name, if they don't at least do that for their parents. Then they have actually become worse than unbelievers that are around them, and here is the further consequence They are representing or bearing the name of the only true God among the pantheon of gods And yet, because of the way that they treat their parents, they have actually disgraced Yahweh, showing him to be the worst God of them all. And why would anyone turn to him? They represent the only true God as someone who pales in glory and grace to the gods of Rome At least if we follow the Roman gods, our parents are taken care of. If we follow yours and his doctrine, you leave them to die on the streets. That would be one implication. So there's an example that you have before you of the fifth and the third commandments, and how Paul would be encouraging them. to make sure that they are taking care of their parents because there is more at stake here than just your family and the and the caretaking of widows. The name of your God is at stake here in society. Who he is and what he is doing in the world is witnessed by his people. That's how people know who he is and what he's doing. Another example used often by Paul is the idea of a badge. Some of the Jews, you'll remember these discussions, especially in the Pauline letters. Some of the Jews thought of their circumcision as a badge or mark showing them to be the people of God. While at the same time dishonoring God's name and how they conducted themselves every day. See Romans 1 through 3. Paul makes clear that you could have that badge of circumcision all day long, but if it is not accompanied by faith expressing itself in love for God and love for neighbor, then you are not truly circumcised. What we are looking for is a circumcision of the heart and not of the flesh, is the kind of language that he would use to get at this problem that they were suffering with. Those who truly bear the mark or badge or the name of being God's, God's person, God's people, those who truly are His, who have the true mark. not only have rights like circumcision, which then becomes baptism in the New Testament, but they give evidence of their baptism by walking in newness of life to the glory of God the Father. I mean, you know this logic, right? Can you imagine a person trying to represent themselves by appealing to their baptism, who you know wants nothing to do with God or his ways? Appealing to you with the badge of their baptism? Had they not missed the point of all that Christ is doing That the right is meant to be a sign and is meant to signify that which the Holy Spirit gives us in faith that is expressed in love for our neighbor and for our God. So there's another example for you. Another example where they were using badges or marks. To say that they had they are living or bearing the name of God, but we can see that they weren't bearing the name of God in the way that God intends. And that is summarized in love. And love is understood by his law. Now I think we get the picture. You know, we have this other command with the third commandment. I've given you a lot of material here to work with so that you can truly understand what God's intention is with the third command. I've given you a couple of examples And where you can begin to see where where we would want to go with that from Paul's letters. I want to ask you a couple questions. It has been my hope that looking through the fifth commandment, looking at the fifth commandment through another command, namely the third And the examples give you a sense of the relational wisdom to which Christ's Spirit is calling you as a Christian. I'd ask you to ask yourself these questions. Maybe you could do a shorthand, just writing these things down to consider before God. Maybe ask these things among your families and friends. I want you to ask yourself, have you thought of yourselves as bearing or carrying the name of God? In the way that I'm talking about. That you are his representative. Imagine hiring someone to represent you, to all of your clients, for example. Or imagine you had to go away and you needed someone to represent you to your family. They needed to take care of your wife and your children. Imagine hearing that they've done a horrible job. That they took advantage of your wife and what they did to your children. Do you know the weight of what it means that you have been called by the living God to bear his name? This is not a small thing. That you sort of remember from going to VBS. This is something that gives direction and consumes all of your life. Now, I don't want to get into a debate about this, but I know a lot of you have tattoos. And those tattoos, I try to pay attention on why are you getting tattoos? Why don't you just give me the money? Just get in. I'm just judging. I try to pay attention as to what's going on with the tattoo. As far as I can tell, sometimes it's for different it's for all kinds of different reasons. But one of the main reasons I see is that you end up wanting to show the world somehow, or someone who's close to you, your commitment and what you're really committed to. What is your life all about? What's the most important thing to you? You'll get a tattoo to show. Kind of your story and the consummate understanding of yourself within that story. I want just in that context, please take this metaphor generously. Have you kept in po in mind The most important tattoo that you have, Christian, is written on your heart. And that it says, I belong to God the Father. I belong to God the Son, and I belong to God the Holy Spirit. Even if you have your wife's name on your arm, I don't know if any of you do. It's more important than that tattoo. I belong to God through Christ and His Spirit I bear his holy name and his image as his representative to this world of what he is like. And what he is doing with people and with animals and the oceans, etc. You know, when you begin to think about it that way, there's a tremendous weight that is on us. C. S. Lewis would go on to call it the weight of glory. You are called to glory. C. S. Lewis would also remind us that we love to make mud pies in the slums instead of having a day at the beach or the sea. And in part this sermon is calling you out of that. It's calling you to recognize that you have been sealed with the Holy Spirit. I've been calling it, uh I've been using a metaphor of a tattoo. Let's move towards accuracy. You have been sealed by the Holy Spirit as his. You have been given the gift of faith. You are being shaped and formed and transformed to love him and to love your neighbor. And all of this is not just for you as a beneficiary of his gifts. But all of his gifts are working back toward him, that he would receive the glory. What a perfect picture when we have the usher walk down with all of our guests. And we return them to him in Christ. It is the same thing with us. That's what it means to bear his name. So let me just ask you again. What needs to happen in your relationships right now to start bringing honor to the name of God as your primary motivation for who you are as a human being. I can't remember all of the old saying from the ancient literature. I've read a lot of ancient literature and I remember hardly any of it But I do remember one person saying that the highest a human being can get is that they love their neighbor. But even their love for their neighbor is for God's sake. That's the message here this morning. How can you conduct yourself to be an accurate witness of who he is? And his plans for human society and his creation in general. I want to leave you with a testimony from a Jewish barber, meaning like cut hair. Who's also a Holocaust survivor in New England? And this is a quote from this barber I was chosen to work as a barber outside the gas chamber. The Nazis needed the women's hair. They told us, make the women believe that they are just getting a haircut. We already knew it was the last place that they went in alive. Now doesn't that little close with Steve Biams about what they were facing just in their existence? The kind of treatment that they would receive, an entire world order that had been given power to accomplish such destruction, is captured right there in taking their hair I c I c honestly, it's one of the most powerful examples I've heard. It's just taking their hair. I give you that testimony because it says volumes of the kind of slavery that the Jewish people endured. And that that Holocaust survivor can relay to us. And if we were to go back to an earlier slavery under Pharaoh, perhaps it helps us to understand better what we should be realizing as Christians. It can remind us of the kind of slavery into which this whole world order has fallen under in the power of the devil. You want to know somebody who's worse than Hitler? Satan. The world outside of Christ, and by this I mean the world order. The world order outside of Christ lies to you to make you think it's a good idea that they're taking your hair in that specific example. They destroy, they lie to make you think they're giving you life. They kill you at the same time that they're convincing you. That you're the healthiest you've ever been because of them. That's how the world order works. It deceives nations. But you know there's good news. Because just as we read within the Exodus account, God the Father has heard the groaning not only of Jewish people. But of the entire world, Jew and Gentile. Gentile is a category that covers any other nation. God has heard the groaning of this world, and He has sent His Son, and His Son has sent His Spirit to release us from slavery to evil and bondage to death. And I can pronounce to you that if you are a Christian, you are no longer slaves to this world order. And when I say that to you, if you really understand what's going on, if you could take your situation and somehow with respect locate it into that barbarous recognition of taking the hair of those women. If you could see that your slavery to sin and misery and death was just as bad, but then God decides to hear your groans and he releases you. I want you to tell me what should your response be to him. Your heart should be so full of thankfulness and gratitude. that you don't know what to do with yourself except to continually figure out a way to serve him over and over again and to make sure that in every single situation, even if it is under a cruel master That you would honor his name. And you can feel that in your bones because of how important he is to you. He did not just reveal himself to you as some smart God who knows all about the universe. He came to you and he said, I am your God. I know all that you need more than even you do. And when we are in our right minds and our right hearts, there is nothing more elevated for us to do as a human race than to give him honor. Will we give honor to the one who heard our groans and who truly sees us? And so I say to you this morning: if there is any gratitude in your hearts, I plead with you this morning to please honor the name of God who has given you liberty by using your liberty to truly act in freedom. To show the world just how good God is, and to show him just how good his plans are that he is accomplishing through his son in this world. Now, my whole argument to you has been that we begin to do this in our relationships with relational wisdom. And then you ask me, well, what's relational wisdom? And I say, well, you know, do you have the rest of your life to have a conversation? But at the very least, we can begin to do this by living out the fifth commandment. Correctly understood according to God's visions for this world. And if you really want to understand the fifth commandment and swim all the way to the bottom, what you're going to find there in a little treasure box is the third commandment. We are called to these things even as a total church. In fact, we just returned to our doctrine this morning. A healthy church relates to others in a way that honors God's name and it honors his doctrine. Let us pray.