Please turn with me to, as we consider the word preached, to Deuteronomy chapter four, we'll be considering verses twenty-five through forty-three. Deuteronomy chapter four, verses twenty five through forty three. When you beget children and grandchildren, and have grown old in the land, and act corruptly, and make a carved image in the form of anything, and do evil in the sight of the Lord your God to provoke him to anger I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day that you will soon utterly perish from the land which you cross over the Jordan to possess. You will not prolong your days in it, but will be utterly destroyed. And the Lord will scatter you among the peoples, and you will be left few in number among the nations where the Lord will drive you. And there you will serve gods. The works of men's hands, wood and stone, which neither see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell. But from there you will seek the Lord your God, and you will find him if you seek him with all your heart and with all your soul. When you are in distress and all these things come upon you in the latter days, when you turn to the Lord your God and obey his voice, for the Lord your God is a merciful God. He will not forsake you nor destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers which he swore to them. For ask now concerning the days that are past, which were before you Since the day that God created man on the earth, and ask from one end of heaven to the other whether any great thing like this has happened, or anything like it has been heard Did any people ever hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of the fire as you have heard, and live? Or did God ever try to go and take for Himself a nation from the midst of another nation, by trials, by signs, by wonders, by war? by a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and by great terrors according to all that the Lord your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes? To you it was shown that you might know that the Lord Himself is God. There is none other besides him. Out of heaven, he let you hear his voice, that he might instruct you. On earth, he showed you his great fire, and you heard his words out of the midst of the fire. And because he loved your fathers, therefore he chose their descendants after them. And he brought you out of Egypt with his presence, with his mighty power, driving out from before you nations greater and mightier than you, to bring you in. To give you their land as an inheritance, as it is this day. Therefore, know this day, and consider it in your heart that the Lord Himself is God, in heaven above and on the earth beneath. There is no other. You shall therefore keep his statutes and his commandments which I command you today, that it may go well with you and with your children after you. And then that you may prolong your days in the land which the Lord your God is giving you for all time. And let's end there and pray. Please join me. Father, I pray the largest pastoral prayer possible. That we, your people, would love you with our hearts In our minds and our souls. In the name of Christ, Amen Deuteronomy consists of three sermons and a song. The sermon so far has taken us through the wandering in the wilderness and the battles with the kings. I hope this morning you can hear a bit of the sermonic flavor to the way Moses is speaking. So far he's taken us through those wanderings in the wilderness, the battles with great kings, the passing by certain nations of relatives. The point of all of it was for Moses to motivate the people before they enter into the land. This is motivational. That's what a sermon is. In fact, language itself is sermonic and therefore motivational. Every word that comes from the mouth of Moses is meant to motivate God's people. All of God's people, including us, should see that God fulfills his promises and is with his people to the victory. The problem, I hope you hear the repetition throughout the sermon, and of course the fact that it's recorded for generation after generation. Is the telltale sign that the problem with us is that it's easy to forget everything about God. When trouble enters our life, sensible thoughts about God exit our lives. And so Moses has been reminding, he's been reminding us in descriptive detail of God's condescension on Mount Horeb and Sinai and the fire. The flames licking the sky, the dark clouds descending. How are you supposed to relate to a God who speaks from a fire? I would say in fear would be a good start But then that needs to be coupled. It needs to be coupled with his passion for relationship with us, that he is a jealous God. That's what we learned last week. That's what the fire stood for, his jealousy. As a husband is jealous for his wife and the loyalty of his wife. From the beginning, God related to his people with marital fidelity and love, and he expects the same from us, and he gives you his Holy Spirit that you might perform the same. He expects the same from us. I remember as a child standing in Belvedere Elementary in Arnold and in kindergarten, we would learn to say the Pledge of Allegiance. We'd stand up and we'd put our hand on our heart and we'd say the Pledge of Allegiance. Moses in a similar way is seeking the same kind of thing here, young and old alike, that we would place our hand on our hearts and we would say Say, not I pledge allegiance to the United States of America, but that I pledge allegiance to my God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, who has saved me, mostly from my own self. That's what Moses is doing as a good pastor. He's a good shepherd. Moses knows that relating to God is the most difficult relationship for human beings to have. And so he continues this morning for us. What a great benefactor he is. That he continues this morning in verses 25 through 41 as a good pastor, giving us a warning. He gives us more reminders. Oh boy, do we need to remember. And then he gives us a promise, a promise that all of us sinners need to hear. A warning, a remembrance, and a promise. So let's begin with Moses with a warning starting in verse 25. Moses looks into the future and he warns us about the future. When you beget children and grandchildren and have grown old in the land, And then here it goes. And you act corruptly, and you provoke your God to anger. Let heaven and earth witness against you this day. That you will utterly perish from the land. You can see the warning that he is placing before them, all that is at stake before they even enter into the situation. Moses lays it out for them as a good father figure. Moses summarizes the whole situation for them under this unique phrase that I would encourage you to study on your own called Growing Old in the Land. It is not serving just an adverbial function. It's not just telling you as you get older in the land, as time goes on. That's not everything that's happening here. There's actually a little bit of a play on words on what Moses is doing. To grow old can certainly mean just as time passes. You know, as the s as waters roll under the bridge. It can it can mean also old skin. Uh it can mean sleeping, it can mean death. It has a a a whole range of different meanings, and based on verse twenty five There's a comma right after growing old in the land. Scholars agree on this, that growing old here is a play on words, and it means to become sleepy. And dead and dried up in your love for God. Now, if you were to go ahead and read further along in your scriptures at Judges, Take a look at what happens to the very next generation that is born to this group of people. They don't remember God at all. Their sleepiness will result, it says here in this warning, in idolatry. If you were to forget God, you will remember the other gods that are around you. And then, secondly, this sleepiness will Go into discipline. And that's where we find in verse 25 the sin will provoke God to anger. In verses 26 and 27, God's people will lose their possession and be scattered. Verse 28, they will serve the gods with whom they cheated on Yahweh. And it's very interesting the description here. It then goes on to say: you will serve gods that cannot see. That cannot talk, that cannot smell. Why do you think he gives this list of attributes? He is showing that these gods are deficient, and even after you discover their deficiency and their stupidity and their dumbness You will still be made to serve them. You will be in an ultimately futile situation that leads you not into what you thought it was, but into death. You thought that it promised life, these gods, and you will find out that only life is with Yahweh. And you will discover that as He allows you to see the true nature of these gods. You know, we know the story of God's people here. It is reflected in the book of Judges, but it is also reflected in their captivity. But it is also reflected beyond that in the teachings of Paul in Romans chapter 1. Verses 22 through 32. And I encourage you to study that also. And as you're studying Romans 1, 22 through 32, keep this instance in mind. Keep the idolatry of God's people in mind and see what happens to them. There is a progression in Romans 1 They grow sleepy towards God, they turn to other gods, and God gives them over to the creation that they want to serve to be enslaved to those gods and the accompanying desires. In other words, as Paul points out here, the greatest difficulty that they will face is that God will discipline them or us by giving us exactly what we want. Tim Keller, in writing his book, Counterfeit God, says this. He says, Why is getting your heart's deepest desire so often a disaster? In the book of Romans, St. Paul wrote that one of the worst things God can do to you is to give them over to the desires of their heart. Speaking of the idolatry of this passage. Why would the greatest punishment imaginable be to allow someone to achieve their fondest dream? It is because our hearts fashion these desires into idols. In that same chapter, Paul summarized the history of the human race in one sentence. They worshiped and served created things rather than the Creator. Every human being must live for something. Something must capture our imaginations, our hearts most fundamental allegiance and hope. But the Bible tells us without the intervention of the Holy Spirit, that object will never be God Himself. If we look to some created thing to give us the meaning, hope, and happiness that only God Himself can give, it will eventually fail to deliver and break our hearts. And that is the promise, that is the warning here that we see in 25. We take good things and we make them too big in our lives. And if we keep begging God and pushing God for these desires, sometimes as an act of discipline, He gives us over to them that we could discover their true nature and never desire those same gods again. And don't forget, this is not just about little Canaanite gods or goddesses that you could carve yourself. Jesus brings out that this has to do with money, this has to do with power, this has to do with Do with sex. Human beings can turn anything into a God, lowercase g. And he warns them here of that inclination with their hearts, and he warns them of how God will respond to them both here and in Romans. And so I would say, praise God for not giving us what we want. Sometimes. And praise God for changing our wants. Most importantly, our desires change as we mature in His family. The warning Moses gives is against letting God grow old, growing old in the land. It results in idolatry and slavery to our ugly desires. Some of you have lived in the land of Christianity for a long time. And I just asked the question that Moses wants to ask here. Have you grown old in the land? Are you becoming bored with God? It's a good question for you to ask this Lord's Day Because it could result in idolatry and slavery to some of the ugliest desires you have hidden in your heart. Moses doesn't want this for you, and he doesn't want it for the people in this passage. And so he gives them this warning, but he also gives them a remembrance, which moves us into the next section here. In verses 32 through 40, he gives a remembrance. For ask now concerning the days that are past, which were before you, since the day that God created man on the earth, and ask from one end of heaven to the other, and then you can see what he's doing here. He's giving all of God's works again for us to remember the works that God has done in these the lives of this group of people. It's actually set up in a poetic order. They're to remember God's works. And in the context of Deuteronomy, the opposite of growing old is actually to remember his works. It's to be enthralled with what he has done, to delight. In what he has done. Moses places God's works for this group of people in an alternating structure. I want you to look at your scriptures here so you can see how this works God speaking from the fire on Mount Sinai and Mount Horeb is in verses 32 through 33. God's Exodus. Is in verses 34 through 35, another great work of God as the mighty warrior. And then notice in verse 36 that it goes back to God speaking from the fire. And then notice from there it goes back to the Exodus in verses 37 through 38. And so, although they're in an alternating structure, Moses is releasing to them two main events, and there are sub-events in these events. He's releasing God speaking to them in that covenant on Mount Sinai and Horeb. And also God is the great warrior with all of his signs, with all of his wonders. All of the plagues that they saw within Egypt, the splitting of the Red Sea, all of these things are immediately brought back into their mind's eye and are meant to capture their imagination And in verse 32 through 34, there's something really key here, a fascinating part of what Moses is doing. He says What great God have you ever seen a God as great as this one? Have you ever seen any God do anything like this since the creation of man? Whether anything great like this has happened or anything like it has been heard, did any people ever hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of the fire? They would have to say, you know what? No. No, that has never happened Out of heaven, he let you hear his voice that he might instruct you, and he showed you his great fire. They're showing, or he is showing in his sermon the uniqueness of God amongst all other gods of all of the other nations And it's fascinating because he's essentially saying there is no God greater. In fact, there are no other gods that even exist. That's what you're supposed to realize about Yahweh, about Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. All of those great works are meant to show the uniqueness and the exclusivity of our God. That's what Moses is doing, especially in verse 35. He wants God's people to see that Yahweh is the only God, there are no others, no others exist, no others are valuable, none compare. Pastorally, when a pastor seeks to use this kind of language of comparison When he begins showing the incomparable excellencies, pastorally what he is doing is the same thing that was done or made famous from a man named Thomas Chambers, Thomas Chalmers. He is seeking to have the expulsive power of a new affection. Has anyone heard of that sermon before? It's actually become more and more popular. throughout the years. Thomas Chalmers was born in 1788, died in 1847, and this is something he said same famously in one of his sermons called The Expulsive Power of a New Affection. And I think there's uh about 30 more sentences to the title of his sermon. But he says this what cannot be destroyed may be dispossessed. And one taste may be made to give way to another and to lose its power entirely as the reigning affection of the mind. This is what Moses is seeking to do. Moses is saying to this group of people and to himself, and the words that he chooses, is that a person will only change whom they serve if they see the other as more lovely than who they presently serve. And so he seeks to make God the loveliest, fairest Lord Jesus. The same thing is being done within that song. So, for example, a young boy will spend his allowance on candy. His affections are consumed with Werther's originals. Once his desires mature, however, he moves away from candy, we hope. His candy money turns into something else like for a college education or a nest egg for his future family. And we would commend such design. Desires and values and evaluations of life. That's the expulsive power of a new affection. The desire for the nest egg and wealth and family and education has replaced the desire for where there's originals. And Moses does much the same. Moses places before us the remembrance of the incomparable God. He is better, he is greater, he is lovelier, etc. All superlatives. Holy, holy, holy. We'll say it three times. He's not just holy. He's three times holy. He's greater than all. And our challenge is to do the same. To follow in Moses' footsteps here in this expulsive affection of replacing one with the other. In fact, are many of you familiar with John Piper, I assume, and have benefited from his ministry? Let me list for you what he tags as the purpose of his own ministry. My aim is the same as Chalmers, John Piper says. Namely, to displace from the human heart its love for the world by setting forth another object, even God, as more worthy of its attachment. And in this way, I hope and pray to magnify the infinite value of God. It is a key to the human heart that that which we consider most valuable we serve. And so it is a constant competition and race to keep God in first place. And Moses as our benefactor is seeking to do so in his sermon and the way that he lists out these events, comparing them to other gods. Where have you ever seen a God do a thing like this? Nowhere. Therefore serve this God only He is the greatest. In fact, there are no others. So here's the question for us: How can you displace love for this world for the love of God? If there must be an expulsive power with a new affection, if to put on you must put off. We ourselves, number one, are powerless to do this in and of ourselves, but Jesus, by his spirit, will allow God's beauty to break through for us. Jesus has expulsive power and thank God for our salvation through Jesus Christ. No one else has this. No bestseller on the Amazon list. Jesus is greater than all bestsellers on the Amazon list. Jesus is greater than any psychiatrist or psychologist. He alone has expulsive power. And he allows us to participate in his power through the ordinary means of grace, such as prayer. The preaching of the word, the taking of the sacraments. He will work through these things and make them by his spirit effectual onto changing us and being able to see the glory of God. His true glory, greater than any other glory in the land. He allows us to participate. Like Moses, then, we may keep God's works before our eyes and the eyes of the upcoming generation, and that through Jesus Christ, He will plant new affections within us. within the hearts of those who hear his word, including yourself. And so we can, just from this passage, remember the Exodus. Remember the fire. But also remember the incarnation. Remember the cross. Remember the resurrection. Remember the ascension. Remember the Holy Spirit at Pentecost. Remember his continuing providence and subduing all his enemies in our own. But here's the trick. For the expulsive power to take root. You cannot communicate these things as theological facts That is not sufficient for the task that is before us. It is not a sound pedagogy to just communicate theological facts. You must talk about these facts of the incarnation, the cross, the resurrection as a love story. You must talk of Jesus expressing his infinite worth to you. And so you have the creativity to do this in a thousand different ways. And I just wonder: for you as Christians, how will you do this? How will you not only express the theological accuracy, but the value? I want to hear of your treasured experiences with the incarnate Lord. And so does everybody else. We want to hear of the value of the crucified Lord for you. We want to hear of the value of the resurrected Lord who has raised you to new life. With the ascended Lord who reserves your inheritance for you, the church, and of the Lord who has sent you, the church, his spirit I would like to know why that is important to you. Why is it incomparably excellent to you that Jesus is all of these things to you, his church? That is how we must express ourselves to each other. And as people bring other options before us, such as the American dream, or whatever temptations we have to replace our God, we could say Ha ha ha ha! What a joke! Doesn't compare with the risen and ascended Lord Jesus Christ You are a joke. What you need is Jesus. Because as he taught us in the Hebrew series, he's greater. He's greater than all. And that's really, I see us wringing our hands over the youth as they're rising up, struggling, becoming young adults, you know Whether you're struggling with that as a young adult, or you're struggling with a young adult, or if it's your grandchildren or your children or whatever it is, you know the main problem is not necessarily the presenting problem. There are a million ways to express actual transgressions of our lives. The problem is love for God They look at God, or you look at God, and you evaluate him and you say, A boyfriend is better. A girlfriend is better. A new car is better. Success is better. Money is better. These gods of our land are worthy of our service, but not Yahweh. That's ultimately what is residing within the human heart. That's the tragedy of idolatry This is what Jesus Christ is saving us from. That's why we have this warning from Moses. It's why we have to remember our God, because forgetting him is growing old in the land and giving ourselves over to these kind of idols, whether it's the idols of America or some other land. We all know that we're forgetful. That's what I'm talking about here is being forgetful and the ways to remember There must be an expulsive power, a new affection for our God, and so we must communicate Him in a way that is evaluative, not just factual. Our hearts for a time leave God, and we love other things beside our God. But in this final point, there is good news according to Moses, the gospel according to Moses. There is a promise. I just said, if you're an idolater, you are sinning and not loving your God. And that included everyone in this room. And thank God for this last point. Because he says in his promise in verses 29 through 31 that even if you are prodigal, even if you go after these idols, if you turn back to me in repentance, I will forgive you. And thank God for that gospel. That through Jesus Christ, his love does not fade for us, even when our love fades for him. Let's read this together, just Deuteronomy 29 through 31. It's worth just having every word pour over us. For from there you will seek the Lord your God, and you will find him if you seek him with all your heart and with all your soul. When you are in distress and all these things come upon you in the latter days, when you turn to the Lord your God and obey his voice, For the Lord your God is a merciful God. He will not forsake you, nor destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers which he swore to them. This is the promise that is given to idolaters. Jesus ends up painting the perfect picture in the New Testament of this passage. I really think Uh uh I can't wait to see Jesus face to face. And I want to ask him, when you said the story of the prodigal son, were you thinking of this passage in Deuteronomy? And I will not be surprised if he says, yes I was. Thank you for paying attention. And I'll say, no, thank you. It's yours. No, okay. You see how that conversation is going to go. He paints the perfect picture of this passage in the prodigal son. The father had two sons. The younger son left the father to live in his own way. And it could be son or daughter in this story. And after wasting all of his money being prodigal, he had to get a job in this new place where he wanted to reside. His dream to be at this one place He had to get a job there, and then he realized that it wasn't a dream at all. He was treated terribly, and he was starving. In his distress, he returned to his father begging for the place, even of a slave, because he knew he had sinned against his father and didn't deserve anything. But this was the great surprise. Is that you get the picture in the prodigal son that the father was waiting out on the road for the son to return, not waiting in the house doing something. Not catching up on his Netflix seasons in the living room, waiting out on the sidewalk in front of the house for the sun to return, so that he could say, My boy, you are forgiven. You're my boy. You're my daughter. The father welcomes him gladly back into the home. The youngest, notice, confesses though. He repents. From his prodigal living. That's what it meant to leave that place and to come back. And he asks the Father to forgive him, and the Father rejoices over the Son and his love. Both Deuteronomy 4. 29-31 and the prodigal son hold out the promise of the good news, and that's why we've titled this The Gospel Accordingly. To himself. It is in fact the message of reconciliation. And it's good news. It's good news for us because of the kind of people that we are. We can receive a warning all day long, like we did in the first part of this chapter. He can tell us: if you do this, this is what will happen. And you know what we're going to do? We're going to do it. He could remind us all day long and have the most greatest, he can be silver-tongued. And we'll forget. We can have a rewarning, a warning, and we can have a remembrance. It's not by mistake that poetically the promise is placed in the center of the passage, chiastically structured. That we would focus on the promise that the Father has made. To his covenant, he remains faithful. And therefore, this is your message today. The gospel is yours. I give it to you. More importantly, Jesus Christ gives it to you. The Father through Jesus gives it to you through Moses. Have you grown up as a child in the church? This message is for you. Have you been bored with God and have you gone off like a prodigal son or daughter? Have you replaced your love for Him with the love of friends or boyfriends or girlfriends or success? There's a thousand things to put in that blank. Here is the good news, child who has grown up in the church. You can come home. The Father awaits your repentance that he might forgive you. And you could keep your friends. You could, if your parents say it's okay, have a boyfriend or a girlfriend. They just cannot be your God. That's the point. You can have the creation. You just can't worship it. All things are for our use and to the glory of God. If you have not grown up in the church, God invites you into his family. Have you loved the creation too much? What happens when you love the creation too much is that that which is supposed to benefit you, like food, it breaks your heart It destroys you. It turns you into something looking like Gollum, who loved the ring too much. Turn from worshiping the creation and love the creator. We need warning. We do. We do need warning. Jesus Christ effectually uses warnings that we would not grow old in the land. We need remembrances of God's incomparable excellencies. We need people that are willing to share their personal experience with the incarnate, risen, and ascended Lord Jesus Christ Christ and the ministry of his spirit. We need to know that even if we do forget God, that we can remember again and we can return. And for today, as long as it is called today, you may still come home. And I encourage you to do so Today's the day, as Mark was telling us, perhaps you've put repentance off. Perhaps you have neglected repenting of the sin that you know is in fact sin, that you have been trying to justify. Would you just leave it Put it behind and return to your God. Return to your God and come home. Therefore, know this day, verse 39. And consider it in your heart that the Lord Himself is God in heaven above, and on earth beneath, there is no other. Please pray. Let's pray together. Oh Father, work with us as the potter works with the clay. We ask that you'd protect us from our own desires. Do not give us over to our evil passions, our sexual Morality. Keep us from ourselves. Protect us. Discipline us as your sons and your daughters. Give us teachers that can speak in a way that replaces our affections with of this world to affections for you. Help us to be Christian hedonists. We ask these things in your name. Amen.