P five seventeen to the end of that chapter. Let the elbows who rule well be counted worthy of double honor Especially those who labor in word and doctrine. For the scripture says, you shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain, and the laborer is worthy of his wages. Do not receive an accusation against an elder except from two or three witnesses. Those who are sinning rebuke in the presence of all, that the rest also may fear. I charge you before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels that you observe these things without prejudice, doing nothing with partiality. Do not lay hands on anyone hastily, nor share in other people's sins. Keep yourself pure. No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for your stomach's sake and your frequent infirmities. Some men's sins are clearly evident, preceding them to judgment, but those of some men follow later Likewise, the good works of some are clearly evident, and those that are otherwise cannot be hidden. Let us pray. Lord, as you've been taking us through this letter to Timothy, you have been teaching us what it means to be a healthy church. We pray for nothing less again here today, and we ask that we would not be hearers only, but doers, that we would not just Know about health, but be healthy. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week I challenged you to move away from Pietism. And towards true piety in Jesus Christ. And to do that, in accord with the particularity of our passage last week, we needed to remember the words of James. Pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this. It is to visit orphans and to visit widows in their trouble. The fifth commandment is behind that. The fifth commandment actually is at the center and the heart of a healthy church. It is at the center in the heart of what Christ is doing with this world. And so last week we committed to our doctrine that we would be a healthy church. And as the passage taught, we would be a healthy church which walks wisely the fifth commandment. Well, I have a few more observations as we continue in 1 Timothy this morning with our verses 17 through 25. So let's, with our Bibles open, attend to his word and some observations about it. The first thing I want you to notice is that we are in a continued discussion on the fifth commandment and its application to the life of the church. In other words, take a look at that first verse there, 17. And please notice that it is not only verse 3 from last week, widows that should be honored. But we are to honor elders also in verse 17. The same commandment, honor your mother and your father, is not only applied to our mothers who are widows, generally speaking, not just if you're Literal mother is a widow, but among the congregation. But so too is the fifth commandment applied to those who hold the office of elder. He mentions this in verse 17: Let the elders who rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in word and doctrine. It resembles even the kind of phrasing we saw from last week, where it didn't just say Honor widows. It said honor widows who are really widows. You could pretty much summarize this section too by saying honor elders who are really elders And you can see what would make them so, that they're ruling well, they're laboring in word, but they're not just laboring in word in the sense of sitting in their office reading all the books you bought them with their book allowance They are out in the congregation taking anything that they gain and turning it into a gift for the people that God has given to them. That's the first thing I want you to notice is we're still on the topic of the fifth commandment. Now here's the second thing I want you to notice. Let me raise it in the form of a question. How should elders who rule well and who labor in word and doctrine, how should they be honored? Well, we can see here that there's a couple different answers. Let's begin with the first. His first answer in verse 18 is that they should be financially compensated for their time. In verse 18, Paul cites two passages from the Torah. establishing his point. Deuteronomy twenty-five, four, you shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain. And then there's a summary, a kind of compilation of verses between Deuteronomy and Leviticus that come out with a kind of pithy proverbial saying, the laborer is worthy of his wages. And this makes the word honor, please notice this, that this makes the word honor to have a double significance. The word honor in the sense of esteem is what we're used to saying, but now Paul is pointing out that there is an honor also in the sense of a financial honorarium. That there is a financial responsibility that the congregation should take up for those who are conducting themselves in this way. In our denomination, we make this distinction usually between the teaching and the ruling elder. The teaching elder is usually called to a full time of service and so then needs to receive a wage so that he and his family can eat. The second thing you'll notice is that you should not receive verse 19. Besides financial compensation, that's the first way you would honor esteem and financial compensation. The second thing we see Paul saying is that in verse 19, the other way to honor an elder is to not receive an accusation against an elder unless it be established by two or three witnesses. And then third, to make sure the office remains respectable and grave If an elder is accused of sin and two or three witnesses bring this to his attention and he still refuses to repent, I hope you hear Matthew 18 here. If he still refuses to repent, then this may lead to a public rebuke in some form, so that verse 20, all of the rest of the congregation and the elders would fear Walking down a similar path of unrepentant sin. That's the second thing. So how do we honor elders? Well, three ways there. two directly and one the office. And then the third thing I want you to notice is this. Now we have Paul charging Timothy. In light of this case that is before us on how he should keep order in the church, particularly with the honor of elders, we have Paul charging Timothy to make sure that when he is either dealing with those who accuse the elder Or if he is dealing with the elder himself, that he would conduct himself and that the whole church would conduct themselves with integrity before God and the elect angels. Do you see that there? He must not prejudice the case. He must not show partiality, even if the elder is his best buddy. Verse 21. And then the next thing that I'll share with you here in observation number four is how we could avoid this kind of difficulty. Here you have a teaching from Paul to Timothy on the importance of obeying the fifth commandment in the form of not only honoring widows, but honoring elders. And there are different ways to honor those elders. You can even honor the office of the elder, that we would continue to trust the office and the title and the elders themselves and how we conduct ourselves in investigations and accusations and all of those kind of things. But is there something we could do to where we would run into that problem less and less anyway, where we never really have to deal with accusations with elders? There will always be those, but is there a way to where we could keep things de-escalated? That's the next observation I want you to see. The answer is yes. To avoid this kind of difficulty, Paul further charges Timothy to avoid ordaining elders too quickly If he does, verse 22, then Timothy himself can become complicit in their sin by putting someone in a position of power when they should not be in that position. It would be irresponsible for him, the way that Paul talks about it, is hastily laying hands on somebody. Laying hands is a sign that this person has access and authority to a congregation. And if you do that too quickly with people that should never have hands laid on them, then you yourself will become complicit in putting in incompetent leadership. After a word about Timothy's personal health, I hope you caught that. He has a persistent infirmity and he needs uh a better in modern day parlance, maybe Paul would write uh He needs you need to work on your gut biome. That's basically what he's saying. He then continues the logic. Then he says that some sins are obvious in the lives of people. And they therefore should not be ordained. No one would say, Yes, you should be our elder. But then there are others whose sins are not so obvious. But if you give it some time and let them go through some experiences in life, who they really are will surface. That's not a guarantee. This is just the general wisdom that he's sharing with us here. And therefore, you must be patient and let who a person is be revealed. Now, when we're going through an ordination process, which is directly applicable to here, do you know what that's called? Letting things be revealed? It is called the Ordination Trials. That trial is not just about a paper examination on how many Bible facts they know. It is a trial in their internship. It is a trial among their community. We are looking with a kind of constant attention to see what kind of person are they really. And likewise, there are other men in the congregation, Paul continues in the final verse of this passage, that show readiness for the office. No matter what trial comes their way, they lose loved ones, they have certain temptations, they meet financial ruin to know Fault of their own, we see them still acting faithfully in each and every situation And those are the ones that a person should consider laying hands on. He says in verse 5: it just cannot be hidden that they are made to do this. So that really brings us to a doctrine this morning that we can state that summarizes this well, and it's this: a healthy church stays in step with the fifth commandment. By not only honoring widows, but honoring elders. A healthy church stays in step with the fifth commandment by not only honoring widows, but honoring elders. What I'd like to do this morning is to just unfold that with two main points. One analogy is the first title. And then the second is one special application. Actually, I have three points to my surprise. Congratulations. We're all I'm even waiting to hear what I have to say. Just kidding. One analogy, one special application, and then one caution One analogy, one special application, and then one caution. So let's begin unfolding this doctrine. A healthy church stays in step with the fifth command by not only honoring widows, but honoring elders. Let's begin with the analogy that Paul gives to us. Those elders who rule well and labor in teaching and doctrine ought to be compensated for their labor by the church is the main one way in which the elders should be respected in that role. And to help us to want to be a healthy church in this way, and that would be including any church, because this could be preached to any church, Paul gives us the analogy of an ox. That spends his days treading out the grain. By walking or treading out grain, the edible parts would be removed from the inedible husks. Or you could think of plowing, that would work just fine. The oxen yoked, pulling the plow all day to prepare the soil for seed time so that you can take care of your family and you can be healthy. And Paul's point comes right out of a picture like that. I'm sure you could elaborate on it. Paul's point is for you to imagine that this animal works under the boiling sun for you and your family. And then you could think of an alternative case that could be before you where, despite all of the joy and the nurture that your animal brings to you, you treat it poorly. You are doing well, Paul would end up saying to you, in part because of the ox. It would be a real problem. It would show that you're missing something as a human being if you show no reciprocation for the well-being of that animal which has contributed to your well-being. Now, how many feel what I just said? Do you have a lot of affection towards hardworking oxen? Not usually. I'm sure there's a culture out there that would be in tears right now during the sermon. Oh my owls Right? But uh I w when I think about us, usually we I see people gravitate more in line with an argument that would have to do with dogs or military dogs. It would be something like that You could perhaps imagine Paul using the analogy of a military dog instead, I'm sure you've seen pictures of videos of dogs with those goggles on before they strap themselves to their handler and they're jump out of the plane into warfare. And we think, what a cool dog. Or they s they uh they sniff out explosives so that soldiers aren't blown up if you're in a caravan and you're heading Down a uh path where there could be hidden explosives or IEDs. They send dogs out ahead to sniff them out and they're light enough to not let them go off. Our hearts can become connected to those dogs. And if you w if you talk to any handler, whether it's a policeman, a fireman We gave an old dog when I was a little boy, we gave a dog or a black lab named Boomer to the fire department. He became pretty famous there and the work that he did. If you talk to a handler who is a Navy SEAL or something like that and ask them about their affections for their dogs, they will probably start to cry because of all that they have been through together And that's really Paul's point. That's what he's getting at when he's communicating these things to us as a church. I mean, let me just ask you: imagine a situation where after those dogs served their countries Imagine a situation where when they're out of service, that people just put them in a pound because no one could handle them. Someone would get upset about that. What if you did not treat them well? What if you started to kick them and to beat them and to not feed them because they've given their service and their and it's over? You yourself would probably be upset. But that's actually not what we find even in the common public With these dogs that serve human beings in these ways, they end up receiving a tremendous amount of respect. They are on magazines far more than I am. They are even awarded now some of the highest military honors, receiving medals for their service in the army, for example. And I'm telling this to you because I'm hoping that it will help you to see the heart of what Paul is really, how he's appealing to you and to Timothy as a congregation. That that uh Paul wants you to hear what he's saying, but he he's hoping that your heart will get connected to what he's saying too. God has built us to know that those dogs should receive some kind of honor from us. There's an instinct in us that tells us that would defend the dog if someone started to mistreat it. And Paul wants you then to see his argument coming at you where the question arises, how much more should we give honor to those elders laboring for the benefit of the church community? It's interesting to me that this thought is not new. I look back at a French theologian. His name is Cabon. As a theologian joke, guys, come on, man. Gosh, I'm like tough trail this morning. Okay, let's move on. There's one French theologian, John Calvin, and he says this For what could be more unfeeling than to have no care about those who have the care of the entire church I'm going to ask you that again, because that's the heart of what Paul is getting at. For what could be more unfeeling than to have no care about those who have the care of the whole church? And so we can begin to ask ourselves, because we're all in this position, what kind of care do we show towards those who are devoted to care for you? What could you and your family do to support the working dogs and oxen of this congregation? What financial or emotional or psychological encouragement could you give? And what honors could your children give? That's the first thing I wanted to go over with you was that analogy and hopefully connect your heart a bit to it. Perhaps you should be thinking of your elders as loyal military dogs. Perhaps it'll help you to kindle some more love for them and give them the honor that Paul charges Timothy to communicate to you. Now I want to give another point here, which is titled One Special Special Application. So that's the analogy, that's the one analogy. And now we have the one special application. Now, I'm sure you can come up with all kinds of ways to encourage elders who labor. Paul does single out some specific things. I think it's for a reason here that he gets to the real heart of how you can support an elder. He he doesn't list gift cards. Those are those are nice. He doesn't list a lot of things that are in the world of human possibilities even for him. He doesn't say, leave them a nice bottle of bourbon, though that's nice. He says other things. Do you notice the things that he puts on the lists? He says that they should be financially supportive. We've heard that, and this congregation is very generous. There's no need to dwell on that. But I don't want you to forget the second way that he tells us, or the third way, depending on how you look at it, in which honor is specially applied to elders, and it's this. We do not condemn elders, and we do not find them guilty just when any accusation is made about them. Now there is a special reason why Paul brings this up, and if you have been in church leadership as an elder, you know why he brings this up. It's because people accuse you of stuff that you haven't done all the time. What ends up happening is that there is a kind of what Paul tells us that instead should happen as a way to honor them is to instead presume their innocence. Unless it is established by two or three credible witnesses, and that can include corroborating evidence. We could talk about that another time. But there's a kind of presumption here. And this is the way that you have to think about this. Think about what, especially those who are laboring, not just in theoretical word, but in the doctrine and practices of the church. Think about what that is like for the messenger to go to sinners and talk to them about their sins. Think about it that way. Elders work in teaching doctrine to congregants, they preach from the pulpit, they visit hospitals and homes. And during these times, more often than not The elders often have a responsibility to contradict people in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ in their specific sin. Now, let me just ask you a real human question. How do you think that goes over? How do you think that ends up working out? I have yet to contradict a person in their sin and they say Thank you so much. I knew you were gonna do that, and I baked you banana muffins because of your loyalty. That's not often how it unfolds. It's not even how it unfolds in my own heart when people confront me During these times, elders have a tremendous responsibility under the weight of God and their loyalty to Him And they are messengers sent to the congregation in his name. And what this often means is that they make people angry. They and then when people are angry, they like to do things like make accusations. They like to take revenge. They like to vent their frustration over the church coffee hour or could you all please pray for me? My shepherding elder is being a real such and such. They like to share and gossip through prayer requests. They like to blame shift and to make it the elders' problem instead of taking any responsibility themselves And Jesus Christ has thought about all of this and therefore makes sure that a principle of justice is in place. You shall only accept an accusation if established by two or three witnesses. In order to protect their integrity, the health of the church, and their innocency. The principle of a just society is available to all You should not be accused without two or three witnesses either. That's in Matthew 18. Take a look. It's not just about mediation in general. It's about how do things become established. How does your guilt become established? And you need to really use real wisdom with that and the total canon. But here you can see the heart of the wisdom. That is being given to us by the eternal Christ, by Paul through Timothy, and recorded here for us that the principle of a just society is available to all. But must especially be remembered for those military dogs and servants who have to go into battle. For those servants who become targets for sinful and hurting people. Targets, I promise you. Now that's the one special case that I had for you. And then I want to give you another application here, which is one caution. We have the analogy for honoring elders. We have this One special way in which they should receive honor, we shouldn't just entertain gossip about them Or accusations. There's a way to handle that well. And then the last one is that there is one caution that I want to give. And this won't be new to you. You've heard this a lot because we've been through the book of Judges. Now, when I give you the above example, let me just mention to you there will be cases in the church, and I promise you there will be cases in the church where your obedience to what Paul has given here will be challenged. One of the problems that we can run into, and I've had to learn this, and I'm still learning it as a pastor, is that we can take sympathy. And we can let it lead to injustice and impartiality. You can be sympathetic for a person's misery, but still operate according to the principles of justice if you are wise. And it's very difficult. It takes a really long time under the superintendence of the Holy Spirit to gain both of those things. To be sympathetic towards a person's misery. but to even tell them that they are wrong in some cases. And you, as a congregation, may be challenged to uphold that kind of justice in our midst. You can think, for example, of abuse cases. Someone comes out and says, my wife abused me, let's give that example. Or my husband abused me. The sympathy will immediately go towards the abuser. But what if there are no witnesses? What if there's what if there's something towards an elder claiming they handled the whole thing incompetently? How will you handle that according to the principles of justice while still having sympathy as a congregation? You can be really challenged depending on what Christ puts on your plate. I'm just letting you know. But here you can see the wisdom laid out for us. You can see the kind of wisdom that he gives us in that principle, but even in those kinds of cases, there is one caution that is left for us in this passage. When I give you those examples that I just gave to you about abuse or whatever, we do need to keep one caution in mind from our passage. Here it is. Please do not miss this. And this is what could be a summary of the whole book of Judges. You, as a church, you are not permitted in the name of righteousness and justice to harbor and protect the wicked. You are not permitted in the name of righteousness and justice to protect the wicked And that can unfold if you are not uncareful. If you're not careful, in order to make sure that we are not providing a platform for men who take the idol the title of elder. But who are really predators, we must ex ourselves exercise ourselves wisely as a congregation. If you looked at the divisions of this passage, look at where all the time is given You have very little time on compensation. You have a little bit of time on two or three witnesses with the accusation. And the rest is do not put an elder in that position too quickly. Or you're complicit in the sin. That is the rest of the passage. And that is another way of talking about in the name of righteousness, or by giving a person a title, you're kind of harboring someone who is wicked. You're allowing sin to prevail because you have built a castle around them where they can be protected by their titles and by their authority. We don't want to people who are predators to take the title of elder, and therefore we must exercise ourselves wisely as a congregation. So this is how it lays out within our passage. First, Paul tells us that we have got to have a court of responsibility that will in fact hear witnesses. This is why, within our tradition, we have always said that a mark of the true church is a disciplining church. They are willing to hear witnesses. This court must conduct itself with impartiality even to the person that may have been sitting on the session with them. And is willing in appropriate cases to publicly censor the elders or those to whom we may be sympathetic, who are in fact suffering. That's the first thing. The second is before we ever even ever get to a situation like that We must be, to be a healthy church, we must be a community that does not ordain people prematurely. Elders, especially the full-time teaching elder, must go through a trial of their character and soundness in the faith before they are entrusted with authority and access. Now, I find this whole conversation here very modern, don't you? These are the exact concerns that we are challenged by from our culture. The culture has brought up all these same points that Paul is answering to Timothy. Our culture views institutions like the church as a place that harbors abusers and systematically perpetuates injustice. And they'd like to just see it removed in the most radical cases. But this is not lost on the eternal Christ. He already knew how human beings operate and how they'll use institutions for unjust purposes. He's seen it before. And so when he puts his order of the church together, he gives us cautions like this. All I'm really saying to you is that long before the challenge of critical theory, Christ was aware of what people can do, and he puts in cautions and measures to make sure we don't do it. Do you remember what he said in Ezekiel, for example? Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel. Prophesy and say to them: This is what the sovereign Lord says: Woe to you, shepherds of Israel, who only take care of yourselves. Should not shepherds take care of the flock? You eat the curds, clothe yourselves with wool And you slaughter the choice animals, but you do not take care of the flock. Other places he talks about that the shepherds chewing on them. And Christ brings this up all throughout his ministry. It is right for the church to be challenged, whether it's by critical theory or something else, in terms of what institutions can be. But we are not without a voice. We have here in our passage the answer and the means that Christ has given to us in our very order as a church to take human nature into consideration and who should be in leadership and who shouldn't have a good idea. That's also what it will mean for us to be a healthy church. So there is one analogy for us that hopefully can start to pool in our hearts a little bit in honoring elders. There's one special way that you can honor, and that is in terms of accusations. Remember the kind of job that they have. They're going to deal with people that are angry with them because they come in the name of the Lord, confronting sin. And don't forget, nevertheless, this one caution: that we should not lay hands on somebody too quickly. I think there's one other thing that we could say here, and I'll just say this very quickly. I don't know what people are talking about saying the church is a boring place. The church is not a boring place. I mean, did you hear anything that I just said? This is not boring. This is like, you know, deserves the movie rights or something. Belonging to this society under the rule of Jesus Christ requires intense exercise of relational wisdom. And so far, this wisdom is seen by a deep reflection upon the implications of the Fifth Commandment. And our conclusion is this: that a healthy church stays in step with the fifth command by not only honoring widows, but honoring elders. Let us pray.