First Timothy five, three through sixteen. Honor widows who are really widows, but if any widow has children or grandchildren Let them first learn to show piety at home and to repay their parents, for this is good and acceptable before God Now she who is really a widow and left alone trusts in God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day. But she who lives in pleasure is dead while she still lives. And these things command that they may be blameless. But if any one does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. Do not let a widow under sixty years old be taken into the number, and not unless she has been the wife of one man. Well reported for good works. If she has brought up children, if she has lodged strangers, if she has washed the saints' feet, if she has relieved the afflicted If she has diligently followed every good work. But refuse the younger widows, for when they have begun to grow wanton against Christ, they desire to marry having condemnation because they have cast off their first faith. And besides, they learn to be idle, wandering about from house to house, and not only idle, but also gossips and busybodies, saying things which they ought not. Therefore, I desire that the younger widows bear children, manage the house, give no opportunity to the adversary to speak reproachfully. For some have already turned aside after Satan. If any believing man or woman has widows, let them relieve them. And do not let the church be burdened, that it may relieve those who are really widows. But the uh I'm gonna stop there. Very good. Okay, that's bad. Oh Lord, we thank you for your instruction, through your servant Paul to Timothy. We thank you that this shapes and molds our lives by the power of your Holy Spirit. We pray, Lord, that you would help us to understand the depth and the thickness. of what you intend, especially in the fifth command. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we focused on the first two verses of this chapter five, and we summarized the teaching as a healthy church body. Does not strike at each other, but invites and urges one another toward love of God and neighbor. We made a distinction between the sword and the keys And we talked about how we ordinarily operate with each other and in the kingdom. Well, we have a much longer passage this morning in 3 through 16. And so let's get going right away on just noticing a few things together. The first thing I want you to notice, especially if you're going to go off and read this on your own, is that the real topic of concern is given to you right away. In verse number three, it says, honor widows. Verse number three: honor widows who are really widows. That's going to be the focus This concern is going to be addressed in a case study that Paul is working through with Timothy so that Timothy would know what to command or teach this particular group of people on how to exist as a healthy society. It's going to be looked at from different angles, and there's going to be different questions that he's going to implicitly raise and then answer. So what I'd like to do under this main topic, which is on widows, is I just want to look at the different for the rest of our observations, let's just consider the questions. That are being asked and answered. So, for observation number two, here's the first question that's going on within this passage: Who should honor the widows? You can see the answer to this in a particular case in verses 3 and 4. Perhaps this is a surprise to you. But the main responsibility lies with the children and the grandchildren. That could extend into great grandchildren if we take the spirit of what he's getting at here. Paul to get this across is using an important word in his reasoning, which we're going to dwell on for some time in the application portion. When he appeals to the children and the grandchildren that you need to make sure you're taking care of your parents or your grandparents, he appeals to them by way of a word, and he says, piety And then he brings up this image of that you are to repay your parents. That's a pretty powerful concept, and we'll talk about that later. He says that they should show piety, repaying their parents, and piety was a word used for religious devotion. It captured the ideals of a society. It was a demonstration of what it meant to be godly and to be a good citizen. And here you can see that the ideal is that children would honor their parents, particularly when they become widows. Or you could even spread that out. If you were to look at the whole canon, you could see it's like when they move into a vulnerable position. If you skip down to verse number eight of our passage, you can gather up more information to be able to answer this question. Who should honor widows? You can see that Paul ends up taking this very seriously. I wonder if some of you were shocked at the language that he chose to use. If you are a child, Paul says, who does not honor his parents taking care of them, especially when older, then you deny the faith. That's powerful. And then he goes on to say, actually, you're worse than an unbeliever. And the reason why he would say that is because the unbelievers in that society around them would have taken care of their parents. And since you're not, you're worse than them. That's uh how we would answer that question. Who should honor widows? Well, the first and foremost responsibility falls with the children and the grandchildren. So here's another question. Observation three. Are there any cases wherein the church should support a widow? Well, the answer is yes. Paul gives details to answer this throughout our passage. There's a lot to this. I hope maybe another time we can get into all of the details, but there's a lot to this. Uh the church basically may support those who do not have family that are willing or able. They must have they must be, you can see in verse number nine, they must be over sixty years old, and you can see some of the reasons on why he's choosing this kind of age. They must have a great reputation in the community for serving their family, they must take care but have a reputation of taking care of strangers. They must have a reputation of taking care of the church. They must have a reputation of taking care of the afflicted diligently. And following every good work. Verse 10. And part of the reason why these are the qualifications for a church taking on the widow is because the church is going to support them financially. And in a kind of reciprocal relationship, it appears to me and many that these widows are going to be dedicated to service in the church So you can see why would they would need this set of qualifications so that the church would know that they've already done a lot of great things. They already have their act together, and we're going to financially support them as they dedicate all of their time to the work of the church. They've already shown that they can do this. Look at their reputation, how they've taken care of strangers their own families, the church, the afflicted, they've demonstrated every good work. So What we end up having here are pictures of women that we see within the rest of the scriptures. I'm sure Ruth comes to mind, and then I'm sure Tabitha comes to mind. These are the women that would fit these kinds of qualifications. And they are stated ideals for the community. This is also what we see in Proverbs 31. So are there any cases where the church should support a widow? Yeah, you can see how he lays that out in case form Observation number four, are there some cases where the church should not support some widows? Yes That is the case. And you saw him list saying that, yeah, you are widows technically speaking with a dictionary definition of the word, but we're not going to treat you that way if you're in a certain stage of life It does you no good. It actually leads to trouble. He points this out, especially in verse 11 in this case study. He says that the younger widows should seek to carry on their lives, although they have lost their husbands. They should remarry, verse 14. They should bear children, they should manage the house. They should be thriving, productive citizens. They should not become the housewives of Pasadena or whatever it is, just drinking wine all day. Alright, that would be a good translation or paraphrase of what he's getting at here. We don't we don't want to do that. They should be thriving and productive citizens. They have a lot of energy, they can still work hard, so they should not burden the church. Verse sixteen. Why should they not burden the church? Why would Paul morally reason through this like this? Well, it show that the church would be left free to serve those who are really widows, who do not have the same capacity as the younger ones. People that are in actual need could receive help. So if you were to put this together in a summary, We could go back and we can broaden this out a little bit by going back to verse 3, which was our real topic sentence there for this passage And given the word honor in verse 3 and the address to children and grandchildren, what we have here is Paul working morally through a case study and he is applying the fifth commandment. Paul understands the heart of the fifth commandment He knows what the eternal Christ has always intended for it, and here he is applying it to the actual life of this particular church. And so this is our doctrine this morning Pretty simple to write down, children. A healthy church wisely walks out the fifth commandment Now, I say wisely walks out because you can see in this case study that Paul goes down certain moral avenues that you may not have naturally, and it really takes wisdom to figure out how to apply the commandments. And a healthy church walks out. A healthy church wisely walks out the fifth commandment. So, what I'd like to do is begin by looking at an ancient vision. And then a serious question. An ancient vision and then a serious question. A healthy church wisely walks out the fifth commandment, an ancient vision, and a serious question. Now, to help us wisely walk the fifth commandment, like I mentioned earlier, the Apostle Paul gives us a key word And that key word, back behind it, displays a moral vision for society. The key word is in verse 4, and it is piety. This word was used quite often in the ancient world. And it captured and summed up the ideals of a people. Paul uses this word to do the same for Timothy and for the Ephesian congregation. I'm sure that all of the uh connotations and the denotations were not lost on these people. So I want to do, just very quickly before we jump into the ancient concept here, I want to do a little thought experiment with you And I just want to ask you, do not answer out loud. We have a habit of doing that sometimes. This is a rhetorical conversation. What does the word piety conjure up within your mind? Some derivatives of the word pious. How's that one? What comes to mind? Imagine using it in a sentence. And you're sitting there at the O's game. I'm so sorry to bring them up right now. That's been tough. You're at an O's game and somebody says, Oh hey, you su you show our pious today. Yeah, what could they be referring to? In this case it it most likely means you didn't order a beer Just so you know. That's what it would mean in that particular case. But what kind of images come up in your mind? Most people today would mean something like They are religious. Okay? So if pious or piety and religious person are kind of similar, well what does it mean or what images come up in your mind when you think of If somebody says, Oh, you're it explained you at a party and said, Oh, this is my friend, he's religious, or she's religious. Most people um here probably have the same images in their mind. Now, just to play around and to kind of get a sense of the collective consciousness of the North American people, I decided to ask artificial intelligence the same questions. And this was kind of interesting to me because it answered exactly as I thought it was the right answer. I asked the artificial AI the same questions and it responded with what you probably had in your mind with some of these things, maybe more It pay actually asked it to where it would paint a picture for me. Have you seen this happen before? You could say paint a picture of a typical Marylander and it will end up with a crab, I'm telling you right now. Those Marylanders The first picture, when I said, what does it mean if a person is pious, or what pictures do you have to explain piety for um For this society that we're in right now? That's basically the question I asked it. And the first picture was a group of people in church singing a hymn. That was a beautiful painting. The second picture was of a man kneeling by his bed praying. The third picture was of a woman reading her Bible. Actually, it was a sacred text. Didn't get too specific. Because it's programmers. Oh, we'll talk about that later. And this is accurate to my own experience. When I ask people, for example, some spiritual kind of question, because I don't know how else to put this sometimes, I'll say, how's your walk with Jesus Christ? They usually respond to me and they say something about their quiet times, wishing they had more time for quiet time. That they really wish they were better at their devotional times, where they'll tell me the different Bible studies that they're in. So there you go. If there is a higher intelligence and he knows you, or she or it. Okay. So here is the question though, with a little thought experiment, and I wonder if some of those things came up in your mind in terms of being pious. The question though that we have to ask is, is that what ancient Christians thought of when they heard the word piety? Is that how they use the word religious? And I want to ask it positively: what vision of the world was captured by the word piety in the ancient world? Now, as you have probably guessed, I asked AI that question too. And I said What vision of the world was captured by the word piety in the ancient world? And again, the artificial intelligence painted three pictures for me. It came back with three different images, and I went ahead and confirmed these images prior to AI. I already knew pretty much what it should say if it was right. I've confirmed these images through research and commentaries and the writings of solid scholars, and here's the images. It gave me the first image The first image was of a father and a mother leading the children in worship. The second image was of a soldier that was loyal to his country. And the third image was an image from a very old coin and from a story. It pictures Aeneas saving his family from a burning city. And he is carrying his aged father on his back. Ooh, that is a different moral vision. And that's what I really want the point to that's the point I really want to get across this morning is that I'm here to tell you that when Paul used the word piety in verse 4 That he was not simply casting a vision for Timothy and the congregation to have more quiet times. Or to put more hours into Bible study fellowship. There is nothing wrong with studying the scriptures. I'm just letting you know that there's a lot more going on here with piety. When Paul talks about it to Timothy, and Timothy would have picked up on these things. He was tapping into the existing narratives of the Jewish people, of the Greek people, of the Roman people, and their stories. That pictured ideals of what it means to live the good life under God as a human being, both male and female. In other words, what he ends up giving us here in this single word is a pious citizen. If we were to summarize these things, a pious citizen is one who demonstrates loyalty to God And they do so by fighting for their country and their family. Even if it means putting them on your back and carrying them out of the burning city. That's the picture. And that's supposed to manifest in a million different ways. And that's the biblical moral vision, really. Think of all of the different narratives. Think of them as visions for what God is doing in the world. Think of them as visions to guide us on who we should strive to become in the spirits. It has way more connection with sections of Virgil's Aeneid. The biblical vision has way more connections with Virgil's Aeneid than it does with a modern Christian culture's understanding of the word religious and pious. Our ancient moral vision, pictured in the word piety, is captured well by a young man carrying his aging father from a burning city. Now, that's the ancient vision. And now we come to a serious question. And here is the question that we all need to consider: What is the moral vision of our church today? I don't mean what would you say the moral vision is. I don't mean if you had to give a lecture, what would your lecture be on? I mean, what is the functional moral vision of the church? What happens unconsciously? What do we do naturally, so to speak? Where are the pressures? What do you feel pressured to do and to be? What is the vision that we unconsciously but functionally strive for? What are the pressures and what determines the pressures that we push our children toward or each other? I would say, uh just uh and we all struggle with this. This isn't meant to make anybody uh weep in their chair. I would say that the modern church struggles in something that is a distinction that I think is helpful. The modern church can struggle. By adopting a pietistic vision of the world instead of demonstrating true piety. Based on our discoveries on what we're what we see in the ancient world, even on the pages of Scripture, is that we can become pietistic and buy into that as that's what it means to be a real human being instead of demonstrating true piety. And that's a problem. Now let me give you a few contrasts between the two. Do you remember that old comedian uh Jeff Foxworthy? Anyone remember him? And he would say, you might be a redneck if You say mayonnaise. Mayonnaise are good looking set of tires on that car. You remember that that comedy routine? Yeah, sorry. I had to draw that one up from the depths there Well, this is kind of like that. This is uh you might have a pietistic vision if instead of uh demonstrating a true piety if one of these is true. And just to give you a feel, so you can keep your feet on the ground here and figure out what the Lord is calling you to in seeing this particular passage motivated by piety. So here it is. You may be living a biblic a pietistic vision instead of true biblical piety if Your children feel guilty when they don't have a devotional time, but they could care less when they just disrespect the mothers and their teachers. That's a good one. Your children feel guilty when they don't have a devotional time, but they could care less when they disrespect their mothers and their teachers. And that could happen a thousand ways. You are living in a pietistic vision instead of true biblical piety, perhaps, if The women feel a sense of significance when they attend a Bible study, but they don't feel valuable or celebrated in their work of taking care of their households. That one's pretty tough. I'll say it again now. The women feel a sense of significance when they attend the Bible study, but they don't feel valuable or celebrated in their work of taking care of their households. That's a tough one to chew on. Here's another one. You are living in a pietistic vision, perhaps, instead of true biblical piety if The men gain status in the community because they can recite theological works, but they feel no social pressure to contribute to their parents' well-being. I'll say that one again, too. You may be living in a Pietistic world vision if in your community the men gain status if they can recite theological works. But feel no social pressure to contribute to their parents' well-being. I'll be vulnerable for a second. Those were some tough uh I hope it felt like those were tough. Those felt tough to me. And I'll be vulnerable with you for a second. I don't like doing this very often. I'd rather not talk about myself. But being in my position, But every day I'm either, well, I'm just around a lot of people that are dying, helping them die, or doing their funerals. Uh because I'm around you and you always have somebody in your life who's dying. It's just a lot of death. I uh once I thought, you know what I should do is I should count how many funerals just my children have been to. That's a lot more than some of their friends who aren't a part of the church. Because we're a part of such a large community, we end up going to each other's family funerals. We see a lot of death. We have to wrestle with it. We see open caskets and gotta figure out how to process that. And people die young. And our children have to figure that out too. For me personally, it has moved me more and more into a certain state of mind that doesn't seem to be able to go away. I can't shake it. This I remember markedly this happening on the day that I finished all of my ordination exams, on the ride home, I got a call from my father telling me that he had stage four cancer. And that has worked out by God's grace to where my father is still with us. But that was the first time I remember feeling it as solidly as I still feel today. And now it just keeps growing like this other presence in my mind and my heart. About some reality in life that is very difficult. And it ends up coloring everything More and more from this kind of state of mind, and I wonder if others of you are like this. Do you just experience certain deaths and new questions start to happen? The the question that I I almost every morning wake up asking is, will I Look back on my life and think that I had a good life. And what I mean by that is not did people give me things, but did I live a good life? And the answer that keeps coming back to me as I search, did I live a good life, is if you took seriously what God says, then you did. Just taking him seriously. Now that's a general way to talk about a whole life. And I'm not trying to be super technical and precise right now. I'm just letting you know, like I said, I'm being vulnerable. So I often think of this in terms of pictures, because that's how I think. I often think about being on my deathbed and Bradley's there singing a hymn. Two hymns. Yeah, that's actually what I thought. I didn't want to share that, but like singing so many hymns I would want to tell you to stop singing. Just like need a moment of peace. But I'm on my deathbed and I'm surveying my life and I think, man, you the one thing that I want in that moment, I know that I'm going to be with the Lord, we're moving into the state of glory. It's going to be remarkable, but The way that he talks in the scriptures, I wanted my life to mean something. I want to go to him knowing that I have certain remembrances of things that we did together. And that used to be different things. Now the the things have changed. I think they've become more accurate actually. And I've greatly long to have a tangible remembrance. This is what has come up. I greatly long To have tangible remembrances in the language of the passage of repaying my parents for all of the stuff they have put up with me. I'm talking, you know, my mother had to have her stomach cut open because I was such a big baby. My wife would say I'm still a big thing. She likes to yeah anyway, so and then it just went from there. And got more and more difficult for a long time. But I want to have a tangible remembrance of repaying my parents For the care that they have provided for me. Now I'm not just saying something to you that's sentimental. I'm paraphrasing the passage at this point. It says the children and the grandchildren should be pious and they should repay their parents. And that's the kind of stuff you're supposed to have in your mind. Maybe your mother drives you crazy right now, but she changed your diapers for how many years? You need to cut her some slack in most instances, and you need to honor your mother. And and and that's just the tip of the iceberg. I mean you were a real pain for a long time Those are the answers I would get back when I think about the deathbed. There are other things on my list, but I'm only talking about this right now. But that is major. I want to be able to look back and remember times when I didn't just say that I would be helpful, I didn't just say I honored my parents, I didn't just say I loved them, but I was a faithful man and I did it. I mowed their grass or whatever it looked like. And that, I believe, I can share with you without seeming like I'm bragging, because I think that is a good desire that Jesus Christ has given to me as He's permitted me to reflect on death. It is a desire in the words of our passage for a true piety that is inspired by the Spirit Himself. This is what it means to talk in piety. These are the desires that we would have if we were pious. If we were pious, actually, it wouldn't just be a desire. It would be a desire acted on And I guess I could just say in a million tiny ways, though this will never happen literally, I hope, in a million tiny ways. I want to carry my mother and my father on my back, out of the flames, to safety. Now when I that's my deathbed and I know that on your deathbed it will be different for you. Some of you are going to be on your deathbed and you're going to look back and the time that you had to spend with your mother and your father is going to be very different than me because your mothers and your fathers could be abusive. And I understand that there's going to be exceptions there. Joe captured it real well earlier in saying that even in those cases there has to be some kind of honor offered. It just has to be done really carefully and wisely. And then Joe said, even if it's prayer Sometimes that will be only thing you can give to a mother like such and such, or a father like such and such But there is still a remembrance of carrying them insofar as it is permitted in your particular circumstances, carrying your mother and your father on your back. That is currently more exciting to me than most things in life. The thought of being able to do that invigorates me. What about you? Some of you aren't exactly in that situation, so you'll have to keep working on this application, and I'm happy to do that with you. But what about you? What about being inspired? About that moral vision of piety and what it means to be a religious person Would you like to move away from pietism and toward true piety in Christ? Because that is what Christ is calling you to here this morning, to be his beautiful people. I ask that you would please remember the words of James. I've used Bible study not as a negative example, but in a little bit different way than people are used to. I view Bible study as a means to an end. Bible study is the back of a wardrobe that we walk through to live a chivalrous life by the power of the Holy Spirit. And I can speak like that because I think that's how James is speaking. In your bulletin, you saw a quote from the book of James, the letter of James. And that quote about what pure religion is, or piety, came right after a discussion about reading your Bible. And he says, do not just be a hearer of the word, but be a doer of the word. Okay, well, what does it look like to be a doer of the word? Watch your tongue. He says, otherwise your religion is useless. And then he says the same thing that Paul says here to Timothy. He says, pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this. to visit orphans and widows in their trouble. He has the same vision Of those who are vulnerable and need help, especially when they get older, of them being on your back and you carrying them out carrying them out of whatever the flames look like at that moment in that society. The fifth commandment ends up being at the center of what Christ is doing in the restoration of this world And he has given us his spirit that we may participate with him. This is another way of bringing us just back to our main point this morning. That a healthy church is a church which wisely walks out this fifth commandment. We are to honor widows who are really widows. I said the fifth commandment, right? Yep. So honor widows who are really widows And the picture that we have, though, from secular literature, is true to the scriptures, and that is putting them on our backs and bringing them out of the flames. Please pray with me.