Acts chapter 17, verses 10 through 15. Then the brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Varea. When they arrived they went into the synagogue of the Jews. These were more fair minded than those in Thessalonica, and that they received the word with all readiness, and searched the scriptures daily to find out whether these things were so. Therefore many of them believed, and also not a few of the Greeks, prominent women as well as men. But when the Jews from Thessalonica learned that the word of God was preached by Paul at Perea, they came there also and stirred up the crowds Then immediately the brethren sent Paul away to go to the sea. But both Silas and Timothy remained there. So those who conducted Paul brought him to Athens And receiving a command for Silas and Timothy to come to him with all speed, they departed. Let us pray. Lord, we truly do acknowledge this morning that your word to us is meant to be profitable. It is to profit unto good works for your glory. all done in the grace of Christ and His Spirit. And so we ask for such a thing this morning. I pray that, Lord, your people would attend to your word with due reverence In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. You can see the theme already in the service that we're attuned this morning to how we are to be reading the word. How does God intend for us to read the Word? Before I begin the sermon properly, let me just speak to the children who are remaining in the service If you're here in the service, it's about time to start taking sermon notes. If you can do mental composition in your head, that's great. But if you can't, just jot things down, and I'm going to give you a little secret. I'm not saying that you need to start this today if you've never done it. I'd like you to start working toward it. Here's a little secret. All of my sermons are the same. They begin with a review from last week. They then move into observations of our passage this week. It will then conclude that section with a teaching or doctrine, and then we have application based on that doctrine. It is the same every week. I don't know why you keep showing up But you do. Well, praise God for that. I'd be lonely without you. Review, observations, doctrine, application. So you can put that on a little sheet of paper and you can take notes in that way as you go through, and it'll give you more to remember and to talk about as you have lunch with your family and friends. And so let's begin with the review. Last week we acknowledged a twofold truth. God the Father has made Jesus the Christ. It said as much, and it has said as much in multiple passages now that God the Father has made Jesus the Christ. And we went ahead and we made a second observation, however, and that is that this same Jesus from Nazareth He brings order and he does not bring disorder to this world. Now that was really important in understanding the essence of what was going on that Luke recorded As his followers, therefore, we do not turn the world upside down. We turn the world right side up. And this will require two main things. You must be like a serpent and a dove, not just one or the other. You want to work toward both of those That you would be a serpent and a dove. That means that you would have Christian cunning and wiliness, and that you would also be above reproach. We're moving now, as you can see, we now move into the observation portion, where we can see that Paul has moved in his missionary journey to another city. named Berea. And so let's take a few observations about this passage that lead us to some teaching this morning. Observation number one Paul and Silas continue in their normal pattern of arriving in a new city and attending a synagogue in verse 10. They use this gathering to give the message of the gospel to the Jews first, this is the pattern, and then to the Gentiles. Now, what we've done is we've been able to flesh out the way those messages We're looking and how long some of them would take, weeks, sometimes a year. Over the weeks, we have realized that Paul is not giving a 15-minute sermon. Or if you were to think That this was the length of the sermon. It would be a minute, 30 seconds, something like that. These are summaries that Luke has given to us of much longer times of talking that Paul had in those synagogues We learned over the last few weeks, for example, that Paul is fully reasoning with people through the scriptures You can see that in our verses this morning. He is explaining things. He is demonstrating from the scriptures that Jesus is the Christ. He's spending a lot of times with these folks. We will even get to a story where he spends so much time with somebody that it goes late into the night, he falls asleep, and falls out the window. That's the length of the teaching here. Well that's the first observation about that pattern and what that pattern is looking like as we accumulate data on what it looked like for Paul to preach. Well, now we have a second observation. In Berea, the Jews in that synagogue gave a fair-minded reception to Paul and Silas. You can see that in verse 11. This is a great break for them. That has not always been the case. We've watched them hit a brick wall every time they enter into a synagogue. But in this case, they received the reasoning. They received the explaining. They worked through the demonstrations. And it says a couple key words here that are going to be important for us in a minute. With all readiness. And they searched the scriptures diligently or daily to find out whether these things were so. Very different audience for Paul and Baria. And Luke is commending them for the way that they are postured towards this, towards Paul and his preaching. And now here is observation number three. Many of them believed in verse 12. And here's something we're not really going to touch on much in the application today, but I just want to show you that the pattern arises again They showed themselves to be true believers from the love they showed to Paul by, it uses a special word here, conducting him, verse 15, to Athens. Now, why is it that they would need to conduct Paul anywhere? It's because it's dangerous for him, right? He needs to have uh um folks take him places so that he's not left alone. Um his head is wanted And so this is an act of love. We once again see the connection between faith and works. As James would say, faith without works is dead. And here the Bereans are alive, and we can see that because they have already become co-workers with Paul in the spread of the gospel by conducting him to Athens. And then they are also carrying some messages with Silas and Timothy. And so there's several, really, we could pull several timeless truths. from just this little bit of scripture. But I really just want to focus on one. And it's the most popular one that we will that you hear. And I'm sure you've heard this already throughout your life. Christians are commended to relate to the apostolic preaching like Bereans. Have you ever heard that, by the way? Has anyone ever said to you, be like a Berean? Everyone but Bob Shinjak has heard this. Come on, Bob. You never heard this? Now you've heard it. Hey, brother, be like a Berean. Be like a Berean. That's um uh that's a lesson that has been preached many times. And what I want to do is I just want to focus on the two parts of that. We see that Luke specifies Specifically, what he's commending in the Bereans, that they received the apostolic preaching. They did not have a general open mind to all teaching. That's not what he's commending. He's not commending open-mindedness in general Okay, if they had somebody come over to Berea and start preaching Meinkampf, Luke would not be excited if they had an open mind about it. Okay? If you don't know what Mein Kampf is, you can just ask me later Here he's excited and commends them because they're open to the truth, which is the apostolic preaching. And he gets this across by saying that they receive the word with readiness. That's the first thing that is commended. And we want to adopt readiness or a willingness is the is the word and a diligent examination. That's the idea of them returning to the scriptures daily to examine. And we're going to talk about both of those things That's the application, actually. It's kind of like two commandments that are laid out for us. Because it is commended by Luke, we want to commend it to our own lives. That's the intention of the Spirit here. That in other words, we as Christians, when we approach the Word, everyone that is serious about Christ wants to be serious about the Scriptures. We want to approach the Scriptures ready and willing. Ready and willing. That's going to be our first point of application. And then we want to make sure that we have a diligent examination. A diligent examination. So Children, this is the application portion. Two main applications, ready and willing and diligent examination. Okay, so let's begin with the ready and willing. A readiness is a willingness that is present within the Bereans, and it is commended to us to take it up. This is a welcome change of scene among the Jews. We have seen pattern after pattern where because of envy, and you could think of corrupt will There was no willingness to give the apostolic preaching a hearing. I cannot tell you how excited I am that we finally get to deal with this teaching about the will. Let me give you an observation here. We are retrieving at this very moment a well-known reality that has been among the church from the beginning. I'm talking Adam and Eve. The importance of the will. And specifically, the importance of the will or willingness in reading the apostolic or the prophetic or the law teachings of the scriptures. We are a culture that almost places entirely the emphasis upon the intellect. So we'll have a uh you'll be handed, if you're a teacher, probably a sheet of paper called Bloom's Taxonomy, that at certain levels you want to get kids to compare and contrast and all of these things. It's dealing primarily with intellect and intellectual virtues. But here we see something that we need from the scriptures, and that is a focus on the will of humans. Very important. It actually becomes and dictates and predominates anything that would happen within the intellect. We often think about the importance of the mind in reading or listening. I see Christians when they sometimes when they first uh are converted to Christianity, one of the first things they do is they buy a logic book and they keep it on their night table. It just kind of goes hand in hand within a reformed community sometimes But here we see them starting with the will. The earlier church did that too. They did have an emphasis on what the intellect was, but the will was the primary and the fundamental thing. The will And we should know that as reformed believers, especially when we talk about total depravity. We realize that there is a depravity within the will that affects the depravity of the intellect, for example Now, why is it that the church would have this kind of focus on the will? Is it from their philosophizing? No, it's from the scriptures. It's from primarily, if you were to look through the early writings of the church They're quoting over and over again Second Timothy chapter four verses three and four. It says this for the time will come When they will not endorse sound doctrine, but according to their own desires or will Because they have itching ears, they will heap up for themselves teachers, and they will turn their ears away from the truth and be turned aside to myths or fables. You see, the way that it's constructed in that sentence is that the will is at the fountainhead of the stream. And if the will is corrupt, you can see all of the trash downstream. That happens within this group of people. Because their will is corrupt, because they're working according to their own desires. They then only accept certain set of teachers. They only accept their own truth and turn away from the true truth and they turn aside to these fables, constructing a kind of elaborate fortress to never have to really deal with the reality of Christ. That's the picture that Paul gives to Timothy of really all heretics Underlying all of our reading, in other words, and our hearing of the scriptures is our will and our desires. And I do not think that as a modern church we take that seriously enough. They predetermine what we will accept, what we will reject, and even the way we construct the doctrines of the scriptures. The will is before it all. It is like a lens that predetermines how you would see anything. I've seen this. I'm only 44. I do have gray hair on the sides of my head now. I don't know where that came from. I think it was trying to lead the church through COVID. Yeah, I think that was it. Um what happened before, you're right, it did. It was seminary. But in the little bit of time that the Lord has given me in ministry, I've seen a few things. And I was pleased when the Lord revealed these truths in the scriptures some time ago. so that I could better interpret what was happening in front of me within people. I remember watching a person whose will was so corrupted by an idolatrous desire for status and fame That they clung to novel interpretations of Scripture that would give them that kind of edge, that kind of fame, that kind of status of being set apart. To them, the truth, if you could see below the surface and you could see their hearts, if you could see the fruit that the Spirit makes you watch out for once he gives you that kind of wisdom, to them the truth was not important as the truth. What was important was using the scriptures in order to gain prestige. And you could see it Now, I have watched others whose will longed to control and dominate other people. And guess therefore what they did with the scriptures. Through their legalistic handling of the word, they would use it to control their situations and the people that were in their lives. I have seen some that are afraid of any kind of conflict whatsoever. And guess what they did with the scriptures? Because their will was already bent and inclined that way. They only accepted scriptural instruction and reading from those teachers who interpret the scriptures from that same absolute pacifistic interpretation. The examples can go on over and over and over again, and I myself am guilty of all the examples, probably. Because the will is so elusive and corrupt. We still wrestle with it. The will predetermines the reading and the hearing of the word. And therefore That is one of the reasons why Luke is commending not willfulness here, but a willingness. A kind of softness and malleability to what God is actually saying, not a contortion to make God's words fit our prior desires of what we wanted from our life. Which is a great danger in the life of every Christian, which is one of the reasons why this is commended here When you read and listen to God's Word, how seriously do you take your desires and your will? I have got to tell you something healthy that has happened among the leadership here. We have become scared to death to make the final pronouncement as to the will of the Lord. Because we are realistic as to the corrupting natures of our desires. We spend more, we will still make the declaration because that is our calling. But we have become more and more aware of the need for prayer upon prayer upon prayer that we would not distort the truth but give it truly to his people, that we would never mislead the sheep. Do you have the same kind of sobriety when it comes to you understanding the will of God and the reading of His Word? That is a healthy sobriety that is commended to us. If you understand the biblical teaching on this, I will tell you what you will do every single time. You will pray your little heart out that God would truly allow you to understand His Word, because you would realize you are so corrupt you can't see unless He lets you see Even as a Christian, there is enough of the old man present, enough desires that can make you wonky to where you will not be able to see the truth. Teachers, I know we have a lot of teachers here. You spend a lot of time with a child's memory. We have an academy here. I see how the teaching goes. The child's memory, the child's intellect. But I would encourage you, please do not forget to pray for your students and their will. If they could memorize all of the states and all of the countries and all of the geographical facts in all the world, but know not Christ because their will is corrupt, are you happy? What will they do with the geographical facts if their willingness is not present to serve the Christ? Will they not use it against him as an enemy? Oh, pray for their will. And it is Christ alone that is able to shepherd a will. Please continue to pray for your students that they will be humbled before Him like the Bereans. That they would be like Bereans, that they would have not a willfulness but a willingness. Parents who have grown-up children who have departed from the faith. You are all too familiar with this message. You know the reality of what is commended here, that the intellect is not the same thing as the will. You could talk to your departed children until you are blue in the face and you are not receiving a hearing. And that is confirmed for you here in the scriptures, and it gives you a sense of direction. The primary problem is not intellectual or logical. What comes first is a problem of the will and a willingness. Like the Bereans. And so I encourage you, just as Paul did to Timothy, and this is one for you to memorize, 2 Timothy 2, 24 through 26. is to you parents who are wrestling with older children who seem to have departed from the faith. Do not quarrel, but be gentle to all. Able to teach. Be patient. In humility, correcting those who are in opposition. And that will take some wiliness so that you don't have that relationship sever. And here is the key. If God perhaps will grant them repentance, so that they may know the truth, and that they may come to their senses and escape the snare of the devil, having been taken captive by him to do his will. You see how we land on the will again? They have, in a sense, the will of him who has taken them captive, and so let us pray And those that you trust confide in them that others may pray also. Pray for your patience. Pray for your humility. Pray that you wouldn't be quarrelsome, quarrelsome, pray that you would be wily so that you can actually offer correction. And pray that they would be released and come to their senses. Pray that they would have a willingness by way of the Spirit Now that is our first application. The first commendation that we have is that there would be a kind of readiness. And I'm just seeking for you to start to take that seriously. And giving you some options where you can start to show some fruit in that. And it's mostly prayer, to tell you the truth. That's what he has given to us with regards to the will. Prayer. And we can pray, may your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. But the second application is a diligent examination. And this again will require your attention. I'm going to say some things that are probably a bit unfamiliar to you. In verse 11, the Bereans search the scriptures daily. And that's why I have chosen the word diligent for this point because of their daily efforts. That's the point here. They're diligent in it, they're going after it, they're not passive. And I chose the word examination for the word searched It's a very special word actually there. I encourage you to talk to somebody who knows Greek about that word. Do a word study on it. The word is constructed, it has a prefix, and then it has a main word for to judge. And it is often and primarily used in judicial settings. We talked about the same word at the men's breakfast, by the way, those of you who were there. It is used primarily in judicial settings. And the point is something like this. You hear a case, imagine being a judge, you hear the case You evaluate the situation that is in front of you by way of evidence and testimony and all of those things, and then given everything that is in front of you, you render judgment That's the point here. That's the kind of searching and the examination that the Bereans are doing. The Bereans are doing the same. With a will shaped by the Holy Spirit, they listen closely to Paul's reasoning, explaining and demonstrating, as we saw last week They then examine or judge that what Paul has said is in fact according to the scriptures. Because that is their role and their standard. The scriptures here, by the way, and this may be the surprise for you, though if you've been here for any length of time, it's not going to be that surprising because you hear it often from the pulpit. The scriptures here that the Bereans turned to and examined Paul's statements by, the rule by which they judged him, was what? It was the Old Testament. Surprise, surprise, modern evangelical. It was the Old Testament. It is not the New Testament because that part of the canon is not formally in existence yet. The Bereans are looking at the Old Testament passages from which Paul is teaching, and they are judging that Paul's interpretation of the Old Testament is. Sound. That's what's happening here. And that, my friends, is a glorious realization It is exactly the kind of thing that we need to hear and what we are facing. The church continues to make the exact same judgment today. If you are a Christian, you are saying the same thing. You are saying, I have read and understood the apostles, and I believe that they have got the scriptures read well. Especially concerning God the Father and what He is doing through His Christ and the Spirit. The apostolic understanding of the Old Testament, listen to this closely. Even if this sounds a bit intellectual and abstract to you, I'm telling you right now, I'm giving this to you because it's profitable for you. The apostolic understanding of the Old Testament. Paul's reading of the Old Testament is the authoritative interpretation of what to believe concerning who God is What he is doing in this world and what he requires of you and of all mankind and even of the angels. Now this is a much needed realization. I don't know if you know that already or not, but we're getting ready to graduate a lot of people from university where you're going to see this coming in handy. It's already begun Today, many rightly see a major problem, and it is formed in this question: Whose interpretation of the Bible is the correct interpretation? That's what they're all searching for under the name of something called deconstruction. They're seeking to deconstruct present-day Christianity to find out the kernel of what is actually real, except for all of those instead of all the additives that corrupt human beings have added to it That's their mindset. I'm not saying that I would phrase it that way. That's their mindset. There is a current movement that has answered the question this way. How do we know whose interpretation is correct? A lot of them are answering the question by saying, well, whatever the church fathers said, and I'm not talking about the church fathers in the sense of the apostles. I'm talking about that set of books that are in my office. I'll show you the Church Fathers. They are turning to them, thinking that they are untainted from the corruption of mankind. And this often or can oftentimes accompany a conversion to Roman Catholicism, which I'll just be straight with you right now. I do not believe that Roman Catholicism follows apostolic understanding of the scriptures in very vital salvation issues. So this isn't a good thing. The problem with turning to just the church fathers and reliance upon them is that the church fathers, if you could talk to them. If I could bring Irenaeus up here and say, hey, buddy, say a few words to these guys and just the martyrs up next. They would say to you, we're just trying to understand what Paul said because he Is the authoritative interpretation of all of the scriptures. You got it wrong. You stopped short of the goal. And so, insofar as they do help us to understand the scriptures, then they are good. And that's what we have to have as a kind of message to ourselves and to others today. The Old Testament, the scriptures, are all understood by way of the apostolic teaching And you have to take you end up having to take two steps at least when you're a part of this kind of reasoning If you're truly going to adopt what we see here in the commendation, that we would try to understand the apostles insofar as the Spirit lets us. In order to be able to understand the Old Testament scriptures, guess what the first thing is that you're going to have to change about yourself as a modern evangelical? You are going to have to start to respect the Old Testament Right now, you have in your mind, probably as a modern evangelical, the word old in the sense of like an iPhone 6. I don't want an iPhone six. I mean I I ra actually I'd like a flip phone. I'd like no phone. I just want to talk to you in person. It's so much easier for me But you it's not old in the sense of an outdated model. And that's one of the first things that we're going to have to change, is that many today look at the Old Testament as something outdated from which we have moved on. And they've given special theological terms to this. We have succeeded. It is abrogated. And this is just not true. It's a sloppy handling of the difference between the administrations. The Old Testament is not old in that sense. It is old in this sense. It is tried. It is true. It has been proven over and over and over again as the revelation from God Himself concerning Himself and what He requires of us. That's the first step, you're going to have to reorient yourself to your Bible and start knowing the bulk, the bulk of what He has given to you. The second step is that you must see that the primary role which the apostles are taking is that they are in fact authoritative interpreters of the Old Testament. We oftentimes don't read the apostles that way. We think that what they're giving is entirely new when the majority of it is them just simply trying to get you to understand what has already been said. and what has been done in the life, death, resurrection, and ascension, and the return of Jesus Christ. They're just trying to make sure that you understand what it actually means because there are tricky people out there who will interpret it a different way. Which is exactly what was happening in Paul's day. Those other Jews had a different interpretation of the same set of scriptures that Paul did. They disagreed with Paul's understanding of the minor prophets in the Psalms, for example. I have been sharing with you the importance of reading Hosea Christocentrically. The Jews would have disagreed with that. But the Bereans, they were able to see that God had truly given the apostles insights into dividing the word correctly. They had the right interpretation of Psalm 22. It was found. The key, the key to unlocking the whole Psalm was in the Jesus of Nazareth. As we saw on the road to Emmaus. He unfolded the scriptures to them so they could see that all of it was talking about him, whether it's the law or the prophets. And did not their hearts burn within them that day when the scriptures were plainly opened up and all made sense as to what God is doing through the Christ? Notice how Jesus taught from the Old Testament. And he taught his apostles how to divide the word correctly. And he did so even through his spirit, and it has been written or inscripturated for us that we would have the pattern of sound words until his return. Let me ask you, do you read your Bible that way? Do you read the Gospels and the letters from the apostles so as to understand God's will through the Old Testament? Have you not realized that an often quoted phrase in the New Testament is this, according to the Scriptures? And that's not referring to the New Testament? I think if you're honest with yourself, because of the culture in which we have been brought up, I think we have to say no. And maybe there's a spectrum here. Maybe you've started and you're progressing. Maybe you would say not as much as I would like. Or maybe you would say no. Or I started this a year ago and it's been great. I'm really looking forward to continue to read the scriptures this way. Whatever your answer is, I do have an encouragement for you. Do not try to read your scriptures this way on your own. That is not God's intention for you, except in extraordinary situations. You are a part of a community for a reason. It is a community of people who by the Spirit have been given the willingness to submit themselves to the truth of the apostolic teaching. And it is in that community that you will be able to understand the truth. Reading happens as a people and as a group. You need to find yourself a guide who does know how to study the scriptures like we see here commended in the Bereans. You need to find Bereans today, and you need to study with them. I get a question um quite often actually from different people. Jesse, what translation do you recommend? And I say, I've got a couple. But whatever the translation is that I recommend, the greatest one is the one that you're reading with somebody else who knows how to read the scriptures Don't think that you can just go off by yourself and study them, no matter the translation, except in extraordinary situations. What I'm saying by way of application on this second point. is do not be ashamed to be like that Ethiopian we saw earlier in Acts. It says this. So Philip ran to him. And heard him reading the prophet Isaiah and said, Do you understand what you're reading? And the Ethiopian said, How can I? I mean how many times have we said that? You gotta be honest with yourself. How can I understand this Isaiah thing? How can he but that's not the full phrase. He says, how can I unless someone guides me? And he asked Philip to come and to sit with him. That's very sweet, isn't it? That's a great commendation again for us from Acts chapter 8, verses 30 and 31. You need to sit with a competent guide. For some diligent examination. What we've seen in the scriptures is a truth that many of us have heard. Be a Berean. But what we've started to do is unpack it a bit, paying attention to the words that are present there. Christians are commended to relate to the apostolic preaching like the Bereans in two main ways. By way of the Spirit making us ready and willing. How will you take the reality of the human will more seriously in your search for truth and goodness? The Spirit also gives the church competent guides. They bring out, as Jesus says, treasures, old and new. What competent guide will help you to profit from the scriptures? Let us pray