Three years and younger are now dismissed to the nursery. Let's turn to Acts chapter 11 and our reading today Will be verses twenty-seven through thirty. Eleven twenty-seven through thirty. And in these days prophets came from Jerusalem to Antioch, and one of them, namabas. Stood up and showed by the Spirit that there was going to be a great famine throughout all the world, which also happened in the days of Claudius Caesar. Then the disciples, each according to his ability, determined to send relief to the brethren dwelling in Judea. This they also did, and sent it to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul. Let us pray. Christ, as our King, we ask that you would let us know your will, and we pray that you would execute your will by way of us, your bride. We ask, Lord, that you would give us wisdom to be in the world but not of it. In Christ's name, Amen. You may be seated. Last week we had the opportunity to observe From God's holy word, Jesus pouring out his kingly grace upon Gentiles in Antioch. Jerusalem sent Barnabas, Barnabas grabbed Paul, and both Barnabas and Paul taught the Gentiles for a whole year. And one of the main questions we ended up asking was, well, what did they teach? And of course, we looked to Acts 26 to see that they taught good works in keeping with their repentance. But when we got into the particulars, what we saw because of the language of the hand of the Lord being political Is that they were teaching, generally speaking, that they are called to allegiance to King Jesus. Their life in the community was meant, just as our life today is meant in our day and time, to be a public display of loyalty to the king. This week, what we can do is we can still ask that question, what did they teach What did it look like for them to disciple them? And we can actually be a bit more specific about what loyalty looks like. To get at that loyalty and what it looks like, I have three observations for you this morning before we get into some of the implications. The three observations are about disciples About the relief and about a pattern that we're seeing here. So just uh follow these words with me. I want you to first notice that when we get to verse 27 When we read about these folks in Antioch in verse 29, it refers to them as disciples. Now that lets you know what's Luke what Luke's emphasis is. What is he focusing on? What a person is called Helps you to know how another person who's calling them that is viewing them. I'm sure you've been called lots of things And what a person calls you lets you know what they how they're focused on you. And here they are called disciples. He doesn't call them Gentiles He calls them disciples because the focus at this point is how this new community is following publicly Christ Jesus as the King. So that's the first observation I want you to miss that. And there's another observation with another word, and it's the word relief. It is a very important word, which is why that's the title of the sermon. You can see that also here, that they gave relief. The way they follow Christ as king is summarized in this word. It's actually a bit of a technical term. We know that this word, if you were to look at the original language, it's the same word we have for deacon. And you can see why that word would be present here. Agabus, the prophet, revealed that there would be a worldwide famine. The disciples in Antioch, therefore, decided to send relief, or if you wanted to, you could say, in the spirit of the deacon, they decided to serve. They decided to serve the brethren who are dwelling in Judea. But you need to think of diaconal relief and diaconal service. That's what they're entering into. They have become the servants of those who are in Judea, which is interesting because it's a primarily Jewish population. So you're really seeing the household of God coming together here It was a small beginning with Cornelius, and now you see even the sharing of finances. Like deacons. They heard of the practical and the concrete needs of the brethren in verse 29. And in Christ, therefore, they pulled together what they had, and they sent it by the hands of Barnabas and Paul to those who are in need. Now that's the second observation. So we have a key word disciples, we have a key word relief. To help us to know what's going on here. But then there's also a pattern which really shapes our understanding of all of the particulars. I wonder if you noticed the pattern. This is a regular pattern that we have seen within the book of Acts. Christ, as the king, is moving from town to town, conquering. He sends a Spirit, and to those who receive the Spirit, a particular set of actions and way of thinking and attitude start to spring forth from them as the fruits of the Spirit. We have seen this picture before, in other words, which is why the title of this observation is Pattern. Think of Acts 2, verses 44 through 45. Now all who believed were together and had all things in common, and sold their possessions and good, and divided them among all as any one had need. You already saw this within the Jewish community that was filled with the Spirit. It happened again in Acts 4, verses 33 through 35. And with great power the apostles gave witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. Nor was there any one among them who lacked For all who were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the proceeds of the things that were sold, and laid them at the apostles' feet, and they distributed to each as any one had need It ends up being a mark of what it means to be a Christian community, to see needs amongst the brethren, and to meet the need. It ends up being the primary way in which the church is witnessed on the face of the earth. They will know you are my disciples by your love for one another. You see that? That's really what's going on here. That's Luke's emphasis. What we are witnessing here is not just good-hearted human compassion and philanthropy We witness the heart of what it means to be a spirit-filled community of loyal disciples for Christ. This was flowing out of the teaching that Barnabas and Paul were giving to them. Much of that teaching is retained for us in 2 Corinthians. But here we see that through this community's actions They are manifesting the doctrine that Paul and Barnabas gave to them. And that is basically this: You have been called by the grace of God to be Christ's disciples. And as the disciples of Jesus Christ, you must be like Christ. And to be like Christ means that you serve the church community, because that is what he does. Through and through. If you wanted to put it a bit shorter, this is really the main reality that Luke is emphasizing: that as disciples of Christ, we are like Christ, serving or giving relief. to the church community. Now there are two ways to fall off the path here. If you were to think of a a single path and that's the correct teaching and living here, you can fall off on the right hand side of the cliff that's on the path, or the left hand side of the cliff You can either be too narrow or you can be too broad. And guess what? Those are the main implications this morning. So that's how I want to draw that out. That as disciples of Christ, we are like Christ serving the church community. And I want to look at becoming too narrow or avoiding becoming too narrow and understanding that and then avoiding being too broad. Too narrow. We must not understand this passage too narrowly. The concrete situation is a famine Paul and Barnabas took concretely a financial collection. You can read about this actually in many letters of the scriptures. And they took that from the concrete disciples in Antioch down to Judea, which was about 350 miles away. They brought concrete money to them, distributing it to the poor for bread and other food, and perhaps medical needs. But you are in too narrow of a state of mind if you think that is the only application for relieving need in the church community. If you think that serving the church community, for example, is only financial, or only relates to the poor, or only involves food and famine, then your vision has become too narrow. We are given scriptures like this not to lose ourselves in the particularity, but to be able to see a larger vision when held together with the rest of the council of God. The main point ends up being that as disciples of Christ, we are like Christ in serving the church community. And so what you end up having to ask Is what does Christ look like in his service to his bride? Is it only financial care? Is it only food care? Is it only medical care? Of course it's not, it's not less than that But what is Christ's overarching attitude? What is his posture toward his community, who is the church? Well, in actually the development of Paul's theology of giving, in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 at least, in verse 9, listen to In our bulletin you we have already read this. Listen to this main statement to orient you so that you don't become too narrow in your understanding For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that you through his poverty might become rich. Now you see that that's not just located in one small part of human life. He just consumed everything. Rich and poor here are not limited to financial assets. This is portraying Jesus in light of a deep biblical framework for a righteous king. And you can see that from key words that are happening in 2 Corinthians. Listen to this from Psalm 1, verses 2 and 3. This should be very familiar with you. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law he meditates day and night. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that brings forth its fruit in its season, whose leaf also shall not wither. And whatever he does shall prosper. Now, anyone who has taken the time to study the Psalms understands that this is primarily speaking about the king. It is the this whole first section of the Psalms is moving into the king and his reign and the authority that will be given to him by God. There's a there are coronation psalms. And here we know that the king is dedicated to meditating on the law day and night. It's one of their jobs. That's why they get a copy of the law. And then you can see that a role of a righteous king is as they are planted by these rivers of water, as they are filled with the Spirit. To not only understand, but to execute that law, to actually have some kind of power. They bring forth fruit in its season. Their leaf doesn't wither. Nothing can stand against them They prosper. Now, as Americans, we typically read this psalm as, well, if I obey God, then I will get personal success. And that's not what's going on here. This is all about community. It is an unrighteous king If you wanted to retain that, even in your individualistic reading, if it's an individual or an individual king and they're only working for their own good so that they can have greater houses, it's an unrighteous king by definition He becomes like a tree, Jesus Christ, of course, being the King. He becomes like a tree from whom the whole community benefits. His good works become like fruit feeding the whole community, especially those who have trouble getting the fruit. He makes sure that they get something. That's what's going on in all of these accounts across Act. You're seeing a righteous king act through his people, setting up a society that is just. And the point is that since we are his disciples, that we are to imitate the righteous king. It is the fundamental posture, and it must be the fundamental posture of Christians to be righteous in their Relationship with the church community in the same way that the king is righteous in relationship to his community. So let me ask you a few questions just so we can start to get down into the particularities of your life There are two answers to every one of these questions. There is an answer from the world, and there is an answer from Christ. As disciples of Christ, what is the purpose of you getting a career? And having a career and being established in your career. Think of the American answer to that. What's the American answer to that? Toys? Personal peace and affluence? What is Christ's answer? The community. Let me get, you know, each question meddles just a little bit more. Here's another one. As disciples of Christ, what is the purpose of marriage? It is only a modern conception of marriage to think that it is for you primarily as an individual. It has historically been known as a benefit to the community. That's because historically people were listening to Christ. As disciples of Christ, what is the purpose of having or adopting children? It's the same answer. As disciples of Christ, what is the purpose of education? I gave you the example last week of a village sending off someone from Uganda into an American university to come back and benefit the community. That's Christ's vision. As disciples of Christ, what is the purpose of singleness? When you look at singleness, which can happen multiple ways and is given multiple names in the scriptures. The purpose ends up being for dedication in a way that those who are married cannot give to the community. For example, if you are single by way of being widowed, if you look at the scriptures, you have the time To dedicate to the saints in person and in prayer that no one who is married would be able to do. It is a gift The world tells us that those things are for status, that those things are for your prestige, that those things are for your personal peace and your affluence And what we are seeing here, if we do not become too narrow, is that Christ tells us that those things are all meant for Christian community. That is exactly what the king has done He did not just keep his glory to himself, grasping for it, unwilling to let it go. Look at Philippians chapter 2. If you become rich in any of those areas, you are called to become like Christ using what you have. for the brethren, even if they are three hundred and fifty miles away or more That's the model for us here. It's another piece of the puzzle of what it would mean to live under Christ as his disciple. That though he was rich Yet for your sakes he became poor, that you through his poverty might become rich. And essentially, what we're being taught here is that deep Deuteronomic, proverbial, and psalmic vision of life. That we may be like trees whose fruit feeds, not just in finances That would be too narrow. This ends up being a whole life perspective which is completely subversive to everything you're taught from the world. At least these days. Now that's what it would mean, at least in one sense, to become too narrow, to miss this whole vision that's happening here. But we could also become too broad. The opposite problem is too broad. The disciples in Antioch give relief To the brethren. They do not open up relief, in this case, to the whole world I'm not saying that it's wrong to give relief to those who are not the brethren, but there is a priority to the household of God. So we must not become too broad. And there's a great deal of wisdom that needs to be exercised in conducting yourself in these areas. Because of Christ's work in uniting Jew and Gentile by the Spirit, they have become one household. And it's not a theoretical union. It's playing out in real life and how they relate to each other. And those in the same household give priority to others in the household And this is largely misunderstood today, and we will find ourselves as a church in a great deal of trouble if we don't start making some of these distinctions. Giving relief as Christians is often framed as general compassion for whoever. There's no sense of priorities, there's no hierarchy, and you will land yourself in trouble. And of course, Christians should do good to all. But our priority is to the Christian community as brothers and sisters and mothers and fathers in Christ. And I say this because primarily of multiple scriptures, but the most explicit one is Galatians chapter 6, verse 10. Therefore, as we have opportunity, let us do good to all, especially to those who are of the household of faith. There's a delicate balance there and hierarchy and distinctions. Now, to bring this point home, I want you to consider the original situation that this group of people are facing. It'll help you to understand why this distinction needs to be made And I am anticipating you're going to need to start making this distinction more and more. Jerusalem and Judea received the grace of Christ, and they swore allegiance to King Jesus. This resulted, as we just read again last week, in a widespread persecution where they had to flee their hometowns. If you were a follower of Jesus Christ, that was not a commendable statement. You were removed from your local church, your lifeline to your community of any kind of help. You were disowned by your family. If you look at the letter to the Hebrews, your property was confiscated. There were no houses and homes for you any longer. You did not have brothers and sisters and mothers and fathers. You were removed from the family. Your family ties and the people that you would rely upon when you got in trouble, all of that was severed. And in a community like that in that ancient world, that meant death So, what do they do? Let me just ask you: what do they do in a situation like that? When you have no family and you have no church, to whom can you turn? And of course, we know that Jesus thought of this. And he established another family upon which all Christians could rely, even if their biological families denied them. And you will see, just knowing that fact, that Christ was aware that this was happening and he would set it up for people to be okay, you can start looking through the scriptures like Luke chapter 18, 19 and through 30. So he said to them, Assuredly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or parents or brothers or wife or children For the sake of the kingdom of God, who shall not receive many times more in this present time and in the age to come eternal life And that is what happened. The Christian community, whether Jew or Gentile, became each other's brother and sister. They shared house and they shared home. Because they were now the household of God. I saw this taken very seriously by one pastor who I was under for some time. Well, I shouldn't say I saw, I heard of this report. I heard a report where the pastor was seeking to take care of one of the congregants. They were in a very they were in a medical emergency. Goes to the hospital to be with the congregant, and of course, the world does not think like Christ thinks. And so they said, You can't come in here unless your family. And the report, and there's no uh to my knowledge, there was no one there for this person. And taking them at their word, but more importantly, taking God at his word, the pastor said, Well, Well, I'm her brother. He was living it out And that ends up showing a mentality that is meant to pervent to be a part of us as a body. You can see why that would be so important in that original context, can't you? If they didn't take up the mantle of being each other's brothers and sisters and mothers and fathers, they would be destitute. And it is already beginning amongst us today where the same thing is happening. I already have experience with folks who have had to give up their mothers and their fathers. In order to follow Christ. And I can't tell you who those people are because I'm not going to embarrass them, but they are depending upon you to be their family. This is not a quaint idea. This is the plan of Jesus Christ Himself because He knows what His community will face as they wait for Him in long-suffering. Through the time of the virus, Christ has in fact, I'm watching him do it in his providence. Christ has in fact and is in fact separating his church from the world. There's a great sifting going on right now The church was wrapped up in personal police and affluence, as I have declared to you before. That was our main goal in life. The church has been involved in a large-scale idolatry, and Christ is changing that in his mercy and in his grace. As Christians are in the world but not truly of it, as the shift starts to happen, where he calls his people out from the idolatry, it will become more and more clear that there are two separate cities in the world. And this city over here, though was capable in the past of relying on this city, it will not be able to happen like that anymore. And that will mean the separation of brother and sister, of grandchild and grandparent. And some of you are already beginning to experience this. So it is now time to understand that we cannot become too broad. That we have a responsibility and a priority to each other that Christ declares in his word for a reason. I think the main question here that you need to consider as a Christian, because this is how it happens practically and concretely. When the Christian community, when someone needs you, who is your Christian brother and sister, or child, or mother or father, when they need you, will you be available? That's the main question. And the answer in the past, because of the large-scale idolatry, is you were not available. Speaking generally. Because you are wrapped up in some other priority. And here we have a call back to this vision. We must not give ourselves away to other communities as a priority, but to God and His people. We are called to not be too broad, in other words, in our communal allegiances. There are many communities out there that want all of your attention. But we are to do good especially to the household of faith If I am seeing things correctly, then a good model to leave you with, a little vision to leave you with where we are heading, are families who are not native to the United States of America. We have one here, they gather here for Korean church, and they have such a strong culture where they are relying on one another That no matter where their children go to school, they always end up the best in the school. And the only way that they can do that is because even in the teenager's mind, Their primary allegiance is to the Korean community. They know this. This is what I knew too growing up. That if I make that decision, my grandmother is going to whack my butt. And that was motivating. But my mind was on a particular community just as theirs is, and that I believe is where the Christian community is going And I'm going to tell you right now that if you neglect the means of grace, of contributing to the community and letting it contribute to you, I do not believe that you will make it. As disciples of Christ, we are like Christ serving and giving relief to the church community. It is his divine means of grace so that we can make it. So that we can be preserved, so that we can persevere. We must not think of this too narrowly We must be like trees bearing fruit in every area for the community, not just in finances. If you have a gift or a talent, it is meant to be given away We must not think too broadly. The needs of the household of faith in wisdom receive priority. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for giving us this vision