Twenty three of chapter sixteen. Now the lords of the Philistines gathered together to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon, their God, and to rejoice. And they said, Our God has delivered into our hands Samson, our enemy. When the people saw him, they praised their God, for they said, Our God has delivered into our hands our enemy, the destroyer of our land, and the one who multiplied our dead. So it happened when their hearts were merry that they said, Call for Samson, that he may perform for us. So they called for Samson from the prison, and he performed for them. And they stationed him between the pillars Then Samson said to the lad who held him by the hand, Let me feel the pillars which support the temple, so that I can lean on them. Now the temple was full of men and women All the lords of the Philistines were there, about three thousand men and women on the roof, while watching Samson performed. Then Samson called to the Lord, saying, O Lord God, remember me, I pray. Strengthen me, I pray. Just this once, O God. that I may with one blow take vengeance on the Philistines for my two eyes. And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars which supported the temple And he braced himself against them, one on his right and the other on his left. Then Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines. Then he pushed with all his might, and the temple fell on the Lord's and all the people who were in it So the dead that he killed at his death were more than he had killed in his life. And his brothers and all his father's household came down and took him, and brought him up, and buried him Between Zora and Eshteol in the tomb of his father Manoah. He had judged Israel twenty years. Let us pray. Oh Lord, we pray that we would learn your heavenly lessons this morning. We pray that you would make us good students in the school of Christ. We ask this in his name. Amen. You may be seated Well briefly last week We acknowledge that when the church is canonized, it is shaved of its strength But guess what? Hair grows back. Now I hope that you all I didn't get a chance to dwell on that part of the proposition or doctrine last week, but I hope that that goes deep into your soul, nevertheless There's plenty of things in the world to discourage you. I just want you to remember hair grows back And that's what we were dwelling on last week. Now we have a few observations this week with the final episode of Samson's account, and then we'll move into some more horrific scenes. So let's begin by just noticing a few things together, and then I have two main applications. The first thing I want you to notice is that just like uh we're really continuing from last week. Last week Samson was in prison as we saw with those dramatic reversals. And this week, we can see the scene moves quickly away from him in prison. It's going to move back to him as he's brought onto the scene. But it moves away from him For us to see the Philistines exulting in his capture by singing hymns to their God. You can see that in verses 23 and 24. At first, it is the leaders of the Philistines in verse 23. The title given here are Lords. Think of a city and each mayor of a city is now gathered to celebrate this thing. You can think of it that way. That's in verse 23, and they sing a little hymn or make a poem for him. And then it's the same thing with the larger group of people or the people of the Philistines in 24. They have a little victory chant themselves. And what's interesting about the chance, which is always good for us to see in our primarily secular culture, is that the Philistines theologically interpret what is going on with the capture of Samson. In other words, they have here not attributed the capture of Samson to their own strength, but to the patronage of their God, who is Dagon. He is the one who always provides for them. They just had to be patient. And here he is acting on their behalf, so says the Philistines, and so they sing him two victory hymns. You can see that in the stanzas. I hope it's in poetic verse in your Bibles That's the first, that's the kickoff here with this beginning of this last episode of Samson. We then move into a second notification or observation. The songs were part of a larger victory party. You can see this in verse 25. Hey, we're singing. Somebody get the champagne and the cigars. Let's turn this into a bigger party bash. That's essentially what they do. The wine is spilling, and they need some entertainment to go along with it. So someone comes up with the bright idea to bring Samson out. I think it was the lad. You remember you remember hearing about the lad in the story? I think it's the lad who brought him up out of the prison They bring him up out of the prison. They place him in the center of a room between two pillars. So if you want to picture this, imagine that there is a balcony going all the way around this room And it's large enough to fill up with several thousand people. And they're all looking down in the center. And in the center are two pillars holding up the whole thing, the whole structure And in the center of those pillars is the one that they have conquered. And he is there now in his humiliation, a form of amusement for those who are drinking the champagne and smoking the cigars It would be quite similar to what you will see within the Roman era when they conquer Christians, they dip them in lighter fluid, tie them to a stake, and make them uh garden torches as they enjoy their hors d'oeuvres walking around the garden. You can read about that or ask any history teacher about the reign of Nero and Diocletian. Well, something similar here And now you get the suspense and you get the picture of what is getting ready to happen at this party. And that takes us to the observation number three. The way the narrator unfolds this, you really should be feeling the tension Wait a second. The strongest man stronger than lions is between two pillars holding up an entire structure and everybody's on the second floor? And hair grows back? Oh, guess what's gonna happen? Dun dun dun I was almost tempted while reading the scripture to say dun dun dun. Well here it is. And this is magnificent, actually. There's a moment of lucidity and clarity for Samson. The moment goes away rather quickly, in my opinion. But there is a moment because he prays And the words here are Adonai Yahweh. He for the first time is not saying Elohim, which is the same word that is used by the Philistines to talk about a deity in general. Here he says Adonai Yahweh, which is to say sovereign Lord. And with one, he asks for one last burst of strength. Decreed by the sovereignty of God, and that was his moment of clarity, and now it will go away because he will not use his strength for the benefit of the community. He simply wants personal vengeance because they gows out his eyes. So he wants one blow for the two eyes. And that was meant to be put poetically, the way that he framed that. Samson therefore braces, it says in some translation, it gets the idea like he's holding on to it, he's not. It's like this. That's the picture. He's pushing out the pillars. Samson braces the left arm and the right arm, and he pushes and he says, Let me die with the Philistines. And with that, the whole temple comes crashing down, all of the people and the lords of the Philistines, and the narrator poetically ends the scene. With this beautiful little statement, and he says, So the dead that he killed at his death were more than he had killed in his life. Beautiful little statement to summarize the life of Gideon and to see his end. Now, this is pretty interesting, but I found out this week, it's always interesting to see how have these stories been read by the faithful throughout the centuries And uh actually John Milton has picked up this story and he's written his own accounts or uh lyrical poem about Samson. Perhaps you want to read that. But John Milton has in his poem Samson emerging from his blindness and powerlessness, enriched and ennobled sacrificing his life for the sake of God's divine mission. That's how he views this moment. And I would like to talk to John and just say What are you reading? Because it doesn't seem to be the same thing that I'm reading. Enriched and ennobled to sacrifice himself for the divine mission? Now I do think that God is He's always gracious. And I think He is gracious here and He does honor the one whom He called, who is Samson. By giving him this at the end, rather than him just dying there chained to two pillars while everybody's laughing at him. In a sense, he gets the laugh, laugh, last laugh. And I do think in that way He is honored. But there is that is not what is going on here with this account. Paying attention, though God gives some honor to Samson, even at the hour of his death Samson only thinks of himself. Think about what the narrator is doing here and how the spirit orders all of these things. Samson was called to deliver God's people from the oppression of the Philistines And instead of using his strength for that, he squandered it, chasing only those things that were for his personal pleasure, which is why his eyes are continually brought up. He's just An impulsive person, only chasing what his eyes see. And even at the end, when he has no eyes, he's still fighting for his eyes in some way He can't get out of his own way. The divine mission is not his motive, though God is gracious and did honor him at the end, to where he would get the last laugh. Let me take vengeance for my two eyes. And that's the key here. Because what we end up seeing with Samson when he cries, Let me die with the Philistines. Is that's about right. He's very much a Philistine. And the way that he conducts himself and the way that he thinks about his life and particularly how he treats women. which will launch us into the next couple episodes in Judges. Samson lives by bodily impulse and personal vendetta, and in the end, Samson, who acts like a Philistine, dies with the rest of the Philistines. Yet in the midst of this, and this is always the other side of the coin within Judges, Adunai Yahweh accomplishes his plan to deal a strategic death blow to the Philistine nation. Not only the people were present there in the temple to Dagon, but the lords, the mayors, those in charge, those seeking to make all of the decisions, the generals, the lords of each city of the Philistines are killed. in a single blow, giving a strategic advantage to Israel. And so what we saw in the beginning of Samson's account in verse four has certainly been accomplished by Yahweh, despite Samson himself. And we end his story. Now, when we gather all of these things up, like ingredients to bake a cake, the doctrinal cake that you have this morning that we're to eat from is this Another symptom of the canonization of the church is this: when we substitute, we often substitute the divine mission for our personal ambitions. Now, that is a trajectory that the church goes on, is really all I'm saying to you, and we're supposed to learn from that. The church, throughout history, can be tempted to substitute the demon the divine mission for personal ambitions. It's another way to say this, and it's this. We can be a people that move from thy kingdom come to my kingdom come. Thy kingdom come, the my kingdom come. Now we're all aware of that reality. But that's our doctrine this morning. What I would like to do is look at that doctrine under two main headings, the mirror of God and the mission of God. And I have been praying for you all morning. Been praying for you all morning that my that that I and you would be good soil for the seed of the Word. And that we would grow up and have a harvest that brings fruit into this world. That's what we need. So may God use these points to that end. We often say, go move from saying, Thy kingdom come to my kingdom come. So the mirror of God is where I'd like to begin. That's the first point. Now we're if you um if you wanted to you could flip a couple pages and you can see that our uh judges series is getting ready to end here pretty soon. So I better come up with what we're gonna do next And since we are at the end of the Judges series, I therefore hope that you have, by way of the Spirit, become attuned to the fact that Judges is very much acting like the mirror that James talks about inside of his book, inside of his letter. James says, when you look into the word, it's like a mirror, and the scriptures show you yourself and they show you the church. so that you then can perfect what is lacking by the power of the Holy Spirit. That's the first two chapters of James. You're welcome. That's what he's teaching. And judges, in this case, is the mirror, and it's revealing so much to us about what can happen in the church over time. And I think that the Spirit is allowing you to see the truth of these statements and to connect to them. and to change. When we look into judges, we see the ways and the symptoms of worldliness within the church. And like I said last week, Let us not turn from the mirror of His word, forgetting what we've heard about the worldliness, running off into worldliness, but let us fill up what is lacking. Let us be not just hearers, but doers of the Word. Now that's all I have for that first point. That's the mirror of God. I just want to orient you as to how you should be viewing this account of Samson. I want you to look into the mirror, and I want you not only to see Samson, I want you to see yourself and the church. What are the lessons that we are to learn from looking into that mirror? What does Christ want you to see and to remember and to change? That is the framework of the mirror. Now the second application point will take up the whole rest of the time is the mission of God. So now that we know we have a mirror of God, there is a mission of God When we think of our passage this morning from the framework of the mirror of James, what do you see? You will see more than what I can tell you up here. There's not enough time. What do you see? What does Samson show us about ourselves? He shows us at the least that although God gives us a divine mission or commission, we often neglect that commission for other endeavors. Now, in Samson's case, it was this set of things called his personal pleasures. But it could be 10,000 other things that pull you off the path of the commission or the divine mission. He shows us that although God gives us a divine mission, we neglect that mission for other endeavors. Samson neglected his mission for personal lust and materialism. Surely there's a thousand other ways to neglect the divine mission. And this is where I really want to dig in this morning for us. When we look into the mirror, wherein are we neglecting our great commission that Jesus Christ has given to us? The saints have always divided the Great Commission into two main parts. I wonder if you know what those are. If you know the confession, then you know those two parts of the Great Commission. It's always this: gathering and perfecting. That is the great vocation and job of the church. To gather those whom Christ is calling from the world. Bringing them from darkness into light, and then helping them to perfect or mature and develop in the image of Christ. That is the vocation of the church. God the Father has given all authority in heaven and earth to his Son, Jesus the Christ The authorized Jesus sends out his church to gather in disciples from the world into the church or the household of the living God. Then, once they are under Christ's roof, so to speak, the saints are to teach them and each other to obey everything which King Jesus commands We consequently as a new group of people peculiar, a new group of peculiar people followers of Jesus, we become a separate people in the world, giving witness to the good news that God has made Jesus the Christ of the cosmos. And we begin to bring by his power to earth now the kingdom which shall be fully installed later. And that is meant to be good news. Now, when we look in the mirror and we see that part of our mission is to help the saints to mature. It seems that we are not just hearers of the word, but we are in fact doers of the word. In other words, think about our management of the household of God. You could easily look around and you could see. I know this is not going to happen perfectly. I know that you probably have some complaints with regard to this, but you will see discipleship taking place, saints maturing You will see it. You will see people helping other saints be loyal followers of Jesus Christ. I see it all the time. But another question has to be raised, and that is What is Severn Run doing about the first part of the commission, which is the gathering of those from the world from darkness into light? What are we doing on that part of our job? When we look in the mirror, we are led from Samson's commission to our Great Commission. We hear that we must seek the lost and then help them mature as followers of Christ, but the question is raised: are we seeking the lost as a congregational effort? Now, when I say seeking the lost, I wonder if you're bothered by it. Because as soon as I say that, I admit that there is a kind of danger or an association that you don't want to make, which is for Severn Run to become a seeker-sensitive church. Now, there's a good way to talk about being sensitive, and there is an appropriate way to talk about seekers. We'd have to have a theological discussion about all that But I'm talking about the negative association that we make to churches that are considered only seeker sensitive, and we don't want to be associated with that. And the reason is, is because what the criticism that seems rightful about becoming a seeker-sensitive church is that you're moving again from Considering the maturity and helping the saints to be raised up in wisdom, you hardly give any time to that, and you're only seeking the lost, and so you end up having a lot of people that are hardly mature at all Then we see that that's a problem. But both are problems. Not seeking the lost is a problem, and then leaving them immature is a problem. And I don't want to be either of those churches. So if you were to picture a lane on a highway, don't fall off the cliff here, and don't fall off the cliff here. Well that's very difficult to do, and may Jesus Christ grant us the maturity to stay in the lane. Here, however, at Severn Run, maturity at the very least has begun. I am amazed Continually at the maturity of this group of Christians. I had a fellow seminarian who is far superior to me in his understanding of theology and all of these other things He visited from Canada the other week and he sat here during Sunday school and he felt so compelled by what was happening around him that at the end of the class he asked permission to speak and he just wanted to commend all of the Christians present because they were so mature in their understanding of Christ and His kingdom. And I hear that all the time and I see how you conduct yourself as mature saint saints. Have you arrived? No. If you think you have, talk to me. I'll point out some of your flaws. I know them We have at least begun to become mature, but what about offering the gracious hand of Jesus Christ to the world lost in their sins? If we are in the light and the hand from the light full of light is to enter into the darkness, how many hands from Severn Run are reaching? We sang a song this morning, come ye sinners. And by God's grace, somebody is here that can hear that and repent onto life. But I'll be honest with you, we gotta have to figure out a way to sing that song someplace else so that people can hear about Christ who actually need to hear about him for the first time, as opposed to just maturing saints. Let me put it this way. The great tragedy with Samson, and that's how we have to see his story, it is it's a tragic story of the church. Embodied in a single person through a literary device. The great tragedy with Samson was that he had the strength But he misused his strength only to secure personal pleasures. And I fear that God's church, not just here but elsewhere, is falling into the same tragedy. And I fear this partially because of my own convictions that are falling over me, where I cannot just keep walking down this path with you. Something has got to change. I do not want to suffer the same tragic fate As Samson. And I know that you don't either. I want you to think about just for a moment the strength which the Lord has given to us. And if I could bring other communities in here that I've been exposed to, our strength would be that much more emphasized in comparison. You would see the gifts that he has given to us. They are enormous. Look at the knowledge that you have. Look at the resources that you have. Look at the education that you have that has given you that theological education. And whatever else education there is. Look at the finances that you have. Look at the wisdom that you have to work through situations. You're not stumbling through life. You're walking as the wise. You're being successful in most of the endeavors that you set your heart and mind to. Because of the grace that Christ has given to you. Look at the property that we have, mortgage-free. When we go to our congregational meeting, look at the overabundance of giving that has been happening within the church. We are going to have to change By a huge tier, our budgetary expectations, because there's so much coming in. Look at how much money is in the deacon's fund to be able to help people. Look at the good health that this congregation is blessed with. These are all strengths that Jesus Christ gives to us for what? That's the question that has to arise within our minds. That's the one that the devil does not want you to ask. And if you start to ask it, he wants you to stop thinking about it and just watch something on Netflix. And the question is this, what does God want you to do with the strength that He gives to you? Why has He made you strong? Is it not analogous to why he made Samson strong? And what happens when we waste our strength, but we suffer the same fate as Samson? Does he not want us to get to use some of it to gather those whom the Lord is calling, and not all of it on ourselves in our maturity? Surely that is the case And that's probably a false dilemma, because if we found ourselves going to reach the loss, he'd probably double our strength and there'd be no loss. Does Jesus not want us to bring his light to the dark spaces? Some of you say, no, he wants us to hate these people because of what they are doing to our world. Without denying the evil. I challenge you, brothers and sisters Because Jesus Christ has not arrived to exact his vengeance on these people yet, which tells me that now is not the time for anger or vengeance. Now is the time to act in his patience, and his patience is always for the sake of giving more time for repentance that more may enter into his kingdom who he has called So you have your timing off. If you think now is the time of vengeance to just hate everybody around you and be skeptical and cynical, you're off your time. Your calendar is wrong Jesus wants us to bring his light to the dark spaces. Now, I want to share with you an experience that I recently had with Holly. Some of you know about this experience. But I want to share it with all of you. It has become a great sign in my life from God's providence. How many of you here know Great Shade? I'm seeing some. Greg Shade is a local Youth for Christ leader. And I hope that you get a chance to meet him. He visits here in the morning, sometimes in the evening. Greg, are you here by the way? I'm getting ready to talk about you. No, he's not. Okay. Very good. He invited Holly and us to attend a group, and in this group, he seeks to give the gospel to unchurch students from three critical areas. Brooklyn Park, Pasadena, or the Dinah, as they would say, and uh Severn. Unchurch kids. They're not in homes where they church is a thing. He meets with them. Now, Greg gave me time. Holly and I both went. We sat around the bonfire. Greg gave me time to share my difficult past And how Jesus Christ has changed everything. And that was such a privilege that was given to where I could speak to that. And we prayed. We I knew that I had been in their shoes before, and if some uh fat 45-year-old showed up to talk to me about his life, I would not be interested But by God's grace, uh they were a captive audience After my story, and they were locked on to the whole story, which was amazing to me. I just kept I was praying and thanking God even while I was speaking because they were so attentive After my story, the students asked me one question after another, all related to their own miseries and all their own confusions And I cannot, I'm not going to violate their trust and share with you what they asked me about. But I'm telling you right now You would have left that bonfire, you would have gone into your car, and you would have cried. You would have been that overwhelmed by the situations that those 14 through 18-year-olds are facing. Now I finally got through, I don't know, the fifty questions. I I mean uh Holly will be like, no, there's thirty-five and a It felt it felt like fifty questions, babe. There were a lot of questions. And at the very end, Greg wanted to wrap the whole thing up and he asked me to share my favorite Bible verse, which by the way, I hate that question, because I love the whole Bible But then there sprung to mind a Bible verse that we talked about a couple weeks ago, Isaiah forty-nine. You remember that? So it sprung to mind. I was like, wait a second. I do have a favorite Bible verse. But it's from Isaiah. And then Greg says to all the kids, because they have no idea what Isaiah is, it's an Old Testament, guys. He's a pastor. So I say Isaiah forty-nine and I and I start and I say I cannot tell you verse by verse Or word by word, an exact representation of what it is in the scripture. So I'm going to paraphrase it for you. And I said, there is a group of people that raise a question and they say, God, why have you abandoned us? And I looked down across the bonfire and there was a girl and I saw it connected. And she was saying inside her head, because I have preacher eyes and I can see what you're saying in your head, and she said inside her head, It's exactly right. Why has God abandoned me? And then, as they were all still sitting there, I said, as an as a means of argument to show that God has not abandoned. He raises this question. Can a woman forget her nursing child? I said it this way. Can a mother forget her child? And you asked Holly this I think it seemed at least, I didn't count, but it seemed like every single kid around the bonfire said yes. Our mothers will leave us because they already did. Some of them didn't know where their mother was that week And this is where the preaching started. Because by the grace of Jesus Christ, what rose up in me was I was able to say to them, that's the right answer. God says the same thing. God says, yes, even some of your mothers will leave you, but guess what? Which is the next verse in Isaiah 49: I will never leave you. I found myself standing all of a sudden before the bonfire with all those kids and I was preaching the gospel Now there's three things that I want you to take from that story that I am taking from the story. First, the misery and confusion of those outside of Christ is truly a darkness And they need the light and love of Jesus Christ through you at this time more than ever. I just want to ask you a simple question that doesn't even involve you yet. What kind of man would I be if I saw that and I do nothing about it? What kind of man would I be? There is misery and confusion out there, and they need the light of Jesus Christ. Number two. The reason, and this is key, because if you think that you're just going to show up at Watch Chapel and start preaching the Bible and then everyone's going to fall at your feet, that's not the picture. The reason this is number two, the reason why those students were present to hear the word preached was because Greg Shade has for decades given up his life for these kids. He has given up his life, folks. That's not an exaggeration. He has poured himself into them. And that is why they were there. It was the preaching could happen because of all of the plow work that Greg had done over the years. He had his hand on the plow. And that's a lesson we need to take if you think this is going to be easy. And here's number three, and this is very important for you to hear, because I see your souls. As I preached the word by the power of Jesus Christ, I watched the seed of the word go into the soil of their souls. It didn't bounce back at me. Now I've seen that. Sometimes the words I say up here, you're bouncing back at me. Not taking any of them. But with these children, these teenagers, it didn't bounce back. Now that's really interesting. It didn't bounce back. It went into the soil. I don't know what will happen. I don't know how quickly it will grow or what it will grow into, but it was uh mystifying for me to see that And what this should do for you is this should begin to quench your cynicism and let you know that Jesus Christ has not given up on the people that are around you, even in our own communities. You, my friends, are afraid to walk in Brooklyn Park at night. But I'm telling you the truth that it seems to me that Jesus Christ is already up there walking night or day And the question is, is do you want to join him? That's the work that he's doing on the second part of the or the first part of the commission. And that all tie into some experiences that not only I have, but you have. In line with that thought that we need to start dropping our skepticism, drop the cynicism, realize that Jesus Christ is still doing He's still pulling people out of the world into his church, even in this county. In line with that thought, Christ has given this congregation several new believers. and their baptisms for this church to see that we should not lose our hope to gather in a new harvest from our surrounding area. And I met with two more people this week who will be making, Lord willing, a profession of faith before you soon for the first time. I am just about to the point to say the harvest is ripe. Where are the field workers? The most important question before you this morning is, will you take the divine mission seriously? Or will you be distracted from your mission just like Samson was, full of strength, but utterly useless Now, I want to say something about that, and then we're going to close. I want you to listen. Most of you, when I say, are you going to do this good work, which is part of the Great Commission? Or are you going to be distracted? I just want to remind you of what we said last week: that those distractions are going to catch you off guard because these distractions are not evil, they are indifferent and good. The distractions will be all of these kinds of things: recreational sports, school clubs Vacations, dinners and lunches with our friends, boating, youth groups, and even Bible studies, which are all good things They all should have a place within our life, or could have a place. They are a choice that we can make, but they can become so prioritized and so mislocated that we have no time to do our actual job. If you were sitting at work and your boss came to you and saw that you played Minecraft all day long and you're not a Minecraft video game designer Then you have a problem. All of those good things can be good in their proper place But what, here's the main question where Satan keeps getting us. But what happens when those same things displace the timely good of gathering the lost? And the question raises up again. Who among you are going to be the real reformers? Or will you be the church cananized? Because you chose, instead of following the Great Commission, instead to prioritize what Americans prioritize. That's the question. Who is going to be the rebel? Who is going to bring the kingdom of Christ? Who will stop displacing the timely good and instead seek to gather the lust? Our doctrine this morning is that another symptom of the canonization of the church is when we substitute the divine mission for our personal ambitions and we could add our amusements. We move from saying, thy kingdom come to my kingdom come, and that's a matter of priorities. May we not only be hearers but doers of the word. May we not only perfect the saints, but seek to gather the lost from darkness into light. Amen.