Twenty five, sixteen through twenty two. Have you found honey? Eat only as much as you need, lest you be filled with it and vomit. Seldom set foot in your neighbor's house, lest he become weary of you and hate you. A man who bears false witness against his neighbor is like a club, a sword, and a sharp arrow. Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a bad tooth and a foot out of joint. Like one who takes away a garment in cold weather and like vinegar on soda or there's a couple of things going on here and let's look at this as vinegar in a wound. Is one who sings songs to a heavy heart. If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat, and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink For so you will heap coals of fire on his head, and the Lord will reward you. Amen. Let us pray Lord, we thank you that you have inscripturated the wisdom here that you uh gave to uh several sages, especially Solomon. We thank you that it points, of course, to the wisdom of our eternal Christ, who has become incarnate, who is Jesus Christ. We pray, Lord, that you would work your wisdom within us, and that it would be for your name's sake. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well you can see that each of these proverbs that are given here could stand on their own. I could have just done one and we could have reflected on it. But they are situated, according to the best scholars, they are situated so as to interrelate with one another under a common theme. And that common theme would be the kind of upkeep of relationships and the resolution of conflicts, or the avoidance of conflicts altogether. The whole series, the reason why we have verses 16 that goes to 22, is because there's a kind of bookends. And so we have to determine the beginning and ends of passages. You can see in the beginning, it starts with the idea of eating, and we eat too much honey, and we vomit. And at the end, on verse 22, it's eating again, but it's eating in the form of feeding someone else. And so here we have the beginning and the end of a section that's focused on maintaining relationships in our lives, especially avoiding conflicts. So it's the proverbs within this unit that we'll look at tonight. The first proverb, as I've already mentioned, is the proverb on honey. It's not really all about honey, it's about moderation. I'm sure you picked up on that as soon as you heard it. When I heard hear this, I think of um you know my children when they were younger and eating too much candy. It wasn't honey, it was candy, and yes they did throw up. Even with sweet things in life like honey, we must exercise moderation, or it will make us sick. You can take the next proverb, for example, because it's playing on the connection between these two, the honey and the friendship. This next proverb shows something that's sweet: friendship. Friendship with neighbors is a sweet blessing. And the proverbist points out, with a graphic image, however, that we must not wear out our welcome. It's uh the the equivalent of eating too much of the honey. When he says, seldom set your foot or rarely set your foot. This is the same language used to talk about walking in a way of life. It's not just you visited for five minutes and sat with them on their front porch. It's you're in their life, you're in their house, you're in their way of doing things. He is not discouraging therefore neighborly love with this proverb. And something even so desirable as a loving, enriching friendship can transform it into hurtful hate. You may want to reflect on an old saying, I remember my grandmother saying this to me: guests, like fish, stink after three days. So those are the first two proverbs where we bring honey together and the eating of something too much can have you vomiting and other people getting sick of you also. Let's look at the next one. We continue on this theme of neighborliness. In verse 16, we see the honey. In 17, it's applied to our neighbor's house. And in 18, we continue with Thinking about our neighbor. There's more imagery that is given here. You have to remember this is a book written specifically to those who are entering into adulthood. They're on the cusp. of entering into adult life. So there's a kind of ethics class before you head off into that world. There's a kind of moral reasoning class for the youth of Israel or of the church. And here there's really strong imagery given to cement in their minds the realities of certain social relations. And it's this. When we bear false witness against our neighbors, we become like a club We become like a sword, and we become like a sharp arrow to our neighbor. Now, what the sage is doing here is the sage is depicting the false witness In expecting your imagination to really grab on to this, and what would it mean for you to be a club to your neighbor Not to be too graphic, but the sage is depicting these kinds of images to make sure that the child knows that the false witness, in a sense, beats out his neighbor's brains. With a mace pierces his bowels with a sword and kills him with a deadly arrow. And the reason why he would use such language is in order to make sure that children would shrink in horror at the thought of perjury. And that brings us to 19. Verse 19. In verse 19, we don't see someone actively with a club inflicting damage on another. Or with a sword running them through. Instead, we see a kind of passive aggression, but nevertheless still a destruction of the neighbor. You appear to be faithful and trustworthy, but when the time comes, you don't come through. To help the child avoid adopting this characteristic, he likens this person to a rotten tooth and to a lame foot. You take a bite and you cannot chew. You have to spit it out. You try to stand, but your ankles give out and you fall. It denotes a kind of relationship that happens with an unfaithful person. When the chips are down, they're not there for you. And we don't want our children to be like that. We move on to the next, and we can see that there's still a play on this theme. We've talked about the person who would actively hurt you like a club or like an arrow. We've talked about that person who passively, through their unfaithfulness, lets you fall. And here, this next proverb, we're seeing that the harm comes through their speech specifically. Their untimely speech in verse 20. Let me read this one to you again. Like one who takes away a garment in cold weather, and like vinegar or salt on a wound. is one who sings songs to a heavy heart. We now move from a person who testified falsely against you and the person who says they will help you but is unfaithful to a person who is insensitive. And inept in their speech. When you feel chilled, chilled by the w world, and you're looking for some warm, comforting words, they don't give them to you. They just chill you more. Perhaps they point out a fault when you're at your lowest. I think we have a saying this in our culture is that you get kicked when you're already down. They don't warm you with their words. They add vinegar to your wound. They sing a song of joy at the wrong time. Now it's true we can look across, for example, 1 Kings and some other places where seasonable songs are therapeutic. Even playing an instrument can soothe a person's soul But the point here is that when something is sun unseasonably, it is painful and it damages the spirit. And this brings us to our next proverb. This final is the this is the final proverb and Perhaps you've seen this in the New Testament. It's at least in Romans, and it is uh also in Matthew and Luke. The final proverb brings this unit to an end. And the point is the same as the others. Generally speaking, we must acknowledge the way of wisdom to love our neighbors and to not bring pain and hate in our relationships. And that takes work. It takes a lot of reflection. In this case, our neighbor is also our enemy. So this is a special case. Something happened that turned them against us. And the question is raised implicitly: what can we do about this? I'm sure there's many more answers than this one, just by the nature of the book of Proverbs, but they do give you an answer here. You are to love them, that your love would turn their hearts back to you. This is what the coal saying ends up communicating. There's been a lot of research because there's been a lot of confusion on the saying about the coal on the head. Some people uh describe it or try to understand it by way of um inflicting harm on a person uh killing them with kindness or something along those lines. But the Lord is pleased with these actions if you look at the end of this verse verse and he's rewarding you because of it. It's not about you figuring out some sideways angle to bring pain to someone who's your enemy That's not what's going on here. That's not what's communicated in Matthew or Luke or in Romans, when Jesus and Paul take up the exact same quote and end up quoting this section. The call saying refers to an old practice wherein those repenting from being bent on a particular path, a wrong one, when they would repent from that path To show publicly that they were in a state of penitence, they would wear a basket of coals on their heads. Now, I'm not trying to make sense of that completely, but it is a recorded ancient practice in many documents. It publicly showed a change of heart is the point here. A gentle word, a helping hand, could be what finally changes their heart toward you. And the Lord rewards those who mend relationships. That's the main point of that proverb. Now, binding all of these proverbs into a single doctrine would be quite difficult. But reflecting on this last proverb By way of how Paul uses it within the New Testament, can help us to see the real spirit that runs through 16 through 22. Paul quotes this Proverbs in Romans chapter 12, and he says this. Repay no one evil for evil. If it is possible, as much as depends on you, live peaceably with all men. In fact, that last phrase that Paul says captures well the spirit of this section of Proverbs, and I think it can be our doctrine tonight. We could just state that these proverbs are to teach us, if it is possible, as much as depends on you, live peaceably with everyone, with all men. If it is possible, as much as depends on you, live peaceably with all men. Now, I'm heard that I I'm sure that you have heard that before. As much as it depends on you, live peaceably with all men. It's probably been quoted to you as a solution to your problems and your conflicts. And yet, I wonder what meaning you give to that What does it mean to, as far as it depends on you, be at peace with everyone? Perhaps you have thought, I'm called to exercise patience with people, so that as far as it depends on me, there is peace within the relationship And that actually would be a good thought, because sometimes that is what depends on you. You could exercise patience and not allow the relationship to continue to degrade. But what I'd like to do tonight is to take that saying of Paul and intersect it with the Proverbs that we considered this evening. Let it intersect with the careful thought and reflection that Solomon put into relationships that you see, even if you're just thinking of 16 through 22. What we find, if we do allow the two to intersect, if we uh if we locate one on top of the other, what we find is that living peaceably with all men, as much as it depends on us Requires us to be thoughtful about what keeps relationships intact and healthy. That's what Solomon is doing here, is he not? Is he not being thoughtful about what would keep relationships together and giving that thoughtfulness to the children of the church? This is in part what the Proverbs are doing, generally speaking. They are helping us to think through what it would look like to love God and to love our neighbor in the everyday occurrences of our life. In all of the different kinds of seasons, in all of the different kinds of stages, with all different kinds of people, what would it look like to live out the Ten Commandments? What would it look like to do so wisely, considering all the times? That's what Proverbs are doing. They are a wise application of the law to the specifics of everyday life. They are the revelation of who God is and who we are to be as His children. That's what Jesus says in Matthew. And they are food for us from Jesus, that we may grow in relational wisdom. So I want you to ask yourself a few questions. But I want you to ask yourself a few questions by using the grammar of the passage that was given to you this evening. All of the different concepts and images. Do you exercise prudent moderation in your relationships? You're going to want to consider these questions in order to avoid conflicts and to have peace as far as it depends on you. Do you exercise prudent moderation in your relationships? Even if they're sweet, you can become sick if you don't. Or they'll want to vomit you out. Or has your lack of restraint strained your life and the life of other people? Do you speak falsely against your friends and your family? Does it help you to realize that doing so is like taking a club and mauling their reputation? And perhaps their sense of confidence? And maybe even the call that God has given to them? Do you know the damage that you're doing is like a sharp arrow and like a sword? Did you have the opportunity to support your friends and family? But when the time came, you caved? Did you know that the Lord looks at that action like the action of a rotten tooth and like a lame foot? It's a kind of evil. Is your timing bad? Do you fail to read the room? Do you fail to read social situations? Have you been a person, in other words, who has sung unseasonable songs and added salt to wounds? Do you hold grudges? Do you allow your pride to keep a wall between you and others? Or could you begin to humble yourself and seek the good of your enemy as a way to heal the hurt between you? Could you be the one that starts moving towards them first? Instead of in your pride, always waiting for them to move towards you. Now, those questions might feel like a sword that divides between bone and marrow. The spirit the spirit can tend to do that with questions. And if you're like me, these questions put you on a kind of elevated hillside where you can look out, you can survey all of your relationships, and you can see that you have not been very thoughtful about how you relate to certain people. Especially those who are closest to you. You could look out and you can see that as far as it depends on you, you have not lived peaceably with all men. Not in the way that Solomon has here, with this thoughtful care of thinking through relationships in terms of honey and clubs and other imagery. And so, if you are like me, and you look out and you see some wreckage in your relationships or ways in which you have neglected them, I encourage you to use this time to acknowledge your sins Perhaps it's a good time for you to turn to Christ for wisdom for the first time, asking Him for forgiveness. Or perhaps this is a time where you turn to Him for the thousandth time. Thanking him for his grace and his commitment to you I'd encourage you to let this also be a time wherein we would resolve to relate more wisely with our neighbors. Part of what I'm trying to do this evening is for you to look at the time that Solomon put into thinking about relationships. Just within verses 16 through 22. But look at all of the collections in the book of Proverbs. Look at all the ways in which he's trying to work out the specifics. Of what it means to love God and to love your neighbor. It requires time. It requires prayerfulness, it requires humility and groaning before God to give you wisdom. I'm pleading, I guess, with you and with myself that we would learn from this passage a depth of love that we perhaps have not cared to know before. Maybe we have had poor boundaries in the past. Maybe we just let our words fly with certain people not thinking of the consequences. that their skulls are being skulls or souls are being bashed in by our words. And now is the time to resolve to put those things away. The end goal is worth it. We are becoming like our Christ by the work of His Spirit. Christ Himself is even, according to Matthew, making us like his Father, who is in heaven, who sends the rain on the just and the unjust, who knows how to relate supremely to people. We are becoming those, as far as it depends on us, who can live peaceably with all men. Amen. Let us pray.