Mark chapter 3, verses 1 through 6. And he entered the synagogue again, and a man was there who had a withered hand. So they watched him closely, whether he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse him. And he said to the man who had the withered hand: Step forward. And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save life or to kill? But they kept silent. And when he had looked around at them with anger, being grieved by the hardness of their hearts, he said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored as whole as the other. Then the Pharisees went out and immediately plotted with the Herodians against him how they might destroy him. God's holy word for God's holy people. Let us pray. Most gracious God, thank you for preserving this word for us. Thank you for keeping it pure. That we can have confidence in it, and we thank you, Lord, that you have promised Not to leave us helpless in understanding your word, but you have sent a helper, your spirit, who will lead us into the truth. Please, God, show us the truth from your word tonight. And I pray, Lord, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I hope you've all had a wonderful Christmas celebration. Everybody rested, refreshed, ready for the new year. I'm going to tackle it with gusto. Yeah, that sounds like sounds like my response to the New Year. It's gonna be another one. It's good for us to celebrate the incarnation. It's good for us to recognize the great love of God that has come down from heaven to earth for our restoration. It fascinates me that Mark, who is so concerned with showing us that Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ, he's the Messiah, he's the one who has come to reorder the cosmos. It's fascinating to me that Mark doesn't include anything. About the incarnation. Instead, what he's done in these first two chapters is he's given us event after an event, account after an account, of Jesus demonstrating. Proving that he is the Son of God, prophesied to come in Isaiah. John the Baptizer sent. As it was prophesied to prepare God's people for the Messiah, Jesus himself is prepared through his baptism, and then his time in the wilderness being tempted by Satan. Jesus has commanded unclean spirits, and they have obeyed him. He's astonished many with his authority and with his wisdom. He teaches and he heals as no one has ever done before. Do you remember he cleansed a leper? Cleansed him of his leprosy, purified him. That's something that only God can do. Jesus proved his power to deal with sin when he forgave the paralyzed man's sins, and he also healed his body. In Mark chapter 2, verses 13 to 17, Jesus showed that no sinner, no sin, no disorder is beyond his restorative power. And he did this by calling Levi, a tax collector, out of that sinful life, into a life of discipleship, of following him. In Mark chapter 2, verses 18 through 22, we saw that Jesus reorders how God's people express their faith in the new reality of the gospel. By his teaching on fasting in the New Covenant. And in the the passage directly previous to this one, Mark 2, 23 to 28, Jesus' response to the Pharisees' criticism of his disciples teaches that God's people must trust the Son. That we must follow Him and His example of how we are to understand God's Word. Jesus shows us the heart of the Father. The gifts of love that he gives to his people, like the Sabbath which was made for us. That market day of the soul, which is given to God's people for their refreshing, for their feeding. Well, I'm sorry to take so much time in that review, but I wanted to make sure that we don't miss what's happening in Mark, that we don't forget what we've already gone through. What God has done in Mark is the same thing that He did for His people 2,000 years ago when Jesus was born. God is validating that Jesus of Nazareth is the one in whom we must trust. He is the only one who we must follow. He is the only one who truly can save us. God sent Moses as a deliverer to bring his people out of the bondage of Egypt, and now a deliverer greater than Moses has come. And this is the Lord Jesus Christ. And we see in tonight's passage, verses 1 through 6 of chapter 3, another validating, miraculous sign that Jesus is the Son of God. But we have a new aspect to it for us to consider. For this passage tonight, I hope we'll see that it teaches us that distrusting Jesus is not a sign that one lacks understanding. But it's a sign that one does not love what God loves. In other words, distrusting Jesus is not a matter of the head, but it's a matter of the heart. Distrusting Jesus is not a matter of the head, but of the heart. And so we're going to look at this passage in those two divisions tonight. We'll look at the first two verses and we'll see the head. And then we'll look at the rest of the passage, verses three through six, and we'll look at the heart. So this first section, verses one to two, in it we see that distrusting Jesus is not a matter of the head. Look there at verses 1 and 2 with me. And he entered the synagogue again, and a man was there who had a withered hand. So they watched him closely whether he would heal him on the Sabbath so that they might accuse him. First thing we have to notice is that Jesus is not in hiding. Those who distrust him can't claim that the distrust is valid because Jesus does everything in secret, avoiding the prying eyes. That's not how Jesus ministers. That's not how he has ministered. He again goes to the synagogue on the Sabbath day. He shows himself publicly. He heals, and he has healed many times, and he does this openly and plainly for anyone to see. Somehow this man, Jesus. He has this healing power. And though there are some who might distrust him, it's indisputable. Jesus has healed. He's healed the multitudes. The whole cities have come out to receive healing or to watch the healing. And on this particular Sabbath, there's a man with a withered hand. And whatever the specifics of his injury or his condition We're not told, but for all intents and purposes, what we see is that this hand is basically dead. It's a dead hand. It would be reasonable for those who had seen Jesus' healing power to have hope that he might heal this man's withered hand. But the men that Mark tells us about aren't watching Jesus in hope, are they? They are watching Jesus closely to see whether he would heal the man, not in joyful hope or expectation. They are watching him closely in order to accuse him. Something doesn't add up there, does it? They're watching Jesus. They're watching Jesus closely to see if he'll perform a miracle. And if he performs the miracle, they're going to use that somehow as evidence against him. Something else has to be going on with these men other than a lack of understanding or a lack of evidence. They clearly believe that Jesus has the power to heal. That's the whole reason that they're watching it. Their distrust of Jesus is not a matter of their heads, it's not in their minds. It's something else. Now, Jesus could have avoided the trouble. He could have healed this man's hand without a word. But he didn't. He could have said to the man, Hey, just come to Peter's house after sundown when the Sabbath's over. Instead, Jesus once again acts in plain sight, openly and obviously before everyone. He proves that he isn't avoiding the Pharisees. He isn't avoiding those who doubt him. And he proves it because He includes the Pharisees in this. The way that Jesus deals with this situation shows us that the distrust of Jesus, which these men have It's not a matter of their head, it's a matter of their hearts. They do not love what God loves. They do not love as God loves. And so now let's look at the heart and the rest of this passage, verses three through six. Jesus calls the man forward, and he said to the man who had the withered hand, step forward. Notice there, what does the man do? Does he does he take his tunic and just kind of hmm nope? Nobody can see. Does he hide his hand a little more so nobody notices that it's him? He doesn't. He obeys Jesus and he stands. The Greek dare is he stands among them, literally in the center of the crowd. He's there for all to see. He might have been afraid. Maybe he'd been following Jesus and he'd seen how these Pharisees treated these miracles. Maybe he'd heard them chastise someone else on the Sabbath day. Maybe he he might have had a little bit of nervousness going, Yeah, they're gonna have a problem with me wanting to be healed on the Sabbath. And yet he didn't. He didn't doubt. He obeyed, and he stood before all these people, even those who could have had a very big impact on his life. And the crowd there may have thought, okay, Jesus is going to ask this guy. Maybe he's going to use this man as the example. But he doesn't question the man, does he? He puts a question to the ones who are doubting. Then he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil? To save life or to kill? And Jesus cuts right to the heart of the matter. Do these men really think that God wants people, his people, to do evil on the Sabbath day? In Matthew's version of this account, things are a little bit different. The Pharisees, they ask Jesus if it is lawful to heal on the Sabbath, and Jesus uses a common scenario that they would all have been familiar with to drive home the point. The very same point that Mark has here. In Mark in Matthew twelve, verses eleven to twelve it says, What man is there among you who has one sheep, and if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath will not lay hold of it and lift it out Of how much more value then is a man than a sheep? Therefore, it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath. The doubters here in Mark The same as in Matthew have no answer to Jesus. Mark says, but they kept silent. What could they say? Could they say, no? God would rather you let your sheep die? Would they say it is lawful to do evil on the Sabbath? And the more I study Mark and the Gospels, and the more I look at the Pharisees, I just I have so much pity for them. They are so confident that they know how God thinks. They are so confident that they know what God expects of them. That they try to accuse a man who obviously has the power of God, who is obviously a messenger from God. He has the power to heal. And I hope you notice that two things happen as a result of their doubting pride. First, Jesus became angry. And when he had looked round at them with anger, it's their sinful pride, their self-confidence, that angers him. The Son of God is standing before them, demonstrating the awesome power and wisdom of the Almighty God. It's right before their eyes, and yet they doubt. These are the men who were supposed to be examples to the people to teach them how to trust God, how to glorify God and enjoy him forever, and yet their hearts are so very far from him. Well, Mark tells us something else happens. He tells us that Jesus is grieved. See what it says? Being grieved by the hardness of their hearts. Being grieved means he was sad. If you look at the dictionary definition of grief, it's suffering. Made me think of Jesus when he looks at Jerusalem and he weeps for what is happening there. He was suffering because of what? What does it say? The hardness of their hearts. It wouldn't matter what Jesus did. These people do not love the Father. So why would they love the Son? They think that they worship and understand the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They think that they are following the God of Moses. But Jesus has come. And by his teaching and his miracles, he shows that they are gravely mistaken. So Jesus does what he knows pleases his father. He shows the father's heart and what the father wants on his day. He said to the man, Stretch out your hand, and he stretched it out, and his hand was restored as whole as the other. Do you get the parallels between that passage from Exodus that we read already? Do you hear how it's very similar We don't know what this man did for a living, how he provided for his family, if he even had a family. But it isn't hard for us to imagine how this miracle would have been like receiving a whole new life. Going around with just one hand and suddenly now he has two. If you saw this man the next day and you asked him what he thought about his healing, how do you think he'd react? You think he would have said, uh, it was terrible that it happened on the Sabbath? What a what a wicked thing was done. I can't imagine that. It didn't matter that Jesus had just performed such a wondrous sign, a sign that these distrusting men should have been able to recognize. Their distrust was not a matter of their head. It was not a matter of what they could observe and verify for themselves. Their distrust was a matter of their hearts. So we get the very final verse of this section. Then the Pharisees went out and immediately plotted with the Herodians against him how they might destroy him. How could they plot to destroy a man who heals the sick, who cleanses lepers, who forgives sins? How could they plot to destroy a man who restores life and health to God's people? I think it's interesting that Mark adds this little detail about the Herodians. I think it's important because it shows us that this is a big deal. You might remember when we were talking about the calling of Levi how much they hated tax collectors. Oh, the Jews hated them. Because a tax collector was a traitor. They were working with The occupying government. They were working with the Romans. Well, the Herodians were the same. Herod was a puppet king established by the Romans. He was not even Jewish. And yet the Pharisees would go to these people who they would have looked down on, and they said, Hey, the enemy of my enemy is my friend. Which is disturbing. It's disturbing to think that anyone could consider Jesus Christ as their enemy. How could they think that Jesus, the Son of God, is their enemy, and yet claim that they love his Father, claim that they serve his father, claim that they Are heirs of salvation, like the children of Abraham. The doubting men saw the miracle with their own eyes. They were looking closely for it, and when it happened Think about that. When a miracle occurred right in front of them, they wanted to destroy the one who performed it. Distrusting Jesus is not a matter of evidence. It's not a matter of your head. It's a matter of the heart. So, brothers and sisters, I just want to drive home for you something that is hard for us to look at, to face. Doubting God, doubting and distrusting Jesus. It is a sin It is not a good thing to do. Now I understand that we will go through seasons in life, right? Peaks and valleys. There will be a time in our life Well we might question God and we might wonder, what are you doing? Why are you putting me through this? Why is my hand so withered I can't even go to work? I can't provide for my family. But we should not doubt perpetually or distrust wholly There are many signs from God that He is the one that we should trust. Think about this. Think about Moses and that reading that we had before. He knew that what he was going to go to the Israelites and ask them to do was a big deal. And so God said, I'm not going to just leave you on your own to do that. I will give you these signs. And I ask you, was it right or wrong for the Israelites, after those signs have been performed, to doubt Moses? Who are they doubting? Are they doubting Moses? Are they doubting the one who gave Moses those signs to perform for them? And if you know your Bible, you know that there was a time of trust. And they got a whole lot of more miraculous signs, didn't they? The plagues that were put on Egypt. And yet. They hardened their hearts, didn't they? They had to spend forty years wandering in the wilderness because they didn't trust God would conquer the promised land that He brought them to. Psalm 95, verses 8 through 11, it says, Do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, as in the day of trial in the wilderness, when your fathers tested me. They tried me, though they saw my work For forty years I was grieved with that generation and said, it is a people who go astray in their hearts. They do not know my ways. So I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. And we know what happened. That generation did not enter the promised land. So I'd encourage you to consider, using the occasion of this account, right? This whole event happened on the Lord's Day, on the Sabbath. And encourage you to consider that the Lord's Day is a good test for you. It's a good test for whether or not you love as God loves. Do you love what God loves? God has given us the fourth commandment, and He says there are certain things that He expects of you on His day. You're to worship Him You're to gather with his people to worship him. You're to take a holy rest from all those other things that are good to do Good things that you do every other day. You take a rest from them. Not because they're bad. You take a rest from them so that you can be useful and use that day. That market day of the soul, to pursue what God tells you to pursue, to love what God loves. So I'd ask you, is it a burden to you to come to church on the Lord's Day? Is it something that you how have I heard someone say it? Is it something that you miss or something that you skip? If you're forced to to stay home because you're sick, is it something that says, hey, I have to now I get a couple hours of sleep? Or are you really missing that you get to gather with God's people? When we're singing the songs, does it go through your heart? Joy. Joy in the Lord. I will lift up my voice. I will shout to the Lord as we saw in the call to worship. Or is it, is this a long one? Six verses. Oh. When are we going to get done in lunches at, oh, it's already 1217. Use the Lord's day as a good test for yourself. Are you loving what God loves? As a test for the Pharisees. They thought it, they legitimately thought, that God cared more about somebody not working. And that they would miraculously heal someone's hand, that they would restore life. It boggles our brains. And yet we do the same thing, don't we? We find ourselves in these times of doubt, giving all the attention to our head. Oh, I'm doubting God. I know what I'm gonna do. I know what I'll do. I will go to Bible Gateway and I will listen to the whole Bible in three days, New Year's resolution. Is that gonna change your heart? We tell ourselves, I know what I'll do. I know what I'm gonna do. I will do nothing. I will watch no Netflix this year. I will watch no TV. I will only listen to sermons on sermon audio. That's what I'll do. Is that going to change your doubting heart? No, brothers and sisters, it's not a problem in our heads, it's a problem in our hearts, and so what do we have to do? We need to pray. We need to pray. We need to pray. And then when we're done that, do you know what we need to do? We need to pray. We need to pray some more. And we need to follow the example. That God gives us in his word. Think about Psalm 51. We were familiar with Psalm 51. David wrote it at his darkest hour. He wrote it in response to his sin. And he says in Psalm 51, verse 10, does he say, Oh God! Change my mind. He doesn't. Do you know what he says? He says, create in me a clean heart. Restore, renew, renew a steadfast spirit within me In Psalm 34, verses 18 to 19, it says, The Lord is near to those who have what? A broken heart. And he saves such as have a contrite spirit. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all. If you have doubt in God or you distrust him at all, I encourage you, do not find yourself in that spiral that goes down into the muck and into the mire. It is one of those afflictions, and it doesn't indicate that you don't have faith, and it doesn't indicate that God doesn't love you. It is an opportunity for you to test your own heart and say, Am I loving what God loves? It's an opportunity for you to go to passages of Scripture like this and say, I need God to restore me, to take my withered heart. And restore it as whole as the heart in Jesus. Restore it and make it as healthy as the Christ's heart. The Christ who took on flesh, who took a heart to himself, that I could be like him. I'll close with this. We'll come to it in more detail later when we get to here in Mark, and well, I just pray that God, in his providence, allows us to get to Mark chapter 9. Then verses 22 through 24. He says, But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us. This is a man who's talking to Jesus. He's asking Jesus to heal him. And Jesus said to him, If you can believe All things are possible to him who believes. And the one who's looking for healing, he's looking for healing of his child. And so the father cries out. And he says, with tears, do you remember what he says? He says, Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. His doubt did not indicate that he did not love God. His doubt and distrust did not indicate that he didn't seek after God or wasn't looking for God to do this. His doubt was an opportunity, an affliction that God gave him, that he would cry out to the Savior and see the miraculous, validating signs of God. When you are in those times, brothers and sisters, I pray that the Lord will help you to recognize that it's not a matter of your head. But it's a matter of your heart, and that by his spirit he will give you the strength to cry out to him with every fiber of your being to cry out to the Lord. Oh Lord, help my unbelief. Oh Lord, heal my withered heart. Make me love you. Make me trust you. Please pray with me