But Mary stood outside the tomb weeping. And as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tomb. And she saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. Then they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him Now when she said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, and did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? She, supposing him to be the gardener, said to him, Sir, if you carry him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus said to her, Mary She turned and said to him, Raboni, which is to say, teacher. Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to my father, but go to my brethren and say to them, I am ascending to my Father and your Father, and to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that he had spoken these things to her Let us pray. Heavenly Father, there are many things that are evident that you make evident to us. And standing before us here is that we need you to reveal yourself to us. If you do not first love us, we will not love you. And so that is what I pray for your congregation this morning. Oh Lord, would you let them see you by faith I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. The last time I was with some of you was on Good Friday, and I raised a question of if you're seeking to show that Jesus Christ is the all-glorious King Why is it that you would show him in such humiliation? And really it looks like he's being manhandled and conquered Well, we answered that on Friday. You're welcome to listen to that. But we can ask a similar question this morning is if we're going to be seeing the Christian faith move out under the power of Christ's ascension Why is it that we see this band of disciples portrayed the way that they are? Have you realized it? I would encourage you to go back and read this whole account of the disciples that are dealing here. I characterize them after reading and rereading this gospel over the years as as uh uh um in despair This is after the resurrection of Jesus Christ. They're in despair. We'll talk about that in a minute. If you keep reading, they're hiding. And if you keep reading, they're doubting. So the first disciples, after the resurrection of Christ, are in despair, they're hiding, and they're doubting Now what is what is going on with that to where this where John is seeking to paint this picture in this same way? Let me put it this way. This morning we had that uh lovely responsive reading where I would say to you Christ is risen and you would respond to me, He's risen indeed. And on my way into the sanctuary, before the service even started, I walked by somebody and they pulled me back to them and they said, Christ is risen. And I said, He is risen indeed. Now, here's what I'm trying to say to you. These disciples that are portrayed for us here in this historical document, if you said to them on that morning, Christ is risen, they'd say, What? Huh? What are you talking about? I don't get it. They probably w wouldn't even really be able to hear your tears or your your words here. You can see with Mary she's she's weeping And she can't really focus on much. So what is going on here with John? Well, what we have in front of us are some case studies of what it really looks like to discover that Jesus Christ has risen. And that he has conquered the ruler of this world, and that victory is in him. Now here's the thing, catch what I'm saying right there. Victory isn't in you You're dull. You're blind most of the time. Kind of walk waddling through this life. But our hope, declared once again this morning, is not in you and your degrees or your general intelligence quotient Our hope is in the risen Lord Jesus Christ, who is patient with you, will reveal himself to you over time, to make sure that you grow more and more in the knowledge. That he is in charge, and all things are in his hands, and they're good hands. Now that's what we're going to end up seeing within a certain case study within Mary here this morning. Mary So you can take a look with me at the scriptures here as we unpack it. introduced to you the idea that they really don't understand what's going on. If you go up just one or two sentences from what we read this morning, you'll see that John summarizes their experience that way. Go ahead and look at it with me I read eleven to you, but if you began in eight, then the other disciple who came to the tomb first went in also, and he saw and believed. For as yet they did not know the scripture, this is the point I wanted to make to you, for as yet they did not know the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. Then the disciples went away again to their own homes. So at this point, all of them are looking at this through a very particular lens of they've taken the body. They're not looking at this as he's risen, he's risen indeed. That's not how they're viewing this. And that really helps us to understand Mary Magdalene's initial response when we start to get into the portion that I read to you, beginning in verse number eleven. But Mary stood outside of the tomb weeping. Now, in order for her to do that, there's something going on in her in the way that she's looking at the empty tomb. You look at the empty tomb this morning and you think of the words that are earlier in the in the account. It is finished. And you hear you hear a cry of victory and completion of the sovereign will of God. You look at Mary, that's not how she seems. That's not what's going on. She's looking at this out of through a lens. It seems that she's looking at it through a lens that those who are in power have been able to manipulate the situation and continue their tyranny again. Now you can see that throughout the the Gospel of John, that that would be a A reasonable conclusion for her to draw and lens by which to interpret this invent. The powerful exercising their tyranny John 11, 53, then from that day on they plotted to put Jesus to death. John 19, 15, but they cried out after Pilate was saying there's nothing There's no charge against this man. They cry out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. Manipulating even Roman courts. And Mary experienced, Mary Magdalene experienced that corrupt power. We saw that in some of our readings through the Holy Week in John 19, 25, for example. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clothas, and Mary Magdalene With what John has just said in verse number nine of this particular chapter, we know that Mary, standing, Mary Magdalene standing before the cross is not looking at it and getting the real picture of what God the Father is doing through the Son. That's a 2020 vision after the fact. What she's seeing is there's no way to stop the corruption And she ends up experiencing it. She sees him there, as we talked about on Friday, perhaps pushing up on the platform so that he could get another breath. She sees power in its results. Corrupt power. And then when we go to John chapter twenty, verses one and two, this very chapter we're in this morning. Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb early while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. Then she ran and came to Simon Peter and to the others' disciples whom Jesus loved and said to them, This is very important. She says, think up think about the antecedent of this. They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. You see how she's seeing this? She's not seeing this as a hopeful sight. She's seeing this that this is a time where she would weep. Her crying makes sense to her. And you know sh you wonder if she's in part like this because she's particularly particularly sensitive to People or beings having power over her and driving her into the dust and destroying her. Do you know a little bit about her story? From Luke chapter 8, verses 1 and 2, listen to her interaction with Jesus and what she was like before Christ. exorcised demons from her. Now it came to pass afterward that he went through every city and village, preaching and bringing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him, and certain women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities. Mary called Magdalene, out of whom had come seven demons. I bet you she was particularly sensitive to things possessing her, her losing a sense of her own will, not able to stop. A kind of tyranny. But here's the interesting thing as we continue on in our account. You'll see if you were to read through our account again, you'll see Mary weeping, Mary Weeping, Mary Weeping. She's weeping throughout the the the most of this passage that I have read to you. But the interesting thing is that one of the reasons we know why she's weeping is because first angels and then Jesus ask her, why are you weeping? Which is interesting because to the angels and to Jesus it's not obvious as to why she would be sad today So what we end up having here is a kind of conflict. We have a conflict on the way that the disciples are first, by way of Mary, seeing what has happened. We're having that conflict and contrast with the reality of the resurrection, which we see through the eyes and the understanding of the angels and Jesus Christ. John is careful to show, I'll be bold this morning and just say, John is careful to show that Mary Magdalene's weeping is actually quite inappropriate this morning. John chapter 20 verse 11. But Mary stood outside by the tomb weeping, and as she wept, she stooped down and she looked into the tomb. John twenty verse thirteen, then when she was able to speak with the angels, woman Which I actually have been reading that it's a term of endearment, not not the angels aren't wearing wife feeders in West Virginia. Woman, why are you weeping? And she said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, there's the they again. She thinks they won. And I do not know where they have laid him. And then if we keep going and we read in verse number 15, even Jesus then says, although she thinks he's the gardener at this time, Woman, why are you weeping? And whom are you seeking? Now the other thing that John does here, in order to show, give us evidence that this is inappropriate for her to be weeping, that there's a there's a revelation that must take place for her to be able to see the actual state of affairs. There is a uh Jonathan I would would say there is a divine and supernatural influence that must take place in order for her to be able to see Something like scales must fall from her eyes so that she can see that they did not win, but that the ruler of this world has been conquered, and there is the reality of the resurrection And that's where this evidence starts to come in, number one, that when she did look in, it is very interesting. I'm not going to say too much about this. I have a little article if you'd like to read it. When she did look into the tomb John records that she sees angels dressed in white at the foot and the head of the bench that is in the tomb. And uh I I don't have a PhD in this But when I read the foot angels at the foot and the head, because I just read the scriptures, immediately the image popped into my mind of the mercy seat Where we have the Ark of the Covenant with two angels on either side with their wings veiling their faces. And perhaps if she could see at that time, she would realize that that Ark of the Covenant And the mercy of God, that he would cover all transgression and iniquity is actually happening in Jesus Christ. And that his sacrifice has been accepted. He is justified in the sight of the Father, and therefore has been raised from the dead. So he's not there. Well maybe she would have seen that, but but she was not able to see it. But then by the time she is able to go over and have a conversation, and then Jesus reveals himself to her. You notice that? Isn't that beautiful? And doesn't that capture our lives so well? Let me just ask you who are inclined to think you play a lot in entering into your salvation, that it's up to you primarily. Let me just ask you, what would happen to Mary if Jesus said, I'm going to go sit in the corner of the gardener and wait for her to figure this out? We would still be waiting. Jesus came to her and he revealed himself to her and his sheep, whom he has elected. know his voice. And she's able to see. And he ends up presenting this evidence to her that this is not a time for weeping because number one, I'm standing here in front of you. I'm not dead. Number two, let me start to unpack a little bit, which we'll see then in the rest of the New Testament and the in the uh epistles from the apostles Let me unpack for you a little bit as to the significance of what's going on here. Jesus then in verse number 17 and following, he says to her, go to my brethren. Something has changed. This is the first time he calls them brothers and sisters. And I think that's a reference back to Psalm number 22, where he has pulled together his congregation and his covenant people. And then he goes on and he says, not just my father, which we've heard him say before, but he says, it's my father, and it's your father. We've been adopted through his work, been translated from the kingdom of the Satan into the kingdom of light, and are now sons and daughters of light. And then he closes with a covenant formula. Tell them my God and your God. Quite a bit has happened in the life and the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And my only point to you, I'm not going to unpack what each one of those phrases mean My only point to you is, listen, Mary, now's not the time for weeping. Because he is risen. He has risen indeed. Now, interestingly, I think if you were to pull all of that together to see our main teaching this morning, you would find it summarized very well earlier in the Gospel of John in chapter 16, verse 33. And I'd encourage you to make this your verse. It says this, in the world you will have tribulation. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Isn't that what Mary needed to learn? Wasn't it true that she had experienced so much tribulation within her life with all of the various ways in which life fell upon her and the way she interacted with life? And that in this very moment she's struggling to move beyond that and to be of good cheer, because she's struggling with that third part in understanding that Jesus Christ has overcome the world. That's certainly a summary of this case study that we have with Mary Magdalene here on Easter morning. Let's just take a look at that a little bit more closely. In the world you will have tribulation, Christian, but be of good cheer, because Jesus Christ has overcome the world. One of the big things that I'm hoping to do at this point is for you not just to hear that with your ears, but for you to get that thing to go down into the heart. There's a funny thing about this teaching that I'm giving to you this morning, in the world you'll have tribulation, but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world, is that I've noticed within myself and within you that this doctrine likes to jump back out of you. I have a picture in my mind of when I go fishing in the summers that I have a little uh grass shrimp net and I go down into the longer grass on the banks of the Glebe Creek near my father's house, and I'll rake the grass and I'll get all of these different grass shrimp. And I like to have a little bit of room when I'm fishing and not carrying a net around, so I'll dump the grass shrimp Initially I did anyway, dumped the grass shrimp into a little plastic cup that nobody would care about. And by the time I got to the hole where the fish were, all the grass shrimp were gone Because if you know grass shrimp, they just they like fling themselves and they pop they're like popcorn popping out of the cup. And that is a picture of what this teaching will do in your heart I'm saying it here to you this morning, and I'm trying to put this little grass shrimp of a teaching into you, and I'm telling you right now that it wants to just pop right back out So I'm hoping that we can try to keep it in there a little bit. And if you want to say a little prayer inside your head that Christ would nail this to you, then now's a good time to do that. I want to begin by just saying and reminding you, because sometimes I think we forget, let me just be real clear, you're going to have trouble You're gonna have trouble. And it's gonna go beyond what you actually think. There's an old quote from Shakespeare, which I'm probably gonna get wrong, because I'm just that kind of guy. I'm the kind of guy that gets Shakespeare wrong. It goes something like this, and I'm going to modify it. There is more in heaven and earth than is dreamt of in our scientific materialist philosophies. And why the reason why I end up starting this you're gonna have trouble is because I don't think you understand how deep the trouble is I'm speaking specifically to you, Christian congregation, that as you seek to be on mission for Jesus Christ Letting people know that he is king, that he has been raised from the dead, that all authority in heaven and earth has been given to him, you are going to run in in trouble in that specific task because you have an enemy who is the devil. And that's why I say there's more in heaven and earth than you could dream of. Because most of the time we think a problem that we have is just a flat tire But I'm telling you, the ti the higher is just the beginning of it. When we start to look at the scriptures, even in within the Gospel of John, we see that our problem are the forces of darkness themselves Just consider a couple verses with me that you can understand that the devil is at war with you, and that's why you're going to have trouble. John 13, 2, and supper being ended, the devil having already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him. Do you forget that that's what's happening? Number 2, John 12, 31. Now is the judgment of this world. This is Jesus speaking. Now the ruler of this world will be cast out. When Jesus thinks about where the trouble's coming from, he's thinking about Satan. Revelation 12, 7 through 9, we see a cosmic vision. And war broke out in heaven. Michael and his angels fought with the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought, but they did not prevail. nor was a place found for them in heaven any longer. So the great dragon was cast out, that serpent of old, called the devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world. He was cast to the earth, and his angels were cast out with him That's how they choose to describe all that we see around us that give us trouble. There's one gentleman that I know who puts it like this: the scriptures portray Satan as being a real being. whose activities and orientation are always negatively directed toward the people of God. Satan is the roaring lion walking about seeking someone to devour, 1 Peter 5. 8 He jealously provoked Job in order to prove his inconstancy, Job 1. His wiles are such that the Christian needs to don the whole armor of God to stand against him. Ephesians 6. 11 His children are manifest in their manifold works of unrighteousness, 1 John 3. 10. He hindered Paul in his missionary journeys, 1 Thessalonians 2. 18. In order to deceive many and disrupt the progress of the gospel, he transforms himself into an apparent angel of light, 2 Corinthians 11, 14. Finally, in the Revelation of John, he is prominently displayed as the serpent of old, whose continued war against the people of God is fierce and bloody, and whose defeat is only gained by the blood of the Lamb, Revelation 12. The good works done by God's people are to be understood within the context of a raging spiritual war Waged by fierce and relentless foes who will oppose all such things and seek to undermine the advances of the kingdom made through them. And I'll just bring you back to a passage that we looked at on Monday, Thursday. Not sure if you caught this from John chapter 13, verse 18. When Jesus is finishing up the washing of the feet, he says, I do not speak concerning all of you. I know whom I have chosen. But that the scripture may be fulfilled. He who eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me. What a perfect picture. I encourage you on Monday, Thursday, and on Good Friday, after we looked at Christ, which was most important, I encourage you then, because Christ was encouraging you, to serve like Christ. And what you end up seeing in this picture at the footwashing is that Jesus takes off the outer garments, he girds himself like a slave. He gets down there to wash people's feet, and then there are some people in this world that when they grab a hold of his foot, they're going to kick him in the face with his heel. And it will be no different with the rest of you. And I'm just wondering, right now, what are all of the different relationships and situations in your life where God has you serving him and how is it that you are getting kicked? in the face by those people and those situations. Can you think of any? It could be small or it could be large Or look out at your brothers and your sisters in Jesus Christ. How do you see them getting kicked? How do you see the heel landing on them? If you want to, you could even just look at the fact that your body is fading away. You can do less and less because you have more arthritis in one knee and then the other. It's a part of the misery that was brought on by Satan himself. So I give you a lot of scriptures here to prove to you that you have a lot of trouble, but I'm also appealing to your own experience. Don't you see the heel kicking you in the face? Can't you feel the prick of the thorns? Certainly there is trouble for you. And Mary is a good case study for us to realize that. The second thing that would be good for us to see and to go into a little bit more deeply is the second part of that teaching. Not only that there will be much trouble. But that we are to be of good cheer because Christ has overcome this trouble. Going back to the image of the heel in his face, it wasn't Judas' heel. That did the crushing in the end. Christ used all of the machinations of the leaders of that time to his own purposes. He used their own weight against them like a jiu-jitsu artist, pinning them in the end, and conquering the ruler of this world. You know, the first argument is really easy. I could see when I was talking to you, you realizing and really just acknowledging what you already knew. Yeah, there's trouble. Thank you for letting me know that it comes from this ultimate cause and his children, Satan. But we all get it, there's trouble. But this second argument of be of good cheer for Christ has overcome, that's the real grass shrimp. That's the tougher one. But the thing that we see here within this passage is that Jesus is even going to overcome that within you. Do you see that? Do you see that the fact that you have trouble trusting that he has actually overcome that Jesus Christ, in the same way that he did for Mary of Magdalene He will do the same thing and conquer that kind of distrust and ignorance and misunderstanding. He'll conquer that in you too. One way I could have approached this this morning is to make an argument to you and say, give you a bunch of different scriptures showing you that Jesus Christ has overcome. And then I'd look at you and I'd say, Well, get your act together and just believe this. But wouldn't that be inappropriate, given the passage that we have? Because all of the disciples are in desperation, they are hiding, and they are doubting And part of the beauty of this passage is that we're able to connect and say, that's my problem too. Mary was freed of seven demons. I'm sure that she realized a lot more after that, but it looks to me like there's some progress to go. And I bet you even if you're sitting here 70, 80, 90, 100, 200 years old this morning, that you're still thinking, I've got a little bit more to go That's the way that we are. It would be inappropriate for me to just shout that out to you to get your act together. Instead, what we get to see here when we're sitting here seeking to really believe that Jesus Christ has overcome. We get to look at this passage and we get to see, if you don't believe that, Christian, this morning, or if you believe, help my unbelief, know that Jesus Christ is in the business. of walking you from unbelief into greater and greater and greater trust in him that he has overcome. It's easy for you to say he is risen. He's risen indeed. It is easy for you to say that this morning. But when you are getting kicked in the face, it is not so easy to say that. But Jesus Christ is going to make it easier and easier for you. He's going to reveal himself like he revealed himself to Mary. Look at it this way. I know I'm I'm saying I'm restating things, but this is important. I just want you to look at how much you are like Mary and her condition. Mary feels utterly alone. And like they have won. But the reality of the situation is she literally has angels in front of her and Jesus Christ behind her. And if you had the op if you had the eyes to see, there is not a single situation as a Christian where Jesus Christ is absent from you. And maybe he has sent angels to help. Oh boy is that our situation. When we look here, we don't see that Mary figured that out all on her own. That wasn't the glory of Easter. The glory of Easter is that Christ never gave up on her That Christ pursued her, that Christ revealed himself to her, and she would grow. Sh he would gain her attention and she would start to see that he wasn't just some miracle worker, but that he was the son of God. Given all authority and in heaven and earth. And the same thing is going to be with you. I wonder what situations you're in, and you're thinking, Jesus Christ is just nowhere to be found around here. All I see is a gardener. You may not be able to see him right now, but I'm telling you, he's there. And at just the right time, he'll reveal himself to you. You will realize it at just the right time. And I know that you have experiences like that. I doubt you have experiences where when you realize that Christ has been with you, you've cried out, Raboni! That would be odd But you probably said something like, Oh Lord, what am I gonna learn? That just because I can't see you doesn't mean you're not there. When he reveals himself to you, then you're going to go through that same arc that we see here in Mary Magdalene on that Easter morning. You'll move from weaving to joy. In 2016, Jesus said to her, Mary, She turned and said to him, Raboni, which is to say teacher. And I imagine some of you have had experiences like that already. I know that Christ is not here physically present with us, he's with us by way of the Spirit. But nevertheless, we know that we are communing with him and you've had these moments where he teaches you and reveals himself so personally to you, you have just got to say, you've been here all along, haven't you? He will not only, according to this case study with Mary, be of good cheer or move into good cheer, you will also move from desperation into proclamation. Did you catch that in verse number 18? Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord and that he had spoken these things to her. And that's really where our witness starts to come in, beginning on Easter morning, is that we become a group of people who are able through spiritual sight to see the great work of our Savior, who is not dead but is risen, and to tell other people about his power and about his love. What I'm addressing with you here this morning is that saying Christ is risen, he is risen indeed, is very easy for you to do this morning. I didn't write the Gospel of John. But when we look at it, it looks to me like Jesus Christ, in all of his wisdom, anticipated that you have a few problems. That you have a few problems that it's easy to say he's risen here, but then when someone's kicking you in the face, it becomes much more difficult. So he gives you Mary Magdalene as a case study. So that you can see that he's moving you to be full of good cheer because he is overcome. That is what Christ is doing. He walks in the garden of your life with you, and at just the right time, in each situation and season You will know deep in your heart that yes, in the world we will have tribulation, but I can be of good cheer. Because in Jesus, in his life, and in his death and in his resurrection and in his ascension, he has in fact overcome the world. He has even overcome me. Amen. Please join me in prayer.