John Chapter twenty Now the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene, who went to the tomb early while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. Then she ran and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved and said to them, They've taken They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. Peter therefore went out and the other disciple and were going to the tomb. So they both ran together, and the other disciple outran Peter and came to the tomb first. And he, stooping down and looking in, saw the linen cloths lying there, yet he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb, and he saw the linen cloths lying there, and the handkerchief that had been around his head. not lying with the linen cloths, but folded together in a place by itself. Then the other disciple who came to the tomb first went in also, and he saw and believed. For as yet they did not know the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. Then the disciples went away again to their own homes. But Mary stood outside the tomb weeping, and as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tomb, and she saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. Then they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. Now when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there and did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? She, supposing him to be the gardener, said to him, Sir, if you can if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus said to her, Mary. She turned and said to him, Raboni, which is to say, teacher. Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to my Father. But go to my brethren and say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father, and to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples she had seen the Lord and that he had spoken these things to her Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled, for the fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst and said to them, Peace be with you. When he said had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. So Jesus said to them, again, Peace to you, as the Father has sent me, I also send you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you retain the sins of any, they are retained. Now Thomas, called the twin, one of the twelve, was not with them when Jesus came. The other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord. So he said to them, Unless I see his hands, the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe And after eight days his disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them. Jesus came, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace to you. Then he said to Thomas, Reach your finger here And look at my hands, reach your hand here and put it into my side. Do not be unbelieving, but believing. And Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord and my God. Jesus said to him, Thomas, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed And truly Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, that believing you may have life in His name Amen. And let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your scripture and the recounting here from John. I pray, Lord, that through the preached word, that you would permit your congregation and those who are in attendance with your congregation to hear, to hear you. O Lord, I pray that in hearing they would believe and gain eternal life and persevere therein. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. As you were listening to the story here, I wonder which character you related to the most. Uh were you did you relate well to Mary Magdalene and her discovery of the Lord, uh the grief that she had been experiencing and the anxiety and not being able to sleep, she got up real early. even before dawn. Did you relate to John and Peter? I wonder if some of you related to John and just you're a fast sprinter and you would you would take Peter in a race. I hope you notice that. I wonder if John teased him about that as they went on. It's recorded forever that I beat you in a race. Or did you relate to some other character? Uh honestly, I wonder the most out of all of them if you relate to Thomas and the criteria that he had for belief. I know um and for a fact and actually have a good memory of many people here growing up and really struggling with their faith, seeking to make their faith their own. They had grown up in the church and wanted their faith to become their own and not just live off of their parents' faith, which is really healthy. And one of the things they would inevitably say to me is if I could just see If Jesus would just appear to me, very similar to Thomas, as if if that is what could happen, then everything would be solved. But interestingly, when we look at the scriptures, did you notice, and we'll get to this at the end, it doesn't say blessed are those who see. It says, blessed are those who believe without seeing. Now how is it that he could say that? Well we're going to try to answer that question here today, as well as overall, continue the series that we started at Palm We've gone through Palm Sunday, Monday, Thursday, Good Friday. And in each of those times, we've been going through the Gospel of John. I love the Gospel of John. And we've been, by the grace of God, been looking to see the glory that Jesus Christ reveals. about God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And we have seen the glory of his resurrection power in bringing Lazarus to life and bringing you to life, Christian. And those Christians that are around you, bringing them to life. We've seen the glory of his merciful and faithful love. As we contemplated his work by way of the footwashing and the Lord's Supper, we've seen the glory that he reveals of God the Father on the cross. Uh John says this is the cr this is Christ's glory, him being raised up and exalted. Usually think of a his today being his exaltation and moving into his ascension, but the exaltation started on the cross and it was a revelation of the glory of God. And here we see again the glory of God in the vindication and the resurrection, declaring, if you go on and read the scriptures, declaring that Jesus is in fact the Christ. the eternal Son of God. Now what I'd like to do with you is very simple here this morning is I just want to walk through this whole chapter with you, but there is a a specific point that we're going to focus on. We're going to end up focusing more on Thomas than anybody else. But I want to start at the top there of chapter 20. So if you'd like to follow along with me, we'll go ahead and step through this together and see what lessons the Holy Spirit has for us this morning. You'll notice that really, I know that you can become very familiar with these accounts, at least most of you become familiar with these accounts, and they can become quite formalized. outside of the context in which they were given. I r I really think John is just trying to record here, though there is uh a lot of sacred teaching that's going on. He's also trying to get across that these are the everyday people going through their everyday life, discovering like you would discover, the glory of Jesus Christ. And that begins with Mary of Magdala, or Mary Magdalene, as she's called here in the passage, and Peter and John. We've already gone through and we've seen that Mary has been, I'd imagine, in some kind of turmoil through out the uh since the crucifixion of her Lord And here she is arriving at the place where he's placed in the tomb after he had died. She is arriving before dawn. And ends up telling Peter and John in verses 1 and 2 just what's going on. So we I've already announced to you just by way of the sprinting match there that John outruns Peter, but but John waits And of course when Peter gets there, this shouldn't be a surprise to any of you who are familiar with the Gospels, Peter doesn't wait at all. He just rushes in. It's exactly what he has done the entire time in the Gospels. That's how he is portrayed. He goes into the tomb in verses 3 and 8, and there you'll notice that on purpose John stops and kind of has like a pit stop, counting the articles that are present within the tomb. You'll notice, for example, that he mentions the specifics of the linen cloths that are lying there. The handkerchief around that was around Jesus' head is lying there. And they are fold the the they're folded, he mentions. These are interesting details. And then eventually it arrives at this moment of truth where John himself tells you in the passage that he has come to a conclusion. He says this in verse number seven, he says, and the handkerchief that had been around his head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded together in a place by itself. And then the other disciple who came to the tomb first went in also. And then there's this this remark at the end, and he saw and he believed. And that's really the point, especially of what John is trying to point out here. If you want to later today look at the back of the Gospel of John John is focused on you believing, him believing, everybody believing that Jesus is the Christ. So this is the pinnacle moment here for John as he's looking at this scene. And Jesus is not there, but all of the grave clothes are. Things are starting to click for him that Jesus has raised from the dead. Now this is significant because the same John told you in the earlier passage that we had studied on Good Friday together, that he was there as an eyewitness to see that Jesus died. Do you remember the evidence that he gave you for that? He said that the Romans broke the other legs of the those who were crucified on the right and the left of Jesus. And they were proven to be dead. They suffocated under their own weight. But then when they went to break the legs of Jesus, they didn't need to because he was already dead, but just to ensure A javelin or spear was shoved through Jesus' side and sprang forth blood and water. Now, at the very least, this is showing forth his humanity, and that in his humanity he's dead. He's dead. But here John is now faced in an early morning, together with Peter, and all you need is two to establish something to be the truth within Jewish courts. And now he has three that are all establishing that Jesus is not in the tomb. He's alive. Now that's one part of it. There's going to be more that is revealed to us here because Jesus doesn't just leave it to looking at linen cloths and and the what they call the handkerchief that was around his head. Now let me just ask you, as I already began to ask you who's your favorite character within the passage, if you accompanied Mary, Peter, and John and you were looking in the tomb, what conclusion would you have drawn? What conclusion would you have drawn? I want you to be honest with yourself now. When I asked the question, I bet a conclusion automatically arose inside of your head. that you didn't even anticipate. And maybe it was something like well maybe he hasn't wasn't really dead Or whatever it is. But I'd like you to pay attention. I'd like you to see where your brain goes automatically, which is why John is laboring the point If you look back early, he says, no, he was dead. A spear went through his side. Blood and water came out. He was dead. We buried a dead man. And now he's not in the tomb. So how else would you explain it? Does someone steal his body? You know, all of these things have been said. But I'd like you to continue to listen to John now and also to pay attention to the testimony, the eyewitness testimony of Mary as we continue past the first eight verses or the first ten verses and move into verse 11 through 18. Now she's she when we move into verse 11 you can see that Mary is standing outside of the tomb though the other disciples have departed. And she is weeping. And you if you keep reading the account, you see that what has crossed her mind is someone has stolen the body. Just keep reading. It says, and as she wept, she stooped down and she looked into the tomb. Now this doesn't exactly make sense in her worldview, but she sees two angels in there. And did not know that uh she sees two angels in there, and then one at the head and one at the other feet, where the body of Jesus had lain, and then they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? And they answer, and they say, She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord. Do you see that? So she's making sense of this the best that she can. She has a narrative that would put the pieces together, just like we all have narratives that try to glue the pieces together so that we can understand what's going on in front of our face And she's reasoned that somebody has stolen the body, basically, and she doesn't know where they have laid him. Now, this is where that theory has to go out the window, and we're going to have to adopt a very new worldview. In verse number 14 it says, now when she had said this, she turned around and she saw Jesus standing there. He hadn't been stolen. That wasn't the explanation. Now, I think it's greatly significant the way that this unfolds, and I won't get into this. I think I went into this a couple years ago, but She did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? And she supposes him to be the gardener. Now that is so interesting if you've read your Bible. That all of a sudden we're talking about a garden and that Jesus is the gardener upon a new creation. I don't want to go into this too much because it just blows your mind today. It'll blow your mind. I want to blow your mind with something else. So we're going to focus one thing at a time here, but here you have the second Adam rising up to take over the garden of the world. We'll talk more. We'll talk more But this is where Jesus reveals himself to her. She thinks he's stolen. She eventually, in him saying her name, which I think is so sweet in verse number 16, take a look. Jesus said to her, Mary. And it is at that point that she turns and she recognizes who it is: Ravoni. I think that's so sweet that she could hear his voice in the saying of her name. I wonder if you relate to her in that way too. Or I wonder if you need to. You know, when I first became a Christian in high school, I didn't have this exact same experience. But I knew that Jesus Christ knew me this intimately. And I have come to know Jesus Christ this intimately. Jesus is not a theory to me, he's not an idea, he's not a theology book, he's not even a seminary education. Jesus is dear to me. He is my brother. He's my friend. He's my Lord. And it's very sweet. I've never heard him say audibly, Jesse. But I know when he calls my name. And I wonder if you have that experience too here that she is experiencing. Now, she responds with exactly how you would expect her to, that she clings to him. You can see this here in verse number 17. Jesus said to her, do not cling to me. Now this kind of is catching up on the story. If you read in other gospel accounts, she has fallen and she's laying prostrate and she's holding on to him. And there's a bit of a puzzling response here. There's 101 different ways that people have taken this particular verse, so I'm not going to get into all of them with you here this morning because it's not the point. But he goes on and he says something quite mysterious. He says, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to my father, but go to my brethren and say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father and to my God and your God And I and without getting into it, I really think and we can talk about this later too, I really think what he's basically just saying to her is, you don't need to cling on to me right now because I'm not going anywhere quickly. And this will play out in the way that Jesus then stays around for a number of days, which we see in the next part of the story. You can see that Jesus appears to his disciples, and he's going to do so for many days, continuing to prepare them for his ascension, when it happens at that moment that we see within Acts. But interestingly, and I hope that you heard this, there's actually Jesus appearing to his disciples, part one, and there's Jesus appearing to his disciples part two. They're almost the exact same account, except one has been set aside for a person who wasn't present at the first appearing and had a lot of doubts. And that's really important. With Jesus Christ appearing first, you can see this in verses 11 through 13. Besides giving instructions to the disciples, He gives evidence to them that he is alive. Now take a look at that with me because I want you to see this is where we're we've been funneling down into this specific point of the passage. In chapter 20, take a look at 11 through 13, where he reveals himself where he reveal where he reveals himself to the to the disciples and the apostles. And starting in seventeen, I'm sorry, he cling she does she seeks to cling to him and then in nineteen I apologize. And 19. Then the day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst and said to them, Peace be with you. And it is pointed out that there's one who's not with them, and that is Thomas. And this is the first point I want you to observe. The word used is the disciples gathered on the Lord's Day. Take a note of that, by the way. And then they're going to wait a whole nother week and gather again on the Lord's Day. Total coincidence. Just kidding. If it's just disciples in general, why is it that he calls out Thomas' name? In other words, it says here the disciples were assembled. Well, you know how many disciples there were at that time? You know how many people filled the streets in the triumphal entry? Why didn't Jesus name all the other 5,000 other disciples? Why is he only naming Thomas? I think the reason here is because this is a special set of disciples. There has been a special set of disciples that have been a part of the story for some time now. We have at the footwashing, that not everybody was invited to that. And then when we finally get to here and we see the mentioning of Thomas, we see that Judas is not present, Thomas is eventually present, and then you're going to have the others. In fact, you'll see in light of the circle at the Last Supper, made up of Jesus plus the twelve, and then after Judas Iscariot left the eleven, and in light of the fact that Thomas is singled out as not having been present in verse number twenty-four Though doubtless there were countless other disciples less tightly connected with the Lord who were also not present, we should think of the ten, the twelve, less Judas and Thomas. What is going on here is not just every disciple in the world is being invited. What's happening here, and this is key to what John is seeking to show you, is the apostles are gathered here. The apostles are gathered here, and that makes sense of what Jesus says to them when he talks about the keys of the kingdom with them. Permitting someone to enter into the kingdom or not enter into the kingdom. As he mentioned there, he said, Peace be with you. He shows them his hands and his side, and he goes on. And he says, if you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you retain the sins of any, they are retained. He's talking about a kind of authority that he has granted a particular group of people. And the people here are the apostles. They are the ones that are going to go and to witness as the primary witnesses to the nations. That's the kind of authority that they have been given. That's important for them to for you to see that Jesus shows up and those who will be witnesses within an apostolic office or the Apostolic Office are given the ability to be eyewitnesses to Jesus being alive. You already have that with John. You have that with Peter. Now he's meeting with the others, and he's literally letting them see that he is alive and that it is in fact him. Because he is showing him showing them the wounds that he has received specifically in his crucifixion. That is very important for you to understand why Jesus says, blessed are those who believe without seeing. We're going to get to that here in just a moment. But that's important for you to see is that the Jesus Christ appearing to the disciples part one is that it's Jesus Christ appearing to the apostles. And they are therefore, the best definition of the apostles are that they are eyewitnesses to the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And you can see this in the set of verses, but you don't go on long with even within that paragraph without Thomas and John's preoccupation with Thomas showing up. You see there in verse number 24, immediately Thomas called the twin, one of the twelve, was not with them when Jesus came. And so here's the very first thing that happens before Jesus reveals himself to the disciples in part two. It is first told to Thomas from the apostles. We've already defined that there in verse number 25. It says, the other disciples, and I've shown you that's a restrained group, namely the apostles. And they say to him, We have seen the Lord. Which means he's alive. Which means he has been raised from the dead. And this is where we really start to gain understanding of what's going on here that the Holy Spirit wants to point out to us, and that is Thomas. Did not listen to apostolic testimony. That's the key that unlocks the door. That Jesus wants to point out, and that John wants to point out, that Jesus pointed out. And that then brings us into the gathering of the disciples and the revealing of the Lord to the disciples, part two. There's a sequel. John cannot make it long until he interrupts with this preoccupation of Thomas's doubt and subsequent belief. And it is very important for you to see what I had just mentioned to you, that the apostles tell Thomas that they've seen the Lord, but Thomas refuses to believe unless he will see himself. Look at verse number 25. Look how strong it is. So he said to them, unless I see in his hands the print of the nails. And he's going to go even a step further and he's going to say, I've got to put my finger in him into the print of the nails, and I've got to put my hand into his side. You know what, unless I have that criteria met, I won't believe. I will not believe. And I wonder if that describes you. You see, this is this this Thomas mentality is the same thing that I have experienced as I have been around the church for a little while where people say this I remember becoming a Christian in high school. I was super excited to become a Christian. I thought everything has changed, and it really did. Everything had changed. So I immediately went to the people that I love and I told them About Jesus Christ and what he had done for me. I even told a judge in the middle of court, as I told you, and everybody laughed at me. And some people said to me, I don't believe that stuff unless I see it. And it's the same mentality that's going on here. It's the same mentality. But Thomas goes even further and says, I've got to put my finger in it. Now that's a little gruesome. I have to put my finger in it. And I wonder if you have set up the same kind of criteria, or if you have not set up that exact same kind of criteria, have you set up a kind of criteria where unless God meets your demands, you're unwilling to negotiate with Him? Unless he meets the specific way in which you think he's supposed to reveal himself to you, then you want nothing to do with him. I would recommend to you that you don't relate to God that way. I would recommend that you would figure out how he wants to relate to you and that you would relate to him that way. And that's what Thomas is going to have to learn here as they're as Jesus is revealing himself. Now Thomas is one of the apostles So Jesus does reveal himself out of mercy and gentleness. He does reveal himself and his glory to Thomas. He comes to Thomas in the succeeding verses in verse number twenty-seven Thomas wants this kind of knowledge. It will be useful to the ends of the kingdom so that Thomas is able to witness as an eyewitness. And Jesus therefore points to him and he says, Thomas, go ahead. Look at all of the wounds. Stick your finger in every single one if you want to. And then we get to the very important part here, where in verse number 29, Jesus calls him to a general truth. And it is a gentle and light rebuke to him. And it is meant to be a teaching that is supposed to span all of the ages Even for you here today. And he says this in verse number 29. These are the words of Christ. Jesus said to him, Thomas, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. I'm going to say it again. In verse number 29, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. Now, what does Jesus mean by that? A lot of the time within our culture, this verse will be ripped out. And it is used in support of the fact that we really have no idea what the truth is No one has real access to it. The best that you could do is just commit to something and see if it works out. And this will be philosophically developed in different works, and it will eventually be called a kind of and commended as a kind of virtue to have blind faith. But I'm here to tell you, I don't you know, I see a lot of people that I know, but I see some people that I don't know. Those of you who I don't know, I'll tell you right now, Jesus is not commending for you to leave your brain outside the door. God Himself created you with a mind. And God appreciates it greatly when you think And he doesn't want you setting it aside at the most important moment of your life in the consideration of what is true about the eternal Son of God. That's not what's going on here. When he says in verse 29, Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed, he's not talking about a blind faith. The whole context here is point the whole context is not a contrast between we can't have any knowledge or can we have some knowledge. The whole contrast here is between belief in eyewitness belief As that's the only kind of belief that you're willing to accept, and the belief in those who are eyewitnesses and been given the special authority to be eyewitnesses in your life, namely the apostles. Blessed are those, you can put it this way, blessed are those who have not seen, but have accepted the eyewitness testimony of the apostles. And you can even go further if you read the scriptures. It'll be, blessed are those who have not seen, but have accepted the eyewitness testimony of the prophets and the apostles. And that's another way of talking about all of Scripture. And that's what is so important for John to lay forth here, and you could see why. Because guess what, brothers and sisters? I don't care how hard you try, you're never going to be an eyewitness to the resurrection. Never going to be an eyewitness to the resurrection. So how is it that you don't fall into a blind faith? Well the reason why you don't fall into a blind faith is that you accept the eyewitness testimony of those whom Jesus Christ has set aside as an authoritative witness namely the prophets and the apostles. And you know that's what happened to me in high school. And that was what so was so crazy. By the grace of God, somebody shoved the Bible in front of me while I was in a drug rehab, and they started reading the Bible to me, which was an apostolic testimony. And I believed that what they were saying was true, that they really did know God that way, and they spoke the truth about God. I I had the story of Noah read to me. I've never seen the Ark. Some people tell me it's in Pennsylvania. I I don't mean some people tell me they visit the Ark. I never I thought it was on Mount Ararat. I don't know how they transport it. That's uh funny story. I know that there's a kennel called Noah's Ark. I've never seen any of those things, but by God's grace He gave me faith to where I believe somebody's else someone else's testimony who in fact was there. Noah was there Now you say, well, wait a second, you said prophets and apostles. Well, Noah, it falls within those categories. If you read, for example, in the New Testament, he's called a preacher of righteousness. He's one of the preachers. And that's the whole point. I haven't seen any of the things that are written in the scriptures. But I believe the people who have. And that means I have a faith, but I don't have a blind one. I have one that's been given to me by Jesus Christ to accept the way that He has chosen to reveal Himself to me and everyone else across the world. All of the apostles are eyewitnesses to the resurrected Christ. We haven't talked about Paul yet. He's one untimely born. We could go into that another time. But he also is a authoritative witness. All the apostles are eyewitnesses to the resurrected Christ. And the main point here that is being brought out by John is, blessed are those that are not eyewitnesses. Blessed are those who are not eyewitnesses, but believe upon the eyewitness of those apostles that did see. Now we could go to another letter of John in 1 John, and you could see, I encourage you to do this later today if you go to 1 John. You'll see John is not going to give up on this theme. He says, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes. Which we have looked upon and our hands have touched. I wonder if he has Thomas in mind with Thomas putting his finger in a wound These are eyewitnesses that have seen the reality that God chose to reveal, and we are to accept their testimony as true. And to further help us, if you continue to read the scriptures, these same apostles were given the ability to do miracles. Why? To show off? It is an attestation that they are in fact holding the authority from God Himself to be the ones to let you know what God is revealing about Himself and what He is doing in this world. It is to establish their apostolic authority. It attests to it. That's the point of it. And that is the main message that John seeks to get to you here on this Easter morning, to a bunch of people that haven't seen any of these things. But you have heard them now. And in hearing, it is my prayer that you would believe. It says in the scriptures, in one way or another, that there are basically two different kinds of people. And these two different kinds of people can be divided in the way that they doubt. There is the kind of person who has an unending doubt. No matter how many times they hear the gospel or the good news about Jesus Christ, they always doubt. We can't make any ground. Every time we try to build something with you, you knock it over, and it falls to pieces in your own mind. And that is because this doubt is a doubt that is motivated by a heart that wants to remain in charge and not submit to Christ at all. I know you wouldn't agree with me on that. But that's the way that the scriptures reveal it. And Jesus talks about this with entire communities of people. And he says, Oh, you faithless generation, no matter how much I show you, there is continual doubt. And it is because you long to stay within your rebellion. But then there is a different kind of doubt, and this might surprise you It might surprise you that I that the scriptures lay forth a kind of doubt that Jesus is not rebuking. Sometimes I think as Christians we can think all doubt bad. You know, like you're yeah, like all doubt bad. But you know that's not entirely that can't be entirely true, Kenneth. Aren't there things you're supposed to doubt? Aren't doubts supposed to be raised in your mind when somebody has black taken black spray paint and spray painted all the windows in their van and they offer little kids candy as they go through the neighborhood? Doubts in that sense are like our immune system. They don't let sickness in. And so we have to be careful. And there is doubt within a person, especially by the mercy of God, a doubt that is arising from this is a bit of an ancient word, but it arises from an actual true ignorance. I don't actually know anything about Jesus. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know about these scriptures. I don't this is the first time I've ever heard the word apostle. Sometimes driving down Route 2, I see the word on the side of a building, but other than that, I have no idea what's going on There is a kind of true ignorance that happens to us as human beings, but with as a part of that true ignorance, nevertheless, in this kind of doubter, there is still a sincerity of heart where they really would like to know who Jesus is. But they don't know, and they can't just take your word for it. So they need some time to work through their doubts. Now, if that describes you, now that has described me in many different times in my life. And you know what Jesus has done in each one of those times, as I, by his grace, sought him in sincerity, is I have knocked on the door. He has opened it. He has not opened the door for every one of my curiosities But in the things that are important, the doubts that I have had, the most important ones, he comes to me, he helps me in my ignorance, and he relieves them. The doubts that I have that are just motivated by me wanting to be rebellious, he doesn't look to overlook those either, and he rebukes me in those But where he knows that I am sincerely ignorant, he meets me in my ignorance, like he met Thomas. And I wonder if you need to be met that way. I'll encourage you here with this passage from Romans 10, 14 through 17. Just to sure up your faith, now this is from the Apostle Paul reasserting what the Apostle John has recorded How then shall they call on Jesus if they have not believed in him? And how should they believe in him if they've never heard of him? And how shall they hear of them unless there's a preacher? And how shall they preach unless they're the sent ones or sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace, who bring glad tidings of good things. But they have not all obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed our report? Do you see that? God's not revealing himself as uh making everybody an eyewitness. Knowledge and belief are coming by way of preaching and reporting And then this passage ends in saying this. So then faith comes by hearing, not by sight. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing By the Word of God. And the Word of God is the apostolic and the prophetic testimony. I'll end on this. This whole series has been about the glory of God. If you're expecting to experience and to know the glory of God by Him showing up in all of His brilliant splendor before your naked eyes, think again. If you want to continue to experience the glory of God in your life and in the life of your family, it will come. Yes, he reveals his glory in creation. But he especially, according to John here, will reveal himself to you in his word. May we pick it up and read. Amen. Amen. Let us pray.