Good morning. It's good to see you all. Looks like great food. Sorry I didn't get to try any before I got up here. Okay, let me start with with prayer before I jump in. Father, we thank you for uh times where we can like this, where we can gather together and be uh enjoy uh fellowship. With brothers who share a common vision of what is good in this world and seek to work together in order to um bring about uh what you desire uh in this world, uh your will on this earth. I pray this morning, Lord, that um With uh what I have to say, Lord, that you would use it uh in a way that is uh beneficial uh to the brothers here and uh to your church. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. All right, so uh on the Uh the the advertisement for this morning's talk, it says retrieving virtue. So I thought that, you know In a talk about virtue, maybe starting off with a confession of one of my favorite vices, which is smoking a good pipe. I'm increasingly into smoking pipes I'm really quite a novice at it, about a year into it. And one of the things I like to do as a novice uh smoker. is after I buy a new tin of tobacco, I like to go home and look up reviews, right, on these whatever the tobacco is that I've bought. And if I don't know if you've ever looked up reviews of maybe a wine or uh tobacco, they're quite entertaining uh to read. So I I pulled this one up. I it wasn't one I've tried, uh, but interesting descriptive language uh that the this connoisseur of tobacco uses. Stewed dark fruit. wood and earth, tangy citrus and grass, light spiciness, pepper, hints of sugar and floralness, raisins, plums, apricots, Now usually what happens as I'm enjoying uh this bowl of tobacco, I can't taste any of these descriptions. But I I I don't think that these uh connoisseurs are making things up Some of them may, but I think what they've done is they've they've developed such a refined taste for this tobacco that they can identify all of the subtle uh notes and flavors that are coming through. And I think you could test this. I think you could uh maybe blindfold or just hand to someone who's very experienced with it a tobacco, and they could immediately tell you what quality. of tobacco this is. Is it cheap? Is it more expensive? You could do the same thing with someone who has a lot of experience with wine, a lot of experience with music or art. One of my professors told a story, and I've not been able to find this on YouTube of uh Vincent Price. I don't know if you that name rings a bell, but um turns out was uh had a lot of experience with art uh and was once on the Johnny Carson uh show and was tested uh as to what level of of of expertise he had. And so they would bring out a very cheap pe uh oil painting that he had never seen in very expensive pieces of art. And immediately he could say this is a a couple hundred dollars or this other piece oh this is a great piece of art worth thousands of dollars and he was right so I do think there is this uh This ability people have through experience where they can develop a judgment, an accurate judgment about the quality, the aesthetic quality. of things. Maybe you have a similar thing you're into. It could be woodworking, it could be um it could be uh music, playing an instrument. Uh I think for myself playing guitar it If you handed me a guitar blindfolded, I could probably tell you, is this a couple hundred dollar guitar? Is it a thousand dollars? Up, but I could tell it's a quality guitar. Now if you asked that stuck a person, so if you asked Vincent Price or if you asked um the Tobacco Connoisseur, if you asked the the guitarist explain to me the rationale for why you say this is a quality piece of art. That becomes very difficult. Right, they can make that immediate judgment, but then explaining what is it that's leading you to make this judgment, that is much harder to do And whether or not a person can do that, I still, it seems that there is some kind of objective judgment that these experts are able to make. Okay, so so far we're just talking about developing an experience with certain things that enables you to make a quick judgment about the quality. of something. These are aesthetic judgments. But maybe something like this can happen in the realm of moral judgments as well. So this is getting into the topic of virtue. What if, in order to become the type of person who makes good moral judgments You have to develop through experience and practice the proper feelings, proper affections. and a kind of quick moral judgment that's necessary to recognize what is truly good in different situations And to have the the character to firmly will what is good and not be turned away by maybe fear or by lesser goods that might be pleasing. To you. In The Abolition of Man, C. S. Lewis describes something like this, and he makes a comparison, I think, between aesthetic judgment and moral judgment. I don't know if you've read The Abolition of Man. I encourage you to do so. It makes a strong defense of the objectivity of morals. but also defends what is a kind of classical approach to the development of moral character and the virtues. And so I want to read a passage from The Abolition of Man where he describes what the ancients, what the classical moral tradition thought about the development of good moral character leading to a life that's lived well. So this is Lewis. Until quite modern times, all teachers and even all men believed the universe to be such that certain emotional reactions on our part could be either congruous or incongruous to it. So so far the ancients And the classical moral tradition, including Christians, thought that there is an objective order of reality. And that the way we reacted to it, what we felt about it could either line up with reality or be uh in disagreement with it. Believed in fact that objects did not merely receive, but could merit our approval or disapproval, our reverence or our contempt. Can you be righteous, asks Trehern, unless you be just in rendering to things their due esteem? All things were made to be yours, and you were made to prize them according to their value. St. Augustine defines virtue as ordo amoris, the order of love. The ordinate condition of the affections in which every object is accorded that kind and degree of love which is appropriate to it. Aristotle says that the aim of education is to make the pupil like and dislike what he ought. When the age for reflective thought comes, the pupil who has been thus trained in ordinate affections or just feelings will easily find the first principles of ethics But to the corrupt man, they will never be visible at all, and he can make no progress in that science. Plato before him had said the same The little human animal will not at first have the right responses. It must be trained to feel pleasure, liking, disgust, and hatred at those things which really are pleasant, likable. disgusting, and hateful. In the Republic the well-nurtured youth is the one who would see most clearly whatever was amiss in ill-made works of man or ill-grown works of nature. And with a just distaste would blame and hate the ugly even from his earliest years, and would give delighted praise to beauty. Receiving it into his soul and being nourished by it, so that he becomes a man of gentle heart. All this before he is of an age to reason. So that when reason at length comes to him, then, bred as he has been, he will hold out his hands in welcome and recognize her because of the affinity he or his soul bears to her. So from this quote, we see that the way the classical moral tradition, going back to Plato, Aristotle, which gets carried over into the early Christian tradition. It focused not simply on presenting a list of moral rules or principles, and having students rationalize through those principles in order to decide how to live. a good life, though they did believe in ethical principles and moral rules. But rather they emphasized the training of character The acquiring of virtue as an essential and necessary component or condition to achieving the good moral life This approach to ethics, one that emphasizes the development of virtue, is what is today called virtue ethics. And so in the literature, if you pick up a philosophy textbook, it's usually distinguished as an approach from other approaches like Deontological Ethics, which focuses on moral rule. Or a modern utilitarian approach which says we ought to do those things that maximize pleasure for the greatest number of people. people. Or in a theological setting, sometimes virtue ethics is contrasted with divine command ethics, though I'm not convinced that those are entirely uh to be separated. Now the the talk this morning is retrieving virtue. And I hope to keep the goal this morning quite modest. The main question, so if you if you're writing anything down, the main question I'm asking this morning is uh did And does reformed ethics reject virtue ethics? Did or does reformed ethics reject virtue ethics Now, why would this even be a question? Well One reason to ask this question is because it has become uh very common today uh to hear people present uh Protestant ethics as opposed to the virtues anti-virtue ethics Um it's kind of funny to say retrieving virtue because I do feel like here we've heard sermons where certainly virtues uh have been presented. So there's a sense in which do we at seven run really need to retrieve the virtues. But I think there is this idea out there that this somehow does not belong to the Protestant tradition. Or somehow the Protestant tradition is incompatible with virtue. So this past week, thinking about needing to talk this morning, I did uh something that I often do, which is procrastinate. Uh but it's you know the type of procrastination where you can kind of justify it in your mind, oh I'm gonna read this book. This book I have to read before I write anything So I sat down and read the Catholic philosopher Alistair McIntyre. I've read his book After Virtue. It is a great book. I do recommend it. And he has a short history of ethics. But what you notice when you read that book, those books, and he he's an advocate for virtue, Is what he claims about Protestants. And here's one thing he says. He says that after the Reformation, Protestants came to see moral rules, quote, As at once unconditional in their demands, but lacking any rational justification Or again, he says that for confessional Protestants, which we are as Presbyterians, the only true moral rules are the divine commands And the divine commandments have no further rationale or justification than that they are the injunctions of God. So the idea here from this Catholic philosopher is that because Protestants only look to the divine commands And they see in those commandments nothing more than the sheer will of God that you do this and having no rational explanation for those commands. That because of this, there can be no virtue ethics in Protestant ethics. Another example, a Dominican Roman Catholic theological I'm going to butcher his name. It's in French. Serve Theodore Pincairs. So he has a book on Christian ethics, and here's one thing he says about Protestants. Protestantism was suspicious of virtue in general, because it connoted a human attempt to achieve moral value. Or more recently, there's a book by another Catholic historian at Notre Dame, Brad Gregory. In his book, The Unintended Reformation, and he argues that one of the effects of the Reformation was, quote, a rejection of virtue ethics. And of there are many others that you could quote to this effect. Many Catholics who say this, but it's not just Catholics, there are Reform people who are saying this as well. Richard Mao, uh who was president at Fuller, wrote a book Book, The God Who Commands, he says that the Calvinist, uh, the classical Calvinist view is divine command ethics, not virtue ethics. Or uh there's a uh scholar at Calden University, Rebecca Kneindike DeYoung is her name. who has a book on the vices, and she says something very similar, um, that uh Protestants, the Protestant tradition uh does not have a place For virtue ethics. Okay, so we can keep going with citations, but you get the point. There is this claim out there that Protestants, confessional Protestants, refor in the reform tradition, uh rejected virtue and rejected virtue ethics. So there are two, what I see two issues that need to be addressed here. One is just the historical claim itself. Is it true that the Protestant tradition rejected virtue ethics? So keep that in mind, the historical claim. And then What's behind the claim? Why would these people say this? And it seems to be there's some theological reason for the claim that somehow Protestant theology is incompatible With virtue. So two separate issues there. And I think this morning I may only be able to address the the this historical claim Okay, so let's take up that the historical claim that the Protestant tradition rejected virtue ethics. And let me say at the outset, on this historical question, I'm relying on scholarship, in particular someone named David Seitzma. Um who is doing a lot of great work on uh the Protestant reception of virtue ethics? Uh you can Google search David Seitzma Virtue and a couple articles will come up that are open access. You don't have to you know you can read them. Uh one is on John Calvin and Virtue Ethics, fantastic essay. And another is on Aristotle's Ethics and Protestant And so I'm relying on some of his research here. And one of the things he notes is that it is true that at the beginning of the Reformation. We do find hostility to Aristotle and more broadly the ancient tradition of uh virtue ethics. So Luther especially expressed hostility to Aristotle. And so we're thinking here 1518, 1519, so very early. in the Reformation. And he describes Aristotle's ethics as the worst enemy of grace. So So it's not unclear what Luther thought. So why would he say that? It makes sense why he would have this hostility, because if you look at Aristotle, his Nicomechan ethics, the emphasis is on human nature, the human ability through practice to cultivate virtue leading to some kind of moral goodness. So it does seem like the emphasis is on human work. And obviously, Aristotle, being a pagan, is not aware of the depths of human sin or the need for grace. And the need for forgiveness of sins. So it makes sense that Luther would express that opinion. We also find Luther in his address to the Christian nobility arguing that Aristotle's work should be removed from the curriculum At Wittenberg, so we we shouldn't be studying uh Aristotle's ethics. Um so okay, you can cherry-pick, right? You can cherry-pick quotations From the Reformers, you could probably do the same thing with Calvin and find quotations that seem to be hostile to virtue. And the virtue ethics tradition. But what this ignores is that very soon, late 1520s Aristotle's ethics is being again brought back into the University of Wittenberg. This is uh through uh the influence of Philip Melanchthon. Um so Luther is still still present, right, and is a and is allowing this to to take place. Melanchthon is writing a commentary in the in the late 1520s. commentary on Aristotle's ethics. And even Luther himself, right, by the end of his life, so this is in 1543, Um Seitzmann notes this, that uh in 1543 Luther said that although philosophers such as Cicero and Aristotle do not teach how I can be free from sins, death, and hell, They, Aristotle and Cicero, nonetheless wrote excellently on ethics. Quoting Luther, Cicero wrote and taught excellently about virtues, prudence Temperance and the rest. Aristotle similarly also wrote and taught excellently and very learnedly about ethics. Indeed, the books of both are very useful And of the highest necessity for the conduct of this life. So that that's the same person who said he's the worst enemy of grace, and later in life saying, of the highest necessity for the conduct of this. So a couple lessons here. We can't cherry-pick a quotation and say this defines the Protestant tradition. For all time. It didn't even define Luther's thought for the whole of his life. Okay, so what about the Reformed tradition? So that's just Luther and Melanchthon. And Seitzma's article, if you go read it, it's about Protestant the Protestant tradition. What we find when we look at the historical evidence is that melanchth is just the beginning. Right, of a commentary tradition on Aristotle's ethics. He has identified at least fifty Protestant commentaries published between 1529 and 15. 1682. Some of these are written by reformed theologians, others by reformed professors in the universities tasked with teaching ethics The theologians, for example, Andreas Hyperius, Peter Martyr Vermigli, which has been translated into English. So I have a copy here, his commentary on Aristotle's ethics, uh and later Antonius Willeus in sixteen forty So we have this commentary tradition on Aristotle's ethics. And if you look at the curricula at the Reformed academies and universities, you also find that Aristotle was required as a textbook. For moral education. According to another scholar, he says that in the academies and universities in Lutheran and Reformed territories, Throughout the Reformation era, the exposition of Aristotle's ethics continued to form the backbone of moral education. So that's just the genre of commentary, commenting on Aristotle's ethics. But if you open that up to other genres of literature, so like di disputations that are taking place in the universities. There are as many as 5,000 of these disputations in reformed universities and academies, and they're drawing upon Topics taken from Aristotle's ethics, topics like the supreme good, virtue in general, moral virtue, intellectual virtue. Virtue, heroic virtue, fortitude, temperance, justice, friendship, and so on. So if we if we look at all of that literature, um The conclusion is there's a massive body of uh Protestant interactive, critical reception of Aristotle's ethics and which represents virtue ethics So far this morning uh we're we I'm looking at the historical claim first. And that historical claim is That Protestant the Protestant tradition rejected virtue ethics And what we've seen, the scholarship that's that is uh being developed, is that's clearly wrong. It's clearly not the case that this is the purview just of, say, Roman Catholics or just of medieval Christianity, we find that it does in fact carry over into the reform reformed tradition. It is part of our tradition, even if today we're largely ignorant. Okay, so at this point, um I could open Up for some QA. The other side to this is that theological claim that's behind the historical claim that somehow Protestant theology is incompatible with virtue. A couple things were identified. One is that for Reform people or Protestants, God's commands have no rational explanation. to them. And the other is that um to talk about virtue and virtue formation is to imply that there's some human build human ability, right, to grow or to do some kind of good. I I only have a little time here, but I think that a a quick look at the The Reformed Confessions and Catechisms can give some help in answering that question. So I'm going to give a very brief address to that part of the claim, and then I'll stop for some QA. Um so I can't make a claim that you know i y that you can't find a reformed theologian Who go so far as to say that unbelievers, pagan, a pagan like Aristotle, can't do any moral good and can't pursue any kind of civic or moral virtue. I can't say that because I've not read every Reformed theologian that's out there. But if we do look at the confessional documents. Right, which are those for us codify what our tradition, uh and for Presbyterians the Westminster standards that that codifies what we believe, what we can I don't subscribe to Calvin. I don't subscribe to Vermigli. I subscribe to a confessional document that represents the codified Teaching of our tradition. So if we look to those as our as our standard for What Protestants confess. I think that upon close examination, what we find is that there is a confession that human beings are Depraved. There is this corruption of sin that we inherit from Adam. There is a confession that this corruption is pervasive It reaches every part of human nature, intellect, will, feeling, every part of our nature, our faculties. And as a result, this renders humanity fallen as unable, right, unable to turn to God. for salvation without the grace, the regenerating work of the Holy Spirit The aim is not to say there is absolutely no goodness in any sense that a pagan can achieve. That is not the claim. You cannot find that in the confessions. So let me illustrate this or prove this. Chapter 9 of the Westminster Confession. Paragraph 3. Notice the language here. Man by his fall into a state of sin. Hath wholly lost all ability of will to any spiritual good accompanying salvation. So already it's not just good altogether, spiritual good accompanying salvation So as a natural man being altogether averse from that good, namely the spiritual good accompanying salvation, and dead in sin, is not able by his own strength To convert himself or to prepare himself thereunto. So the the the aim here is to say whatever kind of goodness the unbeliever can do We're not saying that they can't produce any kind of goodness, but whatever moral or virtue that they can acquire It does not in any way help them to convert to God or to be saved. And it does not in any way prepare them, make them somehow a worthy recipient Of God's grace. God's grace is completely free and unconditional. Or consider chapter 10, Westminster Confession, paragraph 4 And here we have an acknowledgement, it's not the focus of the paragraph, but an acknowledgement, at least, that there are indeed pagans. People who have never heard of Christ, who do not profess the Christian religion, who do strive to live according to the light of nature or conscience. Right, and according to certain moral rules that are contained in whatever religion that they profess. So let me quote that. Much less, so I'm quoting uh the second half of that paragraph, much less can men not professing the Christian religion religion be saved in any other way whatsoever, that is apart from faith in Christ. Here's the clause. Be they never so diligent to frame their lives according to According to the light of nature and the laws of that religion, they do profess. So even there, there's a there's a suggestion that you can find uh unbelievers who are diligent to frame their lives according to the light of nature, that is conscience. Right? There is, you know, they're not as morally wicked as as maybe their their neighbor. But the point is, the the emphasis here is that does not in any way help you to be saved. In Christ. Only through faith in Christ do we have salvation. Okay, so that's as much as I want to tackle with at least the theologi that point uh of the theological incompatibility uh between uh reform theology and an idea of Of virtue that we do need to distinguish, I think, and the confessions do this, between spiritual good Which is attainable only through Christ and through the grace of the Holy Spirit. And some other category of goodness, maybe moral goodness at some level, um or Virtue, some kind of civic virtue or external morality. That is in our confessions, and that provides some room I think for uh this idea that someone like Aristotle could have something to to teach us about the ethical life, the the moral life, even if they can't really help us in any way whatsoever with salvation and the need for forgiveness of sins, which only comes through Christ and through the revelation given to us in scripture. Alright, so I'm going to stop there and we can have some, already see, maybe some hands wanting to pop up. So we'll we'll have some QA and see how that goes. Darren could you talk a little bit about what is meant by the life of nature and the relationship? Because obviously I'm I mean I'm thinking that the reformers meant that whatever light of nature was, it had something to do still with God's action in the hearts of men, because everything is from God ordained. So what is light of nature in that context, and how does a how does an unbelieving person follow it or know it or Yeah. Well you're hitting me with a tough one right at the start. Yeah. Right, that there is still, even after the fall, a revelation of God and some of his attributes through the created order and through the light. of nature. Um which I t yeah, the light of nature. Um I think in certain contexts it it means something like conscious or something like some a natural faculty to know that a God exists, a creator exists. who is wise and has certain attributes. Obviously can't know all of the attributes that way. Um I'm thinking of access to real attributes though. So this I'm I'm one of my Curiosities would be what would be a virtue that would be an extra biblical virtue that would that some might suggest is is is not of the God ordained uh uh ethics but it's just uh it's extra biblical. Well let me let me add to this as well, like light of nature cannot me does not mean um autonomous human reason. There's always in the background that this is uh implanted in us by God any truth, any virtue that an unbeliever can still recognize as a good thing has to come from God and from the work, a common operation of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. That's has to remain in the background. So that even if um the the the person that the unbeliever who's diligently framing their life according to life of nature, whatever there whatever good there is in that, God is the author of it. Justin, I'm afraid of this one. Well I I was going to say something of Uh uh question. And maybe you'll cover it your own for next month. Yeah. Okay. Um might be helpful with our language to um say the light of fusus or the light of physics. And then you can look at a clear examples of those who did tap into some Light of physics, like the Stoics, they were able to, by God's spirit um acknowledged certain truths about the created order that had implications for how they structured their own lives. Yeah. Right. You can you can learn a lot from um the ants, for example, those small since they are diligent, they make it through the winter. And that's so there's a problem. Right. Um that that might be helpful in the conversation for what the reformers are doing there. And then um Will you be continuing with the theological portion next month? Yeah, I want yeah, the theological portion, and I think there's something what you're saying here. Um Brings to mind that our that our own catechism starts with this reflection on something of the order of nature, specifically the order of human nature. That it has uh this telos. It has a chief end that it's directed to, which interestingly is exactly where Aristotle against his ethics, what is the chief good of man in this reflection on the fact that human beings Are the type of creature that do things for the sake of ends, things they perceive as good. And maybe there is this highest good. that we're to be seeking and and is some kind of standard. Obviously there are gonna be differences, but it's interesting that the catechism starts exactly in the same place and it is is framing the theology of uh of Of the catechism in this teleological framework. And that would be a general observation about every organism within the creator. Yep. So then someone could pick up on that. Even a reflection upon your own body shows that it's working toward the high good of remaining self through time. But the So if you get into the theology next week or next month, I'd be interested to hear what you have to say about the uh the chapter on good works and the confession. Because it lays out Criteria for what can be a good work, heart purified by faith, according to the scriptures and for the glory of God. And it and I'm wondering if you'll make the argument that good works is a kind of or a species of good just as they're just as you were doing earlier. Or is good work every possible work, every species of work that is good. If so, they would have to change how you've been talking about it. Do you see what a do you see what I'm asking and wondering if you'll do next one? Well I do think part of the reformed um tradition uh in in its reception of virtue ethics is a a framework that in part comes from Augustine, the City of God, chapter or Book nineteen where he is getting into the those distinctions of what's the foundation of the work. what's the the ultimate end of the work and that pagans even if they display virtues of Courage, prudence, and so on, if it lacks the proper foundation, faith, hope, love Love, love of God. And if it lacks the proper end, that's for the glory of God, then it while good in some sense It is still simple. Okay, got it. Yeah, I'll be interested. Maybe it'll interact with the good works section in the confession. I'd be really interested to hear. And that's probably going back to what you just said, that's probably where the conversation on splendid devices comes. Yep, that's yeah, splendid devices. Okay. Gotcha. Thanks, Jim. I want to think you back to the very beginning where you started, and I believe it was reformed ethics versus virtue ethic uh virtue ethics. Right. And I I think that back to my my childhood uh growing up. I was raised Catholic. Uh my mother was Catholic. My father was Methodist, but my father consented to a Catholic church and said we will raise our children in the Catholic faith. So I heard and learned this virtue ethics all through the Catholicism. Uh from what I learned from Catholicism, there's this uh the the scales of justice and uh your good works in Catholicism you can't ever know about you're going to go to heaven, but you have to continually weigh your good works against your evil works, and in the end you want to weigh out heavy on the good works. I I heard the same thing from From my father who used to say that if he went into the church the the building would cave in around him. But he would also say, But you can't judge me because I do all these good things. So I I learned this virtue ethics. It's how I grew up. But I got to see the ver the the great uh Reformed ethics versus virtue ethics in the saving knowledge of Christ. Um scriptures uh you know clear for by grace We've been saved through faith, and not of ourselves, anything good that you can do, you'll be saved. And uh in uh Ecclesiastics seven uh twenty Ecclesiastes seven twenty. Uh there's not a just man on earth who does good. There's no not righteous, no, not one. And all of our good deeds are like filthy rags. the same scripture, but it's uh so there's nothing good that we can do outside of Christ. Now does that mean that people that are going to hell don't do good? No, my my My father was a very kind, gentle, giving man in the end his life converted, but in the beginning when when what he used to think was his justification is what how he was going to get to heaven was nothing but filthy rags. So I just wanted to bring it back to that because as you were talking about virtue ethics at first I'm going, well what is that What is virtual ethics? And I'm like, uh oh, oh, it's what I was raised with. Well yeah, and certain certainly um the way it will get worked out in a Roman Catholic setting is gonna look very different. Well it's funny because you don't have your all of your examples of virtue ethics were all Catholics. Well th those examples are Catholics What they're describing is some kind of division between the Roman Catholic tradition and the Protestant tradition that historically isn't true. Um but yeah that that was the reason for for citing the the Catholic philosophers is that there is this idea out there that it's somehow Yeah, and and if you truly understand that uh you know Faith without works is dead, uh that you'll be known by your fruit. So that's the difference. It's getting the carp before the horse. Uh those good works are not The justification. They are not the saving grace, but those good works are a result of the saving grace of our Lord and Savior. Right. So a virtue shows up. So let's just say the virtue of faith, hope, love. Um How this is going to work out with a right view of justification, these are the fruits of a right relationship with God through grace alone. Through faith alone. The virtue of love is not the the basis upon which we are judged righteous before God. Yeah. I think you kind of showed how virtue ethics were present in the reformed tradition in the theological seminaries. I was curious, like, you know, look just grammar education. lower education was was it there too at the same time and was it it sounds like you're saying it was lost in the seminaries or theological was it lost kind of in both realms in lower education. I I don't know what the data is on on how early someone would be exposed to uh Aristotle's ethics. I I doubt that it was present at at the lower levels, um, or at least using Aristotle as a as a source. source for it. I d I personally don't I mean don't think you need Aristotle for this. It happens to be a source used in the tradition, but One could uh use the biblical texts uh themselves and find plenty of virtues there, uh models of virtue. people to to imitate or um examples of moral prudence, things of that sort. So I don't at all want to be heard as saying, oh just because in our tradition there's c commenting and and the use of of Aristotle this somehow that makes it okay to do today. But simply to say Protestants were talking about virtue and saw it as important to our moral education. So a few philosophers were mentioned, Aristotle and Plato. So I sort of want to we've been circling around it. I want to hit it right in the middle with the matter of authority. So when I was in eighth grade in logic, we went through uh the ethics, we went through the republic. Yeah. And uh I found truth statements in them. But But the in essentially the entire ultimate, what they viewed as ultimate in their religion, was completely contrary to Christianity. So in the matter of authority Do they stand a authority for Christians or are they arbitrary? So the question is in what sense are they appealed to as an authority? If if they are appealed to as an authority, what sense? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, this gets into, I think, um What is the context in which we're engaged in study? You know, if if it's a theological context It would be difficult. I don't think it would be right to even treat Aristotle as an authority. Holy Scripture, Scripture is the authority for theology or theological ethics So it is interesting that Aristotle in the product in the reformed academies and universities is when it's being used, it's being used in more of a f philosophy. philosophy moral uh moral philosophy department is not what they would be using in the theology department Um now whether that's right or wrong, whether you should even make that division, um there's some distinction being made, I think, in the reform tradition between what what would be considered philosophy, what what can we know from say nature, um human nature, and then theology, the knowledge we derived from the special revelation of God. In that realm, Aristotle is is not in any sense a an authority. But even outside that realm, he's at best uh a an authority only in the sense that he is an imp important voice in a tradition of thinking about ethics. Certainly not in an infallible source of information. Yeah, I think you mentioned Martin Luther, right? of his life, he in some sort of way you said this is close to essential. You would probably stay next to the Bible, but That's that's definitely a standpoint of high moral authority. Right. Yeah, what is what does that mean to say necessary there? Um Not necessary as an infallible guide to how to live, but I would be more comfortable with useful. useful in thinking about ethics or or virtue. That's a safer description, I think. Good question. Darren, did I see your Well I assume along those lines, but I I'm I'm curious about whatever I I haven't been in your discussions in your class about Plato's statement about the fact that If you raise a child a certain way to to love what he should love and hate what he should hate, that that's the right way to raise a child. And I I think at some level I intuit that as like Mr. Men said, that seems true True to me at some level, but then we recognize that that that's the void of the realization that the Holy Spirit must be involved and regenerated and bringing about what is necessary in in a child's life to actually get them to the point of loving what they ought to love and hating what they ought to hate. And I'm just wondering how that interacts how how how we should think about that from a ref form tradition from a biblical tradition with regards to the raising of our children because again we do that. live as we raise our children. And we have a certain expectation that that would be the end. And we don't go, well, this isn't gonna be work, this isn't gonna work, so I'm not gonna try. We don't do that, we do that, but we also recognize the necessity of the of God who will bring the fruit in in our efforts. So just curious what what you've talked about in your classes as you interact with that person. I quoted later, because I it it really it really rings true to me at some level, but I realize there's a a limitation to that. I don't know what what do you think about that? Yeah. It is interesting. One of the and maybe the only place that virtue as a as a moral category shows up in the catechism is In the exposition of the fifth commandment, honor your parents. And when it gives uh an explication of what that me what that entails what duties that involves. One of them is says imitating their virtues. So the it is cle you know clear that In terms of our moral development, God has placed us in the context of the family. school, um society. And there is this place for part of how we develop is through models and and authorities into the model of our parents and imitating the virtues we we we see in them. Now will that lead to uh A right relationship with God? No. Not without instruction, like the means of instruction through Scripture, which reveals to us what we are to believe. by which the Holy Spirit using that converts us. Now if you if there's some subordinate aim of of becoming a good citizen, that that's something that could be um achieved apart from being convinced Again, we have to make these distinctions between our spiritual end, communion with God, and great being necessary for that and other sub you know subordinate ends to that being a good son, daughter, father. I I guess just to follow up on that is your part virtually is a conversation Jesse and I were having about the idea that there are things we take for granted now that we're favored. And that was Plato's point that it You but even before you're when you're still subrational, you've have been able you've you've grown to a point to where you go, that's wrong, that's right. Right? And we certainly now are living in a culture Or they're being they're being cultivated to l to love what's Absolutely. Whereas some of us who are older, we probably can't give you a reason why that's wrong necessarily because we haven't thought that through. We just know that it is. And Justin, we're we were talking about the fact, well we need to come up with that reason. And yet I'm sitting here wondering, do I really need to? Is there at some level there are things that we go that's wrong And we know it, but it's not that we sat and did the rational but which is again that distinction between the virtuous kind of rational aspect as opposed to God has said therefore. Well and the virtue ethics is actually uh highlighting the importance of the um those not rational aspects of our our nature, our feelings. things what we what we like um and that you know simply having the rational justification right often doesn't help you if you really love, you know um something that is not worthy of of love. True. Um let me pray first because it is ten o'clock and I was told to pray by ten o'clock to close us out. And then we can we can keep talking. Father, we thank you for being able to come together and and think about a very um difficult And we do ask Lord that you would help us to think clearly, to make proper distinctions. um to understand um the many ways in which you um In which you are at work in guiding us towards that which is good. Ultimately, our true good is found in you. For that there is nothing in us capable of getting us to a union and fellowship with God. view. The power of sin is too strong. Its corrupting effects are too pervasive in our nature. We stand in need of grace, the work of your Holy Spirit, which will result in the virtues of faith and hope and love. And Lord, we pray that Even in this time together here that we would uh the these conversations would would be a means uh by which we could grow. in those things. For you and for each other. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.