And a pleasure to stand before you this morning to open the Word of God. Many thanks to the elders. Will you please now turn with me in your Bibles first in the New Testament to Luke chapter 15 I'll be reading the story of the prodigal son, that it might be fresh in our memory. Luke 15 I'll be beginning to read at verse eleven. Hear the word of God, Luke 15, 11. And he said, A certain man had two sons. And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falls to me. So he divided to them his livelihood. And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, journeyed to a far country, and there wasted his possessions with prodigal living. But when he had spent all there arose a severe famine in that land, and he began to be in want. Then he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. And he would gladly have filled his stomach with the pods that the swine ate. And no one gave him anything But when he came to himself, he said, How many of my father's hired servants have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger I will arise and go to my Father, and will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you, and I am no longer worthy to be called your son Make me like one of your hired servants. And he arose and came to his father. But when he was still a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned again But the father said to his servants Bring out the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and sandal And bring the fatted calf here and kill it, and let us eat and be merry. For this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost, and is found and they began to be merry. Now his older son was in the field and as he came Came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing, so he called one of the servants and asked what these things mean. And he said to him, Your brother is come, and because he has received him safe and sound, your father has killed the fatted calf. But he was angry and would not go in. Therefore his father came out and pleaded with him So he answered and said to his father, Lo, these many years I have been serving you, I have never transgressed your commandment at any time, and you you never gave me a young goat. That I might make merry with my friends. But as soon as this son of yours came who has devoured your livelihood with harlots, you killed the fatted calf for him And he said to him, Son, you are always with me, and all that I have is yours. It was right that we should make merry and be glad for your birth. Brother was dead and is alive again, and was lost and is found. Then turn with me, please, in your Bibles to Isaiah chapter forty-four Our meditation will focus on verses twenty-one through twenty-three Again, hear the word of the Lord, Isaiah chapter 44, verse 21. Remember these things, O Jacob. And Israel, for you are my servant. I have formed you. You are my servant. O Israel, you will not be forgotten by me. Me. I have wiped out your transgressions like a thick cloud and your sins like a heavy mist. Return to me, for I have redeemed you. Shout for joy, O heavens, for the Lord has done it. Shout joyfully, you lower parts of the earth. Break forth into a shout of joy, you mountains, O forest, and every tree in it. For the Lord has redeemed Jacob, and in Israel, he shows forth his glory. Let's pray Lord, thank you for the precious gift of your word and for your spirit who brings your word home to our hearts. We pray that you would Would be pleased this hour to give us understanding that we might leave here and live to the praise of your glory, knowing that we've been fed with manna from heaven. We commit our study to you in Jesus' name. Amen. For those of you who are taking notes, this will be a textbook Sermon, three points, and a poem. The three points you will see readily in the three verses we just read in verse twenty-one. Notice the Lord commands us us to remember. Remember these things, he says, referring to what he's about to say. Second, in verse 22, he commands us to return. Return to And then third in verse 23 he calls us to rejoice. Shout for joy, O heavens, for the Lord has done this. Three commands, three Rs. Remember, return, rejoice. That will be the outline of our study. And don't miss the order. Remember Comes first. It's remembering the Lord that leads us to return to Him. And it's our returning to the Lord that brings us To rejoice in him. Our joy as Christians is not something we manufacture. Joy flows primarily from remembering the Lord and returning to him. And since remembering comes first, that will be our starting point. Remember these things. Remember what things? Well, there are three things the Lord says in these verses that he has done for us that he wants us to remember. First he says in verse 21, I have formed you. I've made you Second, in verse 22, he says, I have forgiven you. I have wiped out your transgressions like a thick cloud, and your sins like a heavy mist. And then third, he says at the end of verse 22, I have redeemed you. Three things the Lord has done for us. He commands us Remember these things. Don't ever forget. I've made you, I have forgiven you, I have redeemed you Now of course if we are truly born again, we can never forget that God has made us, or that God has forgiven us, or that God has redeemed us But God tells us to remember the things we already know. But there's a difference between remembering and And remembering. Between remembering with our head and remembering with our heart. In the living room one evening, Georgia on the sofa with a photo album in front of her, sighing now and then, George in his favorite easy chair, with his nose in the newspaper After a while Georgia says, George, do you remember the day you asked me to marry you? And George says, Yeah, I remember. I was at uh North Avenue Pancake House. I slipped a ring on your Finger while we were waiting for dessert. Hey look here in the paper. Tomorrow only smart TVs, half price at Best Buy. And Georgia replies, I'll never forget that day. You see the difference? Georgia remembered that day. George, well, he knew what What time she was talking about, but his heart was somewhere else. He wasn't really remembering. It's the difference between having facts stuffed away in your memory And pondering those facts with delight. And that's what the Lord is calling us to do here when He says, remember me He wants us to remember with our hearts. Notice he immediately adds at the end of the verse: I will never forget you. You are always on my heart. You will not be forgotten by me. I won't ever forget what we have between us. Now when Isaiah wrote these words, things were not going well for the nation. Judah. Their countrymen for the most part had fallen into idolatry. Their leaders were leading them astray. Their prophets were all telling them that God's judgment would soon fall on them And their future looked bleak, so they were very discouraged. Are any of you discouraged today over the way things are going in our nation Or in your family, or in your job, or in your church. When you first began your job, perhaps you were very hopeful that things haven't quite turned out the way you'd Or when you first joined this church, you may have had certain expectations that haven't been realized. you're disappointed. In your head, you know the Lord made you, forgave you, redeemed you, but circumstances tend to cloud the This text is for you. The Lord says, remember, I formed you. That's his first reminder. I made you. And then twice he adds in verse twenty one, You are my servant. Remember these things, O Jacob, for you are my servant. I have formed you. You are my servant The fact that God made us to be his servants is one of the most basic truths of Scripture. And in Scripture, to be a good servant is not a matter of doing things for your master. A good servant is not one with good skills, but someone with a submissive heart. Serving God is not just a matter of keeping his commands, but rather Rather doing them wholeheartedly with a cheerful spirit. The heart of his servant belongs to his master. All his energy, all his time, all his possessions are completely at his master Disposal wherever his master sends, he willingly goes. And really, it's the most honorable calling in the world to be the servant of God. When Jesus returns and gathers the nations around his throne and brings forward the the the least noticed Christian and says to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. Then there will be kings and presidents, movie stars and Olympic medalists that will Wish they had been servants of God. There is no higher honor. Nothing that you or I should want more than to be the servant God. And notice what God says to those who are his servants at the end of verse 21. You will not be forgotten By me. If you are God's servant, He promises you're mine, and I'll never forget you. Well, think about this. Why would God bother to remember After all, you've failed him, you've ignored him, you've doubted his promises, you've stumbled into sin again and again. There are many more faithful in you useful creatures in this universe than you. Why would God keep you in his mind and on his heart? Let me offer an illustration Do any of you here remember the TV series The Six Million Dollar Man? That takes you back to the 70s. It was about a pilot, an astronaut, who was in a serious crash. He lost his right arm and both of his legs. And while he was still unconscious, The doctors decided to experiment by attaching a bionic arm and bionic legs that were super strong, super coordinated, super efficient. And it worked. When that pilot woke up, he could do just about anything he wanted. He could run 50 miles an hour. He could lift a car with his bare hand. It was a fascinating series. And America tuned in week after week to see what amazing feats Colonel Steve Austin would pull off. Well, imagine now for a moment Suppose that technique actually were perfected. The doctors really could surgically attach to your s Shoulder, a bionic arm that was super strong, super coordinated, and super efficient, one that never got hurt, one that never wore out. No. Would you check into Johns Hopkins and ask them to cut off your arm and attach a bionic one? Anyone? No takers? Why not? Why not trade in your weak, flabby, often smelly arm For a far more efficient and powerful one. And I'll keep my own arm, thank you. Well that's the point here. God says to us, you may be weak, flabby, and sometimes smelly, but you're mine, Israel. You are part of me. You are part of my body, the church. And you're precious to me. No doubt we can conceive of a better temple for God to dwell in than the sinners who come through that door week after week But God says, you're mine. You're my home. You're my dwelling. You're my temple. You're my body. You're my children. Do you know who the best children in the world are? I can tell you they are. They're my children. They may not be the most intelligent or the best looking or the most athletic or the most gifted or the most obedient children in the world. Even objectively I can stand back and see there may be other children who come close. But even when my Children fail, fall into sin, and go against everything I've ever desired for their good, they're still mine. A mother never forgets the child who was once part of her. And God never forgets the child he has labored over. He says, I formed you. You are my treasure. You're my masterpiece. Leonardo da Vinci never forgot where he put the Mona Lisa. And God never forgets you. He says, I made you, you will not be forgotten by me. Me. As imperfect as we are, God still sets his love upon me and remembers us. The Lord has Has redeemed Jacob, as he says in verse 23. And in Israel he shows forth his glory God's glory is seen in his people. It's in the church that the Lord's glory is seen on earth. You, the church of people Jesus Christ are his most significant work in the world. And that's what he's saying here. I'll never forget you. You are my Precious work. My glory dwells in you. We'll come back to this truth a little later, but for now, notice the Lord says, I will not forget you. Don't Don't you forget me. Remember these things, O Jacob. Forgetfulness is a very serious sin. We forget that the Lord has made us, or redeemed us, or forgiven us. It's not long before we grow discouraged. Discouragement leads To doubt, and doubt leads to disobedience, and sometimes to denying the Lord. Think of Peter. Peter was solid as a rock when his eyes were on Jesus He sank like a rock when he began to doubt. He said, Lord, I will never deny you. His faith was strong when Jesus was with him. But when Jesus was no longer Longer at his side, Peter forgot what Jesus had told him. And he began to have doubts. His doubts led him to disobey And even to denying the Lord. So the Lord urges us to remember him. Forget Is the first step to denying him. So remember me, he says. Remember the high calling that he's given us, the privilege of being his servants. Remember that He's forgiven our sins and to remember He's redeemed us by the blood of His Son. Remember these things is the first command here. Second command. is return, verse 22. Return to me. The reason the Lord wants us to remember him is so that we will return. Whatever earthly pleasures may turn our hearts away from the Lord, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, when we remember We see how empty those things are, and we come to hate them when we realize how they draw us away from our God. So He calls us to leave the world. And return to him. As the bumper sticker says, if God seems distant, who do you think moved? It's you that needs to return. And this is God's call to us all through his word. Return to me, says the Lord. Isaiah 55, 6, Jeremiah I read earlier, seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near, let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return to the Lord. Isaiah 31. 6 says, Return to the Lord from whom you have defected. Revelation 2. 4. You've left your first law. Therefore remember from whence you've fallen, and repent, and return to your first works. Pay attention to Hosea 14 Return, O Israel, to the Lord your God, for you have stumbled in your iniquity. Take words with you And return to the Lord. Say to him, Take away all iniquity and receive us graciously. The Christian life is one of constantly Returning to the Lord. That's the second thing God calls us to do here. And then the third command is rejoice. Verse 23 Shout for joy, O heavens, and rejoice you lower parts of the earth. Yes, we do need to remember our sins daily. And we need to repent daily and return to Him. But that doesn't mean we go around sober-faced, because as we daily repent And daily return to the Lord, we find God's Spirit daily fills our lives with joy. Jeremiah earlier hinted That some folks uh hope to find joy by forgetting their sins. They're uncomfortable when they think about God's law. And so they put their sinful habits out of mind. Their covetousness, their selfishness, their Sabbath breaking. They tell themselves, um don't want to be legalistic. God loves me The way I am, I'll just be happy. It's a shallow happiness, and it's not true joy. The way to true joy is to remember our sins daily. And retend of them daily and receive God's forgiveness. Remember David's prayer in Psalm 51. Jesse preached on that Oh, about a month ago. David prayed, I know my transgressions. My sins are ever before me. But wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Then you will make me to hear joy and gladness, and the bones which you have broken will rejoice Restore to me the joy of your salvation. Deliver me from guilt, and my tongue shall sing joyfully of your righteousness. Notice how often joy appears in that Psalm of repentance. It's not ignoring our sins that brings joy, but rather returning to the Lord from our sins. Well, the story of the prodigal son really is an excellent illustration of what our text is getting at. First came the remembering. The son was living with the pigs, starving, suffering the consequences of his sinful choices. When at last Jesus said he came to himself And remembered his father. His heart was flooded with fond memories of life back home, how many of my father's servants have more than enough to eat He remembered the blessings and the benefits of his father's house. He remembered how pleasant it was, even for his father's servants. And secondly, his remembrance Remembering, led him to return. He said, I will arise and go back to my father. And not only did he say it, he did it. He took words with him. He rehearsed what he was going to say to his father. And he returned. He made that long, humbling trip back to his father. And when he returned, there was great Great rejoicing. The father said, Bring the best robe and put it on him, put a ring on his hand and sandals on his feet, and bring the fatted calf and kill it, and let us Eat and be merry, for my son who was dead is alive. And they began to make merry and rejoice. You see how that That story is an excellent picture of our text. Remember the Lord, return to him and entering into the rejoicing that follows. Well, there you have it, a nice three-point sermon. Remember, return, rejoice. And it would be nice if we could all live by that simple formula. But it isn't that simple. There's one thing that keeps us from returning to the Lord, namely our Conscience. Our conscience, as the hymn says, makes us linger. A wonderful review, really, of the gospel. And one thing he points out is when the son finally came to himself and remembered his father He didn't hop right up and say, I'm a going home, I'm ready for barbecue tonight. No. Because when he remembered He remembered his father. He remembered that his father was a righteous man and that he was a sinner. And he pondered, how can I go back to my father? Father, what can I say? And as much as we long to be close to our Heavenly Father, the awareness of our sins keeps us from returning You know, there are some people who won't even go into a church building if they feel they're not suitably dressed. Well, the same can be true inwardly. Sometimes We feel too guilty to return to the Lord. We know we've broken his commands, we've had covetous thoughts, we've lost our temper, we've withheld our tithe. We've misused our time. We we know we deserve his anger, and we feel I can't return to him like this. That's the hesitation we see in the prodigal. He wrestles With the thought of returning home because he realized he was not worthy to resume his place as a son in his father's house. He finally decided to c crawl back as it were, and confess, Father, I've sinned against heaven and against you. Please make me as one of your hired hands. I'm not even worthy To stay in your house. That's how he convinced him to return, himself to return. He felt unwelcome because of his sins. Have you ever felt uncomfortable in church because of your sins? Really the Lord has blessed you in so many ways. You've had godly parents, godly Teachers, you've been privileged to hear God's word preached week after week. You've tasted His grace, and yet your heart is cold and full of doubts, and you've stumbled again and again Again into sin. You need to return to the Lord. You remember the Lord. You want to return to Him. That is a barrier to your turning. But notice in our text, the Lord knows about that barrier, and he removes it. He says in verse 22, To those who remember him and want to return, I have wiped out your transgressions like a thick cloud, and your sins like a heavy mist. He said the same thing back in Isaiah 43, 25. I am the one who wiped out your transgressions. The Lord has erased all your offenses. He keeps Here he adds the words like a thick cloud or heavy mist. Pictures our sins as a big black cloud that blocks off the light and warmth of the sun. Things we we need to live. And there's nothing anyone can do to remove that cloud. It stays there. Until God Himself sends His breath, His Spirit, to sweep it away and restore the warm sunlight. And He tells us that is what He has done Done, I have wiped away your sins like a thick cloud. The Lord has removed that last barrier to your returning to him He says, I've redeemed you, I have swept away your sins, so now you can return to me. Well, the obvious question is, how could the Lord do that? that. How could a holy God embrace a sinner? How could the prodigal's father embrace his son? Remember the other son asked that That very question. This son of yours devoured your wealth with prostitutes all this time. Now he comes snivelling back and you receive him as a son as if he'd never done anything wrong. How could you do that? Well, God could do that because he redeemed his sinful sons. He himself paid the penalty for their sins. He took away their guilt at his own expense through a redeemer that he provided. The gospel is God's message to prodigal. To the backslidden, to the stray. Remember me, for I remember you. I've made you for myself. I've set my love on you. I have wiped out your transgressions. Therefore, return to me, for I've redeemed you. Remember and return. And rejoice. When the prodigal first remembered his father He was downcast in the pig sty of sin, drinking in iniquity like hogslop, feeding on the husks, the unsatisfying husband. Husks of the swine. That is the biblical picture of a man straying from God, wallowing in the mire. Home, though he scarcely dared to believe he was welcome. There was rejoicing and feasting, and he was the guest of honor. And notice the command here to rejoice is addressed to one and all. Heaven and earth are called to rejoin in the celebration. Jesus said there is joy in heaven over one sinner who repents. So we should all rejoice. It's a situation that calls for a party. Rejoice with me, the Father said. For my son who was lost is found. And in our text, verse twenty-three says, Shout for joy, O heavens, shout joyfully, you lower parts of the earth, break forth into a shout of joy, you mountains, O forest, and every tree in it. These are echoes of Psalm 96 that we sang at the beginning of our worship hour. Let the heavens be glad, let the earth rejoice, let the sea roar, and all it contains. Let the hills exult, let the trees of the forest sing for joy. The celebration of redemption is not just for the returning sinner. All creation Is invited to join in. The whole creation, Paul says in Romans 8, will be set free from its slavery to corruption into the glorious liberty. Of the sons of God. All creation eagerly awaits God's redemption. The God who redeemed the king will redeem Finally, notice what our text tells us to rejoice over. It mentions two things. First twenty-three says, Shout for joy, for the Lord has done this. Our rejoicing is in what the Lord has done, His sovereign work in saving us. He made us, He forgave us, He sent His Son to redeem us, He drew us to Himself. We have nothing to boast of. Our testimony is: I ran after idols. I forgot the Lord, but He remembered me. He took the initiative. He called me. He drew me back to Himself. He made me willing to return to him. He changed my heart and granted me the grace of repentance. If we're honest with ourselves, We know how prone we are to wander, to turn away to idols. Every day we forget God, every day we stumble into sin But he keeps drawing us back to himself and keeps us from falling away completely. Salvation is of the Lord From first to last, to the praise of his grace. He redeemed us. And that rejoices us. There's a second cause, though, for rejoicing Mentioned here. Again at the end of verse twenty-three. And again, I'm I'm reading from the New American Standard. I think it has a slight edge over most other versions. But it emphasizes here In Israel, God shows forth his glory. We touched on this earlier, and I'd like to reflect on it again as we close. The glory of God God is seen in his people, in the church. The Bible tells us that The angels in heaven are amazed at what God is doing in the lives of his children on earth. Ephesians three ten The manifold wisdom of God is now being made known through the church to the rulers and authorities in heavenly places. The angels in heaven are looking at you in utter amazement at what they see in you. Paul wrote in Romans 8:18: The things we now suffer are not worthy To be compared with the glory that is to be revealed in us. God's glory is revealed in Us, the angels in heaven, look at you in wonder, you amaze them. They can't stop gazing at you because they see in you the glory of God When the prodigal returned home, it was a great celebration. And you can be sure the eyes of all the guests were on the guest of honor the sun. They couldn't miss the special garment that he wore, with the special ring on his finger, the special shoes on his feet. They were all Gazing on the glory of the restored sun. But when they looked at the glory of the sun, what they were really seeing Was the glorious phrase of the Father who had received him in this way. And Christian, God has done for you What the Father did for the prodigal. He's clothed you in the glorious robe of Christ's righteousness. Ring on your finger, which is the Holy Spirit in your hearts. And He's put special shoes on your feet, the preparation of the Gospel of Peace So that wherever you go, you take the gospel with you. And now you are the marvel of the universe. You are God's workmanship, the reveal Of his glory on earth, you are what history is all about. You, the Church of Christ, are a kingdom of former prodigals who once hesitated to Return to him, but by his word and spirit he granted you repentance, and you did return. And now his glory is seen in you. Remember these things. Return to the Lord and rejoice in his redemption and in his glory. I end with a poem by a nineteenth-century English woman, Lady Lucy Whitmore. It's a prayer. A prayer of prodigal sons returning to the Father. It's our prayer, for we're all returning prodigal. Even as we come to worship. Listen to it. Father, again in Jesus' name we meet and bow in penitence beneath your feet. feet again to you our feeble voices raise to sue for mercy and to sing your praise. Alas unworthy of your boundless But now encouraged by your voice we come, returning Sinners to a father's home. Oh, by that name in whom awfulness dwells Oh, by that love which every love excels, O by that blood so freely shed for sin. And lest mercy escape and take us in. If any of you have been wandering astray The Father in Heaven sent me to say. Come on. Let's pray. Prone to wander, Lord I feel it. Prone to Father in heaven, our hearts are ever prone to stray, but by your spirit you've kept us on the way of life. You keep bringing us back Thank you that even in our faithlessness you remain faithful and have promised that all who come to you in faith you will by no means cast out. So receive us now, we pray, and be pleased to meet with us here at your table, we ask in our Savior's name Come in. We please stand