Tonight we're going to be looking at Titus chapter two, eleven through fifteen. So will you turn there with me, please, and stand for the reading of his word. For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should should live soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age, looking for the blessed hope and glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Speak these things, exhort, and rebuke with all authority. No one despise you. Let's pray. Father, we ask that by your Spirit you would illuminate our hearts and our minds, that we would see your excellence. That we would worship you. In the name of Christ, Amen. Please be seated. What is the movie Sea Biscuit about? I heard I heard horses. You would think that it would be about horses, but it was about human hope. It was about an i sorry, Lynn. It was about a time when humans were running out of hope and a horse gave them hope back. That's what the movie was about. I don't know if that's exactly how it played out in history that everyone gained hope from a horse and the biography uh that my wife read. Um I'll have to ask her if that was the case, but the movie definitely portrayed it. Uh that the true end of the movie, the true purpose of the movie was to demonstrate to you that he was giving these human beings hope during that time, which is what gave you goosebumps. You don't get goosebumps by just watching a horse win a race. You get goosebumps when you see other human beings gain hope when they didn't have hope before. That's what gives us goosebumps. Now missing the end or the purpose of a movie uh is not a good idea. Uh you're not going to understand what it's all about. And you know the same thing can happen, although the scriptures are not a movie. It is a God has chosen to reveal reveal himself uh in a story that has played out in history itself and um has a great deal of artistry to it. And if you miss the ultimate purpose of that you'll be missing out as well. Far more than you would miss out One part that's really been left out of the story of Christianity is the holiness of God's people and how that contributes to the glory of Jesus Christ. popular these days amongst Christians, but it sure is popular within this passage. It's really uh everything that we talked about last week with public faith. If you wanted to put it into a nutshell, it would Be holy in your, as a public person, be holy and adorn the gospel in your holiness. And here, what I want to do this evening is I just want to show you in 11 through 15 several arguments. And I want to put those arguments under Jesus Christ as priest. Christ as prophet and Jesus Christ as King. You've heard those designations before. And those are the arguments that will show the necessity for the Church to have holiness, but it's a necessity that So we're going to look at the necessity of our holiness for the glory of Jesus Christ under Jesus as priest, prophet, and king. So Let's just take a look with me in verse 11. And I want to show you the necessity of holiness in these three different arguments. In verse 11, we see the necessity of holiness by considering just Jesus' priestly work. Verse eleven says, For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men. The grace of God that brings Now this is a this is a phrase that dominates the entire passage here. It's really the subject of the entire passage. And it and it's uh it's not euphemistic. I don't know the actual literature. Term for it, but it is a way to talk about the entire life of Jesus Christ. You could see this just by cross-referencing if you slide your finger on over to Titus 3. 4. Take a look here at the same kind of language of appearance. Do you see that in verse eleven first? that um salvation has appeared. Look at the language in chapter three, verse four of appearance. Take a look at that with me. But when the kindness and the love of God our Savior toward man appear And then you'll notice after he speaks about the Holy Spirit in verse 5, going to verse 6, it goes right back to Jesus Christ, whom he poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ. Christ, our Savior. The appearing theme is referring to the whole event of Jesus Christ's life. Or if you wanted to, you could flip to another pastoral epistle in 1 Timothy 3. 16 And there's a confession here, and it says, and without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness, and then it moves into stanzas. God was manifested in the flesh, speaking of Jesus Christ. carn incarnation. He was manifested. He appeared. So here when he uses this phrase, the grace of God that brings salvation has And really you could make an argument that it was even before time began that was a part of this because it was the grace of God. And we know that that that God had thought of this grace before even the worlds were formed. If you wanted another a cross reference, you could take a look at Luke 1. verse 67 to see uh Zechariah's praise of uh Jesus Christ as being the one who appears to bring salvation Salvation. But if you um if you take a look now down at verse 14 here in Titus, I want to take one more step. Not only is this about the entire life of Jesus Jesus Christ, the grace of God that brings salvation that has appeared is the whole life of Jesus Christ. But in particular, and first we see that his life is a priestly act. You see That in verse 14, who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify him for himself a people, etc. That phrase he gave himself. When we look elsewhere within the scripture, Is used for his priestly sacrifice. For instance, in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 2, it says, Christ also has loved us and given himself for us and offered us Now this is a part of his priestly aspect, which is why the first argument has to do with holiness in terms of his priesthood. His whole life is the act in one aspect, if you want to look from one perspective, his entire life is the act of his high priesthood. He must remain blameless throughout his life in order to offer a blameless sacrifice at the end of his life, to then rise and ascend to heaven to intercede. for us as our great high priest. And so you see the entire continuum has to do with his priestly aspect or priestly perspective or his priestly office. But notice that in this passage what from what we just read in fourteen, that his priestly work is a means to an end. Now some of you said sea biscuit is about horse And you missed the real end. And some of you could say, well, Jesus was all about just being a priest, and you'd miss the real end. His priesthood, his office was on to another end, which you can And see there in fourteen that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself his own special people. And here you see that all of his priestly acts were a means to the further end of having a people that are really and truly holy. Not just legally justified in their standing, but also have been regenerated and are being cleansed from their filthy Deeds now. And so you could really, if tying all these things together, you could say that the entire life of Jesus Christ was dedicated as a means. In order to make you holy, in order for you to do good deeds and to put lawless deeds aside. Yeah, Ellie, I know that you have. And uh McMahon Elizabeth Have you read Lion the Witch in the Wardrobe? Yeah, the Lion the Witch in the Wardrobe, what's the most famous scene in the Lion, the Witch in the Wardrobe? The one that's the most touching for people. Yeah, the stone t table, right? When Aslan is sacrificed, when he voluntarily allows himself to be shaved and then to be placed on the altar. The story that is behind that is Edmund betrays his family knows that if he offers atonement for this young man, then the man can be the young man can be set free, and Aslan is the one that can receive the death and sacrifice himself. So he does and he voluntarily climbs The steps in the movie, and he is publicly humiliated and shaved. He is placed on the altar. The white witch raises the knife while the two young ladies watch as the knife goes. Right into his heart and the life goes out of the lion's eyes. But you would miss the whole point, and what is actually the more More beautiful aspect of the movie if you don't realize that that was just a means to a further end. It was really about the renewal of an entire world. That's why he did that. He knew that death would not be able to keep him. The bonds would be loosened by those little mice in the movies. And then he would go on, and Edmund would become a mature man, along with Peter the prince, and they would rule wisely, they would destroy those who are evil in the land, it would no longer be covered with snow. return. Those were all different parts of the story. And all of Narnia would be rejuvenated where there was peace and harmony throughout the land. The same thing is exactly what I'm saying here with Jesus Christ as a priest and the further means within this Jesus Christ in all of his life dedicates himself as your high priest, becoming a b a unblemished sacrifice for you, not just to give you a a simple example, but in order to conquer sin for you, in order to bring you into a place where now you will become the light that is uh in the darkness of this earth, that you will become holy, that you will become a group of people that will renew and rule this earth for eternity, just as we see within the Narnia story. You can see the connections there and the necessity of our holiness just by considering the priesthood of Jesus Christ. Now I understand I'm just going through some arguments, but just hang in there with me. I'm very Excited about the end of this sermon, just because of how true it is, and how uh obvious and beautiful. And so as we consider Jesus Christ as priest, we can see the necessity You see that? But there's also Jesus Christ as our prophet. And of course we can see that with the big word teaching in Verse 12, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age. He's teaching us Now as a prophet, prophets teach. He comes and he brings the the will of God to his people and how God longs to be worshipped or desires to be worshipped and all other acts of obedience. But this is a very special word here. And it's Pidea. Has anybody ever heard of that word before? Pidea? It's the T yeah, you if you've been classically trained, you'll have heard the word floating around. Uh and teaching here involves more than just you sitting down and receiving some instructions that you'd take notes on. It really has to do with a uh the idea of an entire community or society can Contributing to the education of their youth so they grow up and are mature in every area of their being. Mind, body, soul. Emotions. And it's an entire community effort. And what he's saying here is that Jesus, as the great prophet, is like no other prophet that has ever come. He has come And he is establishing an entire community where people would be able to understand the holy will of God and obey it. Look at the context of what Jesus is setting up here. Here of this paidea of him being the great prophet and teaching. Just think about the book as a whole. It begins with the establishment of officers, does it not? The qualifications for the elder. It's the officer for the promotion of the holiness of the people. That's a social structure. There's an entire community effort all throughout Chapter 2 where the older women are to be teaching. The younger women, and Titus is to be setting an example for the younger men, and the older men are setting an example for the younger men. The entire community is a part of this, and the whole person is being involved in this That that involve putting away lusts and living soberly and righteously and godly. It involves work that you would do within your home or within your family as you go through the list. It involves everything. And the and as if that were not not enough, Jesus Christ sends even his Holy Spirit for all of his words to be effectual to where you are energized and begin to delight in the very community that Jesus Christ has established, a community of holiness. Whereas before you would have looked at being obedient to God and you would have hated it. He has regenerated and changed your heart into a heart of flesh to where now you look and you delight in serving God. And that is all a part of Jesus Christ being a prophet. He has all of this structure set up through the entire letter to the end of you being holy. Look at the verse again. Think of all the structure from chapter 1 and chapter 2. The officers, the mothers, and the fathers contributing to this community effort. And then in 12, he's teaching us what? He's teaching us for the purpose of, you see that that there? Teaching us for the purpose of denying ungodliness and worldly lusts. And then on the positive end, he's teaching us so that we would live soberly and righteously and godly in the present age. You see the holiness that's present there And so we see not only his priesthood is a means to the end of us being a holy people now, but also his being a prophet, the great pro the last great Prophet is a means to the end, and even in the sending of the Holy Spirit is a means to the end of us being a community that is holy, that is doing good deeds and putting away the things that are ungodly. I think you can see that very clearly there in that passage that holiness is a necessity amongst his people. And then when you see that the entire book is really setting up different ways for people to become holy through your Father. And then lastly, there is Jesus Christ as King as the final argument to establish the necessity Of holiness amongst Christians. Jesus Christ is the great King, we see in verse 13. Looking for the blessed hope and glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. The glorious appearing. There's one translation that I really love of this, and they translate it like it the regal appearing, the royal appearing of Jesus. Jesus Christ. And it really picks up on the image of what was going on during the Roman Empire at this time when the victor would return with the spoils from Have any of you heard that before? Have you have you have you heard that aspect of it before? You can see it very clearly in Colossians. Arch was drawing it to my attention. In Colossians, when it speaks about Christ overcoming the principalities and powers, it says in verse 15 having disarmed principalities and powers, he made a public spectacle spectacle of them, triumphing over them in it. Are you aware of that imagery of what would take place within Rome? When they would return from battle, they would have saved a bedraggled bunch of prisoners. And the king of that city at the very end, in order to bring them before all of the public, to publicly humiliate them, and then have a celebratory execution showing their dominance and their victory. That is what it would mean when the king would return in victory. And I believe that's what we have here when we see Jesus Christ talking about his royal or his great and glorious appearing that brings hope. You know, a great uh image for this, although uh very sad story, I I was reading of a Korean jumbo jet that was shot down on September 1st in 19 nineteen eighty three. Do some of you remember that? Flight Zero Zero Seven? And there are um still pictures online, black and white White photos of of uh a group of folks outside of the Soviet embassy in Bangkok. And you can see that what has taken place was that there was I don't know if if there was a sticker on the car or something that represented the Soviet Union. And once they had noticed the car, they went over, broke all of the windshields, bashed in the roof, and then somehow they had gotten their hands on a Soviet flag And of course, that was marched through the through through the streets on fire and then trampled upon. And you can see all of this collected in black and white photography That's that's strong symbolism as to how they felt about what had happened. And there's something similar that would have happened within the Roman Empire as they brought back their captive. as a sign of complete dominance with all of them strung up with their hands or however it is that they would do that in a train with the And watch the head fall off of the king. Now that's dominance, and that is victory. And that's the image that we have in Colossians. And I think that's exactly what's going on here with Jesus, that Jesus Christ would return and he would have his enemies humiliated. And the question that we have to ask ourselves is why is that so hopeful for us? Because I believe the enemy in this case, although he speaks about principalities and Powers is the ultimate cause, and of course Satan himself in Colossians. Look at the enemies that are a part of this passage. Look at the ones that Jesus Christ will parade through the streets. In public humiliation, lawless deeds, worldly lusts, ungodliness. Could you s can you see each one of them Of them tied up under the dominion of Jesus Christ? Can you see their leader at the end of the train, who is Satan himself, who will have his head cut off by Jesus Christ? I won't say a word against him because it says not to, that not even St. Michael the Archangel speaks against such a glorious creature. Oh, but Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ will crush them. The head of the serpent, as he returns as the king, and he publicly humiliates his enemies, which are the things that are the opposite of our heart. Holiness. Do you see the great hope that we have in the end? Is that when Jesus Christ returns, he's not only the author of our faith, of your faith, he is the perfection. It's a theological category called glorification. Not only will every tear be wiped from your eye, and you will no longer struggle with sickness, you will You will never sin again because it will be completely dominated. You will be holy. The perfect artistic work of Jesus Christ His handiwork of holiness. So that's three separate arguments establishing the necessity of holiness within his people. You have the argument from him being a priest, his entire life. Dedicated to you being holy now. You have the argument with him being a prophet and sending the Holy Spirit to put to empower and make his words effectual. Bringing a whole community around you in order for you to be holy. And he as the king will return, and we have great hope that our holiness will be completed. Not in this life. There's only Progress to be made. But when he does return, our holiness will be completed because that is one great end that he has in this redemptive story. Now Here's the thing that I'm so excited about. Because when you lay down that foundation and you understand the necessity of Holiness. And you see that this is really what God has been unraveling all this time throughout His scriptures. Now you have to ask the question, what is the for therefore? In verse Number 11. Notice that the whole section 11 through 15 is the follow-up or the theological basis or motivations for those ethical instructions that were given to us before. You see that? He says in verse 10, speaking to slaves, adorn the gospel, adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior. And now he's going to go off and he's going to give you the theological basis for this. And so I want you to I want to remind you that when we look at Looked at the passage before in verses 5 and verses 8 and in verse 10, we saw that each one was a clause showing the purpose of our holiness, which was to adorn the gospel. Now that sounds a little bit strange to us. Normally you think about the gospel adorning you, like you would put it on and be the embodiment of the gospel. But that's not what it says. It says you would adorn the gospel. And it's not that the gospel is putting you on. There's another meaning of the term. What's going on here is that you would give credit to the gospel. That you would show it to be real, that you would be evidence that the things that are said in the gospel really did happen. And this is This is the grand truth that he wants us wants to come home to us. When we begin to connect the dots, there's a whole new motivation for us As the people of God and being holy. What happens, according to the logic of this passage, what happens when you choose to ignore Holiness. And think of it in terms of his offices. What happens when you choose to ignore holiness and you you choose to ignore holiness within your family. The gospel is that Christ as the King Will finish what he started, but if his church isn't holy, it doesn't look like he started anything anyway. So what kind of king is this? An ineffectual and weak one, one with obviously no power. The gospel is that Christ is the prophet whose words change people. through the regenerating power of his spirit. But what if the church doesn't look changed? What if it looks just like the world? Well then Jesus is an ineffectual teacher. And has no followers. His words just fall to the ground like everybody else. And the gospel is that Jesus Christ is the priest. And he gave himself so that his people would be holy. Even unto death he gave himself. But they are not holy. So his entire life was a waste of time. His death was meaningless and ineffectual. Those are the conclusions that you draw when a group of people say the gospel, but you Because the gospel is the work and words of Jesus Christ, and his work is a means in order for us to be holy, and if we are not holy, then all of his work and all of his words must have been ineffectual and just fallen to the ground. Do you see that The great tragedy of not taking our holiness seriously? Now, this is uh shakes me to the core. I remember the Lord revealing this to me as I was studying the scripture, and it just. Hit me. It hit me. Of how irreverent and discourteous and disrespectful I have been towards Jesus Christ. and his honor. What about you? And your disregard for holiness. Let me just ask you, have you disregarded A major purpose of the work of Jesus Christ. And in doing so, have you not realized how much dishonor you have brought upon his name and how Weak and ineffectual you have made him look. I'm not trying to just come up with arguments that make you feel bad. I'm following the logic of the text. This is exactly what Paul writes to Titus when you see in verse 10 he says, not pilfering, but showing all good fidelity, that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Savior and our All things. The slave was tempted. He would be professing that he is a Christian, and then he would treat his master disrespectfully. And Paul is pointing out if he does that, it makes the gospel look Ineffectual and not true. Because Jesus is making people respectful to their masters. Do you see that? It's present in five and eight and ten. It's present behind every form of Now, I just watched a movie and it's bothering me more and more and more, these things, which I think is right. I think it's called Righteous Zeal and And godly anger, and I've needed it for a really long time. And it feels good to finally get it, but I watched a movie, it was all about happiness, and I don't remember the name, but this guy decides to go on a search for happiness. And he checks with the modern psychologist, and he checks with the Buddhist monk, but he never checked with the church. He never asked Jesus Christ. Christ, how can I be happy? And I've got to ask the question: why is it that every movie that I see these days, none of them are going to Jesus to ask about happiness, or to ask about wisdom, or to ask about love. Could it be possible that the church, in disregarding their holiness for so long, and their wisdom and their competence for so long, that they are no longer looked at as a light in this world? For anything. Is that where we've come as a culture? Of course, there's other things going on with the culture generally being an enmity with God and rejecting the church no matter how good how much holiness they display. But is there anything that we need to own in our disregard for holiness within ourselves or within our families? Here's one objection that may rise to your mind. But we are a community of weak people. You can't be here unless you first profess the first membership vow, which is I'm a sinner. And so we think of the church that way. And oftentimes we'll use the model of, say, a hospital. But if we're really using the model of a hospital, is the purpose of the hospital Or is it for them to heal and to get better and to be able to go back out and do useful and productive things? Well, of course that's what a hospital is all about. Well, could we say that the scriptures teach something Something similar. That when you enter in, you're weak, you're broken, you're just coming out of life, and you need to rest yourself under the tree, as as uh Arch was talking about this morning. But when you're resting under the tree Are you just supposed to get lazy? Are you supposed to just stay resting and never grow and never get strong? If if I'm recalling correctly, all of the major arguments within the script Scriptures commend the person who gets off of the milk and moves on to the meat. Paul doesn't commend those who sit around with a bottle their entire life. And if you notice in those contexts, he's not talking specifically about you become more theologically sophisticated with all the new Calvinistic Terms that you've learned. If you look in 1 Corinthians when he's talking about milk and meat, he is talking about holiness. He says, I gave you milk at first, but look at you, you're fighting against each other. You'll never have meat. There's envy and strife in your midst. You're still on milk. And so apparently moving on to steak ribeyes off of the grill. I just got distracted by that. I apologize. That sounds so good. Moving from milk into meat is obviously So the objection doesn't work. It's why all the pie day is here. It's why the Holy Spirit's here. It's why Jesus did all of his priestly work. It's why he teaches us through his Holy Spirit as the great prophet, and it's why he'll Return. It's the necessity of holiness on to the end of adoring, adorning the gospel. And it's a new motivation And here's the motivation. And it's a public motivation. You ask the question, how am I to live out my faith in public? The answer is be holy. To be holy, show that Jesus Christ's work is effective. In you. And that something is happening in this world that's bringing life and life and order and sophistication and intelligence back into it. You are a lamp That is to shine brightly. You are the salt in the food that makes it taste good. You are the delight of the earth and the rulers of the earth for the sake and the reputation and in the honor of Jesus our Christ. We can begin now. Does anybody just feel his excellence and And know of it. I mean, can you hear the wisdom that is being proclaimed here that even the angels are singing about? I think we should join them in a final song and praise our most excellent Savior, who has done all these things as the great prophet, priest, and king.