Morning, you can tr turn it down a little bit now. Chapter 24. Now after five days Ananias the high priest came down with the elders and a certain orator named Tertullus These gave evidence to the governors against Paul, and when he was called upon, Tertullus began his accusation, saying Seeing that through you we enjoy great peace and prosperity is being brought to this nation by your foresight, we accept it always and in all places, most noble Felix, with all thankfulness. Nevertheless, not to be tedious to you any further, I beg you to hear by your courtesy a few words from us. For we have found this man a plague, a creator of dissension among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes He even tried to profane the temple, and we seized him, and wanted to judge him according to our law. But the commander Lysius came by and with great violence took him out of our hands, commanding his accusers to come to you. By examining him yourself, you may ascertain all these things of which we accuse him. And the Jews also assented, maintaining that these things were so. Then Paul, after the governor had nodded to him to speak, answered, Inasmuch as I know that you have been for many years a judge of this nation, I do the more cheerfully answer for myself Because you may ascertain that it is no more than twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem to worship, and they neither found me in the temple disputing with anyone, nor inciting the crowd, either in the synagogues or in the city Nor can they prove the things of which they now accuse me. But this I confess to you, that according to the way which they call a sect, So I worship the God of my fathers, believing all things which are written in the law and in the prophets. I have hope in God Which w they themselves also accept that there will be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and the unjust. This being so, I myself always strive to have a conscience without offense toward God and men. Now, after many years I came to bring alms and offerings to my nation, in the midst of which some Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple, neither with a mob nor with tumult. They ought to have been here before you to object if there was had anything against me, or else let those who are here themselves say if they found anything wrong in me while I stood before the council Unless it is for this one statement which I cried out standing among them, concerning the resurrection of the dead, I am being judged by you this day. But when Felix heard these things, having more accurate knowledge of the way, he adjourned the proceedings and said, When Lysias the commander comes down, I will make a decision on your case. So he commanded the centurion to keep Paul, then let him have liberty, and told him not to forbid any of his friends to provide or visit him. And after some days, when Felix came with his wife Driscilla, who was Jewish, he sent for Paul and heard him concerning the faith in Christ. Now, as he reasoned about righteousness, self-control, and the judgment to come, Felix was afraid and answered, Go away for now. When I have a convenient time, I will call for you. Meanwhile, he also hopes that money would be given him by Paul, that he might release him. Therefore, he sent for him more often and conversed with him. But after two years, Porseus Festus succeeded Felix, and Felix, wanting to do the Jews a favor, left Paul bound. Please pray with me. Lord Jesus Christ, we pray that you would strengthen us That we would look more like your children and less like the children of Felix. In the name of Christ. Amen. Please be seated. Is everyone hearing me okay? Alright, great. Well, last week we can summarize very quickly. As the Lord stood by Paul, so too does the Lord stand by you. I hope you had those experiences of his providence this past week, that the Lord has not forsaken you. That is true of every age. We move now, as you can see, in the continuation of various trials, as Paul is brought before different governors or different leadership. We'll have even a new one in the next week. Let's begin by making a few observations about this passage in chapter 24, and then we'll spend some time on application. Here's the first observation. Quite simply, Luke places three parts before us. I'm sure you notice that there's these three parts in the passage. First, the rhetorician Tertullus prosecutes Paul in verses 1 through 9. Second, Paul offers a defense in verses 10 through 21 And third, Felix and his wife Drasilla meet privately with Paul in verses 22 through 27. That's simple enough. And if you ever had to do a Sunday school outline, there you go. But I really think that there's something more helpful here. And I prefer to look at this relative to what we said last week with regard to chapter 23, verse 11. And that is, this is further evidence that Jesus is by Paul's side. Notice, for example, that Jesus stands by Paul so that Paul might finish his commission in a way that none of us would have expected. Felix was not known for his justice, but under Christ's providence, Felix adjourned the meeting, verse 22, because he had a more accurate knowledge of the way. Now, what does that mean? Felix, in other words, knew that there was more to the story than how the lawyer rhetorician described, and that the Jews were wrongly framing the issue. So, what we end up seeing is Felix, really, Christ by way of Felix Taking care of Paul by putting him under guard in verses 22 and 23 with visitation privileges. Surely the Lord did not forsake Paul. That's the first observation is that this is a continuation of evidence that Christ takes care of his people as they set out on their vocations. Observation number two. Nor did the Lord forsake opportunities for Paul to keep ministering the gospel to the Gentiles. Verse twenty-four, for example, and after some days when Felix came with his wife Drusilla, who was Jewish He sent for Paul and heard him concerning the faith. I mean, first of all, in these public court cases, the gospel is being declared and pronounced among top-tier rulers Amongst all of the nations of the Gentiles. There's not an ear that's not going to hear it. But here we end up with a private conference between Felix and his wife. Luke gives a very helpful summary of Paul's gospel message to Felix. And you are going to have to get your head around this because this is not the gospel outline that you would have given. He reasoned, verse 25, about righteousness, about self-control, and about the judgment to come. Felix responds in verse 25 with fear, can easily be translated trembling, and sent Paul away for a more convenient time. Now I wonder if that summary of the gospel that Paul was giving to him makes you uncomfortable. Righteousness, self control, and judgment to come. The gospel message, at least in part, from Paul's lips, is about three things that you may not have ever encountered in a gospel tract. And so what you may want to do at this point is to define Paul's words in such a way to fit your pre-existing model. And so what you're going to do is you're going to say, oh yeah, righteousness. He's talking about justification by grace. But that's not what he's doing. And in fact, how do you explain self-control being the gospel message And what about the judgment to come? And what about Felix trembling at the end? How do you explain that one in the model? What you have before you hear, help us to see that the good news is wide reaching The picture, rather, is that Paul does not have a generic evangelistic sermon outline that he regurgitates for every person in the known world. He preaches appropriately to the person that is in front of him. Let that be a lesson for everyone in the room. Make your speech appropriate. Let your evangelism be appropriate. Here we see Paul as a preacher, and it is the mark of what preachers should do to be appropriate. I was reading Charles Spurgeon, and sometimes I agree with him. And this happened to be one of those cases. He says this No, my brethren, we must always take our texts so that we may bear upon our hearers with all our might. I hope I may never preach before a congregation. I desire always to preach to you. And that's what Paul was doing. Paul preached to Felix and Drusilla. Now, I don't know if you know much about them, but both were known for their adultery and for their injustice. At verse 26, Felix, did you notice, is already looking for a bribe, not a stand-up guy. Felix sold Drusilla from her husband. And so Paul, and I would encourage you by the way to map over top of this account John the Baptist and Herod. Much like John the Baptist with Herod, by the way, Paul preached. To Felix, not before him. He undoubtedly told him that God the Father has given all authority to the Son, Jesus Christ, who judges even judges. Felix heard the message, and Felix trembled. Undoubtedly, because he remembered all of his unjust judgments, all of his lack of self-control. And the judgment to come. So what you end up seeing here, folks, And stark relief is the gospel message, appropriately given to one man. But we may learn quite a bit about its fundamentals. The gospel message is fundamentally about God the Father giving all authority in heaven and earth to Jesus Christ the Son. This is a way of talking about the good news and about the gospel that incorporates all of the things that we see within the scriptures, not just the substitutionary atonement. Not just that, that is certainly a major part. The cross must be a part of the gospel message. But so too must the resurrection and the ascension. And so too must be the judgment to come. And all of that. may be comprehensively summarized by talking about the authority that is given to Jesus Christ in heaven and earth. So let me say it for you one more time, because this is the teaching that I want to focus on. The gospel message is fundamentally about God the Father giving all authority in heaven and earth to Jesus Christ the Son. Now, I want to unpack that. That's a pretty abstract statement. I want to unpack that by remaining abstract for a little while under a point called Pictures from the Past. And then I want to move into conviction in the present because I do not plan to preach before you this morning. I plan to preach to you. And let's begin with pictures from the past. This is foundational, and I want you to hang in there with me on this, okay? I have mentioned this before, but one way in which uh Christ works with us today is to retrieve wisdom from the past. I think we all can see that. There's a big retrieval project going on right now. Treasures new and old. Christian wisdom is sometimes seen in past pictures. I noticed the other day how many paintings show Christ with all power in the highest heavens above the earth. Now, some of you don't want to look at those pictures, that's fine, don't look at them. But I'm going to tell you what they looked at, and you can look at them by faith right here. Below him are a descending hierarchy of beings such as angels. Then the human race, followed by the birds, the fish, and the livestock. You get the picture. It ends up being a summary of what God the Father has in fact done with his son, installing him on Mount Zion. I am sure, in fact, that those pictures take their cue from many places of Scripture, but undoubtedly, can you not see Psalm 8? And undoubtedly, can you not see Psalm 2 in any of those paintings? All creation is placed under the Son of Man, as in Psalm 8. And in Psalm 2, the Father sets Jesus the Messiah high above all, as if on the highest mountain. And all of the nations are put under him. The kings of the earth are called to be wise and submit to his rule before it is too late. Then there's the famous line: kiss the sun before he becomes angry. Or lest he become angry. That's the picture. What you have is a vision of what is really real. What you have is a vision of what is really real. And though it is not fully manifest at this moment, God the Father has ordered the entire cosmos under the rule of the Son. This is the good news. Though it seems that other various forces are relentlessly in charge, the church continues to have faith and to be a beacon of this one truth. Everything is under the Lordship of Christ. And this is not only the Christian faith, but it is in fact the Christian hope. We are to say every day, how long, O Lord Jesus Christ? Until you put everything and everyone in their proper place. How long till righteousness and peace dwell upon the earth These are the cries of our heart. And the final cry, even so come, Lord Jesus. That's the vision. Those are pictures from the past. And we can lose sight of those pictures. And what can happen even today is we can partially have that picture, but we could paint part of it wrong. And so I want to tie up a loose end. I want to ask you a question. Think about our passage thoroughly. Does Paul act as if Jesus Christ is only Lord of his church? Think about the passage. Think about the underlying assumptions that are present there in his speech with Felix Does Paul act as if Jesus Christ is only Lord of his church? Or does Paul act under the assumption that Jesus Christ is Lord of all? Even Felix. The assumption in this passage is that not only Felix, but the entire Roman Empire is under the political jurisdiction of the Messiah. They will be held accountable to him. You cannot be held accountable by somebody if you're not in their jurisdiction. So they must be in his jurisdiction. And the assumption continues today that Jesus is the Christ with jurisdiction over every nation. Now I'm not saying that every nation should be called a Christian nation. That's not what I'm saying. That would be to confuse the terms We must still make a distinction between the church as the eternal kingdom of God and dwelt by the Spirit, and manifesting themselves as a kind of form of government of the next age that has not arrived yet And then there's one other area where Christ rules over, and that is the secular world, known as the temporary kingdom. We get all wound up in not understanding the way the terms were used, but I encourage you, number one, buy the Oxford English Dictionary, either the full set volume set, that would be awesome by the way, but just get the concise one. Now get the concise one. Look at the third definition of secular in the Oxford English Dictionary, and you're going to find that it means temporal or temporary. And all that we have really meant throughout the ages as Christians when we say the secular realm is we mean The temporary means by which Christ will restrain evil until he returns All we are to learn from that word is that Christ temporarily orders the world by way of nations and their various forms of government, whether it is a republic or whatever. And Paul makes Felix aware of this fact. As Romans 13 implies, Felix is appointed by God Himself to be his servant. Whether Felix recognizes it or not, that is how the cosmos is ordered. Now, all that we have done at this point is to point is to try to paint an accurate picture of the way things are set up under the sun. You have received, if you want to call it a worldview, go ahead. Because this is how you should view the world. Christ is at the center, top, of heaven and earth, and he orders all things to the glory of the Father. He rules over all. His political jurisdiction covers temporary institutions like the United States of America and the eternal order of the church Now I warned you that was going to be a little abstract, and so there you have it. But it ends up being the foundation, the biblical foundation for us as we move forward. So I not only want to talk to you about pictures from the past But a conviction in the present. What we have just outlined really makes a difference. As the church, listen very closely. With the foundation that has been laid, listen very closely. As the church, our job right now is to show Or to witness to the reality that Jesus Christ has all authority. That is what Paul is doing before Felix. And it is true that on the surface Paul is doing this through the words of preaching. How shall they hear without a preacher? And so God sends them. But I do not want you to miss the fuller context of what is happening in this passage. Do not miss the depth dimension. If preaching is the diamond, what is the ring in which the diamond is set? The preaching of the word is taking place in the context of submission to Christ's lordship among his people. Felix could look out and he could see that there are a group of people that the Jews just called a sect. That have given up everything in submission to their Lord. It is not just a bared and bald word from a hypocrite or from a hypocritical community It is a word that makes sense of what they have already seen in the sacrifice of God's people. In submission to Christ, Paul has given up almost everything. And in submission to Christ, the early church has given up almost everything. And that really raises a question for us today, who are full of words. Today, the church has many words to speak and many different media outlets in which to speak them. Much training in the art of words. But I have to ask you this question. Are those words spoken in the depth dimension of submission to Jesus Christ and his reality? Is that the context? In other words, can people see by our lives that we actually believe our words? Because we're not giving words about things that we're just making up. We're giving words about the very structures of reality and how God has ordered all of creaturely life. And so you are either going to participate in that order or you will rebel against it, and it is possible for you to be rebelling against the order while trying to get other people to believe the words that Christ has given about the order when you in fact don't practice them yourselves And the question that really ends up being underneath of all of that is, can people listen to your words if they see that your life doesn't match? Now I know that you've heard that before. But here we can see the proper foundation in which these questions are being asked. We have a picture clearly painted of Christ with all authority. We believe and stay that everything and everyone should find their place under Christ. And I'm asking you and me this morning: have you found your place? Or have you only found words? Will people take our preaching seriously if they see that our lives are not serious? Well, we all know the answer is no And it is something with which we will struggle. But that's no excuse to not repent. I think another way to put this same thing That I really believe that we should be considering this morning, and I want you to take this also very seriously, has the church become like Felix? In some way. We're always a mix. But are there things that we need to think about this morning where the church has become like Felix There is no doubt in my mind that Christ speaks to his church daily. That's you. I know that Christ, in many ways, especially through his word, and the way that that word has saturated our culture. Speaks to you daily. He speaks to us about righteousness and he speaks to us about self-control and he speaks to us about the judgment to come. When we are younger, he speaks to us and pours forth wisdom from the rooftops on how we're supposed to be treating our siblings, what the good life looks like with our brothers and our sisters, and what it means to be kind. He speaks to us when we enter high school and college and career, and he says, Commit to me. Commit to me. This is not a game. He speaks to us about pornography. He speaks to us about money. He speaks to us About drinking. He speaks to us about forgiving others as he has forgiven us. And this is the most difficult part Because if we are like Felix, then this is what the church says. Go away for now, Jesus. When I have a convenient time, I will call for you. That was the conversation with Paul, Felix, and Drusilla. And I'm just wondering this morning: has that been the conversation between you and Jesus Christ? Go away for now, Jesus. I'll call you at a more convenient time. Where has Jesus Christ been seeking to put you in your place? I really want you to think of it. He's been reminding you for months that he wants you to repent of certain things and to embrace the goodness that he says is good. But you keep saying to him in your own ways, come back when I call you at a convenient time. Where has Jesus Christ been seeking to put you in your place? You're not the only ones doing this. I've been doing this. I've been living with this sermon a lot longer than you have. Jesus Christ was seeking to put me in my place. In what areas have you been saying now's not a convenient time? And here is the real key. If you don't remember anything about this sermon, would you please try to remember this next thing? Because this is the key. I'm going to put what we usually have upside down. I want to put it right side up for you right now. This is the main question. When will we hear Jesus' vision for life? as good news and not as him trying to ruin our party. Because that's essentially what has happened in our hearts Is I don't mean to be triped by this, but every party has a pooper and Jesus, that is you. That has been our attitude When will we hear the life to which Jesus calls us as good news? That's the amazing thing. And I think God did that on purpose. To call his message to us about the reality of the order of Jesus Christ and how he's ordering the cosmos and what he has decided is the good life. He has said that is good news. You must wrestle with that every single day, every time you turn from it. You must still call it the good news in the gospel. And it is evidence, it is evidence against us that our loves are still not his loves. And I understand that, and I understand that it's difficult And I understand that you will be a sinner till the day you die, unless Christ returns. But that is no excuse for us not thinking about our loves now. And not taking it seriously with all that is at stake. Let me ask you a question. I want you to look And do a survey across the landscape of leadership in the world. Are they not marked by incompetence and unrighteousness? Should there be anything that gets in the way of you being able to offer them truth in the midst of a place where they have no shepherd? To be able to introduce someone to them, named Jesus Christ, who can truly shepherd them no matter where they are in the world. And what I'm telling you is your life, not being a serious life for Christ, will mean that they never accept your words as serious. And the first step to us taking him seriously is to believe that what he has for us in our lives and the way he has ordered human existence is good. That it is beautiful, that it is true, and not the things that we like to play around with. The gospel message is fundamentally about God the Father giving all authority in heaven and earth to Jesus Christ the Son. The church is meant to witness to that reality. Our witness must be more than words. This will not happen if we keep putting Jesus off for a convenient time. The key to begin to see Jesus' way, the key is to begin to see Jesus' way as the good news, truly, and not as the party pooper. The gospel is not primarily about death. The gospel is good news because it is about life. And may your life so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven Who is ordering the whole cosmos under the authority of the Son by way of the Spirit? Amen. Amen. Let's pray.