Beginning in sixteen eighteen of Deuteronomy, the Word of God. You shall appoint judges and officers in your gates, which the Lord your God gives you, according to your tribes, and they shall judge the people with just judgment. You shall not pervert justice. You shall not show partiality nor take a bribe. For a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and twists the words of the righteous You shall follow what is altogether just, that you may live and inherit the land which the Lord your God has given you. You shall not plant for yourself any tree as a wooden image near the altar which you build for yourself to the Lord your God. You shall not set up a sacred pillar which the Lord your God hates. You shall not sacrifice to the Lord your God a bull or sheep which has any blemish or defect, for that is an abomination to the Lord your God. If there is found among you, within any of your gates which the Lord your God gives you, a man or a woman who has been wicked in the sight of the Lord your God and transgressing his covenant who has gone and served other gods and worshiped them, either the sun or moon, or any of the hosts of heaven, which I have not commanded, and it is told you, and you hear of it, then you shall inquire diligently And if it is indeed true and certain that such an abomination has been committed in Israel, then you shall bring out to your gates that man or woman who has committed that wicked thing, and shall stone to death that man or woman with stones Whoever is deserving of death shall be put to death on the testimony of two or three witnesses. He shall not be put to death on the testimony of one witness. The hands of the witnesses shall be the first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hands of all the people. So you shall put away the evil from among you. If a matter arises which is too hard for you to judge between degrees of guilt for bloodshed, between one judgment or another, or between one punishment or another. matters of controversy within your gates, then you shall arise and go to the place which the Lord your God chooses. And you shall come to the priests, the Levites, and to jud and to the judge there in those days, and inquire of them They shall pronounce upon you the sentence of judgment. You shall do according to the sentence which they pronounce upon you in that place which the Lord chooses. And you shall be careful to do according to all that they order you, according to the sentence of the law in which they instruct you, according to the judgment which they tell you you shall do. You shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left from the sentence which they pronounce upon you. Now the man who acts presumptuously and will not heed the priest who stands to minister there before the Lord your God, or the judge That man shall die. So you shall put away the evil from Israel. And all the people shall hear and fear and no longer act presumptuously. Let's pray. Father, we pray that we would not just be hearers, but that we would be doers of the word, and that as such we would be the righteous of the earth. In Christ's name. Amen. And then you may be seeing it. Returning back from General Assembly on Southwest, I noticed that even in the um boarding passes under the letter C that it went all the way to the N number. So it was a full plane. I don't think there was a single seat. Actually there was a single seat not left on the plane There was no way to have a middle seat between you and the person on the aisle for greater comfort. Every seat was taken. I watched as a non-English speaking family with a s with uh with it must have been a number that was like C45. So you had already gone through all the A class. All of the B class, and now they're at C45. They get onto the plane and they are a family unit trying to sit together, but they are non-English speaking. And I watched as the mom found one seat and then was asking as best as she could, being non-English speaking, for her daughter to be able to at least sit next to her Or her husband, and not one person on that plane wanted to give up their seat. So I started to notice the commotion and what was going on back there. and I had a here, you all are shaking your heads. Don't forget, we're coming from General Assembly. So there's fifteen pastors on this plane Okay, there's fifteen. I felt really safe. I'm like, Lord, you're either gonna judge all of Anoronal County and take away all the pastors, or we're gonna make it home. And I saw uh this pastor was closer to the situation. And I saw him see what was going on. And this is the climax of the story. He offered a seat. And the young lady who was non-English speaking was able to sit just behind her mother, and the mother was very appreciative and bowed. To the pastor. It was in my mind when I saw it, it was as if the whole kingdom of God all of a sudden was on the airplane Because I knew that he was a pastor, and that his profession of faith was true, and so I knew that the act that he was doing was born from a heart purified by the Holy Spirit. And that in that one moment, in the simplicity of that act, Jesus Christ was on board enforcing his kingdom. Just in the movement from one seat to the Next. It was nice for me to be able to say that the kingdom of God was present yesterday on flight 1988 or on Friday. Righteousness was raining. That's a beautiful sight. And I bring that up because it is such a sweet moment, one, and you should know that Jesus Christ is in control, even on flight nineteen eighty eight. But I also bring it up to contextualize Deuteronomy for you. You can hear all of these unfamiliar commandments and applications of the commandments. And you can think, what is this thing that I've become a part of? That example that I give to you on the plane is the same kind of thing that we're hearing over and over again from Deuteronomy. It is a particular application of the work of Jesus Christ through his law within the heart. God, through his mediator in Moses, has been teaching us, and of course he taught those people then, about the kind of thing that we saw on the plane. You know what it's called? It's called righteousness. He's been teaching us about righteousness. Righteousness is on hard times these days. But when you look at that act on the plane, isn't righteousness beautiful Beautiful. Isn't the truth good? That's what we have here. I just want to remind you of that. That that's the same kind of thing that's happening here. in Deuteronomy. Even though it may feel unfamiliar with you, if we were to see these things played out in real life, it is sweet and it is good and it is beautiful. In one sense, what we can say is that righteousness is being taught within Deuteronomy in two ways. Number one, righteousness is being taught in that those who were chosen by God and set apart by him. have received a kind of status called the righteous ones. But in another sense, we do see that there is a progression in righteousness through the applying of the The Ten Commandments in various situations. And that's what we've been going through. The first commandment was worked out in chapter 12. False gods and false worship were obliterated. They were burned up. God exercised his right as a father, the fifth command, forbidding pagan morning rituals and certain dietary foods in chapter 14. The eighth command is applied to the requirement of the tithe in chapter 14. And last week we applied the first four commands and the fifth in understanding the pilgrimage feasts. The Passover Feast, the Feast of Weeks, and the Feast of Tabernacles, and you can listen to last week's sermon if you'd like to know more about that if you missed it. This morning we are continuing learning about righteousness. But righteousness gets raised up kind of to a four and becomes spoken out explicitly and not just in particular unfamiliar applications. Let me ask you this question. Have you ever noticed, one, that righteousness is beautiful? That righteousness is true. And number two, have you ever noticed that even when people know the righteous thing to do, that they don't do it? Despite its beauty. That's always a two-part question that I ask myself. Chances are that when you are talking to me, at some point in your life, I am asking myself these two questions. Is this person confused or ignorant of the right thing to do? Or do they know but refuse to do it? Those are questions that I ask about myself. What do you do to maintain a community of God which is in the world but is not of it, when people in that community would rather be a part of the world sometimes? For certain seasons. What are we to do? This passage begins to answer those kinds of questions. Really, all of the scriptures are answering that question. But this passage answers it in two ways. And it says that you are, first of all, to remember righteousness and what it is. And then number two, you are to maintain righteousness by pursuing justice. Isn't that interesting? We maintain righteousness by pursuing justice. Those are the two parts of the sermon today. Remember righteousness and pursue justice. That's how I've divided up all of these verses. And so let's begin together by looking at chapter 16. And I want us to look first at verse 20 as we remember the first point, which is to remember righteousness. Take a look at 16 verse 20, and I'll read that to you again. You shall not follow what is altogether just. Now, this is a very interesting phrase. You shall not follow what is altogether just. If you knew the Hebrew, and perhaps and some of you do in here, and if you don't have your Hebrew Bible in front of you, you're not going to see this. Look it up later. But if you do not know Hebrew and if you just remember the sermon series from Proverbs, then this sentence really should be stated differently to remain consistent with how the vocabulary is worked through the Torah. This is what I mean. Instead of saying you shall follow what is altogether just, I side with pretty much every Hebrew scholar that it should be stated, you shall follow righteousness. Only righteousness. It's really, it's the word righteousness repeated twice in the Hebrew. It doesn't say altogether. That's the notion that we're trying to get at. It says sedek, sedek. That's the That's what it says. You shall follow righteousness, only righteousness, or altogether righteousness, you shall be righteous, righteous. And it has to do with those the way in which the Hebrew language would work out entheses. You don't say God is holy. You don't say that God is holy, holy. You say that God is holy, holy, holy. And here within this community, you can see the emphasis where it's not just you are to follow righteousness But you are to follow righteousness only, righteousness. Now that's righteous. The community of God's people must remember righteousness only righteousness. Now, what is that? What is righteousness? Only righteousness. In the eighties, if you were to define righteousness by watching the movie Foot Loose, it would mean you can't go to the neighboring town and dance with your girlfriend. But that's not what it means here. The term righteousness is all about being rightly related to God To other human beings, to all creatures, including the environment. That's what it means. It is a full scope Of our relationships. And in fact, if you remember, the term righteousness now is corresponding well with what I have told you about the Ten Commandments. The Ten Commandments are all about relationships. Remember that. The Ten Commandments are summarized by Jesus in relational terms. The application of every one of the Ten Commandments is the application of relationship. Relate to God in love, relate to neighbor in love. Everything hangs on those two commandments. And love is the fulfillment of the law. To be righteous is to follow the ten commands. The Ten Commands show how to relate as God intends. Therefore, to be righteous is to relate to Him as He intends. As creator and all His creation as He intends. So let me give you an example. Let's turn just for a moment our thoughts to looking at the righteous one himself. Let's look to God. He certainly is righteous. It mentions in Proverbs 3. 22, and I believe this section of Deuteronomy is very connected to the wisdom literature, Psalms and Proverbs, that there's an overlapping of language. But it says in Proverbs 3. 22 about our righteous one. He says, by I am knowledge, the clouds let drop the dew. Could you remember this? By I am knowledge, the clouds let drop the dew. Now here is what one Old Testament scholar says. He says, So consider the raindrops If raindrops were circular and not spheroids, falling from the height of the clouds Gravity would bring them down with such force that the rain would rip the foliage off all plants and trees in the same forceful way as water under pressure from a hose nozzle can strip leaves off of a tree. As spheroids, however, without an even distribution of weight, the drops of rain spin and they keep splitting apart as they pick up speed and their descent to the earth And so they become ever lighter, and finally they fall gently upon our fragile foliage. Do you see the righteousness that is present there? Remember what the definition of righteousness is. Righteousness is relationship as defined by God. How is God, through the creation of rain, relating to both the righteous and the unrighteous? By creating the raindrops as spheroids. If you want to know what a spheroid is, ask Jeremiah later. Created as spheroids, we see that he relates to the whole earth as righteous. Not stripping our plants of its foliage, but so that they would the rain would fall lighter and finally fall gently upon the fragile foliage. It is an act of righteousness within our God. As you consider the Ten Commands and all their applications in Deuteronomy, you should be thinking of righteousness, and righteousness has to do with relationship to God and relationship to each other. Righteousness is your worship of God and the goodness you produce for your community. You see how the creation of the rain was a production that benefited all of mankind. And all creatures, really, if you were to work through some of the Psalms, you see in which way the cattle are even affected by this. And so a question rises for us as a righteous community that Jesus puts. Jesus says What kind of fruit do you produce? It is him asking the question, how are you righteous? It is the same thing. Are you a contributor to the health of your community? That's what it would mean to be righteous. If so, how? What are the specifics? What's the kind of fruit that you produce? And what about your children? Are they producing for the community? Are they righteous? Let me turn your attention Wants more to something else, flip to Psalm 1, just as a further meditation later perhaps in the day after the meet and greet, for you to consider righteousness more fully Psalm 1 is about righteousness. And it is about the righteous. And I just want you to notice that this psalm pulls together everything that I have just said. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the path of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates day and night. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that brings forth its fruit in its season, whose leaf also shall not wither, and whatever he does shall prosper. The ungodly are not like that. Skipping to verse 5. Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. Just notice some of the things that are being claimed here in Psalm 1. The word works powerfully within this person, verse 2, and of course that'll be by Jesus and His Spirit. They produce It says, they produce like a tree which produces, and it is not just for themselves, it is for the community. Verse 3. And therefore they are called righteous. The whole song characterizes the righteous person. So I'd encourage you to turn to that. The problem, as I brought up earlier in the introduction of the sermon, is that we don't relate righteously. Our community involvement can be nothing. And the things that we put our hands to could fail because of lack of planning. The problem is that we don't naturally any longer relate righteously. And the tragedy is that therefore we are not like our Father who is in heaven. Moses alludes to this problem by providing four case studies of unrighteousness. And I just want you to see these very quickly as we transition to the second point. Take a look at sixteen twenty-one. We have a statement first in in what I just went through was eighteen and that That righteousness is the main goal for this community, but even in this context where they had just received these instructions, there will be problems that Moses anticipated. Starting in verse 21. You have the first example, which is you shall not plant for yourself any tree as a wooden image near the altar which you build for yourself to the Lord your God. Think of planting a tree as planting a tree. a tree to a false god. It would be most likely the false god that controls female fertility. That's what ancient Era Eastern research has led us to. That's the first example. So there's all there is near God's altar an altar or a tree to another God. So this is what we call syncretism. This is where we're mixing what God has said and other religions have said. It would be essentially to be like a Unitarian today. Here's the second example. And this begins in 21 also. Shall not plant for yourself any tree as a wooden image. Think of a totem pole near the altar which you build for yourself to the Lord your God. You shall not set up a sacred pillar which the Lord your God hates And this would be the male part of the fertility. This is on the other side of the altar. You can see again where they're trying to mix religions. And then we have another example. of unrighteousness that will potentially crop up amongst them, and in fact will. You shall not sacrifice to the Lord your God a bull or sheep which has any blemish or defect. That is an abomination to the Lord. And remember that word abomination. is associated with all the things that were just burnt up in the Canaanite land because they were abominations. They are a great evil in his sight. The kind of evil where uh at the level of burning your children in sacrifice It is the same kind of thing. And then you have a fourth example, which is not syncretism or the mixing of religions, but just outright idolatry. If there is found among you within any of your gates which the Lord your God gives you, a man or a woman has been wicked in the sight of the Lord your God. This is 17 verses two and three. In transgressing his covenant, he who has gone and served other gods and worshiped them, either the moon or the sun, or the moon, or any of the hosts of heaven, which I have not commanded. So here's four examples that he gives us as we transition from recognizing that the community is supposed to be based on righteousness, to re- and this transition is helping us to realize there will be unrighteousness even in the righteous community. And here are four examples that he gives. I wonder how many more examples you could give of unrighteousness within the church. We know that it is a problem. The question that we asked in the beginning and that we need to go ahead and follow through with now is how should we address the unrighteousness in God Community. Let me point out one thing. The kinds of unrighteousness that are now listed within this passage are high level. These all deserve capital punishment. There are lesser crimes that are not included, or lesser sins that are not included within this passage. How do we address this in God's community? And the main answer is this. He says in this passage, which I'll prove to you in just a moment, pursue justice. When righteousness falls, justice restores So remember that. It's good to remember. That's actually the principle of justice. You can see the principle of justice showing up in verses 18 and 19 of verse. 18 and and and 19 in chapter 16. I just want to point out a couple to you Notice that it says, You shall appoint judges and officers in all your gates, which the Lord your God gives you, according to your tribes, and they shall judge the people with just judgment. In fact, the word judge, the word judgment, and the word justice, they're all playing on each other there. There is a main focus that when righteousness drops, justice is the thing that will pick it back up. And so we can see that in verses 18 and 19 of chapter 16. The way, therefore, that justice is used in this passage may be unique to your understanding of justice. There's a lot of talk of justice today. But here within this passage, we can see that in relation to these four kinds of false worship, that the way that you solve such an unrighteousness is that you turn to justice. In other words, for our purposes then, and according to this passage, justice is the God-appointed way to bring God's community back to righteousness. When I went away I came back. From General Assembly. And I had already received a a text message with a picture from my wife that the hot apparently you guys had hotter heat than Texas while I was gone. And all that high heat sucked all the chlorine out of our pool, and there was an algae balloon. So I received the text message. with a shot of a green pool. And since I've come home, and even before I got in, Holly and I have been shocking the pool morning and night to restore the pool back to a healthy condition And I hope that this is a helpful helpful analogy for you. Shocking the pool is the way to get the pool back to health, and justice is the way to restore the community to righteousness. And I'm talking about God's community. This is the principle of justice. It is the means that we use to restore order from chaos. Now, there's a second thing here. That's just the principle of justice. I want you to see the process of justice. This is where most of the passage takes its time is the process of justice. So let's take a look at verses 4 through 7, and I want you to see this first process of in chapter 17. It picks up after a comma, where this idolater who had been worshiping the sun or the moon or any of the host of the heaven, which God has not commanded, And now here we see the process beginning. And it is told you, referring to the judges that had been placed at the gate earlier in chapter 16. as told to the judge, and you hear of it, then you shall diligently inquire. You see there's a process that's now being picked up in verse 4 And it says that those in the community who know of the unrighteousness should tell the elders at the city gate. Verse 4, if you look down again, will continue where the elders must now investigate the report. And if they find the person guilty, verse 6, by two or three witnesses, not one witness, then the guilt and the sentence, death penalty, is pronounced. and acted upon. There is both guilt pronounced. What is the kind of sin in violation of the law? Is there a true offense? Number two, due to the offense, what should the sentence be? Those are the two things that are going on with the elder at the gate. And then verse seven, because righteousness is not just left to the elders, it is left to the entire community to maintain in the establishment of justice, the hands of the witnesses and then the hands of the rest of the community must throw the stones. If you are going to kill someone by a stone, you better believe that that person is wrong. And you can't just be an onlooker watching justice be done by somebody else. You have to partake as a member of the community in this particular setting. You have responsibility in this setting for the righteousness of the community and upholding it by way of justice. That's the first process of justice in verses 4 through 7. That's at a very local level at the gates. But look at example number 2. This is very interesting to me. At least, I hope it's interesting to you, beginning in verse eight. If a matter arises which is too hard for you to judge, between degrees of guilt for bloodshed between one judgment or another, or between one punishment or another, matters of controversy within your gates, then you shall arise and go to the place that your the Lord your God chooses. It can't be solved at the local level. It's too difficult. There's something that is confusing or difficult about it. Sometimes the matter will be too difficult for local elders to judge, verse 8. And therefore They're not able to determine one the law that was violated or two the sentence that should be given. Notice that they're speaking again of capital punishment crimes. Where it says you can't tell which kind of bloodshed is it, what degree of murder. And We don't know what the sentencing should be, the kind of punishment based on which degree of murder it should be. And so there is a procedure that they're to follow. They are to go where Yahweh chooses Have you ever heard that phrase before? Go where Yahweh chooses? We just heard it in the feasts. It means that they are going to have to go to where the Levites or the priests or the judge is at that tabernacle or the temple And they are going to have to seek judgment from them. And verse 9, ask the priest to make a judgment and sentence of the case. They study the law. This is not a case where they're drawing lots to figure out the truth. They're not using any devices like that. They have been studying the law, and they have a greater wisdom of application to specific situations for righteousness. The priests are able to make the judgment because they have been anointed by the Holy Spirit with great understanding of the scriptures. And then you notice in verse 11 what is to be done. Whatever the priests judge, however they determine the degree of the murder, and whatever sentence they give, you are to do exactly as they say, or you yourself will be subject to the death penalty. That's the whole thing. That's really the whole meat of the passage. Those are the full two parts of what we have placed before us. Righteousness only righteousness is to be the normal state of God's community. And when righteousness is threatened, justice restores righteousness only righteousness. That is the big idea of this passage. Let me read it to you one more time. Righteousness, only righteousness, is to be the normal state of God's community. When righteousness is threatened, justice restores Righteousness. Now, just as we have done with every other sermon, past the Ten Commandments, when we start to get into the specific Cases, we have to ask, in light of the advent of Jesus the Christ, can we obey this passage as it is written? And actually, we can obey this passage in way more ways than you might realize. In many ways, I find that it's difficult not to apply this facet. Righteousness is still the goal, is it not? And justice is still the way that righteousness is restored. And so let me give you the big picture of how this works out after the advent of Christ. The big picture is that the whole world has been caught red-handed in unrighteousness. That includes you, and that includes me. If someone were to go to the elders at the gate and say, What you have done in your life in relationship to God in this community, those elders would search it out diligently and they would find you guilty. Of so many things, and they would find me guilty. In other words, as the Apostle Paul says, all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Yet God the Father has sent Jesus as the Christ to justify us And now I want you to use the idea of justification from Jesus Christ with the picture that is in our passage. Think about the elders at the gate and think about those who are waiting at the temple to judge and think about Jesus. In Jesus' day, the Sanhedrin were the priests that judged the difficult cases of unrighteousness. Jesus was brought before the Sanhedrin. And although Jesus was innocent, God the Father allowed Jesus to be pronounced guilty and to receive the death penalty Just as we read in this passage, they were following these procedures and these policies. Now, why is it that an innocent Jesus would be allowed to receive the death penalty. Why is he allowed by God the Father to go before the Sanhedrin? If he is not unrighteous. He was before them for our unrighteousness. This is the story, and this is the big picture. And you can see it played out here. You can see why it happens the way that it does on the pages of the New Testament, and what Jesus is doing. That is the ultimate question you have to ask. If the judgment of guilty from the Sanhedrin was towards the unrighteous, then why is the righteous one, Jesus himself, guilty before the Sanhedrin? By permission of God the Father. Why? The answer that the scriptures give is because he was receiving The guilt for our transgressions. He was receiving the punishment and the sentence that the priests would have passed down, just as spoken of in this passage, for our sin and our guilt. There is the great exchange. Jesus, the righteous one, dies for the unrighteous To make us righteous. In other words, Jesus, the righteous one, do you know what he did? He did what righteous people do His whole life was to the benefit of his people and his community, even on to death and that of a cross. Now, isn't that righteous? He is our great righteous one. And since righteousness is all about relationship, as the great older brother and the great high priest and the great king, he has brought righteousness. To us. He took away our sins that we might prosper again as a community. He has united us with him that we might progressively be sanctified. By his living breath, the Spirit. And of course, God the Father not only sent Jesus, but he raised Jesus from the dead. If you won the lottery, what would you do? Whenever I ask that question to someone, I usually get a list of all the things that they would buy themselves. I would get a huge house. I would get a ping-pong table made out of gold. Whatever it is that you would do. What is it that what is what happens when Jesus is raised from the dead and set in all glory? What does he do? You should know the answer is because he's righteous. He kept serving his people, and he serves you now by sending his spirit. All of his time, so to speak, is preoccupied. With ministering to his people that we might grow up to be like him in righteousness, serving one another as he serves us. The Spirit that He has sent is progressively working righteousness in all of us. We are already justified, but now we are being sanctified to be productive members of this community. Which is a foretaste and picture of the new heavens and the new earth. That's the big picture. That's what's happening. That's the Silmarillion, if you like Tolkien. All the work behind the work This is the saving of Middle Earth. But this works out in a million details. Called your life. I just want to mention a few details directly related to our passage. Jesus Christ, by his Spirit, still maintains righteousness in his communion. And it happens at the most simple and individual level, meaning that you, according to the scriptures, are called to admonish one another. Another. When you see another in sin, you are to confront in gentleness, not thinking of yourself more highly than you ought Knowing that you could fall by the same thing. But you are still to admonish, you are still to confront, you are still to rebuke, you are still to correct. You know, Rob, uh where are you? We didn't even plan this. Matthew eighteen. Beginning in verse 15. You have the responsibility to confront others in their sin. One-on-one. And if that does not move forward with them in repentance or you realizing that they never sinned, you have a responsibility to bring two or more witnesses, it says. Matthew 18 is the working out of this passage. You have a responsibility to confront others in their sin, and you have the responsibility to bring witnesses into the picture to establish your case before them. As a rescue mission for them, but more importantly, as a as a for the reputation of our God. You have, if that doesn't move things forward into the into faith and repentance, You have the responsibility to go to the elders when the case is difficult. You can see the parallels here. That's why I'm saying it's difficult to find a place where I'm not applying this. And if the person continues to refuse to repent, then they receive a kind of death penalty. A penalty of discipline that lets them know you are in danger if you do not repent. of the fires of hell. And that is called excommunication. So here is the question. I'll leave you with a question and a quote. Those of you who have been made righteous by Jesus Christ, will you take up your responsibility and in love pursue justice when righteousness falters Do you care about the righteousness of the household of Severn Run or not? I'm just asking the simple question, are you righteous? And if you are in Christ, then you are Dietrich Bonhoeffer says this. Reproof is unavoidable. God's word demands it when a brother or sister falls into open sin. The practice of discipline in the congregation begins in the smallest circles, where defection from God's word and doctrine or life Causes harm or imperils the family relationship, and with it the whole congregation. The word of admonition and rebuke must be ventured This is what I really want you to catch, and you've probably heard this before. Nothing can be more cruel than the tenderness that consigns another person to their sin. Nothing can be more compassionate than the severe rebuke that calls a brother or sister back from the paths of sin. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, you have called us as a righteous community. You have justified us, and we are now reconciled before you through the whole crosswork of Jesus our Christ. You are God, our God, and as you are holy, we are meant to be holy, and our holiness is expressed in real time by the power of your Holy Spirit in righteousness and righteousness maintained through justice. I pray, Lord, that even in the smallest circles, in our homes, behind closed doors, amongst friends, even among teenage friends. That we would care about righteousness enough to enact justice. Pray that you would give us that kind of spirit. Give us zeal. But I also pray that you would give us gentleness and love. In the name of Christ, Amen. Amen.