That truly be our prayer as we turn to Deuteronomy chapter 18, beginning in verse 9, and ask that you remain standing. When you come into the land which your Lord your God is giving you You shall not learn to follow the abominations of those nations. There shall not be found among you any one who makes his son or his daughter pass through the fire. Or one who practices witchcraft or a soothsayer, or one who interprets omens, or a sorcerer, or one who conjures spells, or a medium, or a spiritist, or one who calls up the dead. For all who do these things are an abomination to the Lord, and because of these abominations, the Lord your God drives them out from before you. You shall be blameless before the Lord your God. For these nations which you will dispossess, listen to soothsayers and diviners. But as for you, the Lord your God has not appointed such for you. The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your midsts, from your brethren. Him you shall hear. According to all you desired of the Lord your God, and Horodh in the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God, nor let me see this great fire any more. And the Lord said to me, What they have spoken is good. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brethren, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him And it shall be that whoever will not hear my words, which he speaks in my name, I will require it of him. But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in my name which I have not commanded him to speak, or who speaks in the name of other gods, that prophet shall die. And if you say in your heart, how shall we know the word which the Lord has not spoken? When a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the thing does not happen or come to pass, that is the thing which the Lord has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously, and you shall not be afraid of him. Please pray with me. Lord, we want so much to be people that receive your word from your Son. We know that you will require it of us. And so, as we have sung, we pray that you give us the right heart and attitude to hear your word today in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. You may be seeing. While you have your Bibles out, if you were to flip back to chapter 16, verse 20, I just want to remind you, for the sake of your own reading and your own studies at home. In 1620, we have a theme statement that is continuing even this morning in 189 through 22. In 16 verse 20, it reads, For you shall follow what is altogether just. And I have told you that that uh is a repetition of a single Hebrew word, Sedech, Sedek. And it is righteousness only righteousness. Righteousness only righteousness is still the topic this morning in chapter 18, 9 through 22. This is the going theme since the pronouncement of righteousness only righteousness, and it's still the going theme for you as a Christian today. Two weeks ago, righteousness was discussed in terms of judging capital crimes. Starts at a lower level and works its way to a higher level on the pages of Deuteronomy, just as it does in Matthew 18 uh in fifteen through the following verses. And then last week we discussed Sedek, only Setek, or righteousness, only righteousness, in relationship to a king and being established as a leader. And there's much to learn by the way. As leaders in our own lives from that, that there are a kind of prerequisite that needs to be met for the king. There are prohibitions and there are practices of the king, all of which are leading to a life of righteousness And an example of righteousness for the whole community. This week, righteousness only righteousness is discussed in terms of communication. Did you notice that in the passage? Lots of communication going on Communication that is unrighteous, and then communication that is righteous, and then how to know which one's which. That's really the way that the passage is broken down. Let me, before I restate that, let me ask you this. If someone asked you, how do you know what God thinks, what would you say? And I don't I just saw someone raise their Bible. Very good. Great. Let's just go ahead and close in prayer. What would you say about the particulars? Where should I go to college? What job should I take? Should I marry this person? Should I not? Should I have Sonic for dinner or shake and Whatever. Those are the kind of questions that people are asking. What would you say to them if they said, What does God think? If they wanted everything to be held captive to Christ. And they were asking you those kind of questions. If they were stalled in the morning because they didn't know what clothes they want that Christ wanted them to wear, what would you say? How does how do we know what God thinks? Those are the when we get specific like that, and you know there's a whole world of specific out there. That's where it be can become a little more challenging, and that's what we're considering this morning. We're considering those kinds of communication and we want to answer those kind of questions. How do we know what God thinks? What would you say? Well, the passage is divided up into unrighteous communication, into righteous communication, because of the theme that I pointed out to you in chapter 16 And then also tests for communication. So those are our main headings this morning if you want to follow along righteously. Unrighteous communication, righteous communication, and tests for communication. So let's begin with an unrighteous communication in verses 9 through 14. You can see the general statement stated in verse 9. The overarching context is that the people again are getting ready to enter into the land, so this makes sense. When you come into the land which the Lord your God is giving you, Then we have this general statement that is given to the people, and then we're going to see, as we have seen over and over and over again, a list that falls under the general category. Well, what is the general category? You shall not learn to follow the abominations of those nations. That's what it says in verse 9. Now you have to know that the word abomination is used even in the book of Deuteronomy as a synonym. For unrighteousness. Abomination and unrighteousness are co-referential. Deuteronomy chapter 25, verse 16 says For all who behave unrighteously are an abomination to the Lord your God. The two terms are closely tied together. And in past passages, we've seen the same kind of language. Abominations included idols that were existing in the land, the altars for those idols. offering defective sacrifices or sacrifices with a bl with a blemish. We've seen all kinds of abominations and how they were to be removed from the land. According to several passages in Deuteronomy, even the passage that we have this morning, the abominations were one of the reasons why Yahweh has chosen to dispossess the Canaanites through the Israelite army. Look at 1812, just very quickly. For all who do these things are an abomination to the Lord, and because of these abominations the Lord your God drives them out from before you. You see, he wants no unrighteousness in the land in this specific context. And so that's why they were removed. He waited until their sins. Had risen to a particular level, and now he's removing them all. So now you can start to get into a list as we have in the past, but this list has to do with communication. The abominations listed in today's passage all concern first how not to communicate with God. This is not how we know what God thinks, this list. Number one, child sacrifice. This is Kind of an obvious one for us. Apparently, the pagan nations, you can see in verse 10, they sought to appease or manipulate their gods through child sacrifice. For a child to pass through the fire, that's the literal phrase there. For a child to pass through the fire meant for the child to be burned as an offering. You can see this is listed as the kind of pinnacle. In Deuteronomy, when we get to unrighteousness. But that was just one practice. That was one way to hear from the gods. The pagan nations sought the will of the God through different techniques. Besides that, I'm not going to define every single one. that you see in the list there. Do you see the list? With each one. There shall not be found among you. Anyone who makes his son or daughter pass through the fire, and then witchcraft, shoot saying, interpreting omen omens, sorcerer, conjuring spell, medium or spiritual One who calls up the dead. These are some of the examples of what are going on in the people around them. Some of the words that are used are so technical that it's difficult to even know the specific practice. That was practiced by that group of people. But there are some times where this is used again within the scriptures, and we can get a sense of what was involved in the way that they communicated or tried to communicate with the supernatural. natural, particularly with their gods, or even try to communicate with Yahweh Himself. Let me just mention that the word witchcraft here Does show up in Ezekiel 21, 21. And let me list let me read that to you because it gives you a picture of what was going on. And if you've studied the Romans, then they were using some of the same techniques It says, for the king of Babylon stands at the parting of the road. So picture of a king standing at a fork in the road At the fork of the two roads, and he does, and he uses divination, it says. Now listen to the techniques that he uses to know which way he should go. He shakes the arrows He consults the images. He looks at the liver. Those are the three things that he did to discern the will of God in Ezekiel 21:21. It says it in your Bible too. I didn't just make that up. The idea is that it's uh radomancy with the arrows. Radomancy is when you would drop a anybody ever practiced this? Everybody grow up in West Virginia and practiced radomancy You drop a pole and it hits the ground and wherever it falls, that's the direction that you have to go in order to meet your fate. That's kind of the idea There is also kind of a shaking stick to find gold or I just read an article that you can find swarms of bees through a shaking stick by tapping into the the uh magnetic spheres of the earth and this kind of stuff. So we try to bring science into it these days, but you can you can see that in addition to the arrows and shaking the arrow, he consulted images and then he looked at the liver. I'm sure that you've seen some kind of show from back in the day that showed some kind of barbarians crossing some country where someone had to cut open a bird or an animal, have their entrails out on a shield, and then They have to read the intrails to figure out what the will of the gods are. That is what was happening with the king of Babylon in Ezekiel 2121. That's just an example of some of the kind of stuff to discern the will of what God thinks. Now I hope none of you are doing those things. He who looks at the liver Another one that we can gain some understanding on is the interpreting omens. Now this is an interesting one and it shows you some of the syncretism within the church. itself. This shows up in Genesis 44, 4 through 5. Do you remember when Joseph wanted to the king of Egypt or of Egypt, you know, that when Joseph wanted to set up a situation where his brothers would have to come back and deal with what they had Do you remember what he did in order to have to keep one of the brothers so that they had to go home and bring the father back? He slipped a cup into their bag, their sack. And then he told the guards to go find them and say, They've stolen my cup. Now listen to the description of this cup. When they had gone out of the city and they were not far off, Joseph said to him His steward, get up, follow the men, and when you overtake them, say to them, Why have you repaid evil for good? Is this not the one from which my lord drinks, and which he indeed practices divination, you have done evil in so doing. And so have you ever uh seen or heard of someone reading tea leaves, dropping Leaves or swirling a cup, and somehow, I don't know how this is done, I've never done it, I've never been in the presence of anyone who has done it. Somehow they would interpret the drink in the divining cup to To understand what the will of God is. And we see that even with Joseph being in the midst of the Egyptians, he had a divining cup. And then you can see these other examples with sorcery, conjuring spells, spiritism. or even calling up the dead to find out the will of God for the future. There is an example where Saul had become quite corrupt in 1 Samuel twenty eight, three through thirty. And let me just give you the end of that account in terms of the calling up of the dead or spiritism. Saul sought for a woman to who was a medium for supernatural communication. And that woman said, Whom shall I bring up for you, Saul? Meaning up from the dead. And he said, Bring up Samuel for me. When the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice. And the woman spoke to Saul, saying, Why have you deceived? Me, for you were Saul. And the king said to her, Do not be afraid. What did you see? And the woman said to Saul, I saw a spirit ascending. out of the earth. And that spirit was Saul, or it was Samuel, and Saul was able to then ask Samuel questions through her as to the nature of the future. Now I want to point out a few things. These are just some definitions and biblical examples of the kind of thing that is considered an unrighteous communication. With the supernatural world or trying to understand what God says. Let me point out one thing. And that's why I have that last example there on purpose, because the unrighteousness That God is talking about in these examples is not saying they don't exist. You have a biblical account of a woman performing a seance and bringing the spirit of Samuel up so that Saul can ask questions. We are not saying that contact with the supernatural world is impossible. We're not saying that it doesn't exist. It happens right there in front of our face within the scriptures. Notice that's not why he says that it's unrighteous. Even if you could do it, and some people could, it's still not righteous to do. that you should not have such contact with the dead or the supernatural to define God's will. Now this is still around today. You know those same kind of things that I just read to you, I was wondering, is that really around today? Do people still read entrals and that kind of stuff? You'll never believe it. And I'm trying not to sound like I'm reduced I just want to be respectful of those who are made in God's image. But I did find a psychic parlor in witchcraft emporium online And this is how they defined their psychic parlor and witchcraft in Porium. I I wish I could read you the whole paragraph because it's so interesting how much it mimics exactly what was going on within the campus. It says this though at the end. Witchcraft is personal empowerment magnified through a relationship with the old gods. Isn't that interesting? Still going on today. So we cannot dismiss that there is some kind of contact with the supernatural world, at least there was. And we cannot dismiss that these same things, people seeking to have a relationship with the old gods through witchcraft cannot be dismissed either. That is to say the New Age movement. Is still present. It is still around today. Now let me ask you: do we see any of these kinds of things amongst Christian communities? Be careful with your answer Do we? I said kinds of things. Not the exact same thing, but the kind of thing. Let me give you a couple of examples that I have stirred up. One woman's car stalled in front of the Philippines embassy, and she took it as a sign that God was calling her to the Philippines. Was God communicating for her to become a missionary to the Philippines because her car stalled? Or was he communicating that she needs to take better care of her car? Number two, there was a woman who was unsure about a tour that she would love to take to Israel. It would cost too much, she'd have to take off a lot. from her work. The brochure that she noticed, it said that she would fly on a 747. When she woke the next morning and she turned her head Lo and behold, on her alarm clock, the time was seven forty-seven. Time to go to Israel, baby. I'm trying see I'm not doing a great job of ridiculing. Uh I mean I am ridiculing. This is not good. Okay. But this is another unrighteous form or type of communication or divining the will of God through our alarm clock. You see what I'm saying? There was a guy named Dave, not in this congregation. Promise. Guy named Dave, he didn't know what to do with his life. His friend said, pray. And when you do, pay attention to that still small voice you hear I'm not talking about scripture coming to mind, talking about something different. And then last but not least, things that that I have witnessed across the board is lucky dipping. You know what lucky dipping is? This is lucky dipping. Let me cr let my cry come before you, O Lord. Give me understanding according to your work. But tell me that it's not kind of like a divining rod where we're dropping our finger like an arrow on the path seeking to discern God's will. Thank you, Lord, for your sense of humor. I really appreciate that. So we see that even this morning you are tempted toward unrighteous communication. But those are some of the examples that we have, and those are some contemporary examples also. Those are some examples of historic and contemporary unrighteous communication with the supernatural. But the next one that we have in 15 through 20 is the righteous communication. There is a specific appointment that God has given to his people. This righteous communication comes to the prophet. Take a look at verse 15 of chapter 18. In verse 15, we see that God will raise up specific people to give authorized communication from Yahweh. And the specific people were called prophets, nabi, those who were called to give that kind of message The pagan nations, remember, they had sorcerers, they had soothsayers, they had spiritists, but God's nation is different. We are set apart in that we have prophets Who mediate between us and God. Just as God had parameters for the king, you'll notice in verse 15, so too do we see parameters for the prophets. You can see in verse 15 that the Lord your God will be the one who raises up this prophet. It's not someone that it can't just emerge from their home and say, I'm a prophet. The Lord Himself must appoint them. He must raise them up. And I'd ask that you'd think of your New Testament scriptures, especially the Gospels, in the clear appointment of Jesus Christ as the great prophet. And just as the king was chosen and his election was signified through anointing, so too for the prophet. Do you remember that example that I gave you with the king being anointed? By Samuel, David, the Lord showing Samuel that it was going to be David who was anointed and it was his chosen man. Well, we see the same thing for the prophets We see in 1 Samuel 3 that Samuel himself was chosen. 1 Samuel 3:19 through 20 is really the overarching context, but let me just read a paragraph to you. So Samuel grew and the Lord was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground. And all Israel, from Dan to Beersheba, knew that Samuel had been established as a prophet of the Lord. And then the Lord appeared again in Shiloh, for the Lord himself reveal revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the Lord. See that? It was clear to everyone across the country. In addition, in verse 15, you can see that they must be a native Israelite. It says that it must be from Amongst your brethren, just as it was for the king. And then also in verse 15, this prophet will be like Moses. And this means that he will be the mediator between God and his people. The prophet will have access to God through dreams and visions, and one prophet, Jesus Christ, will have access face to face, more so than even Moses did. And most of the time, this communication is not like a fortune cookie. It is clear and it is direct as to what God. Will is, and it is recorded and preserved in scripturation. Moses in verse 16 then reminds the people of the historic moment You see that in verse 16? That's what he's doing. Accordingly to all you desired of the Lord your God in Horov in the day of the And so the Lord heard this, and he said that it was good, and so he established Moses as the prophet. And Moses interprets this not just as a one-time event, but the continuation of an office to mediate between God and his people. It is the establishment of the prophet and of prophecy. Israel requested that mediator, God gave it. Moses would climb to the heavens and meet with God, or Moses would go to the Holy of Holies in the tabernacle to meet with God. He would hear from God and he would deliver the specific message to the people. And after Moses, God would continue to give his people authorized communicators that were not self-authorized. They were authorized by God. And there was a clear way in which they were established. If you would like, you can turn to Hebrews chapter 1, the first two verses. Because everything that I have just said from Deuteronomy is summarized in those first two verses in Hebrews. We are reading the same Bible as the author of Hebrews. The book of Hebrews says as much and more as to what we are reading here within Deuteronomy. God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past to the fathers. How? Who were the authorized communicators? By the prophets. But now there is a prophet above all prophets. Because God the Father has in these last days spoken to us by His Son. You see, those moments that we see within the gospel Accounts of Christ's anointing, being full of the measure of the Spirit, the kind of authority that he carries is showing once again the land could not deny that God had appointed Jesus the Christ as the great Prophet. Jesus Himself is that last appointed prophet by the Father. And we have that reading in our bulletin this Morning for a purpose, so that you could hear from God the Father Himself through the Scriptures that Jesus is the one that we are to listen to. That even Moses should bow his knee and hear from Jesus, and so too should Elijah. Jesus is standing before the great former prophets of Elijah and Moses, two respected men that were, you were to listen to them in all that they had announced from God. And yet as soon as Peter says that he should build a tabernacle for all of them, you notice that little editorial comment? He didn't realize what he had done. The cloud overshadows them, and the father, so that there could be no mistake, says, This is my beloved son. Hear him, exclamation point. And it puts everybody in their place. And everybody knows who to listen to for authorized, righteous communication. It is Jesus Christ. And that is what we were doing even this morning. Is we are listening to our Christ by the power of His Spirit. We are giving ourselves over to the seed of his word as he spreads it on the soil of our hearts. And so we have unrighteous kinds of communication. We see what the nations have, but that's not us, because we are not those nations. And we have the prophets, including Jesus the Christ, the consummation of the prophetic office, the last prophet. And then lastly, in verses 21 through 22, Moses entertains a congregational question. And this is the question about communication. In verse 21, our final point, Moses anticipates this question. Take a look at it. He says, How shall we know the word which the Lord has not spoken? Good question. Verse 22 holds the answer. When a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the thing does not happen or come to pass That is the thing which the Lord has not spoken. So you can see the prophetic task was not just a forthelling, but a foretelling. And in the foretelling, if it did not come to be, then you should You may have not noticed the emphasis from the passage we read earlier from 1 Samuel 3. But again, we see that Samuel was fulfilled as a prophet based on this same criteria. It said, So Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him, and then you might have just let this slide by, and let none of his words fall to the ground. You see? It's the same set of criteria that goes forward. When they had come to the land of Zuf. Saul said to his servant who was with him, Come, let us return, lest my father cease caring about the donkeys and become worried about us. And he said to him, Look now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is an honorable man, speaking of Samuel. And all that he says surely comes to pass. Mark of a true prophet. And so let us go there. Perhaps he can show us the way that we should go. The criteria, this criteria of words coming true Applies even for the fulfillment of all prophets, Jesus the Christ. For example, this is something that I was wondering about as I thought about Jesus as our great prophet What he spoke did not come true as he's walking the streets of Jerusalem, not everything. They had to wait after his ascension for years. years for some of the prophecies and foretelling that he did to come true. And I wondered if people used that What seemed like a slackness or an unfulfillment of what Jesus has said. I wonder if they use that as a part of their apologetic to let everybody know that Jesus was a fake. And then we see picked up in 1 Peter that Peter has to say to them: he is not slack in his coming. You see, that's him saying, No, Jesus is a true prophet. What he said will be, he will come. And I also wonder this, because one of the greatest prophecies that Jesus has made is that the temple would be torn down. And they had to wait for a while for that. But then I wonder this, what was it like for all of those Christians that That remained faithful by the power of the Holy Spirit and true to the word of Jesus Christ the Prophet, what was it like for them to see the Romans start to come into the city and for smoke to come up from the burning temple? They knew, I bet, right away, flee to the mountains. Don't flee to the temple. This is what our Lord talked about. And all of their sacrifices and all of the loss of their property in that one moment was justified and worthwhile because everything that Jesus Christ had announced had become true. And oh boy, do we need that kind of reassurance today. Does Jesus Christ seem like he slackened his covenant? Does it seem like he's slack in bringing righteousness to the earth? Turn to him as your prophet. If he is a true prophet, and he is, every word that has proceeded from his mouth will not fail. If that is true for Samuel, how much more for him who fulfills all of the Samuels? And therefore, take heart, Christian. In the words of Jesus Christ. They don't fall to the ground. Not one word from his lips are vain. Well, the message is clear In the world, all manner of attempts are made to know God's will. You can drop an arrow, you can read large intestines. You can use the divining cup. You can read your alarm clock. You can lucky dip on your Bible. You can get a magic eight ball that gives you answers. But those are forms of unrighteous communication, whether they communicate from the divine or not. Even if you were to make contact with the dead through a seance or a Ouija board, I don't know much about that kind of stuff, but given the Samuel example, it's still unrighteous for you to do so. That is not for the people of God. God, who at various times and in various ways instead, he spoke by the prophets, and in these last days his Son, Jesus the Christ, the final Prophet. Jesus the Christ as a prophet took all that the Father told him and he gave it to his apostles. That's how he works. Jesus does not bodily show up. within your living room and communicate with you directly? Except by way of his word. And his word is from his apostles and his prophets. That's the foundation of the church, the scriptures say Those apostles remembered and applied that teaching to their world because that's what Jesus told them to do in Matthew twenty-eight. He says And Jesus came and he spoke to them. He said, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth, including the authority of a prophet, right? Doesn't that have to be a part of that statement that he just made there? Does it just mean that he carries a scepter? Or that he speaks from his mouth with authority? And therefore he says, Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo I am with you even to the end of the age. You can see that his prophetic task is given to the apostles for the inscripturation of And those teachings were preserved in the Gospels and the letters, and we still have them right there on your lap. Translations of them. And therefore we have all that God communicated to the prophets of the old, and all that God has communicated to Jesus, the eternal prophet, who is handed down to his apostles. And so you have a foundation of the apostles and the prophets with Jesus Christ as the chief cornerstone of all of his communication to his church. But you just you don't just have words on a page. This is the most beautiful part. You do not just have words sitting there on your lap, you have a living teaching Savior. Who illuminates your heart and your mind by sending you the Holy Spirit that you might obtain the scriptures and become the imitation of them, the embodiment of every page. Jesus the Christ is alive and has sent his Spirit to work his word into your very being. Primarily Through suffering, reading your Bible and prayer. That is the nature of the Christian life. And so Jesus, by his spirit, expects this from you Today, Christian. Number one, that your heart be changed by His Spirit. You must have eyes to see and ears to hear. If what you're hearing this morning sounds lovely to you, but you're not so sure if you are a Christian, then I just ask that you cry out to God for mercy. Knock on his door and don't stop. Ask him for the mercy to understand him. Tell him that you want him to be your teacher, that you're tired of all your other teachers. That you want him as your teacher so that you can understand your other teachers. So we need a changed heart And Jesus Christ has sent his Spirit to all the world and every tongue and tribe and nation to accomplish this. And number two, where you began, you must stay. Jesus Christ must remain your first love, or you will not gain anything From the scriptures, or very little. And therefore, you must guard your heart and you must be devoted to submitting to his spirit. I often wonder, I just want, I would love to see the look on Jesus' When someone picks up the word that he has given to them, they understand it. He has allowed them to have a good grammatical, historical exegesis They understand the author's original intent and then they close it and they never do a lick of what was on those pages. It makes me wonder if over a period of time if the Lord's face says this, I'm done with letting them understand. understand because it leads to nowhere. And so that's why I mentioned that there must be a devotion and a submission to His Spirit. His Spirit wants you to There must be a continual docility is what our Latin fathers have said A continual humility before him and his word. A continual reverence and adoration that you would do whatever he says to you, that it wouldn't be your will, but that his will would be done. Do you approach your scriptures as an act of the will? Number three, that you would pray. Because we all know we do not approach the scriptures as an act. of our will. And so we pray and we beg. We beg that our hearts would be subdued under Him as our King, that we would recognize once again that He knows and we do not know. And that we would be satisfied in not knowing, because it is God who gives, it is we who receive, and we don't demand. We take whatever He gives and we use it And number four, and this one is missing most of all within the modern church: that you would be committed to a constant dialogue of these scriptures with your local church community. I know of no person where God teaches them everything. He seems to teach different people different things, and we're meant to share those things with one another that There can be a mutual edification. When you see the descriptions of the first century church, they gathered together and each person shared truth that the Lord had granted to them in the midst of their congregation. It was like a lively synagogal. conversation of what the Lord had communicated in his gospel. And not everybody was given everything, but whatever they were given, they shared it. And as each person shared and shared alike, we gained the whole counsel of what his will was for us as a local church community. Does that describe you? Or are you a loner? You just study your scripture. On your own. And then number five, then you are in a place to benefit from God the Father's word through the prophets and especially Jesus. Truly believe that those are kinds of steps that one must go through for there to be the power and the effect of his word. And I say this because of the nature of the understanding of God's Word. Do you ever notice that the word that has been given to you from Jesus is not specific to you, I have yet to find a letter addressed to Randall Bibby. It's not specific to you. You have to make that kind of observation. If you were to read Psalm 119, like Joe instructed to you, that psalm is very, very general and could apply in a million different situations It is not the scriptures are not an instruction manual from Hong Kong telling you each and every decision that you should make. I remember when I first became a Christian, I was so confused on how to understand. The will of God, but I wanted so badly because of my transformed heart to do everything for him. And I remember standing there before a Coke bottle and a Pepsi bottle, and I didn't know which one to choose, and I wanted God to tell me. And I didn't see anything on the pages of Scripture, and it was confusing to me. It never mentioned Coke or Pepsi. But then as we grow, we understand the nature of the word is to speak to us generally And through his Spirit's development of wisdom within us, in the context of community, we learn that you shouldn't have either one of those drinks When you're forty-two, you should have water. You should have water. Water Oh yeah, all right. We have to grow in our wisdom for an application. You see it doesn't give you a little step up Step because that's not how wisdom works. And in order to gain that wisdom, you have to be in a community where you have this certain submission to the Spirit at all times. And I just wonder where you are with that today And your involvement of the community, your local church community, and engaging one another to encourage that kind of submission and that kind of wisdom in our community. The kind of wisdom that comes from taking a long time to dialogue and wonder about something. In addition, the word is historic. It's not just general, it's historic, which means that's one of the reasons why it's not addressed to you specifically. And therefore, it takes a committed heart to understand the author's intention. If you take a short amount of time with your word, you want me to tell you what you're going to get? A wrong intention. Interpretation. And then I get to correct you. It takes Christian community instead to dialogue and think through good and necessary applications of what have been given to Christian in the past. And since you are a Christian in the present, you can relate to Christians in the past because we are under the same kingdom head. There is a timelessness and a transculturalness to his word But it takes work to get there, to do so responsibly, and it takes work within a community. Let me just end by saying this. This is not some newfangled technique that I'm telling you about. This has been the norm from the moment of Jesus ascending into the heavens and sending his spirit to work with his people And to interact with him as the great prophet. Acts chapter 2, verses 40 through 42. And that day about 3,000 souls were added to them. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, in the breaking of bread and in prayers. Jesus through his Spirit is present. Souls were submitted to Jesus by the Holy Spirit. The word or the apostolic doctrine was present in a local community. The word was read in a local community, and prayer was done with the word in a local community, as you can see witnessed by the bread being broken and shared. with that local community. Please pray with me. Father, there is much for us to learn, but you are the teacher, and so we turn to you in hope We ask that you would help us as a community to move even beyond the criteria that you've given here within your scriptures. To further specificity and more examples as we understand as a community what it means to stay away from unrighteous communication and what it means to both know and detect righteous communication. Communication. We pray, Father, that we would turn to your scriptures in the way that you describe, that there would be a humility about us. We know that you will require it of us. And so, Lord, we ask that you would teach us. that we might teach. In the name of Christ, Amen