Together and stand to uh Deuteronomy 19. Let's turn to Deuteronomy 19 and let's stand together for the reading of God's Word. We're looking at Deuteronomy 19, 1 through 13 this morning. Good running When the Lord your God has cut off the nations whose land the Lord your God is giving you, and you dispossess them and dwell in their cities and in their houses, You shall separate three cities for yourself in the midst of your land, which the Lord your God is giving you to possess. You shall prepare roads for yourself, and divide into three parts the territory of your land, which the Lord your God is giving you to inherit And this is the case of the manslayer who flees there, that he may live. As when a man goes to the woods with his neighbor to cut timber, and his hand swings a stroke with the axe to cut down the tree, and the head slips from the handle and strikes his neighbor so that he dies, he shall flee to one of those cities of the and live, lest the avenger of blood, while his anger is hot, pursue the manslayer and overtake him, because the way is long, and kill him, though he was not deserving of death, since he had not hated the victim in time past Therefore I command you, saying you shall separate three cities for yourself. Now if the Lord your God enlarges your territory, as he swore to your fathers, and gives you the land which he promised to give to your fathers. And if you keep all the commandments and do them, which I command you today, to love your God and to walk always in his ways, then you shall add three more cities for yourself besides these three. Lest innocent blood be shed in the midst of your land, which the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance, and thus guilt of bloodshed be upon you. But if anyone hates his neighbor, lies in wait for him, rises against him, and strikes him mortally so that he dies, and he flees to one of these cities. Then the elders of the city shall send and bring from there and deliver him over to the hand of the avenger of blood, that he may die. Your eyes shall not pity him. But you shall pray, put away the guilt of innocent blood from Israel, that it may go well with you. Please join me in prayer. Father, we ask that you would take these words And that you would move them into us. That we would be not just hearers of your word, but that we would live with skill in doing your word. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated now. They had a well full of water right there on the farm property. They had, however, no electricity to get the water from the well into the fields to feed the crops. What they needed to do was to figure out something because the whole family at this point was down to one meal a day, and that meal was thin. But that would end even soon because recently men from the village broke into the home and they looted and stole the food supplies from this family. William, it's a young Malawian son in Malawi, or Mala or however you pronounce it. That was on the farm, and under this kind of distress, watching him and his family about to die because of the famine, Had read some science books about wind turbines, and so he gathered his friends from the town and with parts from the junkyard. And after diligently talking his father into giving up his bicycle, they were able to create a windmill powered by wind to create a pump system By that wind to pull up water from the well and to distribute it across the fields, and all of the crops grew for the family. that they were able to continue. He became, in the memoirs, known as the boy who harnessed the wind, which is now on Netflix also. It's a good Good wholesome family movie. If you met William, that young man who harnessed the wind, what would you say to him as you saw Started to see the crops grow up for the family. When you saw that his little sister was going to have some food in just about a month. If you had to describe him to another person, perhaps over in town, once you saw this operation that he had created for his pa his family. When you when you walk through the marketplace, when you went by the barber or the deli, there was no deli then because there's no food, but how would you characterize him? If William were a member of a Christian household, and he was, you can see this in the memoirs and in the movie, then you know what you would call him Righteous. It is righteousness worked out by the power of the Spirit. Even in the creating of a windmill for the benefit of this family. great example. And that's what we've been talking about. Those are the kind of things. That's how exciting Deuteronomy is. You should get bumper stickers that say I heart Deuteronomy. That's been the message since 1620, actually. Righteousness, only righteousness. Setic, setek. Repetition of a word to create emphasis. in the Hebrew, for us to see that God's heart is for righteousness, only righteousness. And in the past we observed righteous judges, we observed righteous kings, and last week we observed And compared righteous communication versus unrighteous communication, in the world there are all manner of attempts to know the will of God Dropping arrows, reading large intestines, using the divining cup, reading alarm clocks that say 747, and lucky dipping in your Bible. Those are all unrighteous forms of communication and divination. God, who at various times and in various ways instead spoke by the prophets and in these last days. days, he has spoken to us by his son, Jesus the Christ. This week we move from communication, still focused on righteousness only righteousness But we see here a righteousness that is performed by God through the formation of safety cities. That's the title in my Bible, cities of safety. And some of your Bibles it'll be called cities of refuge. And that's what we're going to consider this morning are these cities of refuge. Really, this first three points are really just helping you to understand the And then I will have a longer application since I won't have much application running through the the bulk of it here. So I want to look at the formation of the cities. Let's understand those cities that were formed, and then there's some limitations that are placed on this policy. So we have a formation of the cities, the understanding of the city of the cities and the limitations of the city. And again, this is all just pushing us towards understanding righteousness only righteousness. And you'll see that this has a lot to do with with us today also. So let's begin with the formation of the city. That's the title that I've given this section. That's what God is doing in 191. You can see through Moses the familiar context. That starts each one of these sections. Yahweh is giving them land, and he expects after they have removed all unrighteousness. That righteousness would be established, and so he gives instructions on how to be righteous in the land. And you can see in verse two the instructions that begin here. Giving to you. Verse 2 has us separating three cities aside. My translation says that those cities are in the midst of the land. The idea here is that they are at the heart of the land, that they are equidistant from the towns. You could kind of draw it out geometrically. Then when you move to verse 3, there's another quick fact that we can go over. That you are to make roads to those cities. We should be able to easily travel to those cities of resolution. And then in verse 3, there's an additional fact that says that you are to assign a city of refuge to each one of the cities. Do you see that? So that there's no confusion, so that you don't go to the wrong city of refuge. It could take too long to get to the wrong city, and that could cost you your life. Which we'll see in a little bit. The assignment should be in thirds. And I imagine this to be similar to how we assign cities or towns to certain libraries or high schools or elementary schools for voting. I know which one I'm supposed to go to that is the closest to my home and others are supposed to go to others if they live in Odington, for example. They don't come to the Saverna Park And in a similar way, there's some kind of distribution going on here. With our voting, each town and even subsets of towns are assigned to certain libraries or schools to vote. And similarly, some of the Israelite towns or cities were assigned to one city of refuge or another. That's really, I'm just describing what is here within the text. Now, if you were to jump down a whole paragraph to verse 8, there's a continuation of this discussion about assignments And cities of refuge, and which city you should go to, and that it develops in verses 8 and 9 that if the Israelite population grows, obviously three cities aren't going to be enough And so we need to have more cities of refuge that meet the needs of the population, and that's what those sentences are describing. They would need more cities and thus more roads, and each of the new cities would be assigned to one or another of the The cities of refuge. You can read this in several places within the scriptures. Now, this is the first act of righteousness. It's the first act of righteousness, only righteousness. I hope this bends your brain a little bit, that this is an Act of righteousness by God to create a city. It should really open up your purview of what God calls us to do. He forms the cities of refuge. He has people make roads to get there. He assigns them which towns to go, which towns are supposed to go to which refuge. And that's all pretty straightforward. This is what these people and these these days we're supposed to do. The directions are clear. The question that we have to ask as we move into this new paragraph with the second point is what's the goal? Why are these special cities being formed? What's the purpose? What's the righteousness that is accomplished? And that's where we need to understand the cities. So we have not only the making of the cities, the forming of the cities, but we also have the understanding of the cities. And I see this in verses 4 through 7. In verse 4, I really want you to pay attention to this because Moses uses a very important word that carries a lot of weight in all of your thinking about Old Testament law. He says in verse 4, and this is the case. Do you see that? You will hear some theologians talk about case law This is going to be a bunch of specific examples that help to create precedence for being able to judge lots of examples that happen within the church community. And that's what Moses is now going to give us here. I don't think that he is as formal as we would see within like a case in a Supreme Court. He still seems to be primarily acting as pastor. Here and not legislator. And so it's kind of like a law case mixed with an illustrative purpose. He wants you to be able to see very clearly what's going on with these cities of safety. And what's righteous about them. And so we all appreciate a good illustration. Helps our minds to see, and that's what Moses is going to give here. Moses provides an illustration or a specific case of what he's talking about about. And he says, this is the case of the manslayer, verse 4. That's the kind of thing that we're dealing with. It's the case of the manslayer fleeing to the city of refuge that he may live. And then he's going to give us this scenario in verse 5. Take a look. You can see there's a dash in mine, and he says, as when a man goes to the woods with his neighbor, and he's going to unfold this scenario. You're expected to be able to picture this and see, oh yeah. I remember when that happened to Joe three weeks ago when his acad slipped off and hit Lou in the head. That's the kind of thing you should have been able to think about during that time. Man goes into the woods with his neighbor to cut some timber, just a normal day. They have their coffee thermoses Their coffee cup says I love wood. They put it all down to do some chopping. The man raises the axe that he just bought. He decided he wanted to kind of get back to his roots and he bought a wooden-handled axe that he put the top of the On himself instead of one of those fiberglass ones with epoxy. He raises the axe, he swings to cut a cut and fell the tree, and the axe head slips off and strikes the neighbor in the head. Said, the neighbor dies. What should the man do? The end of verse 5, we should see that he should flee to the city of refuge and he should Now. Why? That's where verse 6 comes in. Because the family of the man who died will be hot with anger and will avenge their neigh their family's blood and will kill him. There will be no reasoning. It was an accident, though And this is where the righteousness comes in. So he's not deserving of death. God has already proclaimed that because it is an accident, he's not deserving of death. And so if The blood avenger is able to kill this person. There will be a real murder in Israel. So far, there's only an unintentional one, and that will be bring guilt into the land. And God will be forced by his own will to rouse and discipline them. But it doesn't have to happen this way, does it? That's not how the scenario has to play out. Why? Because God had righteous forethought and he put safe the cities of safety into place. With roads to get there quickly. That is the kind of God that we have. There are well-established roads because of And you know what? He could say, which one am I supposed to go to? And he already would know that too, because everyone had been assigned to a particular city. Do me a favor and turn to Joshua chapter 20, verses 1 through 6, so that you can see this played out. Right now it just looks like this drama where he runs to a city, but there's far more going on here. And you can see this played out once we get into Joshua and the people actually cross over into the land. Instructions become more specific and robust. This is Joshua chapter 20, and it's verses 1 through 6. I'm just going to go through these quickly and point out a couple of couple of things. The Lord also spoke to Joshua, saying, Speak to the children of Israel, saying, appoint for yourselves cities of refuge. Now we've covered that already. We've already seen all of those facts. But t take a look at the details. And when he flees to one of those cities and stands at the entrance of the gate and declares his case in the hearing of the elders of that city, they shall take him into the city as one of them. and give him a place that he may dwell among them. You see that? There's all kinds of stuff going on in the background here. Then if the avenger of blood pursues him, they shall not deliver the slayer into his hand, because he struck his neighbor unintentionally. but did not hate him beforehand, and he shall dwell in that city until he stands before the congregation for judgment. He gets his day in court instead of just being murdered. And until the death of the one who was the high priest in those days, and then the slayer may return and come to his own city, and in his own house, to the city from which he And that's the meaning. That's the understanding of the cities of refuge. You can see the really starting to get fleshed out here as to what God has accomplished. Their cities of refuge are a place for a person to find refuge from the avenger of blood, so that he or she can get a fair hearing in court and to be protected, and so that an unrighteous intentional murder is not a good idea. committed in the community. What fascinates me though is that we do not just see law promulgated from a mountain. We see physical structures built that the law may be performed, which is instructive. So those are the two parts. In the first paragraph, verses one through three, we have the formation of the cities. In verses four through seven, we have the uh Where the the cities of refuge, we now understand what's going on there. But even though these people have been set aside, we understand that the sin nature still Influences, or the old man still influences the church, and thus the church seeks to find loopholes. And so in 11 through 13, verses 11 through 13, we find some policies and exceptions put in place because God will not have the wool pulled over his eyes. Verse 11 gives an alternative case or scenario. Do you notice that? Just as we saw one scenario, now we have a different scenario. Notice the difference in the intention. In verse eleven it says, but if anyone hates his neighbor And then he starts to use proverbial and psalm language about lying in wait, like a trap, ready to spring, rises again and strikes him mortally. You can think of Joseph's brothers in a sense. So that he dies and he flees to one of those cities. You see what he's doing? He's trying to work the system. Whoever did this murder He lies and wait, he rises against him, he strikes them mortally so that he dies. And the difference is in the intention. And here we see this person intentionally murdering another person, and then so as to not reap the consequences of what he just sowed. He seeks a city of refuge, to which he had been appointed. But since we read Joshua, we know what's going to happen. He will meet with the elders at the gate. The elders will determine through investigation that he did this with anger in his heart and intentionally, and then without pity, it says, towards the end of the verses. They will turn over the murderer to the avenger of blood. You see that? And so that's the limitation on the policy. And that's really the whole passage in terms of Being able to understand it. You can see the formation of the safeties, the cities of safety. You can understand why God puts those cities into place, and you can see God protecting against loopholes. That's the bulk and the meaning in the exegesis of this passage. And thus what we end up having here is another domain of life given over to righteousness only righteousness. righteous must be but uh in a way that is very satisfying. A way that you may think is is different than how you t typically think of God God in righteousness and for righteousness instructs his people to provide practical structures. You think about that. God says we're going to enact righteousness by having cities and roads and judges. And we're going to keep the innocent safe, and we're going to keep the vengeful from sin, and we're going to do it in concrete and practical ways. And we the church desperately and joyfully need to hear the biblical teaching like this today. God in the pass in this passage as our Heavenly Father sets an example for His church, and it is an example that has been neglected. for quite some time. God uses physical structures and concrete institutions like a law court or the court court of the church to help aid righteousness in the community. I wonder sometimes if he would look down on his people and he would say, well, why don't you guys just Get down to earth a little bit more. I mean you're talking a bunch of psycho-babble spiritual junk. Doesn't make any sense. Why don't you provide something That's practical for people. In other words, I wonder if God would say they're so heavenly-minded that they're no earthly good, but not the heaven that I'm in. Because the heaven that I'm in as God always affects the earth. He kept the innocent safe by building roads and making cities. That's a fact. And we, the church, desperately and joyfully need to hear the teaching that is like this today There was a man who was frightened because his axe head slipped off. And he killed his neighbor, as probably his friend. And he didn't know what to do. But he knew that his family would be upset and perhaps he would lose his own life, but it was an accident. He didn't mean for it to intentionally happen But he didn't have to stay frightened. He didn't have to have no option because God is righteous and supplied a physical structure and roads for this man to be comfortable. And to help a furious family member who was going to be angered and grieved and feel like killing, he protected him from acting out in Murder by keeping that man behind those gates and not letting them see each other face to face for quite some time. So let me ask you, God helped by building literal structures in the past like roads and cities and and literal institutions like judges in a court of law, a king being present, priests being present, a temple being present. These are all physical and concrete manifestations of the kingdom. Is that how we are to have today? Are we to have any kind of concrete or physical manifestation and institutions? Or are we just supposed to have a life of the mind, mystical and spiritual, lowercase s? Is that the Christian life? You learned last week to turn to Jesus as the great prophet. I bet you he has some answers. You learned the week before that we are to rely on Jesus Christ as our King because He rules over us. And if you read those confessional statements, you will see that Jesus supplies very concrete things for us to be able to to continue in our righteousness. It is true to say that Jesus rules through the Spirit, but the Spirit works to establish and maintain concrete institutions to comfort, strengthen, build us up, correct us from error, and encourage us in good. Sometimes I think the church is more spiritual than the Holy Spirit. Spirit. Because we've forgotten our physicality and that we are creatures made with hands and feet and eyes and ears and taste buds. Christ has not forgotten and has therefore supplied for us. Very concrete things. Now what are those institutions? If you had a quiz right now and I said flip over your bulletin and write down concrete institutions that Christ your king gives you to supply you with opportunities for Righteousness, what would those institutions be? Ephesians 4 teaches that Christ gave his church each other, the communion of saints And I can't think of anything more concrete than you sitting right there in front of me. I mean, you look a certain way, you smell a certain way. It doesn't get more concrete than that. And it says in Ephesians 4 that you are given to each other for Christ to effect righteousness through you. You are the concrete expression. Of the king supplying institutions for his community. You have also the officers or church leadership that are given specific gifts To be able to affect the community. Again, a concrete person that lives in a real house. The institution of widowhood is present that That first the family and then the church support concretely true widows. The communion of the saints are supposed to support the saints We are to make up for each other's lack and want. We are to do so financially, but we are to do so in so many other ways that are physical expressions of the Spirit residing within us. Whether you are single or whatever, as a member of the church, you are a vital part of the body. This is what the way Paul puts You are so concretely needed as a physical structure to promote righteousness amongst the body of Christ. Christ that if you are removed, it should feel like us losing a limb or having an organ taken out. That's the whole point. Point. That's how much we are to rely on one another. That's how much Christ is to be working through each and every one of you corporately. That's the vision that we have. You have become the temple, is the way that the scriptures put it. And you think of that as a spiritual temple But it's really you are indwelt by the Spirit here on earth, doing very physical and concrete things. Let me give you another institution that is attacked every day within our culture. Since Genesis and in most Pauline letters, God through Christ and the Spirit is still upholding the family. It's like the family can't die. As many as there's different philosophies out there that try to kill the family or redefine the family, Christ will not let it die. You know why? Because it's a city of sin Safety. immunity and we have been tricked out of its power. The head of the family, especially. The head of the family, with his helper, is to make a million wise decisions to make sure the children and the surrounding community grow by God's grace and righteousness. That's the role God has given heads of households. They are a gift And this is not only done by having heart conversations. Do you see what I'm trying, where I think this passage is pushing us? We think that to be the head of a household or to be a leader is to only have heart conversations with our children or with those who are members of our church Some kind of psychotherapy. But this is a big mistake. I'm not against heart conversations, but we have been misled. And I know some of the names you would quote that tell us that we're supposed to only have heart conversations, but when I read their books, they never said that. Our passage, tell me the truth. Am I missing something here? Don't we have a passage where we have a God who is all about the heart? Doesn't he demand the heart? But yet doesn't he supply physical structures and institutions to be able to tame the heart? To be able to help the heart when it's in its greatest need? I believe that God the Father has supplied an ultimate example to the heads of households on how how we should be managing our homes. And here's the question you must be asking yourself. I want you to stay with the heart conversation. That needs to happen. But you need to move and add into your view of management of the household structures and institutions, not just conversations of the heart. Let me give you an example. And just think in your own mind, what concrete structures are you using to wisely raise your children Let me give you this example from our history. As far back as really I can read, we have had Had to help our young ones, something called arranged marriage. Arranged marriage was a structure, it was an institution. And it was especially needed within certain societies to protect young men and women from emotional, physical, and financial disaster. And then that switched. Somewhere in history, it switched where we stopped talking about arranged marriage and we started talking about courtship. And then we started getting courtship fusions, where it was really like courtship with a dash of courtship on a plate full of dating Who knows what dating even is or where it comes from, but it is some kind of institution and structure that somebody came up with with some philosophy back behind it. So today, within the Christian community, most of the time I see courtship dating mix. And that varies from family to family. Now, here's the question that this passage tells us to ask. As a leader, which structure will help the child that you specifically have? Which structure would you choose to help your child knowing who they are and knowing who they are interested in? And how can you use those models or come up with new ones to guide and to settle the heart of the youth as they grow in heart for God? This is what I don't think you should be doing. And this is where I'm really launching off of this passage. Whatever you do, you are not supposed to let your children wander through the fields and the forests of Romania. Romantic love. Instead, like God did for his people then, you should make them a road and a pathway that promotes righteousness. You see what I'm saying? He just provided a way for righteousness to be able to happen by providing a city and roads. You're not commanded to make cities and roads roads, but you are commanded to create structures and and and uphold his institutions that promote righteousness. Christ as the good king has sent his spirit to work in all of these areas of life. I'm not just coming up with stuff. If you look at the pages of Scripture, these institutions are held up by Christ and his spirits. How many times does Paul argue for the family? And did you realize that? Do you see the structures that Paul himself puts into place? And do you see the great freedom that Christ gives you as leaders within his kingdom? He provides, promotes, empowers, and maintains while giving us, spirit-dwelt believers, glorious freedom in being creative with how we will run our families and run our church You know what this reminded me of, and I'm kind of on this kick again: that we get to be like jazz and blues musicians. It's a beautiful moment. I've always wanted to be like one of them. In blues and jazz, the basic structure, the key signature the tempo, the chordal progression, they're all given right there. You need to listen really closely to what the bassist is doing. But then when you're on your guitar, you improvise, baby. And I'm saying the same thing here. We have these general structures that are given to us in institutions. We have the general rules of the word, and you have the creative freedom to figure out how to promote and ennoble righteousness within your own household and within your church. For freedom, Christ has set you free. This is exactly what I was talking about in the introduction. William, from that African village village, he saved his family by harnessing the wind with a structure. He built something to benefit the whole community. And I know that I'm not speaking about it in the exact same way. But that's the kind of thing that should be happening amongst us. That's the righteousness that is promoted within this pasture. Message for the New Testament church. Jesus is saving the church by sending the Spirit to maintain, promote, and continue concrete institutions like church government Families, marriage, and fellowship of the entire church body in concrete and practical ways. We should look at the tangible ministry of Christ And we should rejoice. We should see the work of the Spirit, and we should stay in step with the Spirit. And today, through the Spirit, we get to ask this question that I'll leave you with. And I'll speak announcement. Analogously. How can you, as a modern-day Christian, build a city of refuge? How can you contribute to the roads that get there? What decisions can you make in your area of influence that promote righteousness, concretely? How can you be not so heavenly minded that you're no earthly good? Please pray with me. Father, we thank you for these instructions that you give to us as we're able to imitate you. That's what this is really all about. If we were in that day with those people in Deuteronomy, we would quite literally just be Build roads and build cities and have them apportion to each one of the cities. But we are no longer in that situation. But we still learn from you as our Father what it looks like to promote righteousness. We promote righteousness with concrete expressions by upholding the institutions that you've given to us, the structures. We ask, Lord, that you would give us wisdom in doing this, that you'd help us to reestablish the role of the family, the role of the communion of the saints, the role of the The place of the widow in the congregation. Lord, these are all institutions that you still speak of within your New Testament scriptures. The head of the house, the helper, the children that honors the father and the mother. Mother. These are all an institution and structure that you've handed down. Help us to rediscover the purpose and design. Help us to see that everything is funneled to the point of a spear. Righteousness, only righteousness would be done. And when we fail, we ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would help us to remember That you are our righteousness, our only righteousness. We ask these things in your name. Amen.