We now come to the word preached, which was prophesied long ago, that the word would continually go throughout the land proclaiming that Jesus is the Christ. That is exactly what's happening here this morning. morning. May the Spirit be with us. Let's turn to the Gospel of Mark. We've been working through Mark, at least the end of it, through our holy week. And I'm going to pick up in Mark chapter 15, verse 37, and I'm going to read through chapter 16, verse 33. Please follow along. I have no authority in and of myself. I only have authority insofar as I repeat what is in this book here. So I'd encourage you to follow along and make sure I'm saying what they're saying. The only person that matters is what Christ has said and his apostles. of course as prophets. So let's follow along in 37 in chapter 15 and go through 16, verse 8, and we'll ask for the illumination of the Holy Spirit. And Jesus cried out with a loud voice, verse 47, and breathed his last. Then the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom So when the centurion who stood opposite him saw that he cried out like this and breathed his last, he said, Truly this man was the Son of God. There were also women looking on from afar, among whom were Mary Magdalene, or Magdalena, Mary the mother of James the less, and of Joseph's and Siloam, who also followed him and ministered to him when he was in Galilee, and many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem. Now when evening had come, because it was the preparation day, that is, the day before the Sabbath, Joseph of Arimathea, a prominent council member, who was himself waiting for the kingdom of God, coming and taking courage, went into Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Pilate marveled that he was dead already. And summoning the centurion, he asked him if he had been dead for some time. So when he found out from the centurion that he'd been dead, he granted the body to Joseph. Then he bought fine Joseph, then he bought fine linen, took him down and wrapped him in the linen, and he laid him in a tomb which had been hewn out of the rock, and rolled a stone against the door of the tomb. And Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of Joseph, observed where he was laid. Now when the Sabbath was passed, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Siloam bought spices That they might come and anoint him. Very early in the morning on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb when the sun had risen And they said to themselves, Who will roll away the stone from the door of the tomb for us? But when they looked up, they saw that the stone had been rolled away, for it was very large And entering the tomb they saw a young man clothed in a long white robe sitting on the right side, and they were alarmed. But he said to them, Don't be alarmed You seek Jesus of Nazareth who was crucified, he is risen, he is not here. See the place where they laid him But go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is going before you into Galilee. There you will see him, as he said to you. So they went out quickly and fled from the tomb, for they had trembled and were amazed, and they said nothing to any one. For they were afraid. Please join me in prayer. Father, this is your work, your love that is present here There is no one here who is truly worthy to hear these words, to truly hear them. There is no one up here truly worth worthy to mouth these words. Sermon. But nevertheless, it is not by our merit that we have earned these things. You have given us grace. You have given us grace to hear, to actually hear And you have given us grace to participate with you in the proclamation of the good news of Jesus Christ. We pray, Holy Spirit, that not a moment would be wasted. We pray that you would transform us on the spot. That we would grow and that we would even become true disciples of the living Christ. Work amongst us, Christ. Our hope is in you. Amen. I grew up in Arnold and I was a C and E Christian. That means Christmas and Easter. I'd go to St. John Evangelist, Roman Catholic Church, attend Mass on Christmas and Easter in Saverna Park. And there's a funny story in a book that reminded me of my experience Within that church. It reminded me also that in the land that we live, there is a lot of abuse and misuse of the teachings of Jesus. Jesus Christ. I'm sure you've heard some pretty absurd things. How many times have people said that he's supposed to have returned by now? waiting for their spaceship to show up after drinking the Kool-Aid. There's a famous scene though that really brings out some absurd teachings, and it's in the book Angela's Ashes. I hope some of you have had the opportunity to read that. It's a pretty difficult book to read, but there's a young man in there, the main character telling the story, Frank McCourt. And Frank McCourt finished his first communion at Mass. Perhaps some of you can remember that. A lot of us have grown up in Roman Catholic churches. He finishes his first communion at Mass, and the family is proud, and therefore afterward holds a feast. Frank stuffs his face like any young boy would with sausages, eggs, tons of tea when people aren't looking sugar. And um, of course, grandma finally caught him And stopped them, but it was too late. This is um where it picks up in the book. The food churned in my stomach. I gagged. I ran to her backyard and threw it all up. Out she came. The grandmother steps in, and this is really where it gets funny And absurd. Look at what he did. Throwing up his first communion breakfast. Throwing up the body and blood of Jesus I have God in my backyard. What am I going to do? I'll take him to the Jesuits, for they know the sins of the Pope himself. She dragged me through the streets of Limerick. She told the neighbors and passing strangers about God in her backyard. She pushed me into the confession box The name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. Bless me, Father, for I have sinned. It's been a day since my last confession. A day? And what sins have you committed in a day, my child? Well, I overslept. I nearly missed my first confess Commun my first communion. My grandmother said I have standing up north of Ireland, Presbyterian hair. I throw up my first communion breakfast. Now grandma says she has God in her backyard and we do not know what to do. It is scenes like this. It's all too real. It's scenes like this coming from real practices amongst what is known as Christianity that makes people Church plausible. And so it becomes quite dangerous. The practices of Jesus begin to look absurd or implausible with each accumulating instance like this So many have truly set aside Jesus, even if you are a Christian, an Easter Christian. My purpose this morning Is to say that those absurdities are the result of human silliness and actually not the teaching of Jesus Himself. The teaching of Jesus doesn't result in absurdities like that. Wondering if God is in your backyard in vomit. It's really crude and crass when you begin to think about it. Here's the ultimate question. Before you make up your mind about whether Jesus is implausible or not, or if he's absurd, don't you want to know what he actually taught and not just want some priests said. I do. That's been my journey ever since leaving St. John Evangelist. Well, that's why we turned to Mark this morning. That's why I've turned to him in the past. I just want to hear from him. I want to hear eyewitness accounts. I want to hear what angels say. I want a word from heaven. I don't want any word from men. Here we see men given authority by Jesus Himself to be the source of truth. And so let's go straight to the source. And he teaches us something very simple here, but we're going to bring out the significance. Jesus was crucified, Jesus was buried, and now he is risen. That is the message of Mark. Now let's go through that. And he's really answering three separate questions that I want to answer this morning. morning. What is the significance of Jesus' crucifixion? What did it mean? What were the consequences? What difference did it make? Did the whole world change after that? It sure did. Why does Mark tell us about Jesus' burial? Why does Mark, not some religious official, what is the relevance of the resurrection? I want to look at this. Those three things. That's what Mark has. And we're going to start with what is the significance of Jesus' crucifixion? And this is in verses 33 through 39 of chapter 15. The crucifixion there. Now, when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. We looked at this at Good Friday. And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, And we pick up again as we read this morning as Jesus cried out with a loud voice and breathed his last and the veil of the temple was torn, and I've already read that to you. We focused on the crucifixion itself on Good Friday. And I'm not, my purpose here isn't to stare at the crucifixion again. We did that. The purpose is to see the significance of the crucifixion, the consequences, the effects. What difference did the crucifixion make? Mark intentionally emphasizes two effects of the crucifixion. I hope that you heard them in our readings this morning. The first is found in verse 38. Then the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. The temple veil is torn. Let me just point out that Mark is truly trying to make a theologically significant point here. You can't stand at Golgotha and see the temple and whether the t the veil is being torn. And they didn't have cell phones where a person could call somebody and s or text them. The mail's torn. He's making a theological point by placing it here, by bringing out this historical reality and observation. Therefore, Mark includes this observation for a specific purpose. What is it? The last time we heard of the temple was during Jesus' time before the high priest. The high priest rejected Jesus' claim to be the Son of God, and Jesus' claim that he would destroy the temple. That happened in the trial. Jesus said, I am the son of the Blessed One. Before that he said, I will tear down this temple. The high priest defies him on both points. The high priest thinks he's one because of the execution of Jesus. He thinks he's had his day in court and he has won. On Good Friday, however, we saw how Mark proves the high priest was wrong and Jesus was right. In terms of being the Son of God. Here the high priest is found wrong again. The tearing of the temple veil in Mark dramatically declares that the temple is out of order. Picture a sign above the temple. Closed. for business. And that's appropriate to put it that way because they did turn it into a business. The reason for this was explained by Jesus in earlier chapters. Basically, those who were in charge of representing God to the world through the temple had turned the whole place into something like a casino capitalizing on the sensitive religious conscience of the poor. Have you ever heard of a religion preying upon people? Ha! Using them to get rich and famous. Well, let me just tell you this morning, God knows them and he puts them out of order. Closed for business. Now admittedly the closed for business is only one meaning of the torn veil And to see the other meaning, I want to show you the next effect of the crucifixion. And we looked at this a little bit on Good Friday. You have the torn veil, but you also have a Gentile centurion recognizing the true identity of Jesus. Mark lists it because it's history. He also lists it because it's astonishing that this would take place. And he also lists it for greater theological significance. Significance, especially when you look at this in light of the veil. The second effect is found there in verse thirty-nine. So when the centurion who had stood opposite him saw that he had cried out like this and breathed his last, he said, Truly this man was The Son of God. Mark records this historical detail to remind everyone that the high priest was wrong and the confession of Jesus was true. Jesus is the Son of God. However, what we do have to ask, and we didn't ask this on Good Friday, why the Centurion? Why the Gentile centurion? When we combine that question with our knowledge of the veil, we see that Mark is recording an amazing moment. Those, whether they be pagans, irreligious, secular, false religions, all those Who have been separated from the one true God are now being invited and illuminated by the Holy Spirit to dwell with God the Father through Jesus the Messiah and his sacrifice. That's the theological declaration that's being dramatized here by Mark. The temple on top of Mount Zion looked out all over the world. The temple veil communicated to all the world that you may only come so far, but ultimately God has closed off to you. Here the veil is split. The crucifixion of the Son of God is opening the way for the most unlikely from all the world to end the alienation and the estrangement and to live with God again. And you will see heroin addicts repent in Baltimore and know the living Christ. And carpenters and plumbers and people, even people that work for North of Grumman. And engineers. That's what's happening here. That's the theological significance of one when you're what's going on here. When you think back What significance have you given to the crucifixion of Jesus? What did you think it was all about? Was it a Hollywood movie with lots of blood and you were supposed to just be moved emotionally? Did you realize how much was going on here? What he was saying is that Jesus' crucifixion changes everything for the world, the whole world. By including the temple veil and the confessing centurion, the consequence of the cross is the closing of the temple, closing of abuse of religion, and the reuniting of heaven and earth Jesus, of course, doesn't stay on the cross. And we looked at a lot of this on Good Friday. And now we have to consider his burial, which is fresh for us. view this this past week. And so let's move now on to our second point. Why does Mark tell us about Jesus' burial? I want to know from Mark. Verses 42 through 47. What a beautiful little passage. Now when evening had come, because it was the preparation day, that is The day before the Sabbath, and you remember the details. I just read it to you moments ago. Mark tells us about the burial for two main reasons. The first reason is found in a repetition. Repetitions are Very important in Mark, and actually he works in threes. Joseph of Arimathea, a prominent council member, verse 43, took courage and requested Jesus' corpse from Pilate. Now, beginning in verse 44, I want you to notice something. And this repetition that we see here in the emphasis is not like this in the other gospels. Check it out for yourself. Verse 44. Pilate marveled that Jesus was already dead. Because it should have taken longer. It could take days for this to happen. And it did not take days for him. Verse 44b. Pilate summoned the centurion and asked if Jesus had been dead for some time. Verse 45. So when Pilate found out from the centurion, found out what? That he was dead, he granted the corpse to Joseph. I mean, I don't know how you can miss the point of what Mark is actually trying to say here. Could it be that Jesus was dead? That's what he's emphasizing. That's what he's playing out with the history of what actually took place with Pilate. And that is Mark's first point. Jesus was dead. That's the reason, one of the reasons why he places the burial here. Jesus did not just faint. He did not swoon only to revive again later in the tomb. Jesus was dead That is Mark's first reason for the burial, so that you could be assured that there were no tricks or games, you would actually have to wrestle with the fact that Jesus was dead. Pilate himself, one not biased in favor of Christians, let me Now the second main reason for the burial of Jesus is seen in the undeniable detail of delivering Jesus. To the tomb. Did you notice all the details? It really goes through every step there. You can feel the sense of urgency in the passage, too, because Joseph of Arimathea has about 180 minutes before the Sabbath begins. The rush is that bodies cannot be laid in the tombs on the Jewish Sabbath. Jesus died on Friday afternoon. The Jewish Sabbath will begin at about 6 p. m. They go from evening to evening. Evening. This gave Joseph of Arimathea a hundred and eighty minutes roughly to prepare Jesus and to place him in the tomb. Joseph notice the passage Joseph bought the linen. He took down Jesus and he wrapped him. Verse 46 I imagine the women, Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of Joseph, helped as well. Joseph, with the women, took Jesus to the tomb and laid him on an available shelf. And now there's two things brought out in the details at this point down at verse 47. The length of death which Jesus taught is in fact confirmed. Three days and I will rise. That's part of what's going on here. Jesus said this earlier three times throughout the Gospel of Mark to his disciples, and here it is confirmed, just as everything else that he has said. And then verse 47, the most emphasized point here in this. passage for the burial, the women themselves observed exactly which tomb in which Jesus was laid. And these kinds of details make me think that opposition to Jesus kept those who kept questioning the resurrection of Jesus, very similar to what happens today. There's no shortage of questioning the resurrection of Jesus. That's why these details are here. Jesus took Joseph took Jesus down before he was really dead. Maybe they heard that. So it looked like he rose from the dead, but he was just regaining his strength from fainting. Well, we've already taken care of that, because that's not what Mark taught. Mark went out of his way to record that Pilate confirmed the death of Jesus. Well, what about this one? Well, the women probably went to the wrong tomb. You know women They're so old fashioned those guys. Seriously. I don't think that way at all. The women were And of course they wouldn't find Jesus in that tomb because they chose the wrong tomb. Yet that's not what Mark says either. The women were present with Joseph and they saw the correct tomb. They knew exactly where he was laid. You see, all the doubt is being wiped away. Any of the opposition that would have arisen during his time, Mark is taking care of that from the record that Peter had given to him Now, in one sense, you don't have to accept this just because Mark said it. There were a lot of things that Mark and Peter said, and a lot of people didn't accept it. Lots of people in Mark's own day rejected these things, and that is in fact why Mark places these details here to combat some of the opposition. Yet remember, if you do reject these things, if you reject apostolic testimony, just remember whose side you're on. And remember what will take place to the temple. Oftentimes, when we look at the crucifixion, we see the blood, we see the humiliation, we see the mutilation, but we noted the substance of it. The toran veil, the confessing censure. And the theological significance of that. Perhaps we've never examined the burial either. Maybe we've just rolled over that. In either case, we see exactly what Mark is saying, and now we have to see what he's saying. About the resurrection, which is primarily why we are here this morning, because we have a living Christ. And this is in chapter 16, verses 1 through 8. I truly want to ask Mark And he wants to tell us what is the relevance of the resurrection? The resurrection of Jesus. was quite the surprise to the women. Did you see that in the accounts? Did you see them going along with their normal duties? They've been taking care of them all along. And it's just another day for them. It's uh it just it's interesting to see all this just captured in the in the real life moments that they went through. Mark depicts life and conversation as normal. Now burial had two stages there. We're not familiar with it. When I say burial, they didn't put them in the dirt. That's not what we're talking about here. The body, we already saw, is wrapped up. It's ideally covered with spices to offset the smell of decomposition It would be laid on a shelf, usually at about waist height within a cave. That's the situation that we have here. Within a year or two, the flesh would decompose and the bones would be gathered into an ossuary or just a bone box, and moved onto another shelf. Those were their practices. Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Saloon, they bought spices. Do you see what they're doing? They bought spices that they might come to anoint Jesus in line with these burial practices. It says in verse 2: Very early in the morning, on the first day of the week, today. They came to the tomb when the sun had risen. They were having a conversation among themselves asking, who's going to roll away the stone from the door for us so that we can get in there and do what we're trying to do? You see this everyday conversation for them. Them. However, when they arrived, verse 4, the stone had been rolled away. Naturally they entered the tomb, but they were alarmed because there was already a young man in there, looking at the other gospel accounts, perhaps an angel And he's sitting there on the right side. Now notice up to this point it's just typical tasks. Not much talk, lots of action. Very typical for this gospel. But now, the one who's sitting in the tomb, who we suspect is in the know, is going to open his mouth and he's going to reveal to us. And that's what Mark is doing. Through the narrative, he's bringing out the meaning, he says, in his speech He tells us the relevance of the resurrection. So let's look and listen very, very carefully. He says, don't be alarmed. Jesus of Nazareth was crucified. But he is risen. Look. See the place where he is laid. He is not there. Okay, he's pointing out the obvious for them. He's helping them to come to grips with Zach. He points to the shelf that's about waist high and he says, see that's where he was laid. He is no longer there. And now he's going to get into the earth-shattering relevance of the resurrection. Are you ready? Take a look at it with me Go and tell his disciples, even Peter, Jesus is going before you to Galilee. Wow. It could But that's because we're not reading it right. This is what Peter is doing. Through the writings of Mark. Let me say it to you again. Here's the relevance. Go and tell his disciples, even Peter. All of his disciples, especially Peter, if you were here for our Holy Week services, have deserted Jesus. They must be brought back together, for they are his disciples. Secondly, Jesus is going before you to Galilee, and the implication is: go and meet him there Now, did you know that Jesus had said this also before the trial? And so this is again just showing that what Jesus had predicted is coming true. Mark chapter 14, verses 27 through 28 Then Jesus said to them, All of you will be made to stumble because of me this night, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. That's why they must he must go gather them. But after I have been raised, I will go before you to gather. Galilee. Now we're on to something. If you were present with the young man at the tomb, I want to know, based on these words, before we go any further, what would you have focused on? When he said that to you, what would you have said? What would the questions have been for you? What would you have anticipated the young man to say when he was in the tomb with you? When you walked into the tomb and he said, Jesus is risen, what if he were today, if he were the normal Christian today that you know in your workplace, what would he have said to you in the tomb? Jesus isn't there. You want to know how to get to heaven? But he doesn't say that. He says, Do you want to know how to get to Galilee? Now, isn't that interesting? It tells us that our focus may have been off for a while. And let's just keep looking at Mark. Most would anticipate the young man to say, Jesus is written, and now let me tell you how you can get into heaven. Let me tell you how you can accept Jesus into your heart. But that is not the focus at all. The question is not how can I get to heaven, but how can I get to Galilee? And the further question is, why Galilee? Because he wants them to go back to the beginning, doesn't he? Mark one, verse fourteen. Jesus came to Galilee preaching the gospel. Verse 16, and as Jesus walked by the Sea of Galilee, he said to the disciples, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. It's exactly what's happening here. That's the relevance of the resurrection. It has everything to do with what's going on on earth. In other words, Jesus now, after his death and resurrection, was and is regathering and recommissioning his disciples. And here's the point. Mark records the resurrection of Jesus so that we can see that Jesus is bringing the entire world under his rule and the rule of his kingdom. So that many unlikely characters like a centurion will look at the Christ and they will say, He is my son of God. And tell me that's not what happened. Throughout the whole earth. It's exactly what happened. Those are the three strands. You can actually see in chapter 16 Verse 6, that the points of the sermon that I gave you are the reason why I chose them is because this is how Mark wants to give it. There's uh in verse six, you can see here the crucifixion. He is risen, the resurrection, and the place where he was laid, the burial. And so we've covered all three things that Mark wants us to see, that Peter wants us to see. And in the end, all three strands of mark interweave and make a rope that is unbreakable, and it is still standing today, is it not? The centurion, brothers and sisters, churched and unchurched, was just the beginning. Many more like him will be awakened and become loyal followers of Jesus. Although outside the book of Mark, because Mark ends, the book of Acts records how the disciples began, bringing the entire world under the rule of Jesus and his kingdom. I encourage you to read it. People from Jerusalem put aside and converted from the corrupt religion that had been taught to them since they were children, and the ideas of the Jewish leaders, and they embraced Jesus as the Christ. Acts chapter 2. Thousands of people added to the church. Pagans from around the Mediterranean Sea turned from their gods and embraced the only true God because the living Christ was going through the nations from his disciples. Just as he had said. That's why they met in Galilee. Sophisticated businessmen and women from major cities, including Rome, converted and gave their loyalty not to Caesar, but to Jesus the Messiah, even to the point of death throughout the centuries. And of course, Jesus, by his spirit, is still moving across each nation, gathering people into his kingdom. Some of your family members, maybe even you. That's the question I have this morning. Are you being regathered from desertion? Or are you being gathered the first time? this morning by Jesus the Christ. You know he's alive. You know by his spirit he's moving through all the nations. You know he's here right now You know, he's speaking from his word from the pulpit this morning. On the first day of the week. Oh, this is the first day of the week. Jesus went before the disciples to meet them at Galilee, and today is the same day. Today is the day of his resurrection. Here's my question for you. Did Jesus go before you to Severn Run to meet you this morning? To regather you or to gather you? you for the first time? Are there things that you're seeing? Pieces that are coming together where Jesus is the Christ that he is calling you to his kingdom. If you are being gathered into the kingdom of Christ, I'd ask, if you want to ask Can I now get into heaven? Fine, we can talk about that. But I'm very interested in what you're going to do on earth, just as this text. Just as Mark has been interested in it. Let's move on. Let's join Jesus and his work on earth. And by the way, can't you see where that's all the action is right now? Can't you see that even angels are coming from heaven to minister to those on earth that the work would be done? That people are being sent into foreign lands and that Pockets in Korea and the entire population of 40% of the population is blooming as the Spirit of Christ works through them and creates churches. That's where the idea is. The kingdom of heaven is present. Heaven has come to earth. The new creation has begun. Jesus was crucified. Jesus was buried. But now Jesus is risen. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Lord Jesus Christ I pray for those throughout all the world who have deserted you and who feel shame. I pray that you would give them repentance, that they would be sick of eating from pig troughs and they would return to you. And I pray that in their repentance you would embrace them with open arms. I pray that they would see the Torah and Vale again, and they would come under your leadership, your lordship, your kingship. They would kiss the Son, lest he be angry. I pray, Father, that those who have not been gathered, that you would gather them in your love through Jesus Christ. That you would apply your work of redemption to them, and that you would come and that you would sup with them, that you would apply the body and the blood and the covenant I pray, Father, that as a result even of these words, and words to come in the following days and celebrating your resurrection, that we would see More and more people baptized here at Severn Run. I pray, Father, that we would celebrate all the baptisms that we see across all the world, showing that you, Lord Jesus Christ, You were in fact crucified, you were buried, but now you are risen. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.