The Lord invites you to feast on his word this morning. He has set his table and offers to you the greatest dishes of the world. Today's dish is from Proverbs chapter nine. We'll be going through that chapter in its entirety. I'd ask that you turn there and you're inspired. Scriptures, and if you need a Bible, please raise your hand and I'll have one brought to you. Let's turn our attention now to Proverbs chapter 9. Wisdom has built her house, she has hewn out her seven pillars, she has slaughtered her meat, she has mixed her wine, she has also furnished her tables, she has sent out her maidens. She cries out from the highest places of the city. Whoever is simple, let him turn and hear. As for him who lacks understanding, she says to him, Come. Eat of my bread and drink of the wine I have mixed. Forsake foolishness and live. Go in the way of understanding. He who corrects a scoffer gets shame for himself, and he who rebukes a wicked man only harms himself Do not correct the scoffer lest he hate you. Rebuke a wise man and he will love you. Give instruction to a wise man and he will be still wiser. Teach a just man and he will increase in learning. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. For by me your days will be multiplied, and years of life will be added to you. If you are wise, you're not you are wise for yourself. And if you scoff, you will bear it alone. A foolish woman is clamorous, she is simple and knows nothing. For she sits at the door of her house, on a seat by the highest places of the city To call to those who pass by, who go straight on their way. Whoever is simple, let him turn in here. And as for you who lacks understanding, she says to him, stolen. Stolen water is sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant. There that her guests are in the depths of hell. Let's pray. Oh Father, we ask that the power of your word would enter into our very souls this morning and that you would give us ears to hear and eyes to see your wisdom through Jesus Christ. Christ proclaim to us, and that we would put folly behind us this morning, that we would be resolved, and that we would commit to you and your word. And we ask these things and that you would make them present in our lives. I ask that you would not let your congregation leave without being progressively transformed this morning. In the name of Jesus Christ. Christ. Amen. When you first get married, there's the stomach dropping choice that you have to make on which set of parents' homes you will attend for the holidays. Eventually, if you're blessed with enough children, they all just go to your house. But that's a choice. You have when you get married, you have to figure that out. There's two invitations, and it gives you a nod in your stomach if you understand the influence of your mother-in-law. Now I I know I have a question for you. Have you had a knot in your stomach during this time so far in the Beginning first collection of Proverbs. We're at the last part of the first collection. We're actually going to go into the Proverbs proper now. The first nine chapters are just the introduction of this book. And you should have had uh a knot in your stomach this time, because there have been two invitations present from The beginning pulling you in two different directions. From the very first chapter and the in the very first paragraph, you could gain, you have an invitation to the fear of the Lord, or you could despise. As we went on in chapter uh two, we saw that you could join wisdom or you could join the wicked woman and the wicked man and the Last week you had the invitation to drink water from your own cistern or have romance outside of God's boundaries. Who stand with Martin Luther upon the authority of God's Word, or with what's her name from Frozen? Elsa? It's always been present, the two invitations and the a and if you realize what is at stake, there should have been a knot in your stomach. If you're realistic with who you are as a sinful human being, or should have been a knot in your stomach as the two invitations went out, nervous that you would make the right decision, that you have been committed in your life to the the right thing. Well it all comes to a head in this particular chapter because these two invitations that have been running through the introduction to the book of Proverbs Where the father and the mother have been pleading with you to be committed. It all is summarized in chapter nine. The two women that you have seen, you've seen woman wisdom before, but you've only seen a woman Wicked woman before she's now elevated to a to the personification of folly itself. And there are now two women present within our passage vying for your attention as a summary of everything that has been said in the book of the case. of Proverbs up to this point. And that will continue. We'll always be between the serpent and between what God has said, between the word and between the world. between woman wisdom and between woman folly. And here is the main or the big idea this morning. As we consider these two invitations, your destiny is The message. Your destiny is determined by how you relate to these two invitations. Everyone in this room relates to these two invitations. Already, and your destiny is already being determined by how you relate to them. And even this morning, and how you choose to relate to these two invitations after this sermon, we'll say a lot. lot about who you are and where you're going. This is very serious. And it is preparation. This moment in your life is preparation as to whether or not you will be able to hear And really your progress of commitment throughout the time of this series. Now I want to look at two invitations. Your destiny is determined by how you relate to two invitations. So I want to look at two invitations and then there are two responses or two ways and then there are going to be two destinations. That we see at the end. And you can see those in your bulletin. The big idea should be there as well as the outline for you to be able to take notes. And so let's quickly move what's going on here within this passage. In terms of the two invitations. It's quite clear that there's two invitations. However, within some of your translations, your paragraphs, paragraph breaks might be a little bit different In verse 13, that should be the start of a new paragraph. And I hope that that is true in your Bible. Because from 13 to 18, And 1 through 6, those two sections are meant to be contrastive to each other. There's obviously two women saying two different things. although they sound similar. And then the center portion of seven through twelve is an insert there showing us how to get into one or the other. of the houses. But make sure that you're aware of that paragraphing there. These two invitations we're going to go ahead and compare. So we're going to compare verses 1 through 6 with 13 through 18. There's an alternating structure. So the first invitation is from Woman Wisdom in verse 9, or verse 1 of chapter 1. 9. Wisdom has built her house, and then it goes on to repeat the word she. In verse 1, she's built a house, and this is probably we're thinking the dedication of a house. And I'm sure you've seen small businesses dedicate their business with a grand opening and you have a ribbon out front and the and the mayor comes by and the ribbon is clipped and everyone is then ushered into Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory or whatever it is. And that's here. This is the dedication of a house. The ribbon is cut, and the grand opening is here, and those who are the elite of society receive an invitation to this banquet. And it is going out to you, which is beautiful. The house is a mansion. These would be the kind of people that would have leopards as pets. The house is a mansion and can hold anyone who accepts the invitation. There will always be room for you if you accept the invitation. And we know this because it says there in the 1b that she has hewn out her seven pillars. The largest that you would have seen in the ancient Near East in a home would have been three pillars, and that would have been a very rich person. You see seven pillars here, which means that it is both large and it is perfect. You could read up elsewhere of people having twelve pillars in their home. This is this is saying even more than twelve pillars, really. It's just a perfect It's the perfect house, the perfect proportions for her to accomplish exactly what she's doing. sets out to do. This woman wisdom is never ashamed in anything she does, because she has all of the prerequisites to be successful in everything that she does Verses 2 and 3 underscore this kind of woman. 2 and 3, she says, she has slaughtered her meat, she's mixed her wine, she has also. Furnished her table. Do you notice the emphasis? You notice the repeating pattern of diligence that's present here? She is repeated with verbs of action through here so that you can To see what kind of woman she is. She has hewn out her severed pillars. She has slaughtered the meat. She has mixed the wine. She has furnished her tables. She has sent out her maiden. She cries out from the highest places of the city. She is in constant movement and action with endless energy. And furthermore Just to go even further, the slaughtering, just as the house building in this culture would have been the man's job, but wisdom is an extraordinary woman, just like anyone who follows her, as it says in Proverbs thirty-one Woman warrior who owns corporations is kind of a picture here, but who has a godly heart and submits out of a fear. That's the picture that we have, and not only is she diligent, she is gracious and she is hospitable. It says there that she mixes wine. What this means is that although she buys wine from the best vineyards, it's still not good enough for you. And she's going to now mix honey and herbs and spices to make it more potent and enjoyable. She, to continue, furnishes her table. She sets it with bowls and the finest plates and all luxurious tableware. And in addition to that, her graciousness extends to her going out and inviting all that are in the city. She goes to the highest and most seen and most heard part of the city, and she cries aloud for all to benefit. From her feast. She says, whoever's simple, let him turn in here. She doesn't say, all of those who match me and my nobility She's calling to those who are uncommitted, who haven't made up their mind about her, and she seeks to persuade you with the delight of her feasts. To get you into her house and to eat of her food because she cares for your life so much. You at this point, being uncommitted, don't even know what's good for you, but she will lure you in because she does know And that's what she's doing. She's giving up her own life for you to help the needy. She's showing and demonstrating Hasid Vahmet She doesn't just do this herself, she's rich enough to where she has a whole bunch of people that work for her, and she sends them out too as messengers throughout the city, seeking to gather those who lack understanding. the simpleton or the fool or the uncommitted. And now I think what's going on here, there's a there's a lot going on, but it's at least this. And I think that this is meant to be taken in part allegorically. The house, the meat, the wine, the table, the crying out I think that at least in part the house is the first nine chapters of Proverbs that she has built, that Solomon has built. And that the wine and the meat are the meal offered in the rest of the book, all the way to chapter 31. She's pleaded with you for nine chapters to be committed and to assume that she tells the truth and everyone else lies, who doesn't repeat the same things that she says. And she's saying, that's my house. If you could commit to that, enter in, and now let's feast upon everything that I actually have to say. say to you, because up to this point I've just been telling you, please listen to me. I haven't actually given you any proverbs yet. That's the picture. The furnished and orderly table are the intelligent arrangement of the proverbs that will follow. And the messengers sent are the mother and the father and the other teachers of the covenant community Throughout all times, including what's happening right now. The proclamation of the word from the pulpit. Now that's her invitation, and those are her goals. That's her gracious character and who she is. She's meant to be exceptional. But now we move into a second invitation. And just like last week, it is really difficult to be a human being because the two invitations sound so similar to each other and promise so much. When we move into verse 13, we see the second invitation who was from, it's from woman folly. Now, before we look at the details, simply notice, beginning in verse 13, the foolish woman's similarities to woman wisdom. She imitates her. Folly is not original. She counterfeits everything that wisdom has to say and does, but in corruption. You could have romance outside of marriage and you think that's the real thing? It's a corrupt version of what God intended. That's the picture here. Since the imitation is not complete and she fails at a central point, she really is a counterfeit. And this alerts us immediately to the ambiguity That is potential within our lives. The problem is that if you're uncommitted, you lack discretion, which means you're going to have a really difficult time figuring out to whose house should I go Woman wisdom or woman folly? They both are beautiful. The uncommitted are like that. The b the part of the point of this book is for you to develop discretion where you would go, Woman folly, forget her. Her house Was a happy Wisdom promises discretion, the ability to choose between seemingly similar paths, but until wisdom is gained by the uncommitted, the choice is to be. So now let's go into woman folly. Let's see this picture that we have here of her. She is clamorous. A foolish woman is clamorous. She is simple and knows nothing. She's she's turbulent or chaotic, she does not have the order, she does not have the industry or the settledness to make a house like Woman Wisdom. Notice that she doesn't lift a finger to do anything You've got she, she, she, she, she with woman wisdom, and here she is just sitting. No industry, no forethought, unbridled, undisciplined. And she is simple and she knows nothing, which means she lacks any moral resolve or knowledge or right or wrong. She does not care and she takes pride in her moral stupidity. She makes jokes about it at parties and everybody laughs. But that's really who she is. Honestly, if you want to put it into words, she's lazy moral trash. And she wants you. She's she's painted a little bit of the walls, and she is attractive to try to get you into her crackhouse. Notice how she just sits in front of the house. She offers unbridled lust. She does not need to prepare a table. She does not need to mix wine for you. She doesn't do any grilling of steak. She sits in the open as a loudmouth, offering a life with no discipline, which is exceptionally appealing to the uncommitted. Rules do not feel good to the uncommitted. And she offers you a life with none of those things. However you feel at the moment, whoever you discover yourself to be, she's shameless about this too. For she, like wisdom, notice that like wisdom, she goes, she's calling out to the simple just as wisdom is In verse 15, she goes, she sits in the highest places in verse 14, just as woman wisdom. She has just as much access to people as woman wisdom does. And she calls out to the same audience that woman wisdom does. She prays upon the same audience And basically her technique here, since she has nothing to offer, really you notice anything that she is going to offer is hidden in the secret, and then once the door is open, it's just the smell of So she doesn't reveal that at first. She's not going to tell you what she's offering. She's just going to call out to you, and really what she's trying to do here, since she doesn't have anything to present then is she's just seeking to get your attention in any possible way. But as soon as you look at her, it's almost too late. It's like a child if they I don't know if you all experience this but if your father or your mother or whoever, your aunt was teaching you how to write a book and they said, well focus on the stop sign up there and just ride towards that. I would just rode right into the stop sign I wouldn't I would just hit whatever I focused on. And the same thing is being said is here as her technique is to just dis distract you, that you you would give her attention. And just as Eve was safe until the serpent fixed her g But her meal pairs in comparison to the noble woman wisdom. The two meals are set against each other, actually. In chiastic structure. The meat and the wine are set against in opposite crossing, and you can do this later on your spare time. The meat and the wine are set against the stolen water and the bread. That we see there from her. Verse 17: Stolen water is sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant. The water, as you already know, is a symbol for the sensual life. And the fact that it is stolen is because it is outside of God's lawful appropriation. Which is true of anything of woman folly. She offers you the same things that look the same as what God offers, but they're always corrupted. An adulterer steals away one A lazy and deceitful person steals money from others through get-rich quick schemes and mooching. And this is particularly tempting because to the uncommitted, if you noticed amongst youth, they're all trying to figure out how to make a five-minute YouTube video and make five million dollars. That's a get rich quick scheme. It's making money off of other people's backs. Proverbs talk about the importance of hard work. Hours must be given to a plan Hours must be given to labor, and then when you are older, dividends will start to be returned. Now these are the two invitations, and I hope that you can see the contrast, however, the similarities in both Of those things are important for you to recognize. She is dangerous because she counterfeits so well. You'd never know that her money is in your wallet That it's any different than the real thing. Unless you grow in discernment, unless you could start off on the right foot and just listen to the Father. Just be committed to What he says. Then you'd have the eyes to see and ears to hear. And that's what he's seeking to present here for you through these two invitations. He's saying, don't go to the one banquet. Go to woman wisdom's banquet. Can't you see that that's the right choice? Can't you see how much more luxurious and noble it is to be truly human? The two invitations are summaries of the appeals throughout the first nine chapters. He's been repeating himself. Woman wisdom offers a sumptuous banquet. Woman folly offers a life of seeming ease with no discipline. And the big question is, how do you relate right now to these two women? To whom have you been listening to? And to whom will you listen to As your life continues, there are basically two main ways that you can listen, and it's put in verses 7 through 12. Now I don't have a chart for you in your bulletin as we move into the second point, which is two ways. But there's an X that marks the The spot and some of the paragraphing in your Bible is unfortunate, but the center of these verses 7 through 12, the way that they're structured in the Hebrew, is verse 10. Surprise, surprise. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. That's the key on how you which banquet you're going to be attracted to. And we'll get to that. Now, this section, therefore, is set up with an X marking the spot, and there are two characters that straddle and alternate on either side of the X And they're known as the scoffer, and they're known as the wise. He who corrects a scoffer gets shame for himself, and then it goes on and says, Rebuke a wise man and he will love you. And now that's going to continue. It'll even show you the destinies, which we'll get into. In a minute, between these two characters. And you're meant to ask yourself, am I one of these characters? If I were on a gradation, a spectrum, am I closer towards the scoffer or am I closer to the y Am I seeking to walk towards wisdom or am I seeking to become a scoffer? That's really what we want to be thinking about right now, so that you can determine which banquet you've been a part of or which one you're in danger of attending. You may relate to woman wisdom as a scoffer. There are two ways to relate to her banquet. And this means that you have chosen woman folly and you are proud of it. A scoffer may sound to you like a simpleton or a fool, but those are all different Hebrew words. A scoffer is someone who doesn't have any questions about whether they're right or not. They know that they're right The fact that you believe in Jesus, you are an idiot. And they will make fun of you. You are ashamed to even be around. That's how the scoffer thinks. They're prideful in their position of folly. They've chosen her the woman and they found her completely plausible and sufficient. And since this is the case. Since they're already set in their ways, they've been cemented in their heart as to who they are, when woman wisdom calls out, and her messengers go to this person, particularly the mother and the father. As woman wisdom seeks to steer them towards wisdom, to correct them in their path, and say, no, these are the boundaries. This is where true freedom is found. Notice what happens within the passage. You get shame for yourself. What that means there is futility. Shame in this culture means that you are going to waste all of your time and all of your energy on this person, and they're not going to budge one inch. It refers also to verbal attack and public humiliation. And he who rebukes a wicked man only harms himself. That's one way to relate to Woman Wisdom's Banquet. And all of us have a little bit of this person in us when we do not listen to anything that God says. That should make the hair on our neck stand up. Shame, a waste of time and energy, verbal attack and public humiliation. Did you know Jesus covers these both in a proverb that he said? Can you think of the passage that he used? Do not give what is holy to the dogs, nor cast your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet And then turn and destroy you. You see that? They don't care about what you have to say. It's a waste of time to say it to them. And you're going to get bitten. in trying to feed them. The heart of the matter, as we see within the chiastric structure and where X marks the spot in verse 10, the heart of the matter, the goal of wisdom is to have a love relationship with with you. She loves you. She wants to fellowship with you. She wants you to be family. However, each time she tries with the scoffer it results in hurt. It never works out to where they're family. They just become greater enemies, and so she stops the invitation. And she doesn't send her messengers to you anymore because you are so hard-hearted. Do not become the scoffer. That's the word Warning in this passage. If you have not been listening to what God has to say, you must repent. It is very dangerous. You are treading on thin, thin ice is the message. That Solomon is giving us here. Now, of course, you see Jesus expressing the same thing in the parable of the wedding banquet when he sends out an invitation. Actually, it's the Father who sends out the invitation, and everybody's too busy and too important, and no one listens to him. And so he goes out, and we'll talk about that later. The father sends out his invitations. So the invitation is withdrawn and given to those who will listen. So it's not just the words here, if we consider all of Scripture, it's not just the words of Proverbs that you need to listen to. You need to listen to all the words. All of the words, especially the words from Jesus. As recorded by his apostles, and the words that he has given to his apostles. So you can re choose to relate to woman wisdom this way, or you can relate to her the second character In there is the wise person. Again, this is another polar opposite on the spectrum. The uncommitted are in the middle, and they're trying to determine, well, do I want to move in this direction? And he's saying, if you do, you're moving towards the scoffer. And let me know, let me let you know what's going to happen. Your heart shall be hardened. Or should I be moving in this direction, which would be towards the wise? Opening my ears. To what my father and my mother are saying as they preach the gospel to me, as they relay God's Word to me in family worship or whatever wherever it takes place. The wise person, in verses 8 and 9, 8b and 9, rebuke a wise man and he will love you. Give instruction to a wise man and he'll be still wiser. Teach a just man and he will increase in learning. The wise man relates to woman wisdom and her messengers with love and intense interest, not like students in a board students in a linear algebra class. X marks the spot in verse 10 and shows you the distinct and major difference and the skeleton key for the difference in the characters. You must have the fear of the Lord, which boils down to this. You must be teachable. That's what they're asking. Asking for you as you enter into the house of the rest of the Proverbs is that you who have been uncommitted to submitting to what I have to say, that you would become committed and that you would become be teachable, that you would be open to everything that I have to say, and that you would clamp down on what I have to say. That's the ultimate difference in this context. the unteachable to become teachable, the uncommitted to become committed. As the Proverbs instructed in chapter 3, in other words, you must put your trust in the Lord. And acknowledge him in all of your ways, and lean not on your own understanding. You must gain his understanding and his word. You must unself and think God's thoughts after him and not think your thoughts anymore. This trust in the Lord, when we talked about it in ch in chapter three, we spoke about three different kinds of people standing next to an ice-covered pond or or tiptoeing out on an ice-covered pond. Ice covered pond or being out in the center of the pond. The ice covered pond. And this really is the secret. This is the picture. God's word can bear the weight of your life. That everything that He has said you can trust. asked here of you. And you would progressively move in that direction as opposed to the opposite direction. There's a wonderful image I think I've given to this this to you before. It's been very helpful to me When Vikings, because they were so committed to what they were doing, when they would land on whatever shores they landed on, they would burn their boats because there's no turning back for them They're going to win or they're going to die. That's the level of commitment of a Viking. Some of us have been thinking that we're not smart enough. That the problem is intellectual, that we need to study this or that, and those things can be good, but the real problem amongst Christians, brothers and sisters, that we're hearing this morning is your level of commitment. Here's the question that he's asking you as you enter into Proverbs: Will Severn Run burn their boats? Will they not look back? Are we Vikings or what Since chapter 9 is a summary, I want to show you a couple of the main reasons why you can burn your boat, why you can put all your weight on the thick ice of God's Word. In chapter 7 and chapter 8, just take a look at these very quickly. We didn't get a chance to go through these, so I want to point out a couple things to you. In chapters 7 and 8, they are linked up just like the first part of chapter 9 and the last part of chapter 9. They are in contrast to each other. In chapter 7, we have all about adultery, and chapter 8, we have all about wisdom. They're contrasting just like chapter 9. And in 822, I want to show you a picture of wisdom here. Chapter 8, verse 22. The Lord possessed me at the beginning of his ways. From the beginning before there was ever an earth, when there was no depths, I was brought forth, when there was no fountains abounding with water, before the mountains were settled, before the hills, I was brought forth While as yet he had not made the earth or the fields or the primal dust of the world. When he prepared the heavens, I was there. When he drew a circle on the face of the deep, that's the horizon When he established the clouds above, when he strengthened the fountains of the deep, when he assigned to the sea its limits, so that the waters would not transgress his command, when he marked out the foundations of the earth, then I was beside him. I think it's constant And I was daily his delight. What she's saying here, we didn't have time to go through this. What she's saying here is: I know everything I have been around to see everything. I have comprehensive knowledge. There's not one fact that I leave out in my assessment as to what is right or wrong, or wise or unwise. Therefore, you can trust me because you don't even know half of it. That's what she's saying. And then I also want to point out in 7. 6 how this is represented. I think an image is beautiful. Chapter 7, verse 6 in Proverbs, For at the window of my house I looked through my lattice. And I saw among the simple, I perceived among the youths, a young man devoid of understanding. Notice the contrast. You have the covenant father who has this comprehensive knowledge because given by God Looking out of a window down onto the simple. It is a picture of heavenly comprehensive knowledge contrasted to the limited vantage point of the fool. And I want to know who are you going to listen to? That's the question. And that's the proof for you. She has comprehensive knowledge. God knows what is right and what is wrong. He knows more than Oprah. Imagine that. And Dr. Phil. Now finally, let me push on here. Now finally, your destiny is determined by the choice, your choice to relate as a mocker or as a wise person, and this brings us to our final point. There are two destinies. So flipping back to Proverbs 9 now. The destinies are brought out in multiple places. I'm going to move through this. Pretty quick. Verse 5, notice the destiny here. Come eat of my bread and drink of the wine I have mixed, forsake foolishness and live. And go in the way or the lifestyle of understanding. Which includes justice and helping the needy. If you forsake your foolishness and if you commit to woman wisdom, then life is promised. She has a door that enters into her house, and behind the door is life Now look at verse 18. But he does not know that the dead are there, that her guests are in the depths of hell. If you choose to be a scoffer, then death and hell are promised. Behind her door, she doesn't let you see, but wisdom is giving you wisdom. She's letting you know what's behind the door. You will find her victims. You will find her prey. Just as if you were to search the den or the nest of an owl, finding all of its prey in his little owl pellets. That's the same thing that you would find there. The bones of those who went through her door earlier. The point is this: you can get busy living or you can get busy dying. And the choice is there. When you eat wisdom, you grow and become more fully alive. When you eat folly, then folly eats you alive, like a cancer. And here is the question Are you becoming more fully alive? I'm speaking to you, especially if you are from the age of twelve to college or just haven't graduated. This book is especially for you. Are you become coming more fully alive or are you quietly dying inside? Because I'm telling you why one is happening This is exactly what is communicated in Proverbs. But there's more to the story than just the way that it is represented here. There's more wisdom outside of this book that I've already mentioned. As we extend our sight to consider the one who exceeds Solomon in wisdom, we see just as importantly, or I think it's the same because Jesus is communicated We see that if you reject the wisdom of Jesus, then your destiny is everlasting death and hell. And this book is from Jesus. Jesus also. But so are all the others. Interestingly, Jesus throws a feast And offers it to the world in Isaiah 25. And he does so because he is committed to wisdom Yeah, it's a cool number. The Lord Almighty establishes his feast. He invites all of Zion to it. Let me get to that in just a second. And that's the message, and that's the two invitations, the two ways, the two destinies. Here's the longest version that I could come up with of communicating what this passage is. Saying. Are you ready? Everyone is invited to two contrasting banquets, and everyone decides to feast primarily at one or the other. You know where you've been eating by the way you've been living or by the way you've been dying And this is the message from Solomon, but as I was saying, it does not go far enough. Personifying wisdom as a woman was a normal teaching technique in the ancient Near East. The Egyptians did this also. However, as we've learned already in other Proverbs, it's not really how we relate to abstract, wise ideas, or moral codes, or even to Solomon, because he was ruined in the end of his life. There's only one who still stands and everlastingly will stand is not ruined, and that is Jesus the Christ. It is about how we relate to Jesus that determines our destiny. In Matthew 12, 42, it says that Jesus is greater and wiser than Solomon, and that even the Queen of Sheba would have admitted so. In Isaiah chapter 25, verse 6, it says that the Lord of hosts is throwing a banquet. And do you know what it says? That his banquet consists of meat and wine. He has the real banquet. It is his words that you must hang on to. And in Luke chapter 14, I'd ask you to turn there just so you can have this as a part of your readings today. Luke chapter 14, verse. Fifteen. It is the Father, through the Son, and established in the Holy Spirit, that the true banquet of the kingdom of God is being offered to you. Now, when one of those who sat at the table with him heard these things, he said to him, Blessed is he who shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. Then he said to him, A certain man gave a great supper and invited many, and sent his servants at supper time to say to those who were invited, Come, for all things are now ready. But they all with one accord began to make excuses. The first said to him, I've bought a piece of ground and I must go see it. I ask you to have me excused. And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen and I have to go test them I asked that you'd g allow me to be excused. Still another said, I've married a wife, and therefore I can't come. So the servant came and reported these things to his master. Then the master of the house, being angry, said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in here the poor and the maimed and the lame and the blind. And the servant said, Master, it is done as you commanded, and still there is room. This is wisdom's palace. And then the master said to the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in that the house may be filled. For I say to you that none of those men who were invited shall taste my service. Supper. The ultimate invitation goes out by the through the by from the Father through Jesus Christ the Son, inviting all to come to Him, all those who are weary and heavenly heavily laden. If you have been uncommitted to Jesus and his wisdom, then the command today is to resolve today to put more of your weight on him. And to stop being like the one that stands next to the icy pond of God and what he has said. Believe the words of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you would like, you could stop me after the service and we could come up with a plan of greater commitment. I say those things often and no one stops me. So let me give you a couple ideas. In case we don't get a chance to speak after the service, I want to give you a couple steps and then we'll close. If you are here and you are around 12 years and up, and if you are still not taking the Lord's Supper, I would ask that you would make this a time in your life. It doesn't have to be, I'm not asking you to make an altar call here, but I ask that you would take your faith more seriously and consider Consider your level of commitment and why are you not taking the Lord's Supper? Why are you not willing to publicly pronounce your faith? What is holding you back? And here's what I want to ask. If Jesus were to return right now And he walked up here and he pushed me out of the pulpit. And he said to you, what have I said? That you don't trust. Please let me know. What have I said to you that you are unwilling to commit to? I would like to know that from you As you're holding back from the Lord's Supper, what has Jesus said that you don't believe? Let's start working there. Let's start working there with our commitment. You see, it's how you you relate to him. It's not about abstract ideas and moral codes, covenant children. Or those here who are of that age that aren't covenant children. If you are not taking the Lord's Supper now, the time has come for you to consider your faith more seriously, and to be mentored more seriously. What is holding you back? What has Jesus said that you don't trust? And those of you who are taking the Lord's Suffer, is my last point, and then we'll Pray and sing. Those of you taking the Lord's Supper, but the but where you feel stuck and you feel unmotivated. I'm going to tell you something. That you need. You need a mentor. You need someone to walk alongside you and disciple you. And I would love it if you would let me know if you're feeling stuck or unmotivated. Because I have people in mind for you. That's what we're going for this year, is to become a church that gathers and helps people to grow. People in mind for you, please tell me, send me an email or a text if you're stuck and you're unmotivated. I will hop on it like that. And we will work on your commitment. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for these words. Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for your ministry to us, that you have provided these words to us, and you send out your invitation because you know that we struggle with commitment. And we pray that through your ministry of the Holy Spirit, that you would help us in our commitment here, that we would truly grow, and that we would stop making excuses and buying more books, thinking that that solves the problem. We pray, Father, that we be committed to the books you've already given to us. Committed to these books here in your scripture. I pray, Father, that you would look at us in the eyes and ask each of us in our hearts, What have I said that you do not believe? And I pray, Father, that that would move us to confess that we have been thinking evil thoughts of you, and that we do not trust you. And I pray, Lord, that all And the other end of that confession would be repentance that you would grant to this congregation from your spirit, and that we would begin to give our trust to you, our living Living God, full of wisdom and truth in the name of Christ, Amen