Please turn to Colossians this evening. We're going to be in Colossians one. And we're going to be looking at verses nine through twelve. And I'm going to ask you to please stand for the reading of God's Word. Wake up a little bit again. twelve A. For this reason we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. understanding. Giving thanks to the Father. We're going to stop there before we we move on and let's pray. Heavenly Father, uh, we know that in and of ourselves we do not have the ability To comprehend and have true Christian knowledge of these words. So we ask that by the ministry of your Spirit you would illuminate our hearts and our minds. Amen. Please be seated Infants are perfectly Mostly in parts, but imperfect in degrees. Something that I read um probably A year ago that kind of fascinated me in putting it that way, do you know what I mean by that? Infants are perfect in parts but not in degrees? It means they have all the parts. They're just not to the degree that they will have them them since they're still growing up. So they have their arms, but their arms aren't as large as they will ever be when they grow up and to be you know it's a confusing way to say it, right? But it's That's true. And it's it ends up since it's been an analogy, infancy is an analogy of us being reborn into the faith. It works also for us as Christians in saying that when we are regenerated or reborn We are regenerated in that we have all of our spiritual parts. You know, He renews our emotions, He renews our intellect, and eventually, of course. But in the renewal of those things that he's already renewed, they are renewed in all the parts, but not in the degree. And that ends up solving a lot of problems in that When you first become a Christian, you haven't arrived at perfection, but there is a great deal of growth and a journey to take place, which is why there's uh certain literature Like pilgrim's progress. It's unfolding the Christians' experience in that when we're first born, we're born with all the parts, but imperfect in the degrees. It seems like you could go even further and you can say that we have growth spurts and sometimes Non-growth spurts. I remember when I was younger that I would wake up in the middle of the night and my knees and my ankles would ache. And I honestly think it was because to be able to fall back to sleep. And I I think that's something real, right? That there are actual growth pains because they're growing so fast. And there are other times where I've noticed I noticed a certain uh folks wondering if they're ever going to keep growing and they should be much taller than they already are. Uh and uh and then all of a sudden there's a growth spurt over a summer. I think if I'm c Are any of the Maccasses here? Stephen, you're here. I think pr is it true that you or James grew over six inches one summer? Yeah. I mean that's amazing. Six inches in a summer. You know, the the whole analogy continues with us here, uh from the physical life and being reborn or being born and growing Growing up through our adolescence and becoming adults in our spiritual life. There's a one-for-one correspondence in that we're reborn spiritually, perfect in parts, imperfect in degrees, but then we have growth spurts. And then we really slow down. And so it um I'm sure that you can relate, particularly now that you have been a Christian for a little while, to slowing down. Is that possible? That you don't seem to grow as fast as you would like to. And perhaps you're wondering if you're growing at all. It's interesting because this pattern Deals with Christian growth. It's on the heels of what we were learning about last week, which was very philosophical and kind of nerdy in the way that I put it. But I I thought it was uh the exact point that Paul was trying to point out and that although there are many causes to you accepting the gospel and you having faith and you growing in the gospel Particularly in your love. The one cause that's back behind them all that we shouldn't allow those other causes to shadow is God. God is the one that is causing all of those things within us. And we gave thanks after that. But he's not finished. He continues in this next section here in prayer, asking not only that a work would be begun, because it had. And giving thanks for that, but in his thanks, asking for even more that we that we would continue to grow as Christians. And it's very interesting that he focuses on as the main title. For his next subject matter is theology. I know. Bear with me. Seriously. Or Christian knowledge, if you will. And that's what we're going to consider tonight. We're going to look at the character of Christian knowledge. We're going to look at the outcome of Christian knowledge. And we're going to look at the power of Christian. underneath of it all. So the character, the outcome, and the power. So take a look with me at these different characteristics of Christian knowledge. I want to show you that this is the main topic first off, and then we'll look at those characteristics. characteristics or those attributes of Christian knowledge. Take a look at just what is the leading thought in all of this. You start, you see here in verse 9 that he's going to So this a k there's a continuation of his prayer. He's seen all of the goodness isn't this fascinating He sees all the goodness that God has given and so it moves him into further prayer. I mean how often can you say that of yourself? Don't you usually see something bad and then you start But here he's so convinced of so much goodness that the Lord is doing within these people, he thought, I'm gonna roll. I'm just gonna keep praying. And that's something for us to learn as well. But you can see the urgency and the the continuation of his prayer in here when he says, Do not cease to pray for you and to ask, and then he tells us the content of what he is asking for us. And he says, that you may be filled. Notice that not perfect in degrees here. They are alive. But they are not filled to the max capacity to which they could be filled. And what are they filled what do they what does he want them to be filled with? It's the most surprising thing. he would say love or something. But instead he says the knowledge of his will. The knowledge of his will. You know, if you were to read this passage in the Latin uh it says scientia and then deus. You recognize that word scientia? It's where we get our word science The science of God. And so he sees here as a main heading, as a way for us as Christians to continue growing, to maybe get back those growth spurts which we all desire. is for us to contemplate the attributes of Christian knowledge or theology. And like I said, we're going to look at the character, the outcome, and the power. So the very first thing we see about Christian knowledge I promise this is not going to be overly academic. Is the character. The character of Christian knowledge is laid out for us in verse 9. And the first character that we see is that it's redemptive. So he does not cease to pray for us and to ask that we may be filled with the knowledge of his will. In all wisdom and spiritual understanding. It's redemptive in that it says, of his will. So when you take a look at this phrase, of his will, particularly within In Colossians, you can begin to see that Paul was a messenger of God's will. And what was it that God gave as or what was it that Paul gave as a message of God's will? Interesting. When I was in West Virginia, I had the opportunity on the Lord's Day to just sit down and read through the entire book of Acts. And one of the things that stuck out to me the most was that Paul was preaching the gospel to people. And you know what's What's interesting about that is he did not have a New Testament. When you say you're going to go share the gospel with somebody, you usually mean you're going to get your Bible and you're going to share something from the New Testament with that person. Most likely. But you know he wasn't doing that because it hadn't been enscripturated yet. So I started to notice in Acts that whenever he shared the gospel, he shared from the prophets. Which is where we often don't read because they can be a little confusing, he found them to be the most clear in terms of spreading what is God's will. In other words, what is God's redemptive or salvation? Salvation plan. It ends up being laid out in the prophets. I mentioned this last week in terms of the angel Gabriel. But I want you to consider, for instance, that just just listen to this for a moment, that the word gospel is a translation of some older translations, meaning glad tidings. And that should resonate with some of the places that we read from, for instance Isaiah 52 7, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who proclaims peace, who brings glad tidings of good things. It's speaking about the glad tidings, the gospel, and how beautiful are the feet of the person that brings that to you. Now, interestingly, listen to Romans 10 and how Paul characterizes the need. He says, and we declare to you he's he's he's making himself the people with the person with beautiful feet, and we declare to you glad tidings, that promise that was which was made to the fathers. And in Romans 10 he goes on to say, how shall you hear without a preacher? And how shall he preach? And he goes on from there, and he's quoting Isaiah. God's whole counsel concerning his promise is what he means by us being filled with the will of God in terms of its redemptive quality. It's the whole council, it's not just the cross, it's not just Golgotha. It's not just the Christmas story. It's not just the ascension. It's not just the Holy Spirit. It's all of God's uh all of his redemptive plan. Sure, there's a consummation. With Jesus and his ultimate act of obedience. But all of the parts are auxiliary to it. It's all of Jesus' works and all of his words as the great promise. And so it ends up encompassing all of our ethical life Because the Holy Spirit is sent to you, the Holy Spirit changes you and starts to mortify you and to give you life throughout your life. And now all of a sudden you realize that everything that you do, that He's working through you, is And so this message of the gospel has gone out and it is encompassing every aspect of our life. You know, it used to be like a small plant in the garden, maybe the smallest in the garden. And now it's filling the whole thing and becoming the largest plant of all. That is the will of God for their salvation, and it is redemptive. And this is really important. Do you see that there in verse nine also? It says not only his will, which he means the salvation plan of God, God's plan, or But also he asked for them to have accompanied with that wisdom and spiritual understanding. The spiritual is modifying both wisdom and understanding. Now, this can mean a couple different things. There's an ambiguity here. Most of you don't focus on prepositions when you read, but they're really, really important. important words, even for non-contract lawyers. Spiritual wisdom and understanding could mean that this just comes from the heavens. The spirit is often a sign of that which is Heavenly and comes to us from heaven. It can also mean that it is caused by the Spirit, and there's debates over this, and I don't know why. I guess you do that when you're a scholar, but I'd say why not both? If the Spirit Why couldn't we have both of these? And that's what it means is that the wisdom and the understanding of That we would gain of this knowledge of the will of God is caused in us or given to us, or we are illuminated to it by the Holy Spirit who is sent to us from heaven. That's, I think, the full thought of what he's trying to give here, that it manifests itself in these ways. Which are gifts from the Spirit. In other words, the Spirit from heaven causes his children to know God's will, and this is reflected by being accompanied with spiritual wisdom and understanding. Do you recognize these words being close together from your other Bible readings? Perhaps you remember the building of the tabernacle in the Old Testament. Do you know these three words are lined up It says, And I have filled him with the Spirit of God in wisdom and un Understanding in knowledge and in all manner of workmanship. So here's the turn that we're already beginning to take in considering true Christian theology or Christian knowledge is that it has to be more than academic It must be accompanied with, if it's truly from the Spirit, something that is functional, something that is uh uh full of purpose, and something that is creative. In other words, who, besides Jesus Christ, was the wisest man in all of the world? Solomon. And what and how did Solomon display his knowledge? Was it by sitting around Sounding pedantic. It was issuing forth in true wisdom and practical skill in being able to reorganize his army In being able to judge difficult ethical cases on who owned the baby. He was a taxonomer that scientifically divided out different kinds of bugs and trees. according to 2 Kings chapter 4. He was a naturalist. He had wisdom from the Spirit of God, but he applied that wisdom and that Understanding of the salvation plan of God in ways that were creative and functional to where what used to be deserted and dry and waterless became a fruitful garden. Whether it was a military, whether it was government, whether it was bugs, whether it was trees, whatever he he had the mightest touch because he was filled with the Spirit. understand theology. He was a true theologian. Now tell me that that's the normal description you get of what the theologian is. There's no no way. The theologian is arrogant and prideful and pedantic and says things you don't understand, doesn't relate to your life But when we see the true nature of Christian knowledge or theology, we already begin to see that it must manifest itself in Solomonic works like I had just described. From the spirit at all. There's a third one, which is my favorite. I love the title of this last one. It just sprung to me after reading something poetic And it's that is the last characteristic of Christian knowledge is that it's romantic. Isn't that nice? I mean, I'm not patting myself on the back, I just think it's so true. That it's romantic This is this is where I'm getting this from. The word knowledge that's being used here in verse nine when it says that you would have the knowledge of his will, it's not the normal you not the normal word for knowledge. I'm not going to bore you with the Greek. But it's a special It's a special word for knowledge. It really means like super knowledge or above knowledge. And it's always accompanied with those things that are um not just a bare a or an academic understanding of it, but it's something that you acknowledge, that you embrace, you are convicted about it, you uh think about it when you get And when you're thinking about it, you're smiling because it's such a delight to you. That's the kind of knowledge that we're talking about. That's going on as you begin to think about what God has done in the world and what He is doing in you, it makes you smile and you are delighted by it. It is poetry to you. Theology for a true theologian is poetry. And all of you, everybody is a theologian. You know, the author of the the uh the the um Little Prince has this I can't pronounce his name. My wife is the one that knows French. The author of the little The Little Prince uh says something that really gets at the heart of the nature of Christian knowledge. Listen to this. He says if you want people to build a ship, you don't drum you don't drum up people to collect wood and you don't assign them them tasks and work, but rather you teach them to long. Listen to this, this is lovely. You teach them to long for the endless immensity of the sea. Isn't that nice? Do you see what the true the the the one who has the spirit dwelling upon them? Do you see how they see the salvation plan of God? They see it As something that is beautiful, something that they want to be a part of. Something like an awesome experience of an orchestra, or the most beautiful painting that they have ever seen. This is true knowledge. You know there's a contrast to this kind of knowledge in Corinthians when they didn't receive this kind of the knowledge of wisdom and understanding from the Spirit. Do you know what it did to them? Made them puffed up and it made them arrogant. And they weren't considering it as beautiful. And it wasn't useful for the community. It was actually tearing down the community. And this stands in contrast to that because this kind of knowledge Has characteristics where we see the whole plan of salvation as God has laid it out. We see that it is spiritual and given to us from heaven. or the Holy Spirit, and that it is romantic, and that it is like considering the endless immensity of the sea. It really brings in here the fact that When we receive Christian knowledge, it's not so much about what we know and it's it's more about what we desire. You know, strangely, in our culture, we think of ourselves primarily as Thinking beings. But I'd ask you to consider reading the scriptures and thinking and just noticing: do the scriptures characterize us as primarily thinking beings or primarily design? If it's desiring beings, and you want to begin talking about how a person should be educated in the Word of God, it's not so much what they would know, but it's what they would would love. And that really ends up being something as a part of our tradition, a true Christian pedagogy or education. Is that we not only are training ourselves by the Holy Spirit and training our children and the Holy Spirit on what they would know, but what they would love. And that their main problem is idolatry. That they have these desires, but the desires are out of order. They love themselves, or they love beauty, or they love uh being well thought of more than they would ever love God. And that lies at the root of what's going on within them I've told you this story before. Well, I'll skip that story. No, I'm gonna tell it I once heard from a pastor. He once was presenting to a young girl the the beauty and excellence of Jesus Christ and what he has to offer her. And all her response was is that how is that going to to help me get the boy that I like to like me. What's the problem? She knows, now just assume with me that she grew up in the church. Wouldn't sh doesn't she basically know her catechism? Doesn't she hasn't she been sitting under good preaching? Doesn't she know the truth that God should be greater than another person? But what What has gripped her imagination and her heart? It's not a thinking issue at this point. It's not an intellectual problem primarily, although that definitely plays into it. It's a desire issue here where her heart is captured by wanting to be loved by this young man instead of having love for Jesus Christ as the The most excellent. And what we're seeing here in that and with true Christian knowledge is that we must have this aha moment that when we see his plan of salvation, it is not so many systematic parts arranged. But we have a romantic relationship with what's happening. We are considering the immensity of the sea, not wood and shipbuilding We are in love with this. That's true Christian knowledge. I remember a moment like this in my life. I hope that you remember a moment like this in your life. I remember being friends. With Holly. And I was friends with all her friends. And we were just friends going along. And I remember, I don't know if we were playing like backgammon or something with a bunch of friends. And I looked up and I saw her face for like the f it was like I saw her for the first time. And I said, in my mind, who is this beautiful creature? And from that m uh yeah, amen. And from that moment forward I pursued her and finally we were married after much resistance. And that's what I'm saying about here, in that looking at the knowledge of God's will, seeing it for the first time And falling in love with what he is doing in this world and what he's doing in our lives and the life of our families. We're talking about love. That was a long first point. I'm gonna have to cut out on some of these Second ones. Love. Love deserves a long point. So the first is the character of Christian knowledge. The second is the outcome. All of these really start to make sense once you get that first point down. So we can If you truly understand that the true Christian knowledge is really love, it's desiring God above all else, through the power of the Holy Spirit, and issuing forth in these practices. You can see the outcome here in verse 10. Take a look with me. There's a big word here, that. Now this is denoting practic Purpose. This is saying the purpose that you would be filled with these things is this that's coming up next. And it's that you may walk worthy of the Lord, that you would be fully pleasing to him. And that you would be fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. He's using an uh German Jewish terminology here. He uses the verb to walk. The Lord Jesus Christ provides in his death and resurrection a pattern of life which sets the standard for his But it is also focused on motivation and that it would be pleasing that you are focused not on what you would desire first and foremost, but you are thinking of what the b of of uh of Jesus Christ and what he would desire. Just like you would do if you were in love. If you're in love, you think about the what the other person would want Whether you like it or not, and you choose that thing. You don't go to Chipotle if they'd rather go someplace else. I know it's a lame example, but it really gets down into those mundane issues. When you truly love, you choose for them. You would choose pleasing for the Lord, and then uh the other outcome that we see besides walking worthy of him and then having our motivations correct, and I'll focus a little bit on this, is that we would increase and Do you recognize the terminology here of what Paul is doing? It is so interesting when you would consider this terminology with an upcoming chapter where he talks about us being renewed in the image of our creature. Creator. He is alluding to Genesis. Now, now that I've said that and given you the hint, where do you see this language? Increase and multiply. And be fruitful. Using these things that I have given to you, you have a mandate to take care and have dominion over this earth. Do you see what he's done here? He's saying that I have by the Spirit caused you to fall in love with what I am doing, and I'm making you a caretaker in the garden and giving you responsibilities for you to be able to work that out all over again. And this is a miracle. This is a miracle because if you remember the picture on Mount Eden when we were removed from it. The angel was placed with a flaming sword going back and forth, not allowing us in. And it is through the work of Jesus Christ that we heard of in the last uh uh sermon, and that you'll hear of again in this next sermon With redemption is through the work of Jesus Christ that the angel steps aside, and you are reconciled with the Father, and you may again walk with God in the cool of the garden. And it's not just that you're walking. You're walking worthy of the Lord. And it's not just that you're walking worthy of the Lord, you're walking pleasing and the way in which you would be motivated. And you have specific tasks that he has given to you. He has given you your life which is like a garden and you are supposed to I remember being uh at odds with my father for the majority of my life. In fact through all of high school we were at each others throats. I would rather have slept homeless in in the um in the play bin at Hardy's with all those little balls that you climb around in. I I actually that's where I moved because I I remember the beautiful day after becoming a Christian and knowing about forgiveness through Jesus Christ and being reconciled with my Father and then moving into business. with him. And the sign on the side of the truck no longer said General Contractor Larry Crutchley. It said Crutchley and Sons. And we were going to go to work together. And that's the exact picture that we see here. You have being being reconciled with your father, are now reissued back into the family business, and you You are to increase and be fruitful and to multiply in creating disciples and doing all things to the glory of God. Now this is beautiful because it's an argument for you to stop thinking that the Christian life is primarily you hanging out with me here at the church and recognize that all of your vocations are sacred, every single one of them. If they are lawful, they are sacred. And I believe all of us here have lawful vocations. Very good. So that is the outcome. From that love that we receive, and being true theologians, we have this This outcome that grows up within us. But there's something that ends up showing up in this passage that is very difficult. So take take a look at this, where it says, in um right after we're doing all this work, we're back into our father's business, first You are strengthened with all might according to his glorious power. Dang. Just when I thought I was going to give you a utopian We're in an already not yet situation. And you know how this feels. I mean, come on. You know that you've re-entered back into the work of the Father. But you know how difficult that is. Some of you may be even losing hope right now because it has been so difficult for so long and you feel like he has abandoned you to do this work on your own and you don't know if you can do it. That is something that Christians struggle with across the board. What this verse implies is that you You will go to work with him, and the work will not be getting done. That you will set your hands to things, and they will be crowded with thorns and thistles, and you will come Away bloodied and exhausted and tired and feeling useless. That's what this implies. Because if you're going to work and yet you're praying to have perseverance, it means That your work has not come to fruition yet and that you're going to have to wait for him to actually act. And now that is very difficult to hear, but isn't it also hopeful in some sense? That you know the work that the Lord has given to you right now is very, very difficult, but he is admitting right here that he has not left you. He needs you to begin praying Praying not for more fruit, don't leave off of that, but also that you would persevere until He chooses to give it to you. There's going to be a delay. And that sets your expectations. Expectations for how he truly will work in your life. He says, yes, go to work for me, but it's going to be really difficult, and I'm not going to work in your timing. One day is like a thousand years for me. You need to understand I understand that. I won't work in your timing, but my timing is perfect. And so if I'm not giving you the fruit of your hands immediately, please begin to pray to me for personal. Perseverance and for patience and for long-suffering so that you can continue on in the work until I give you the fruit of your hands. Now that promises difficulty, but do you feel the Hope that is present in that also? Just knowing that that's how he thinks about it as you go to work for him? And the result, of course, should be that it would result in joy and thanks, which as we see As another part of this passage, that you, in the midst of working in the garden which is full of thorns and thistles and marital problems and oil spills. In the ocean, political difficulties, that you in the midst of all that, because you know the the Lord is going to work on his time and you have hope in him, that you can have joy and you can have faith. Thanks. I think the perfect word for that is you can be content. You may have, as a Christian, if you understand what true Christian knowledge is and how it works with the power underneath of it that we see here, the This glorious power and strength that the Lord gives us in his own time, we can have joy and we can have strength. I think ending this I didn't actually ask Holly. I've already shared the story. It's okay. Holly said yes a long time ago. I think I was trying to think of uh you know, let's put feet on this, let's be concrete, okay? I was trying to think of a story that captured this. And I thought of my wife. We were on Friday evening entertaining people And we were talking about the difficulty of marriage. And it reminded me of how difficult Holly and I had, and uh the difficulty that Holly and I had in our marriage. And I said Uh, I don't remember the exact words. But I basically said to her on Friday, I said, Yeah, you and I, we really struggled for like three years, didn't we? And then she started recounting us all the time. This look on her face like three, I wish. We started recounting, and it was more like five. It was five years. Listen, it was like five years Y you know, ladies, uh here's the impression that I get, at least with Holly and the and her girlfriends that she grew up with. W when they would talk about things, they would talk about getting married. And the great joy That it would bring to their heart to finally find a man for them to marry that was worthy of them and that their parents would enjoy, to where they could begin to start a family. And so the marriage goes great, but then afterward you have this young man who thinks of no one but himself, who abandons his family for stupid things like kayaking Which was a one person kayak. I mean if that's not bachelor, to buy a one person kayak when you're married, or to go hunting, or to go fishing, or or to just dart off or whatever it is. doesn't sound as severe a as I would like it to because it was quite severe and quite traumatizing for Holly to have to go through that experience ye that's five years of living with someone who was not on the same page and who was selfish and served Only his selfish ambitions. But she was doing the work of the Lord. She was seeking the fruit of her hands. And in the fifth year When I went to North Carolina for the Peacemaker Conference, which you've heard this, so I'll keep it short, I remember thinking, you know what, this peacemaker stuff, the basic peacemaking fundamentals. It's too shallow for me. I need to go to this seminar called Horrible Christian Marriages. Then I'll get back to SPEP and really do some teaching. And I went in there and when that That man started describing hardware Christian marriage. Christian marriage was a description of me. And I had to get up. I started crying at the table. I was embarrassing myself around next to all these people from Texas. And and I went out into this convention center and it was the weirdest thing and I I was just looking for somebody to to uh stu so I would stop being embarrassed and I found Brian Lapiccolo and I barely I carried my head into his chest and I began wailing and weeping for my sins that I had been committing against my wife. This is more absurd than you know because there was a strange monk and Jesuit conference going on and there were these people in these robes walking by while this was happening. It was like a bad Monty Python film. It was horrible. And I went back to the hotel room and I called Holly and I said, I I need to confess things to you and I can't wait to get home to you and to confess and when I got home we went immediately into our bedroom and we got on our knees together. And we prayed to the Lord and I confess all my sins to her. And our marriage has been so much better ever since. I mean, like night and day. You can ask her. This isn't just the man's story. It really is. It has gotten better. And that's exactly what the Lord is asking you to do. He's asked you to be a true theologian and to love his will and the salvation that he's bringing to you and your your family into this world. And he's asking for this to work out in you and to join him in his business. But when you do, you have to understand That this is going to be very, very difficult, and you are going to, at least for five years sometimes, have to have long-suffering and patience. But the Lord will deliver for you that you will be content and you will have joy. Joy, and you will have thanks in the name of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, how long have we been led astray as to what real theology was? If this is theology, then we all love it. It's romantic. We thank you for your poetry. We thank you for the song that you sing in our lives. We thank you for being our great shepherd and showing us the immensity of the sea. And how your glory is even greater than that immensity. Lord, we ask for long suffering right now. All of us are really struggling in one way or another with different things. We need patience, Lord. We need long-suffering. We need perseverance in your Holy Spirit. We ask that you would give these things as we continue to work for you. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen.