And we'll be looking at fifteen through twenty, but I'm going to pray a prayer of illumination. And the reason why we're having the sermon right now is so that we can respond again and thank you. Thanksgiving to what the Father has done. That's what we've been doing for the uh almost the past month now. And I didn't even realize it, but it's perfect during Thanksgiving season. Didn't make that connection. until this morning. And we'll continue that theme tonight. So we'll do this. We'll have a time of prayer after my sermon and then the final song. So please hear the word of God. God this is verses fifteen through twenty. This is speaking about Jesus. It was just m he was just mentioned as the work of the Father in verse fourteen, and we have for day But in addition, he is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn Over all creation. For by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we're after the manner, not just the act of readingness. We know that Anyone, whether regenerate or not, could read this passage who knew how to read. But we're asking to love who this passage whom this passage speaks about. We're asking for us to have a romantic theology. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. I was remembering a story from my childhood when I have so many of these crazy stories when I was living with my grandmother. Ask me to tell you some sometime. You'll think they're kind of funny, the things that I did. I'm surprised I didn't end up in jail that early. Uh but but one was a story that was not a criminal story. It was a neat story where we we grew up in Arnold and down the street in Magavista there's a little pond that's now blocked off but we used to be able to access it back in the day and when it was off of on the uh the eastern side of a farm and it's was the name of it was Schoolers Pond. Well my of course my uncles grew up in this house where my grandmother lived and they had played at that pond and ice skated on that pond and they even drove a uh VW bug out on that pond one winter and uh they would always bring different animals home. They enjoyed the outdoors and so did I. And I remember one s being about Jack's age, my uncle Eddie brought me home a batch of turtle eggs that he had found. Snapping Turnal eggs. And we buried them and um or in such a way where we could still observe what was going on with those eggs. And I remember just being a young man So excited about the potential of having so many different pet turtles. And I remember having that desire of having a pet turtle. And then I remember continuing to have that desire. And then continuing to have that desire. And never having any pet turtles what seemed like an infinite amount of time because they just remained eggs and didn't seem like anything was going to happen. I became impatient uh eventually. Um and I was just wondering I wonder if there's any Life in there. I wonder if this is a bad batch of eggs for turtles and that these are just going to be rotten, stinking things. Maybe you have a similar experience literally. But I think you can relate to it if you were to look at the eggs as something that perhaps a way in which we look at our Christian life sometimes, or even how if you're not a Christian Christian, how you could look at a Christian's life. A Christian honestly struggles with looking at what should be the uh what Arch mentioned this morning, that we would know the power of Jesus Christ's resurrection. And yet there are times within our lives when we look at what is supposed to be powerful and we say, is there any life in there? Is this stuff really Have the potential and the power that the Bible says it does. And of course, non-Christians can view a Christian's faith that way also, and they could just appeal to precedent in the past. Of all of the deeds that Christians have done and they could say, like I said about the turtle eggs, is there really any life in there? Is there really anything to this? I imagine, did you have perhaps Said that to yourself, maybe just within the progress of your Christian walk, and asking, you know, as a Christian, I'm supposed to be progressing in holiness. I'm s is this morality thing is supposed to be getting easier for me. But sometimes I just wonder, is there any life in there? Uh just by judging how many books are on the the bookshelf in helping Christians grow. I guarantee that that is one of your questions. It's one of my questions. Interestingly, this passage addresses that. This passage is set up up for us in order for us to have hope and we'll talk about the turtle legs eggs later and what happened. But it's set up for us to give thanks. Now think of the review here a little bit and where we're We're not heading into an existential uh dystopia. I'm not going to say that we have no hope. Uh in fact, it is hope that is motivating this whole passage for Paul. Turn Just take a look at chapter one with me in review and the things that we've covered. The whole thing is a passage of thanks. The thanksgiving has not even stopped yet, and we're almost into the Second chapter or halfway through the first. First, he gave thanks to them. He gave thanks to God of the Father, the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, and he gave thanks because of the faith that he had heard that they had from a Paphar And he gave thanks for the love that they were showing to the brethren. And he was giving thanks because these were uh the signs to show that God had done a true work among these He wants to he wants them to enter in the same kind of thanksgiving that he is able to give to the Father, and so he asks later in this passage, starting down in verse 9. He says that he wants them to be filled with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding, speaking of God. And we spoke a few weeks back about how knowledge here is a special word. I don't want to nerd out on you, but it's not gnosco, it's epiganosco. It's like super knowledge. It's a knowledge that has other things attached to it besides just a bare intellectual understanding. And the way that we were getting it across is we were saying that there's a kind of poetry to this knowledge. And we were calling it romantic theology, that true theology and the true theologian is a love story. It's like seeing your love for the first time. And I gave you that story about me seeing Holly for the first time and saying, Who is this beautiful creature? And when the Holy Spirit dawns upon you and you're able to We learned about this romantic theology is to lay it out. And last week we in particular learned about how much thanks we must give to the Father because He has qualified us for an inheritance. And in particular, he has provided to us his beloved son, who, like that older brother, gave up his life to a lot of the It was a picture not only of the beauty of Jesus Christ, but the beauty of the Father that we must always remember. Because he's getting a terrible reputation in our world. Well that same thought and that same same thanksgiving and the same romantic theology continues tonight as you could have as we We just read in fifteen through twenty where we we spoke briefly last week about the Son of His love and the redemption that he brought from the dark powers. And here Paul just Can't quit. He can't stop talking about the Son. And about the Son incarnate, because we're talking about Jesus here. Paul is having A romantic theology moment. You know what's really interesting to let you know that I'm really onto something here and not just uh bl blowing smoke with uh this romantic theology thing. This whole next section Is a poem. It's a hymn. If you have this done correctly within your scriptures, which I unfortunately don't, it will be set in stanzas. Just as you would see within the Psalms, that this would have been something that they would have sang amongst each other, perhaps before baptism and before the person made a public profession of faith. We're talking about love here as the essence of theology. There are a few things in this love story that we're going to look at this evening. One is Jesus as a superior re Reflection, Jesus as superior over all creation, and Jesus as superior over all new creation. So basically, we're going to talk about Jesus this evening. And uh I pray that it is poetry to your heart, as it has been to mine, and just reflecting on who he is. So the very first thing you see in this passage, starting in verse fifteen, is that Jesus is superior We're going to go through the whole passage and he's superior to everything, is the point. But here we see that he has a superior reflection. Take a look at this here and just the first part before you hit the first comma in verse 15. He is the image of the invisible God. He is the image of the invisible God. An image is a representation of that which is invisible, is what is The point here. We actually read uh and and we read about this in Psalm nineteen to begin the service. Now think about how the creation is somehow imaging or reflecting on Or representing or evidencing somehow the glory of the Creator. That when you view a beautiful sunrise or a sunset, and you give all of your praise to that flaming ball of gas, so many thousands of miles away that you have misunderstood what is happening within your heart. Because that is meant to just be a reflection to turn your head even higher than the sun and to direct your praise. Toward heaven because the sun or all of nature would just be a representation of the glory of the invisible. The creation typically granted with nature, but also we see within the first chapter of Genesis that Adam was meant to be the representative to all of creation. of God. That he was made in God's image. And what that meant was for him to rule over all of creation in the same way that God himself, if he were physically present and not invisible. That Adam was a representative to all creation. Maybe you could think about it this way. It's kind of a neat image Image, you can set up mirrors to where what is invisible to you may be represented to you in visible form. In other words, I could set up a set of mirrors right now to where if Roger Cool were to go back and sit at the fire exit in the hallway back by the Sunday school, I could set up a mirror right there. If the mirror were not there, he would be invisible to me. But as soon as I put up the mirror I can view through the mirror a visible representation of that which is around the corner. And that's also another way to understand what he's saying here: that Jesus is the image of the invisible God. I was watching last night uh another illustration of the same concept. I was watching last night the deli man, which is basically a documentary on New York delis. Very interesting. Deliman. And this the the the the one main uh character in the documentary, his name is Zig And he had an interesting childhood. By the time he was 10 or 11 or 12, he did not hang out or with his own age group, but hung out with his 80-year-old Yiddish grandparents. And fell in love with the deli. He's now known as like the best delicatessen in the world. He's amazing. You should see the pastrami and stuff that he was on the was on the show. But But uh he took on the patterns of the old Eastern European Jewish culture that actually had been wiped out by the Holocaust And here we saw because of the makeup of this young man Ziggy and At ten and twelve years old, taking on this this uh love for the delicatessen, he's still perpetuating in New York City and strangely enough, also in Texas, uh the Yiddish dishes and ends up becoming a great image of Eastern European Jewish culture that has become invisible. He embodies them. He even every other word is a Yiddish word But we see as the ultimate example here not just illustrations in order for us to to help us understand a what a representation is or what it means to begin I could give you a million different images of what it means for something to represent the invisible, but if I never talk to you about the second person of the Trinity and Jesus, then I have never given you the superior image. Because Jesus here is declared as the only one and throughout the rest of Scriptures as an image in a way that is even far superior to the image of us reflecting God. even in a state of innocence. I would encourage you on your own time to turn to John chapter 1, where it talks about Jesus as the Son being with God. God and how he in Hebrews again in Hebrews 1 3 He's the exact representation of His being. And you remember these moments that Jesus had with His disciples. And remember one of one of the disciples Disciples said, We want to know the Father. Show him to us. We would love to know God the Father. And Jesus says, Have I been with you for so long? And You don't know the Father. If you know me, then you know the Father, because I am an exact representation of His being. I want you to think of the superior quality of Jesus as the The uh as the ultimate image here, the superior image. Jesus is the incarnated second person of the Trinity. And the second person of the Trinity The Trinity is in essence identical to the Father and to the Spirit, although he is separate in person. But he is in essence identical, and him taking on flesh in the incarnation which we'll be celebrating here soon in Christmas with his birth. He ends up embodying in physical form, in flesh, a perfect representation of the Father. Father, a perfect representation for us to see God and what He is like. And we learn so much more from Him, which can be summarized in grace and in truth. Things about your creator. You can stare at human beings and you can learn something about their creator. But until you see Jesus Christ, you really don't know. You really don't know. It is within the face or in the person of Jesus Christ that the glory of God is expressed to us. That we might know the glory of the Father. Even only Moses saw the back part of God. But here we see even the express person in Jesus Christ. Interestingly, we as human beings can make the mistake of thinking that the image that we portray of God Is a true image. And therefore, we can lessen the understanding of what brings in this superior image. Let me restate that since that was thoroughly unclear. This is what I mean. You may not think that you need Jesus to be incarnated, that you need the Son to be incarnated. Do you need the incarnation Incarnation? Do you think that you would have done fine with the creation? Would you have just done fine with the image that is presented from us? As human beings. Is that something that we can rely upon and therefore the incarnation was uh unnecessary? What we find is that that ends up not being true. That we have become like wild animals. But we end up glorifying wild animals and speaking about them romantically. I want you to think for a moment about sea biscuit. When was sea biscuit most beautiful? One was Seabiscuit most beautiful. One was she or he the image of the whole Before the training or after? You have this wonderful moment in the movie when you you see the horse running wild across the fields. And they're clocking Sea Biscuit. And Sea Biscuit is slow. Although her main is it a him or a her Say it again? Him. Holly read the book, yes. Him. Although his mane is handsome and he does have a nice gait, he's still not going to be able to compete with those other horses. It's not until he ends up being refined and trained and uh and brought into the true image of horse that we're able to see something of true beauty. Something by the end of the movie when you see the slow motion of the horses running going around the track, and it brings you brings tears to your eyes to see the beauty of this horse. That is the difference that I'm talking about here. It just starts To capture a little bit where Jesus Christ is absolutely necessary for us in order for us to be able to capture what true humanity was meant to be as a A representation of the being of God. But even more so, he's even superior to that in being the express image of God's person in a way that we could never show forth. Think of the unique gift that is given to us. in his incarnation and him being the superior reflection. But he's not only a superior reflection, as you see in the first part of 15, he's a superior over all of creation. This heightens the superiority as to who this person is. Look at the second part of verse 15. He is the image of the invisible God, but he's also the firstborn over all of creation. And the very first thing that we have to say about this is that we are not Jehovah's Witnesses. This is the But that's not what that's not what's being said here. Notice first that when he says the firstborn, he's not saying that. the firstborn of all creation. It says right there, over all of creation. And then please do not take words out of the Biblical context, if you were to turn, what would be a really great place to find out about Jesus as the Messiah? Why not the Messianic Psalms? Does that sound like a good place to find out? to go? I think so too. So let's, if you were to take a look at Psalm 89, verse 27, listen to this. I will make him my firstborn. Well what does that mean? The highest of the kings of the earth. So what we end up seeing here within this passage is a declaration of the rank or the superiority of the Son who has taken on flesh. And then there in order to support this, it makes sense because now we're going to see a list of ways in which he is superior to all other things and that he created them. And so you can see the list for yourself there. The creator, first, with this list, if he is in fact the creator, he has a natural right over his creation. And therefore Therefore he is superior. That's a little bit of a subtle argument, but it's not if you give this example. Once you have that child, are you in charge? Are you in charge of the child? We were just watching I think last night a scenario where this came up. We were watching Yours, Mine, and Ours, I think it is, where it's a newer version with Dennis Quaid and some other lady where the uh Dennis Quaid I think has ten children and she has So they finally get together and then they have eighteen. And and the children try to break up the uh marriage because they can't get along as children. And one of the things that they end up Doing is they get the youngest of the two boys to write on the admiral's chart, and he loves charts, so they're striking at the very heart of this military man. The young men and they say, she says, You shouldn't do that anymore. You go and be and and and that's it. And the Admiral says, What do you mean? You're just gonna speak to them? And And then the idea of spanking comes up. And the admiral, of course, has spanked. But she, being a bit more artistic and etc. , has chosen not to spank her children. And this is what she says. She says, You will not spank my children. And she and he says, I thought they were our children. You know, that's just a side note. But they continue with the marital conflict. But what is she relying on there that we all agree with? That we have a right to our children in a way that other people do not have a right. I'm not arguing over spanking or not spanking. I'm just saying that once they're our children, we as their creators, or subcreators, if you want to be really technical, our under creators, have a right over them to where in the in and we see the exact same thing being argued here With Jesus having a natural right over creation. All of creation, it says. Look at the forms of speech that go on in this passage. All in heaven and all on earth. It's a Hebrew word. But then notice the chiastic structure. With the heaven goes the invisible, with the earth goes the visible. And then he goes off uh away from this description and starts talking about those who would have ruled within those domains, thrones and dominions, etc. That is to say, not only has he created everything and has Right over them, but even those things that you could find in the highest domain, this man, Jesus Christ the Messiah, is superior even over them. He created them. Think of the highest person that you give created Credence to in your life. And he is higher. He is superior to them. Whether it be angelic forces, the angel Gabriel or the Angel Michael. Jesus Christ reigns over them. He reigns over Satan. He gives Satan permission to do what he would like to do. Satan must ask him for permission. Kind of power that we're talking about here. You know, what this ends up bringing up and seeking and seeing his superiority as creator like this, this same Jesus that we sing to. It really touches us in terms of our security, doesn't it? One of the things that we long for as human beings is security. In our lives. Moving into the role of a pastor and a young pastor, this is dawning on me very quickly as we have widows with I want you to think of what it would be like to live with someone for fifty some odd years and then to no longer live with them. And each of you had designated roles. And they lo they with loyalty fulfilled those roles and then all of a sudden there's no one doing those roles. And you know what else what ha happens in in America when you become a widow? Start filing your tax return as a single. Do you know what happens to the amount of money that you start owing the government at that time? When you already are low on money. The finances weren't as great as you thought they were under your husband's or your wife's care. Think of the loss of security that happens there with oh, you know what they'll do? The widow will just go, they'll just go out And get a job at Ace Hardware. Yeah, right. That's what they're doing. They're hiring widows, older widows. You can think of the insecurity there. And what do we do as human beings? Maybe that's not your insecurity, but I know that you have insecurities. I can see them. And you can see mine. What is it that we do? If we turn to the movies to see what the movies portray of American culture And how we solve our insecurities is we turn to great authorities in our life who can be leaders for us, who can be superiors that we can lean upon and trust. To take security in. They could be like a rock in our life, a touchstone of s of solidarity. You would see this in a movie that I just watched called Hoot. You know I have three daughters. And little kids when I'm watching movies like this. It's called Hoot and it's about endangered owls. And one of the premises of the stories is that the this young man has to figure out a way to get the mayor to learn about this endangered owl ground so that he can then have security for the health of the local environment. But it's the mayor who is the solution. Or you could think of the children's movie Dolphin Tales, well, it's not just the children's movie, Dolphin Tales, one and two actions. Dolphin Tales one and two. How does the movie begin? Dolphin Tales, not two, but one. What's the problem? The problem is that the young man has gotten a a terrible attitude and he's defined His mother. He's upset. He doesn't care about going to school. He's giving up on his future. And he's upset that his father has died. What is the solution for him? What gives him that security again that he needs? Well, you know what it is? It's an alternative education down at a biological center where he can start working with animals and take an interest. That's the solution that they end up giving. And don't Don't tell me those same solutions aren't given to you. You know what's wrong with your children? They need an alternative education. They need to do more hands-on things as opposed to just being in the book. Maybe some of that stuff has legitimacy. Maybe you'll go to a Montessori school instead of a trivium and quadribium school. Those things are up to you. But is it really safe to say that that is our security? Can we as Christians place our foot upon that rock? Or do those end up being false? As well. Aren't we in some sense like the person who looks at the sunset and starts to worship the sun rather than giving glory to the Creator? all domains, no matter whom the leader is, if there's any good education that works, it's because of him and his superiority. Look at that verse again right toward the end. It not only I I left off on 17. And he is before all things, and in him all things consist. And if you go above that, he above that he says all things were created through him and for him. He is as the second person of the Trinity. and as incarnate as man, he holds up very existence and being. If there is anything good, it is because he has his hands in it. He is certainly superior, and he is the only one to whom we may turn for security. Allow me to remind you of an Old Testament quotation: Do not trust in your chariots. Trust in the Lord. Lord your God. Now you can translate that for today. Why not turn to Jesus Christ as your security? widow. Why not turn to Jesus Christ as your as your security parent? And you know those of you who are seeking your security through Beauty and having a beautiful figure, it will fail you. You must seek your security in the only beautiful one who is Jesus. Jesus Christ. He continues in verse 18 with one last part of his superiority. We see that he is superior and As an image, and that he is superior over all of creation, but not over all of creation that already exists. But he is also superior over all new creation. In verse 18. And he is the head of the body of the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he may have the preeminence. or the superiority. It's verse eighteen. The firstborn here is referring again to rank. He has the ultimate rank not only in all of creation, but you could think of this as like zoom Down and seeing something particular. That he has rank over his church. But this is the interesting thing. You know, a lot of the times when you consider Jesus Christ, it's your you're Security, it's not viable to you. Theoretically, it makes sense. If he's the ruler of the cosmos, then I should be able to trust him. I get it. But here, notice what Paul is saying He's zooming in. He's saying, those of you who are in the church, he's not just the ruler of the cosmos. He's not just some absolute being that's out there in some deistic land. He is your head. He is your loving father. He longs to bring you in with his wings like a mother hen would. That's the sense that's going on here. But look at how again it explodes back out into something grand and big. He says that he is the firstborn from the dead. What does that mean? We've gone over this before. But the firstborn of the dead is referring to his rank among the recreation. Is he literally the firstborn from the dead? No. What about Lazarus? Lazarus was born from the dead. So what could this possibly mean? Again, it's referring to his rank. He is the firstborn of the new creation that is being born, uh, that will eventually be born, reborn in the entire earth. Do you see what I'm saying? The Apostle Paul talks about this as him being the first fruits of the new creation. Here we see that Jesus the Christ, in his resurrection Is the very first part of what we should expect when he returns, which is the renewal of everything. He already had his new body, he was walking through walls. etc. He is the new creation and the first among that rank. And so we see he's not only the creator, going back Back to Genesis 1, but he is the new creator upon his resurrection, and that he has done it in part. But again, when he returns, we'll do it in whole. And this relates especially to us who are in the church. It is the church. Then all of creation will be renewed because the creation Is groaning and longing for this renewal. And it is Jesus Christ as the head who certainly, if he can do the first creation, then he can do the second one. Look at how he is superior over the new creation. And he is offered to you. That's the amazing thing. He is offered to you To you. Everything that I have just said about the incarnate God man is offered to you in a friendship and in a fatherhood and in a brotherhood The implications of this are immense. To see what Paul is really driving at here, to see why this really matters, to take all of these points and to begin to funnel them down into your heart. So that you can have a romantic moment here with all this theology that I just gave you. We talked about the second person of the Trinity this evening. That's theology. But it's romantic theology. Look towards the end. We haven't gone over this passage yet But Paul writes these letters not as a theologian, but as a romantic theologian. to do with all this information. It says in 23, if indeed you continue in the faith, grounded in steadfast, and are not moved away. From the hope of the gospel which you heard. Now I just preached to you the gospel. I have over these past couple weeks with Jesus' redemption, and I just preached to you the person of Jesus Christ. Christ as being superior, and here he's saying that there is still a chance that all of these Colossians, having heard this message, may still be moved away from the hope of the gospel, and he prays that they would not be moved away. I want you to think of the contrast that is presented When we consider this in light of the proto-evangelium. Does anybody know what the proto-evangelium is? We go over that in the students, thank you, Brad. You do know. That's the first gospel. Where would you find that? First gospel, Genesis. Genesis 3. 15. Right? Yeah? Very good. Very good. Genesis 3. 15. And here we see that there is a promise. And this promise Adam latches onto and therefore calls Eve the mother of the living and not the mother of the dead. We see that there was a representation or a superior given to us at first. And that he failed. And I want you to think of all the things that have failed. We have failed in our relationship with God. There are some people that claim that He does not even exist. You yourself have been given so much personality From God, and yet you know Him so very little. Think about your relationship with God and how scarred and damaged it is. Would you describe Do you enjoy him? Were you convicted as I was this morning when uh Pastor Arch was drawing things out? And what about with your neighbor? How's that going? Not well. Well, you see that with Adam and Eve too in that first wreck of a marriage. And what about in yourself? Are you confused? You're not sure who you are? You do one thing one day. And what about with your environment? How are we doing with taking care of the environment? If you were to think of all the the problems that we have. What hope do we really have? I want you to think of all the earthly superiors that you could muster, all of the new educational plans that we could think of. And I want you to answer me and ask me and answer is are those things superior enough to solve the problems that I just mentioned? And we didn't even go into details. Of course they're not. And so what we read here is don't forget this is still about giving thanks to the Father. God has sent us the greatest God has sent us Himself. The Son has come and He is incarnated as the second person of the Trinity. the creator and the sustainer of all things, has attached himself to us as a human race, and he is renewing all of creation. And he is the head of us, the church. And he is working through us to do this in order to make these plans a reality. Look at all of his qualifications, and certainly it is true that he could certainly do so. And here is the big question for you. Does it just look at me for a moment? Here's the big question. Are you thankful for that? Some of you are struggling with how long have going on. I didn't realize this was going to be this long. But if it weren't this long, would this have been poetry for you? I understand there's I cannot do justice to this doctrine. But did you feel a little poetry? And if you didn't, why didn't you? Is this romantic for you? Why aren't these things romantic to us? Why is it that we could hear all of these things, all of these things that are offered to us? The beginning and the end is all given to us. And yet we don't find it romantic. We're not thankful. It's not poetry to us. We end up instead of feeling like the children of God. We act like we are orphans. We think of ourselves as orphans and not as sons or daughters. And that greatly affects us. Look at the very I've included a little chart for you. I would really like you to ponder this material. This is this is uh from a sonship curriculum. And I'm smart enough to know the d the good and the bad of it, so don't worry about me. Take a look at the look at the columns. I have to admit to you, when I looked at This. Look at those words. When I looked at them, and I focused on the left-hand column of a description of what it means to be an orphan. My heart began to weep. I became very emotional at how true those statements were of me. That I feel alone. And that I lack a vital daily intimacy with God. And I am full of self-concern. Apparently that is a mark of an orphan. Because if you truly believe these things, if they were romantic to you, if this was poetry, you would say that I have a growing assurance that God is my loving Heavenly Father. Father. Look at what he has done for me. Look at another one. I am anxious over felt needs. I'm anxious over relationships and money and health. I'm all alone and nobody cares. I'm not a happy Happy camper. Instead of this, you trust you trust the Father, and you have a growing confidence in His loving care. And He is freeing you up from worry. That's what it would be would mean to truly believe these things. I'm giving you a lithmus test to know if you think of yourself as an orphan or if you think of yourself as an adopted son or daughter. And I'm here to declare to you, no matter how you feel, that if Jesus Christ, through his Holy Spirit, has given you faith to profess him as the Christ and love for the brethren. Then you should be thinking of yourself as an adopted son or an adopted daughter. And that Satan has blinded you in this regard. Look at what the Father offers to us. in this right hand column, through Jesus Christ our superior. And tell me that's not beautiful. I have one final image for you. Apparently, when the Vikings went to war, they would go to a country and to show forth their superior loyalty to a belief that they had and their superiority. they would burn their boats. Has anybody ever heard that? They would burn their boats because they were so sure of their victory. This is what I'm asking you to do with this chart. I'm asking you to start going to the Father in prayer. We're going to go over a little bit tonight in prayer. Start going to the Father in prayer, crying aloud if you need this reassurance. This is what I want you to do. I want you to burn your boat. I want you to burn your boat Stop believing lies about yourself. Believe who you are in the Father's eyes through Jesus Christ. You know, those turtle eggs eventually hatched. I started to see a little crack in them, and then some would crawl out. If none of this is true, then why is it that you begin to see a crack And you begin to see stirrings of life within your own life. How do you explain your faith? How do you explain your love for your neighbor? How do you explain the gifts that have already been given to you from the new creation, from the Holy Spirit? They are a guarantee to you of your adoption, of your sonship. And I'd ask you to burn your boat, stop believing lies about yourself, and embrace the victory that you have in your life. Jesus Christ and believe that you are a child of God and cry out to Him as your Father. Let's turn to prayer. We'll I'll end us at a reasonable time. Thank you. for putting up with that Puritan long sermon. If there are things that you need to cry out to Him for, if there are things that you just want to give thanks for, I'd ask that you give thanks to the Father. Reflect on the superiority of Jesus Christ. I'll begin and give you time to pray out loud. But let's be thankful.