It's good to see your faces. Here we are, wrapping up the summer, seeing all the faces again. It's great to see you. I'm really glad to be here with you to worship this morning. The Lord has much to reveal, and we are here to glorify him. We need help from his spirit. And we're going to receive such by way of prayer. So let's go ahead and bow our heads and we'll pray to start our service off. Please join me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have gathered us here this day to remember who you are and what you are doing with this world and what you require of us. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, as the King and Head of your church, that you would lead us in worship this morning. That by your Spirit you would reveal the glory of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, that you would inflame our hearts, that we would sing praises to you. We ask, Lord, that these words would go down deep, that we would, in the hearing of your word preached, for example, that we would not just hear But that we would do. We pray, Lord, that this service would result in love of you and love of our neighbor. I pray especially, Lord, for those who Are feeling friendless, those who are feeling confused, those who cannot see a way out. I pray, Lord, that you would work in your church to offer them salvation and peace and grace. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship from Psalm 146, 8 through 10. The Lord opens the eyes of the blind. The Lord raises those who are bowed down. The Lord loves the righteous. The Lord watches over the strangers. He relieves the fatherless and widow. But the way of the wicked he turns upside down. The Lord shall reign forever. Your God, O Zion, to all generations, praise the Lord. Amen. Let us sing together hymn number one, oh the deep, deep love of Jesus. Oh God, we have green Under me all around me, in the wall. We leave one word, we leave one word to our glory of Christ love God Oh loving deep spreading spray from your shore How we love him, shake the wall I was forget, try to call them all Oh la la de la deep la Speed on the past of dressing, speak of sweet of breath And it bless me are to glory, or it lets me come to me. Amen. Let us behold our Christ now from James 1, 21 through 27. Therefore, lay aside all filthiness and overflow of wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls. But be doers of the word, and not hearers only Deceiving yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man obeying his natural face in a mirror. For he observes himself, goes away, and immediately forget what kind of man he was. But he who looks into the perfect law of liberty and continues in it, and is not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this one will be blessed in what he does. If any one among you thinks he is a religious and does not bridle his tongue, But deceives his own heart, this one's religion is useless. Pure and undefiled religion before God the Father is this To visit orphans and widows in their trouble, and to keep oneself unspotted from the world. Behold your Christ. Let us pray. Oh Lord Christ, we thank you for this vision of reality that you have given to us, even in the negative, but also the positive implications. It is a great call on what it means to be the church filled with your spirit. That is to say, you have called us surely to true religion and not self-deception. Lord, self-deception is present here this morning. But we pray that you would use our elder this morning. That you would use this time and whatever whatever providential means you choose to let us see our real selves, to bring our sin before you in acknowledgement. And to remember the forgiveness of Jesus Christ, and that you would grant us repentance unto new life. Make this, Lord, a time of life and not of death. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. So good to gather together and worship our Lord this morning. Here we come to the portion of our service where we will confess our sins. And it's important that we remember, no matter how much you like them, Simon and Garfunkel were wrong. No man is a rock. None of us are an island. None of us can go through this life on our own. And unfortunately, sometimes we Whether we forget that truth or we intentionally tell ourselves otherwise, we go through each and every day as if it's just us on this planet. I know that I am particularly guilty of this because there's so much stuff that I've put on my own plate. I've got work, I've got church, I've got stuff. And I think, look, let me just get through what I've set for me. Just let me finish what I've set as goals for myself today, and then I can get to your thing, my sweet and loving wife. It doesn't always work out that way. And this is the point. We go through lives thinking we're doing the right thing when really all we're doing is a selfish thing. We're only considering our own goals and our own desires when we plan our day. We know what pure and undefiled religion is. It's right there in this reading. And I would ask you, telling you with 100% honesty, that this past week I did not put much thought into orphans and widows. I definitely thought about those who I love who are orphaned, whose parents have died. I thought about those that I know who are widows, that are very close to me, like my mother-in-law. But the reality is, I don't give enough thought to this. And I wonder if you guys, if you examined your lives, you'd find that your lives are consumed by your own lives more than anything else. We have got to be putting others before ourselves. And when we come to the beginning of our day and we want to plan how I'm going to use every second of today. We must be sure that we are adding into that plan things outside of our own little tiny scope. Life is more than a job. Life is more than things we've committed to. Life is full of people. And we have to be putting people. before ourselves. So, husbands, in this week coming up, think about how you might be putting more time for your wives. Yes, that pipe needs to be cleaned thoroughly, but perhaps a conversation with your wife over a cup of tea might be more profitable than spending 45 minutes cleaning a pipe. Wives, think about your own duties. Whether you're teaching in homeschool or you have a job of your own that you have to go and work. Are you also taking into account that your children need just to be able to sit on your lap and tell you whatever comes into their minds and hearts? And sons and daughters, we are in this very difficult time of school The beginning of school that means hundreds of pages to read and papers to write and projects and dioramas and all manner of things that will divert our attention away from others. Make sure that when we're working to get all those assignments done, we are not using all those assignments as excuses to ignore the people that God's put in our lives. We know what God expects of us. We are to love Him, and we are to love our neighbors as ourselves. I would encourage you now at this time in the silence of our hearts as you ponder the ways that you have put yourself before all other things. I encourage you to ask the Holy Spirit to show you how in this week to come you might be able to give more time to those that God has put in your life I will pray for us as a corporate prayer, confessing our sins, and then there will be a time of prolonged silence for you to pray to your God in the silence of your heart, and then together we will receive the assurance of pardon from God's Holy Word. Word, please pray with me. Almighty God So often we try to pretend to ourselves that we've got this under control. We pretend that we know exactly how we need to order and organize our day such that we can accomplish all the many things. that have been put before us. And often we tell ourselves that it's things you've put before us. And so first and foremost, Father, we must ask your forgiveness. When we baptize our own intentions and our own will, thinking that it's from you. I pray that you will give us the ability to hold every decision hostage to your will. And that all of the things that we think are very productive and good for us to do, we ask for your wisdom by your Holy Spirit that we would be able to put things in their proper order. God, we need help because we we might be extraordinarily good at putting things in order, and yet we leave out of that order completely. That which you've told us in your word is pure and undefiled religion. Oh God, would you help us to see our own selfishness? Would you help us to see how our own ambition and our own greed and our own desires Get in the way of serving you and of showing love to your people. Lord, it is It is common to all of us that there are struggles with time. There just never seems to be enough of it. And yet, Father, we know that you are not in error in limiting the day to 24 hours. You have not made a mistake in requiring us to get rest and sleep. And so, Father, please help us. Help us never to blame you for our lack of time. Or to blame you for our lack of accomplishment. However, God, let us fall on our knees every day in dependence upon you. That you would show us what you would have us do, and that you would bring to us the people you would have us love. Father. We beg you now, by your Spirit that dwells within us, show us the areas that we fall short, that we can now confess it to you in our hearts. I pray, God, that you will hear the prayers of your people now. Our great and awesome God, you have put so many wonderful things in our path, so many great and good things that we can do. We need your help to order those things. that we would be doing what is most important first. Father, help us to remember that our decisions, our choices, our actions have unintended consequences. And we beg you that by your Holy Spirit you would allow us never to commit ourselves to something that would harm another. We pray, God, that you would allow us to keep those whom we love at the forefront of all of our plans. May we do it for your glory. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please raise your eyes and follow along. We have from Isaiah chapter eleven, verses eight through ten, an assurance of our pardon, a reminder of what God has done and is doing, and what is our future. The nursing child shall play with the cobra's hole, by the cobra's hole, and the weaned child shall put his hand in the viper's den They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. And in that day There shall be a root of Jesse, who shall stand as a banner to the people, for the Gentiles shall seek him, and his resting place shall be glorious. This one who has been sent, this Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. It is through what He has done that our souls can be refreshed, refreshed, and blessed, and that we can actually be enabled to look outside of our own selves and our own individual goals and desires. to see what he is doing amongst the people of God. Let's stand now and respond to the pardon from our God and ask him to refresh and bless us by singing hymn number two. Shepherd of those repression, your chosen hill temples with merwing. Will man go. Hungry and worst deep and we have here we love Our call card joys the last tea with our We would not win by bread alone, but by the word of rain. In the west we grabbed Be no breaking breath, stay not enemy Say your trans your table with That living breath that we want we are removed. God's people say. Amen. Now ask that the ushers bring forth our tithes and our offerings, that we can sing the glory of our God in the doxology. Bring it on the morning slow Praise upon the creature God, you have given us so many wonderful gifts. You have provided us security and peace financially in many ways. Lord, we recognize how blessed we are by you. We ask, as a church, that we would also have the right goals. That we would receive our goals from you and we would use these gifts given freely by your people through the love you have put in them, that we would use these for your God make us good stewards of these gifts that we can use it to draw many unto you, gathering the saints to come and to learn of you, learn what you require of them, and learn how to depend upon. God, please continue to make us generous givers. And continue to guide and provide us for us that we can do good work in your name for your glory. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Glory to the water and to God and to the I want to leave in the Amen, indeed. Please be seated. We'll dismiss children in a minute. First, we have a reception of new members as a part of our service. this morning and so I'd ask the Lee family and then Brad you're their shepherding elder and anyone that you want to bring up with y'all as long as there's room. The session had the opportunity to meet with the Lee family, and it was really a delight. While we were meeting with you, I hope you noticed our smiles and just how pleased we were with what the Lord has done with your family and in you. And even after you left, we kept talking about the grace of God. Especially since we had the opportunity to examine Marina and Geneva, they'll be supping with us in the Lord's Supper for the first time this morning. Their profession of faith was sent from God above. Uh I'll you can talk to them yourself. But they they discern the Lord. They discern the Lord. So praise God for that miracle Uh Ariel, you had been admitted to the supper prior, and you'll continue to suffer with us. And then if you don't know the parents, please get a chance to know the parents. And then the youngest is Oliver and Leah Leona. I always want to say it Leonora. I didn't want to get it wrong. I know, it's Leona. I'm working on it. Just give me a little time. Give me a little time. Uh so I hope you get a chance to meet this lovely family as they enter into fellowship and become family with you, church family. I have a few vows for you to say publicly. It's important that we all profess the same faith that the Spirit has given to us by His Word. uh before each other and and most importantly before God. And then I'm going to ask Brad, since he's your shepherding elder, to pray for you guys. And the appropriate response is I do. Yeah, or by God's grace I do. All of you being here present to make a public profession of faith are to assent to the following declarations and promises by which you enter into a solemn covenant with God and his church. Do you acknowledge yourselves? Now little ones, you don't need to say I do. Okay. Soon enough. Do you acknowledge yourselves to be sinners in the sight of God, justly deserving his displeasure, and without hope, save in his sovereign mercy? Amen. I can't see you. Hey, did you say I do? Okay, good. Number two, do you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as the Son of God and Savior of sinners? And do you receive and rest upon him alone for salvation as he is offered in the gospel? I do. Amen. Do you now resolve and promise in humble reliance upon the grace of the Holy Spirit that you will endeavor to live as becomes the followers of Christ? I do. Amen. Do you promise to support the church and its worship and work to the best of your ability? I do. Amen. And then finally, do you submit yourselves to the government and discipline of the church and promise to study its purity and peace? Alright. Amen. Brad, will you please pray for this family? God in heaven, we trust in your sovereignty, we trust in your perfect plan, and we thank you. But in that plan you have brought the lead family to you have seen that Sephang Run was in need and you are filling that need with this sample. We pray God that you will allow our fellowship to be sweet, that we would get to know each other and to love one another as true family. And we pray God that you will make it abundantly clear. As they fulfill what is lacking in us and that we here minister to the needs that they have. For you have brought us together as equals, as family. Oh God in heaven, it is marvelous that you have done this thing, that you save us and make us Christians. We praise you. We praise you and thank you. And look forward to to the work you will accomplish through the Lee family here among us. Thank you, God. In Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Let me just say one last prayer. Lord, we pray for for those covenant children that have become now full members. And you are communing with them in your in the bread and the wine. And I pray, Lord, that you would teach them yourself. I pray that they would remember you and all that you have done. uh for them and the human race and what their future is. I pray that you would give them faith, hope, and love in abounding measure more and more. And I pray for the those who have are not coming to the table yet, Lord, that we'd see their blaze their their faith blossom among us in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. If you're a member of Seven Runs, let's stand and just welcome this family into our midst. All right. We did it. High five. Congratulations. Proud of you. Welcome. All right, you got this. Thank you. And the uh three year old and younger may be dismissed for nursery. Can everyone hear me okay? Okay, great. Oh wait a second. Man. Why I was wondering why why is I was saying in my head, why is everybody looking at me like I'm doing something wrong? Let's stand. for the reading of God's Word. This is gonna be uh I give you a moment's rest because this is a long chapter. He said, deceiving everyone. Alright, so today I'll read all of Judges eleven just so we can keep the story together of the infamous Jephthah. Let's begin at verse 1 and go to the end of the chapter. Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, but he was the son of a harlot, and Gilead begot Jephthah. Gilead's wife bore sons, and when his wife's sons grew up, they drove Jephthah out and said to him, You shall have no inheritance in our father's house, for you are the son of another woman Then Jephthah fled from his brothers and dwelt in the land of Tob. And worthless men banded together with Jephthah and went out raiding with him. It came to pass after a time that the people of Amman made war against Israel, and so it was when the people of Amon made war against Israel. That the elders of Gilead went to Jephthah from the land of Tob. Then they said to Jephthah, Come and be our commander, that we may fight against the people of Ammon. So Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, Did you not hate me and expel me from my father's house? Why have you come to me now? Why are you in distress? Now when you are in distress. And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, That is why we have turned again to you now, that you may go with us and fight against the people of Amman, and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead. So Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, If you take me back home to fight against the people of Ammon, and the Lord delivers them to me, shall I be your head? And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, The Lord will be a witness between us if we do not do according to your words. Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and commander over them. And Jephthah spoke all his words before the Lord in Mizpah. Now Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the people of Amman, saying, What do you have against me that you have come to fight against me in my land? And the king of the people of Haman answered the messengers of Jephthah, because Israel took away my land when you came up out of Egypt From the Arnan as far as the Jabak and the Ju and to the Jordan. Now therefore restore those lands peaceably. So Jephthah again sent messengers to the king of the people of Amon, and said to him, Thus says Jephthah Israel did not take away the land of Moab, nor the land of people of Amman. For when Israel came up from Egypt, they walked through the wilderness as far as the Red Sea and came to Kadesh. Then Israel sent messengers to the king of Adam, saying, Please let me pass through your land. But the king of Adam would not heed. And in like manner they sent to the king of Moab, but he would not consent. So Israel remained in Kadesh, and they went along through the wilderness and bypassed the land of Edom and the land of Moab, came to the east side of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnan But they did not enter the border of Moab, for the Arnon was the border of Moab. Then Israel sent messengers to Sihan, king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon. And Israel said to him, Please let us pass through your land into our place. But Sihan did not trust Israel to pass through his territory So Sihon gathered all his people together, encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel. And the Lord God of Israel del uh delivered Sihan and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they defeated him. Thus Israel gained possession of all the land of the Amorites who inhabited that country. They took possession of all the territory of the Amorites, from the Arnon to the Javach, and from the wilderness to the Jordan. And now the Lord God of Israel has dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel. Should you then possess it? Will you not possess whatever Kemosh, your God, gives you to possess So whatever the Lord our God takes possession of before us, we will possess. And now, are you any better than Balak, the son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever strive against Israel? Did he ever fight against them? While Israel dwelt in Hashbon and its villages, Ar or uh and its villages, and all the cities along the banks of the Arnon. For three hundred years. Why did you not recover them then within that time? Therefore, I have not sinned against you, but you wronged me by fighting against me. May the Lord, the judge, render judgment this day between the children of Israel and the people of Amon. However, the king of the people of Ammon did not heed the words which Jephthah sent him. Then the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jephthah, and he passed through Gilead and Manasseh, and passed through Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead he advanced toward the people of Amman. And Jeffah made a vow to the Lord and said, If you will indeed deliver the people of Amon into my hands, then it will be that whatever comes out of the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the people of Amman shall surely be the Lord's, and I will offer it up as a burnt offering. So Jephthah advanced toward the people of Amman to fight against them, and the Lord delivered them into his hands And he defeated them from Aror as far as Minath, twenty cities, and to Abel Keramim with a very great slaughter. Thus the people of Amman were subdued before the children of Israel. When Jephthah came to his house at Mizpah, there was his daughter coming out to meet him with timbrels and dancing, and she was his only child. Besides her he had neither son nor daughter And it came to pass when he saw her that he tore his clothes and said, Alas, my daughter, you have brought me very low. You are among those who trouble me, for I have given my word to the Lord, and I cannot go back on it. So she said to him, My father, if you have given your word to the Lord, do to me according to what has gone out of your mouth, because the Lord has avenged you of your enemies, the people of Amon. Then she said to her father, Let this thing be done for me. Let me alone for two months, that I may go and wander on the mountains, bewail my virginity, my friends, and I. So he said, Go and he sent her away for two months, and she went with her friends, and bewailed her virginity on the mountains. And it was so at the end of two months that she returned to her father, and he carried out his vow, with her which he had vowed. She knew no man. And it became custom in Israel that the daughters of Israel went four days each year to lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite. Let us pray. Lord Christ, you are the great teacher by your spirit, and this account is notoriously difficult. I pray that you would help us to at least walk away with the basics. Help us to understand this in light of the major thesis of this book that you've given to us by the inspiration of the Spirit. I pray, Lord, that we too would remember our daughters. Pray, Lord, that we would remember our children. I pray that we would remember our women. and any who are vulnerable, I pray that we would be a community that does not sacrifice them. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Well the last time uh we uh I brought to you the preached word was two Sundays ago And just to remind you of the main lesson, it was put in both a negative and a positive form. The negative was this. Another symptom of the canonization or worldliness of the church is hypocrisy or pretending. The church can honor God with their outward actions. But we are quite capable of keeping our hearts far from Him, may it never be. The positive way to look at that same truth communicated to us from the Scriptures is that by the grace of Christ we are called to love the Gor love the Lord our God, and we're thinking of those concentric circles that we talked about. Love the Lord our God with all our hearts, with all our soul, and with all of our resources or strength. Well, this week we finally get to the heart of the Jephthah account, and it is quite the tragic story, is it not? Uh who here is is is hearing this for the first time? Any anyone hearing of uh Jeffha's daughter for the first time? Very good. Okay, yeah. It's uh quite tragic, isn't it? Well, I want to make a few observations and then uh have uh two main points of application this morning. So please keep your scriptures open because I'm gonna take you through the verses. This is a large account and I'm gonna tell you the different chunks and what they mean. And then we're going to need to go over to Ephesians 5 to see a positive example of what Christ intends rather than Jephthah. He's not a positive example if you haven't picked that up. So just notice first and foremost in observation number one that the first ten verses give us the character and the selection of Jephthah. We want to make sure that we pay attention to this because this ends up being a foundation for understanding his actions throughout. You can see in verse 1 that he's called a mighty man of valor. That essentially means that he's a warrior. The problem, however, is that he's not just a warrior. What ends up being highlighted by the narrator Is that his mother was a prostitute. So you can already see that Israel is not doing really well right now because at least his father is doing things he shouldn't be doing. Well, another reason why this is brought up is for you to see the downward trend in Jepha's life as well as the continued canonization of the church. Look at how his brothers treat him in the following verses. They take advantage of inheritance laws. And they say that since your mother is not our mother, you don't get anything. And that's actually not true. Inheritance is based upon the father. They should have taken him to court. It should have been ruled on by the larger community. And they didn't do any of that. They basically bullied him out of the situation. And Gideon is forced to travel to a foreign land, the land of Tob And there he forms a band, verse 3, of worthless men. You can see the kind of activities that they're up to. They're not helping the poor, they're raiding people. This worthless men, uh if you have the NIV, it says uh somebody needs to pray for the NIV sometimes. They say adventurers. And he joins with adventurers. Yeah, adventurers, all right. Uh this is the same Hebrew word that's used for the men that Abimelech hires to kill all of the all of his brothers. Okay. We're talking the the Godfather here, uh the movie. So uh this is a worthless band of men and they are raiding people and that's the kind of person that Jephthah is. Make sure you have that straight. That's quite the portrait. The narrator is going to great lengths to show who this guy is. He is not a good man, but he is strong, and he can get some things done. Now that's the character of Jephthah. Next is his selection starting in verse 4. And you can tell with the way this is worked out in a kind of ancient Near Eastern um negotiating scene uh that he is quite savvy, Jephthah is. The people of Oman have made war against Israel, and so Those who are the elders of Gilead want to go and recruit Jephthah because he is a mighty warrior, and perhaps they could lead him in battle, and they offer him to be commander Did you hear that in the story? Now that's one Hebrew word that's present within the text, is that he's going to be the military commander, which means that he has power, but it is limited, and the elders are still ruling over him. Now Jephthah keeps the negotiating uh going and by the time they get to the end, did you notice that he's not only the military commander, but the head of the Gileadites He has managed his way into the presidency and is now ruling over all of them if he pulls this off well. That's the assignment or the selection of Jeff the and his character. Well the the elders of Gilead agree in verse 11 and the rest is history. That's observation number one, the character and selection of Jephthah. Observation number two takes us out of the first ten verses into verses 12 through 28. Did you notice the political war correspondence between the king of Amman and Jephthah? Those are letters that have been saved for us to where we can see the correspondence that was going on between the two of them. He begins wartime negotiations with the king of the Ammonites. He sends first a letter uh seeking peace. Aman rejects it, and then upon rejection, Jeff is going to contradict the statements of Amman and show that he actually has, according to historical records, titles to all of the land that God gave them to possess. And who were they to dispossess? those whom the Lord has given possessions. That's the main political and theological argument that He lays down for them. You can see However, that the king of Haman, Amon in verse 28, rejects or does not heed, this should have evoked Sihan or Sihan. He does not heed Jephthah's words, and we're going to go to battle. And that takes us to observation number three in verses 29 through 33. And this is where the tragedy starts to unfold with a superfluous vow and a continual silence from Yahweh. You notice God is not speaking. There's no selection like we saw before with the deliverer with Jephthah. We're really heading down a dark path here. And Jephthah makes this vow in verses thirty and thirty-one. And Jephthah made a vow to the Lord and said, If you will indeed deliver the people of Amon into my hands, then it will be that whatever comes out of the doors of my house to meet me When I return in peace from the people of Amman shall surely be the Lord's, and I will offer it up as a burnt offering. Now when you heard that and I read it, how many of you cringed again, even though you knew the story? You just go, Oh, Jephthah. Well, the Lord does deliver the Ammonites into Jephthah's hands. And then we get to observation number four, where in verses 34 through 40 we see Jephthah's sacrifice. He vowed that whatever greet him upon his return from battle would be offered in sacrifice, and tragically, it is the dutiful daughter. She is presented in this narration as honoring her father, full of purity and future prospects. This is meant to contrast with who Jephthah is as a bandit and one who makes rash vows. Tragically, it's his daughter. He grants her in verse 37 upon her request two months to grieve. And then in the end, perhaps for the sake of all future women. There is a local commemoration each year where four days are set aside. I believe it says four days are set aside. To lament the daughter of Jetha the Gileadite. That's verse number 40 Now this is one of those passages that if you were in ethics class, your professor to be cruel to you would raise it and get you to try to solve all of the moral dilemmas that we see in the in this passage. And I don't even want to start to go down that road. I'd like us to just stay clear as much as we possibly can this morning. I know that you um have heard some of the debates. I know that you want to know the significance of all of the details and what we are to take from this. And I actually think that there's a lot of lessons. But I want to do the easiest thing and point out some of the obvious lessons that we should be taking from this Jeff the account. And in order to do so, I just want to remind you of one thing. We are trying to remain consistent with what with what we believe to be the main thesis of this book. And that is That we are watching by God's grace the canonization of the church, that we can be warned and avoid it throughout all of the different eras of the church until Christ returns. Well, that's what we're going to continue to do with this application. Did you notice the canonization of the church? Jepha's father is not faithful to his wife. Jephthah's brothers cheat him out of his inheritance rights. Jepha joins himself with worthless men, the same kind of men that Abimelech hired. And now we see, quite obviously, to tell you the truth, the ultimate act of Canaanization And it is child sacrifice. If you were to study this in detail, there were many ways for Jephthah to get out of this vow. There are, just legally speaking, in Leviticus, there are ways to undo this vow, or you know what he could have done, is he could have just eaten his mistake himself and suffered the consequences. But the main point here that is meant to be emphasized is there is a the act of a Canaanite They were known, the people in that land, for sacrificing their children to gods in order to gain favor and what they desired. Sometimes that was just food. And they would sacrifice their children in order to obtain that. And that is what we see here, I think quite obviously. Uh he did sacrifice her. It was a child sacrifice. Oh, that's really hard to debate, and I encourage you not to. Jephthah sacrificed his child as a burnt offering. So there are a lot of puzzles to this passage, but at least this is clear and it easily fits the purpose of the book. And we can, in fact, broaden This out broadness, all these things that we're collecting for our doctrine this morning, and I'm going to state it just in the negative for us today. And it's this. This is our doctrine. Another symptom of the canonization or worldliness of the church is the poor treatment and even abuse of children, especially by men. And I will add to the doctrine women and children, because that's a major theme going throughout Judges, and Jephthah is a daughter. So we got women and children all bunched up together right here. Another symptom of the canonization or worldliness of the church is the poor treatment and even abuse of women and children, especially by men. I have to emphasize that because judges emphasizes it. You know, don't think too much of yourselves, ladies, but here it's especially by men. So what I would like to do now is just Uh spend some time in application and there's two main points if you're taking notes. The first is the feminist codes. I want to revisit some of the feminists' readings of this. This is one of their favorite passages. We did that with Deborah also. I think it'll help us to understand as a church the way we should go. Feminist codes and then household codes. And that's where we're going to need to turn to Ephesians 5. Feminist codes and household codes. Anybody know what a code is? It's a kind of law. Yeah, it's a that's the kind of code that we're talking about. Thinking of like the code of the Boy Scouts. Is it three fingers? I f I failed that. Yeah, three fingers. Think of like the the honor code. That's what we're talking about when we use the word code in these application points. Feminist code and the household code. Well, I'm sure that you caught in the doctrine as we think about the the code of feminists with regard to this uh doc this uh passage, I'm sure you caught the emphasis, especially men, at the end of the doctrine. And if we are honest, then we have to put it that way, because judges in particular emphasizes how destructive men can be Now we've seen some destructive women, but Judges emphasizes the destruction of men mostly, and it's certainly emphasized here. And that is why Judges ends up being a favorite book for the feminist agenda. I'm talking about feminism as a movement. I'm not talking about feminists in particular. I have no idea what every feminist in the world thinks How could I? But as a movement and how they publish themselves most popularly, this ends up being a favorite book and a favorite passage for the feminist. At heart, feminists have a kind of eschatological vision or societal vision on the best way for this world to run. And that vision goes something like this. Male dominated society is not good They believe in fact that no hierarchy should exist between the genters genders, that it should be flattened out. Anytime there is a difference, it results in tragedy. Sometimes I get a little bit of an inclination that the woman should be slightly higher because the man's just a buffoon. I get that picture from TV I'll get that picture from TV. Now, to establish that as a thesis on how they believe society should run, they point out from judges what happens when men are in charge. They look at the Bible and they see that this is highly influential over Western culture especially, and they say, look at what a patriarchy rule by men or rule by fathers, look at what a patriarchy gets you. Certainly you don't want that for your society. And honestly, feminists at first have some good points I always listen when they speak, because they have some insights. Like Jephthah, men have been known to sacrifice women and children for their selfish gain. Not a human sacrifice like we see here literally on the pages of Scripture, but by way of analogy or metaphor. Have you not seen sacrifices in our culture that men make of their families and friends Haven't we seen fathers sacrifice the women and the children in their lives for status or power or money or the fulfillment of lusts? Have you not seen it? That is within the hearts of men. And this is why feminism ends up becoming so concerned about Christianity, because they make that truthful observation. About what men are capable of when they have power or dominance. They make this truthful observation, and then they see that Christianity has a structure and a metaphysic that funds a male hierarchy. Men being in charge, and that's therefore they take issue with Christianity. The point that they would make, perhaps from judges, is they would say, look at what your patriarchal structure gets you. What if your daughter was Jess's daughter? Maybe we need to make a change in the very structures of our society, period, and the genders should be equal. That's their vision for the world. Everybody's got one. Then women and children would be safe So, I appreciate that sentiment. I want women and children to be safe also. One problem with that line of thinking and One of the reasons why I am not a feminist myself. You can be a man and a feminist, by the way, if you didn't know. I'm not a feminist. But one problem, and because of one line of thinking, uh at least And that is that the book of Judges does not reveal the society with which Jesus Christ is pleased. You don't hold up judges and say, Thus saith the Lord. Uh Jesus is quite displeased with how men in the society that he formed conduct themselves. And that is why, by the power of the Holy Spirit, He has given us this book and published it in sacred writ, so that we could learn from the mistakes. of these men. It actually reveals the corruption of a society, not a true patriarchy. This is a corrupt patriarchy, not a real one. That's the first thing. And then another problem with that line of thinking is that God has in fact chosen a hierarchy in society, and who am I to change that? I can't just do that. I can't dismiss it and just say the scriptures were cultural and it's different now. That doesn't work in my mind. He gave men the vocation of rule in at least home and church. He gave Jesus Christ the man, male. as ruler over all of creation. And all of those things are a part of a plan and are on purpose. And God does all things well. And really, that is the point of judges. We cannot just set aside God's structures for society. If you want to protect young women, this is the real message of judges. If you want to protect young women, like Jeffha's daughter, The solution is to make sure that societies, especially the church, are not canonized, but instead Christianized. And that, my friends, is a very difficult thesis for people to believe today. partially because of the conduct of the church. But even there, they're seeing the canonization of the church, not the real church. You can see what's at stake here. If you want to protect young women like Jeff's daughter, don't become a feminist. We don't need the canonization, we need Christianization. True Christianity, not fake Christianity. Now that's a feminist code, and why I can't accept that. And it brings us to the second point of application, which is the household codes. And this is one way that we can begin to see the heart of Jesus Christ for how society should be arranged according to the genders. And it's just the beginning. There's so much to talk about here. If we want to see Christ's vision for society that eventually spares the lives of children and especially women, then we don't adopt feminist codes, we adopt household codes. Codes are a set of laws and structures which motivate and shape societies. You define that yourselves. Paul gives these codes in Ephesians and Colossians at least. I want you to look now, flip in your scriptures to Ephesians chapter 5, and we'll work our way through 5 and 6. I'm just going to point out a couple things. And then if you want to talk about this kind of stuff later, please do so. But I'm trying to give you or show you a theological vision for society and how the different people in society should be arranged. And it's not a feminist vision. It's a Christian vision. Although it addresses the concerns of feminists So when we look at Ephesians, I just want you to look, for example, at Ephesians chapter 5, verse 22. Does everybody see that? You don't need to read the whole thing. Wives, submit to your own husbands. Do you see that it addresses wives directly? Does everybody see that? Paul is speaking to wives. Then take a look at Ephesians chapter 6, verse 1. This is all a part of the same teaching. Children, obey your parents in the Lord. Do you see that he is directly speaking to children? If I received a letter from Paul and then I read the letter to you, as you are gathered here, I would say, wives? And the wives would go, yes. Paul has something to say to you. And then you would listen. And then I say, children, and then you say, yes. And then children, I have something to say to you. He's directly addressing you as members of the household of God. If you lived in Paul's Greco-Roman society, you would be quite familiar with these codes. They are in multiple pieces of literature that are not Christian They are found not only in the New Testament but popular literature. And when we compare these codes that Paul has written, these household codes. When we compare Paul's codes with the Roman codes, we see some major dissimilarities. There is an acknowledgement of certain things, and then Paul is subverting a great deal of other things, and actually Christians get in a great deal of trouble For conducting their lives like this in Roman society. Rome was run by a code called the Pater Familius. Perhaps you're familiar with that from Brother Where Art Thou? I'm the Pater Familius Do you remember this? No. You shouldn't be watching that movie. Caught you. No. I'm the Popter Familius. That means head of house, or the father is the head of the family. And the codes, therefore, if you looked in the other literature that was popular, was written and addressed solely to the man as the head so he can conduct his business with those that he has charge over. In the New Testament, however, Paul addresses directly wives and children, and if you were to keep reading, he even says slaves. In direct address. The lowest of the low. He addresses them as if they are real human beings. And other New Testament teaching showing that they have inheritance rights and all kinds of stuff, being a part of the household of God. In other words, what we're seeing here is that Paul, even in the way that he is addressing people, as it is compared to the codes that were present within that society, is elevating the status of women and children and showing that their status is greater in the household of God than it would be if they were just citizens of Rome. That they already have a different level of status. In other words, Paul acknowledges the role of the pot of He addresses the head of the house, but subverts the Roman ideal, giving significance and honor to women and to children That was unheard of. You don't understand because of the where you live and the culture and what you take for granted. This was unheard of. Paul not only elevates women and children, however, But he is now going to spend the majority of his time addressing the man because he wants to make sure, especially with us intersecting with the judges. He wants to make sure that men really get the gospel. And here I want you to look at Ephesians 5. 25. Did you notice how it addresses the husband? Now I want you to look at Ephesians chapter 6. Do you know how it now addresses the Father? Now look at Ephesians chapter 6 4. I'm sorry, chapter 6, verse 4, and then chapter 6, verse 9, deals with the master. Now here's the thing. Who is the father? Who is the husband? And who is the master? It's all the same person. He has spent the majority of the time in the household code focusing on the role of the man. Because Paul understands the history of men and what they can do when they have rule, and he, especially in Roman society, where they had permission to pretty much do whatever they wanted to their wives and children. Here he's trying to show the distinctive mark of what Christ does in his kingdom. And he wants to make sure that above all, the Christian Pacter Familius, if you will, rules in line with the gospel. These passages all refer to the same person, the man. He is the husband, he is the father, he is the master or employer. And with this emphasis, we can see that Paul is especially concerned that the men live well in their vocations under Christ. Men in power can equal destruction. He's seen that even in the crucifixion of his Lord. But in Christianity, men in power should mean what? What does it look like when we are not canonized and we have power? Look at verse 29. We are to cherish our wives. Do a little word study on what it means to cherish something. You want to see what Christ's heart is for you? You are to cherish your wife. Look at chapter 6, verse 4. You could summarize this by saying: you must nurture your children. Now if you were a Roman father, that stuff was too petty and you had nothing to do with your children. And then in verses six, or chapter six, verses seven through nine, you can summarize this to say that Paul is telling them that they must look out for the well-being of all of their employees, if you want to put it in the terms of today. Is there anybody here that is a department head? Well, if you don't have to raise your hand, maybe you're modest, I don't know. It is teaching in the scriptures that Christ is ruling his cosmos by way of a hierarchy within human relationships, and he has given the man to rule in certain spheres. Male. But when he gives him that rule, he does not intend for it to be a corrupt domination. If you were the head of the department, if Christ places you in the head of that department, it is the department of everybody else's well-being. That is your job. The well-being of your wife, the well-being of your children, and the well-being of all of those that you oversee in the Lord. Their well-being in the Lord. That is Jesus Christ's vision, and it is a vision that keeps our daughters and our women safe. It is not the removal of power, it is the right use of it. Now, that's going to be difficult for some people to swallow. There's a lot of history and a lot of destruction. And our culture is hellbent on a different vision. Oh, I didn't want to do this, but I started watching the first episode of The Rings of Power on Amazon Prime. I'm so sorry. And unfortunately they have feminized the Lord of the Rings. In my opinion, I mean who am I? From what I observed, all of the lead male roles, and there's an obvious analogy. Uh in fact I thought it was a young um Elijah, whatever his name was, that first popped out but it ended up being a girl. From what I observed, all of the lead male roles have been replaced by female protagonists. They are now the heroes. It starts off like it's going to take the normal story arc of the Lord of the Rings and then it subverts it and places all female protagonists. And so far the only thing I can see as antagonists are males. Why? Because our media seeks to promote, especially by stories, what they believe to be the best code for society. And that is the feminist code. And I'm just taking issue with it. As much good that a feminist may have in her or his heart for society, I'm saying it can't be good if it's not what God has given to us for society. And so I can't go down that road, though I can listen. I can listen to the points that they make and then show how Christianity is the solution. Really, how Christ is the solution by the Father and through His Spirit. While acknowledging the horror of corrupt men We cannot buy into that solution. Do you see what I'm saying there? God the Father, through the Son, has established certain vocations even for gender. the rule of men in home and church, and the rule of one man, Jesus Christ, over all creation. This rule, however, is not the rule of Canaan, and it is not Roman rule. It is male headship under Christ and like Christ. You are the department head. Of everyone's well-being, so that in the Lord they can flourish. That's your job. So let me ask you a few questions. We read the James passage earlier, and this James passage, I believe, by the governance of Jesus Christ, will not leave my heart and my mind. I hear it many, many times during the day now. Do not just be a hearer but a doer. Do not just be a hearer but a doer. And so in light of that, in light of intersecting James with Ephesians and both with judges. Let me ask you, do you cherish your wife and your daughters? Do you cherish your wife and your daughters? Bradley's confession today was extremely convicting to me this morning. I came up with very quickly with 50 ways in which I'm not cherishing my wife and my daughter. Ways within my grasp, not New Year's resolutions, but ways within my grasp, not a doer of the word, not cherishing my wife and my daughters. Are you nurturing your children more generally? Or are you a Canaanite, sacrificing them to your selfish ambition and gains? Bradley did a very good job of saying even doing responsible things can be doing idolatrous things. Because you have decided to neglect everyone in your life but yourself and your own goals. But that's not your job. You're the department head for everyone else's well-being. Which means you start to look like Jesus Christ who gave up his life that others may have life. You may say to yourself, well, Jesse, that's just too much work. I feel like I could die. Well, good. Because Christ died for us, and now you're starting to look more like him. Stop whining. No, I'm just kidding. I understand that is difficult. And we can talk. But if it hurts, that doesn't mean you should stop. Not in this particular case that I'm talking about. Okay? Are you nurturing your children? Or you're like a Roman father who has doesn't have much to do with them until they can drive at 16 because you're scared to death you've got to get in the car with them or you want to have a beer with them at 21. But you miss the whole rest of their life. And are you looking out for the good of those that you employ or that you oversee? Are you looking out for your well-being, keeping in mind That you have a master in heaven who does not show favoritism, whether you're the boss or they're the employee. He holds us all accountable to the same Torah. Another symptom of the canonization or worldiness of the church is the poor treatment and even abuse of women and children, especially by men. And that is not Christ's heart for you. I love how it is put in the positive with question and answer 129 in the larger catechism. Here is a paraphrase. We are to love our women and our children. We are to pray for them. We are to bless them. Speaking specifically of children, we are to instruct them. We are to counsel them. We are to admonish them. We are to commend those and reward those who do well. Don't just focus on the negatives. Celebrate. We are to constructively reprove those who do ill We are to protect. We are to provide for them all things that are necessary for their souls and for their bodies. That's the heart of Christ. And may it be our heart. Amen. Amen. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for these lessons from Jeff, and we'll have very similar lessons from Samson. And others. Lord, this is not the spirit that you have given to us. We pray, Lord Christ, that you would make us more conscious of the things that we know. That we would begin to do them, that we would have a true religion in our midst, and then it would begin to show up with how we treat orphans and widows. Children and women in different circumstances in their lives. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would keep the church from being a bunch of talk. And a head that's too big. I pray, Lord, that you give us some heart and you would show our society that we are useful. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that the feminists would drop their agenda because they would see that Christ has it figured out. But I Lord, I know they're not going to do that if we keep conducting ourselves in a certain way. Lord, please keep your church from being the abuser. May our children thrive and speak well of your body. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Let's stand, and we have an invitational song for the supper. God of grace, I ask the elders to please prepare the table. So the rolling feeling. God making one purple in trouble and green. All of me for mercy, Jesus preaches down to me. God how great I stand in wonder, and my God restores my soul. His own God has made my grandson. Awesome ought to make me hold. God was great to love and through me, glory of the world. And by saying you will come from there, God praise my trust in Jesus I observed as his home every day praise us names me And I mean I'm grace I said just out here when for you. Oh my deal for now, and I will be never sure. God embrace a broken glory where one day I'll see your face and forever I'll adore you. In your everlasting grace, God of Great Proud Glory, where one day I'll see your face. And for ever adore you in forever last night. Amen. You made me see them. Let us give thanks for this table. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for sending your only begotten Son for our salvation. O Lord Christ, we thank you that you have taken upon yourself human nature. We thank you, Christ, that you have taken our transgressions upon you, and that you have given us your righteousness. We thank you, Jesus Christ, that by the power of the Holy Spirit, you have been raised to life. And you being raised, since we are united to you, we too have been raised to life. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, that you have ascended on high at the right hand of the Father, wherein all authority has been given to you. And we thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, that you are the first male to rule well. We thank you, Lord, for the promise that you shall make us all good at ruling. That you shall place under your lead dominion in our hands, and under your lead we shall do it well. Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have sent us your Holy Spirit to accomplish those kinds of things. The restoration of your creation by the hands of men and women and children. O Lord Christ, we ask that by faith we would behold you and your benefits here at this table today. In the name of Christ, Amen. Amen. This is a table for those who profess to be Christians. You saw the profession of faith here earlier among those who were just the Lee family and joining us. And even with Geneva and Marina, they had taken the opportunity to be interviewed by the session. We asked them a lot of questions. And they were able to articulate the role of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit in the economy of salvation to a pretty impressive degree. And we also heard their Christian testimony in the ways that the Spirit is working out righteousness in their lives. I just described a Christian to you. And this table is meant for Christians. If you're not a Christian, if you're not a Christian, a professing Christian, if you are rejecting Christ, this table is not for you. If you don't discern or understand who Christ is yet, Then this table is not for you. But you can still see as the bread and the wine passes you, you can see the bread and the wine here. And just know that no matter what experience you have with human domination, Specifically, males, that God Himself, the Father, has chosen Jesus Christ as the great judge who will ensure That all of his creation is ordered well, and any man who rebels against him, not in repentance, Jesus Christ will destroy In complete justice. In the end, let me tell you this right now. Jesus Christ will always protect his daughters, and he will protect his bride, the church. I would encourage you to join him. And if you'd like to have a conversation about what Christianity is, that's a good start. Let's talk about it. Let's talk about your objections. Encourage you to talk to me or any of these brothers. By grace, Christ, through the Apostle Paul, has given us a warning and some instruction about this table in 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Therefore, whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this reason many are weak and sick among you, and many die or sleep. That is a gracious warning. So if you're not a Christian, please allow these elements to pass by. But if you are a Christian, if you discern Christ, you know who he is. And the redemptive plan of the Father and the Sender of the Spirit, then Christ has not left you as an orphan. He takes care of you. And he does so through this table that you can remember who he is. And all of the benefits that He has merited for you on your behalf. It is our faith, it is our hope, and it is our love. I want you to witness once again here with the broken bread, which will come up soon, and the wine, which represents his blood, and the blood of the new covenant. What it means to really be a man. And how he cherished people. Think about the pages of the Gospels. And what Jesus Christ was like even with prostitutes. Jephthah's father took advantage of women that had to go down that road for occupation. But Jesus Christ did not. He showed them forgiveness and love. And his love was so great that that woman washed his feet with her tears. Right there in that house. No one got it. No other man in there knew what was going on. They didn't even want to let her in. I'm just trying to communicate to you the kind of man he is. He's showing you what it means to be male. Jesus Christ is not canonized. He's not worldly because he's not of this world. He's of the new. So no matter who you are, I want you to take a look. Maybe you have lessons about what it means to be a man here. Maybe you have lessons, and I hope you have this lesson of what this man has done for you. That his body is broken and his blood is shed because he is the head of the Department of Well-being. Let us pray. Oh Christ, as we pass out or distribute the bread and the wine and we read the words of institution. We pray, Lord, that this would be a meaningful act. You heard of the words of your father and you did them. You loved. And you have been given the Spirit, and even in your ascension, for the glory of the Father, everything you do is for the sake of your bride. You cherish us, you nourish us, you wash us clean. O Lord Christ, I pray for your people today that they would be refreshed sitting under the ministry of their heavenly husband. Ask these things in your name. Amen. We're going to pass out the bread first, and then we'll read the words of institution. The smaller cup is gluten-free bread. We'll eat together as a family. Thanks, brothers. For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you. That the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it. And he said, Take, eat. This is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Let us take and eat. Oh Lord Christ, we need your body broken. It is difficult to admit But we need your body broken. There is no other way for us to escape our sin and our misery and for the Father to be glorified. Lord, we confess to you, especially as men, that especially in private, there is sometimes no difference between the way we treat our wife And the way we would treat a slave. Oh Lord Christ, you did not die that men would stay that way. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would make us a congregation of men that are strong enough to allow our women to be strong. and our women to be strong enough to let our men rule. Christ, show us how you have ordered society and show us not just the theoretics of it, but that it is good. That it tastes good and that it does good. Pray these things in the name of Christ. Amen. We also have the cup, which we'll pass out. The center portion in colored glasses is grape juice and the clear glasses are wine. We'll take this together as a family also. Thank you, brother. In the same manner, he also took the cup after supper, saying This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This dew as often as you drink it in remembrance of me For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. Let us take and drink. Lord Christ, you have entered into a covenant with us. The end of the covenant is glory. Glory for the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and glory for your bride. We shall be pure and blameless in actuality, even as we are in status now. O Christ, look at all that you have done as our heavenly husband to nourish and cherish us. You love us as your own body, for we are your body. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that in sending your spirit, that you would work among us, that we would care for each other, being of the same body. I especially pray for our young men here. I pray that you would teach them the importance, that they would fall in love with honoring their mothers and protecting and being kind to their sisters. We ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and close our service praising our God. Like that before I should come in Lord Lord Eternal God create personal friends God bless my people express to your hope which goes for Why in the region Through the light for you, breathe your spirit and I am joined to my Say that you be true, your glory for yourself in every part. They might every friend and before I should have been so Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God the Father, and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen.