And I'll be reading this evening verses four through ten. Coming to him as to a living stone, rejected indeed by men, but chosen by God and precious. You also as living stones are being built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Therefore it is also contained in the scripture. Shame. Therefore, to you who believe, he is precious, but to those who are disobedient, the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. They stumble being disobedient to the word to which they also were appointed. But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people, that you may pray proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light Who once were not a people, but are now the people of God, who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we ask that through our Christ and His Spirit that you would teach us. We ask Christ as our head that you would show us our great vocation. I wonder if you've ever used a metaphor to help a person perform or under understand you or themselves and how they're meant to relate to you. That's a pretty abstract statement, so let me give you a couple examples. Have you ever said to someone, I'm the captain of this ship? That would be a metaphor to help people understand how you're to relate. Or as uh have you have you as a mom, have you ever warned someone saying, Don't mess with the mama bear That is a metaphor and lets us know how we should look at you. Whether it's a ship or a captain or a bear, they're all used to help us understand our roles and our relationships. And our identities, something that everyone is wondering about these days. Who we are. It's interesting when we think of this this way because Peter has been using the same method that we would use in calling ourselves a captain or a bear. But he's been using other metaphors. For example, if you look in chapter 1, verse 7, he speaks of our trials of faith with the metaphor of re- the refining of the Process of gold that we might better understand our relationship to God during difficulties and the relationship toward our destiny. In verse 13 of chapter 1, we are likened to a warrior, girding up our loins, focusing on our new callings of holiness. And that's helpful to think about ourselves as warriors. In chapter 2, verse 1, we are likened to those who have dirty clothes. But those who have a new pair of clothes given to us to replace them. And in verse 2, in chapter 2, verse 2, we are likened to newborns. This was from the sermon last week, needing the milk of Christ's word for help. Well, the image continues in our passage this evening in verses 4 through 10. I hope you caught it. We read it also in our responsive reading And it is perhaps these two images that are the most defining of them all within 1 Peter. It is these these two images of temple and priesthood really And so as you're reading on your own, I encourage you to pay attention to that. And as we're we're learning from our Lord tonight, let's focus on the temple and let's focus on the ourselves as the priesthood and trying to understand those things. So let's begin together with the temple imagery. In verses 4 through 9 of chapter 2, Christ is described as a temple. Christ and his people. And they're different parts of the temple. And you can just Break it into its different parts and see what's said of the different parts of the building. In verse 4 of chapter 2, it describes Jesus as a living stone. He's not a dead stone like an idol, and he's not a dead stone like you would make in a literal temple. He is a living stone. In verse 6, it adds to the description in chapter 2 and gives us more information about this stone that Jesus is. It adds to the description showing that Jesus is not just any stone within the building. There are different kinds of stones, if you understand ancient uh stone buildings. And Jesus is a very special, or as this as Peter says a precious stone. He is a cornerstone. It is a stone which holds up the whole building. And then when we look further, we see that not only is Christ spoken of here as a living stone and as the cornerstone, but Christians or the church are also spoken of as stone. In verse 4, it says that we are stones, and that together with Christ we make a spiritual house. So together, what you have before you, if these are sacred stones The way that he's described it, is you have a temple. You can add other scriptures to the image. For example, if you were to go into the Pauline epistles, you'd see that the apostles are the the foundation. And now you have a real clear picture. We have Christ as the cornerstone, the apostles as the foundation, and the bride of Christ, the church, as the stones that make up The whole temple. There's no longer a temple in Jerusalem. The temple has been replaced by the congregation of his people. by the way because sometimes the building analogy uh creates some confusion for us in our culture. In other words, we are all joined together as a sacred think of uh building a our head. And you could just meditate on the implications of that for a while in terms of who you are in your identity. But let's continue. There are several other verses in this passage that show that some people do not want Jesus to be the cornerstone or the head of the house. You'll see that Jesus is chosen by God. You see here in verse number six: Behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious, and he who believes on him will buy no No means be put to shame. He is precious, but we'll see that there are some that don't consider him that way. They will refuse, or it says here in verse number 7: some will reject. That's a way of saying that God has appointed Jesus Jesus to be the head of this household, and there are some that want nothing to do with him being in charge. They refuse to bow the knee to Christ as the ultimate ruler and king. So I just wonder, can you think of anyone out there who refuses to make Jesus their ultimate ruler and king? Many will submit to scientists, at least Their journal reports. Many will submit to presidents. Many will submit to the way of Buddha or Muhammad, but many will not acknowledge that God has made this Jesus of Nazareth. Nazareth both Lord and Christ, which is to say King. That's really what's being said with this building analogy, and that's how we are meant to relate to Christ. In fact, being called a cornerstone is in Jewish literature another way of talking about the Messiah. But that is not us. That's the whole point of the building analogy. God has gathered you and He has made you a member of His house, and since you are part of that house, you accept. That Jesus is the cornerstone. It shows what your relationship is to him, that he is your king. That would probably be the simplest way to say what Peter is seeking to teach us in that first part. Jesus is your king. And you can think of Psalm 2. But I think the real emphasis in action arrives in the second point. We're not just a temple, but we are priests which serve there. And that's what it says here in verse number nine. This can be surprising to people. Let's take a look at it together. But you are a chosen generation. You are a royal priesthood. A holy nation, his own special people. Verse 9, therefore, states it clearly. There's really no exposition that needs to happen. It just says that you are a priesthood. You're his own special people. And this could be confusing because you could think, well, you know, what are we supposed to do? As priests. But it answers it right there also in verse 9, if you see the purpose clause. As priests, we are to proclaim the praises of Him who called us out of darkness and into His marvelous light. And so here is yet another image for you, not only the temple, but also the priesthood, that you would understand who you are and who you are in relationship to God. Have you ever thought about that statement that you see here in first 1 Peter, where it says, proclaim the praises. Do you know what that means? It sounds like you would just be in a worship service connected with priesthood. It seems to support that. But it's actually much broader than that if you look at the terminology that was used in the passage. The word proclaim means to report or to announce. You could report it in song, but it in its regular usage it just means to report or to announce. For example, just to put this in context with our modern day culture, the CDC The Center of Disease Control is proclaiming and reporting and announcing the development of the coronavirus in various parts of the world. That's what they're doing. And they're doing so in various ways. It's the same sense here with this word. In some way, you would have a similar task or vocation. Now praise is an interesting word. We are to proclaim the praises. You know the word there is just excellence. It could be the excellent character of God. God is loving. And these excellent intelligence Or it could be the excellencies of his power. He's powerful, but not just powerful, he's excellent in his power. a comparative statement showing that he's more excellent than all others. You shouldn't have to say more excellent because excellent already means more than The point, then, is that as priests, and this is really key, as priests, we promote and publicize That God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are unqualifiably the greatest. in everything. That's what it would mean to be a priest. That's what it means to be a Christian. Now I think that you're familiar uh with proclaiming praise because it happens all the time But it does not just happen amongst Christians proclaiming praise, but the way that I've defined it, making a report of excellencies, or announcing the excellencies of something happens across our culture. And I want to give you an example. This could be considered a nerd example, but I think it's it was a good example for me. I hope it hope it worked for you. Two weeks ago I watched a National Geographic show and they used a new technology called LIDAR. Has anyone heard of this? I'm not going to say it's excellent, but it is helpful. They have developed a new technology called LIDAR to discover ancient cities. There are forests that grow, those trees become large, and when you're flying overhead or trekking through a thick forest, you can't see much of what is going on. When you're in a plane, all you see are trees. And so what LIDAR does is it is a technology that shoots out many, many different layers. Lasers, they all bounce back and give information, scanning the entire landscape from the plane, and then they are able, because of the different laser lasers that have made it through the trees, they are able to digitally remove the trees Trees and reveal things that are underneath of them. And what they are doing with the lidar, they're flying over South American jungles and And they're finding vast lost Mayan or other ancient cultures cities. And they're finding a lot of them. Things that they there's archaeological sites, they've been there for 30 years. And these planes are going over and then giving the archaeologists the data and they're realizing oh, fifty yards that way is a whole nother city that we never saw. It's very interesting. Well, when you watch this in every episode, about five times in the episode, they point out how great this new technology is. And that National Geographic is a part of developing it, and how great National Geographic is for discovering all of these Mayan cities. They proclaim the praises of Lydar Now this may seem insignificant to you, but here's the interesting thing. I'm noticing within our culture that it is just one example of people proclaiming the praises of tech Technology and science. They are proclaiming the praises as a kind of uh promotion or propaganda without all the baggage of that word. And if you were to add up all of the propaganda promoting science and technology, if you were to make a log or keep a data sheet or a spreadsheet, every time someone promoted or proclaimed the praises of technology and science. Science, what you would easily see is that we have a kind of analogy here where there is actually a priesthood within our culture for science and technology, and that they proclaim the praises of humanity. It's interesting. They would establish a whole new world order and really have already done so where the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are nice to have privately and personally, but they are no longer necessary. Because we proclaim the praises of geneticists and physicists and medical science, and they rain down on us through their exploration into the unknown. They rain down on us the grace that we need as a human race. And it's just a matter of time before they announce they've discovered immorality. Or immortality. I always get that one wrong. It could be both. It could be both. It could be both. And so I'm very serious. It may come off like a trivial example to you, but I really do think that I've stumbled onto something here. We have a priesthood For a totally different form of religion, really is what we have. And I bet you you could do that. I mean, within our culture, how many times do you meet someone who is proclaiming the praises of something? Saying this is what you need. And if you were to pull it all together as a giant network of proclaiming praises, you would have the secular vision that has spread across into everyone. Every culture in the globe, supported by everyone knowing the English language. It's actually quite interesting to me It is as if the Assyrians or the Babylonians have conquered the world once again, but in a way that tricks everyone through secularization. And that's the interesting thing. When we think of it that way, we then say, well, that's not us. We are a different priesthood. We proclaimed the praises of Yahweh. It is a quite different vocation than what they're doing. If science, this is how we would respond: if science has any glory, then it is like the moon which receives all of her brilliance from another source. It is because God has given his grace. That we might discover things to help us hang on until he returns. But again, it would redound to his glory and not to the glory itself. scientists. Charles Spurgeon said that illustrations and metaphors and analogies are like windows that let light into a dark room. They help people to see, and everybody enjoys being able to see. Peter uses the temple, and he uses the priesthood to help us understand our identity and purpose. I want to offer to you two terms that should help you go further with Peter's message here. And you've already heard the language in Nick's confessional Address, and I've mentioned it a few times myself. Peter here is telling you, Christian, that as a church, you have got to realize That you are occupying sacred space, and you have been given a sacred vocation or calling. What am I supposed to do with my life? That's a calling. The answer to that question, what am I supposed to do with my life? And I'm telling you that if you have been called by God, you have a sacred One. And we have to learn to develop that language to rightly understand what God is doing with us today. As a temple, you offer sacred space to this world. And this happens mostly in our corporate gatherings, but it can happen with you just as individuals and as families. We must begin thinking of ourselves as thinking of as our life as sacred stuff. Space. Let me give you an example because this can just sound like weird talk. In my house, the dinner table at dinner time is a kind of sacred Space on a good day. We have certain rules which we call table manners that are different than the rules in all the other spaces in the house And that way it's set aside and consecrated to a particular task. We sing a hymn before we eat, because it is a sacred space. We try and find out how each other's day was going by playing this game high and low. What was the high of your day? And what was the low of your day? What made you feel sad today? We don't throw baseballs and soccer balls at the dinner table. It is a space for certain things And it is a space not for certain things, because it is sacred. Now use that as an illustration to understand this congregation here. And your own lives as sacred space. We are like a sanctuary from the world. That's supposed to be the idea. All that we have and all that we do, everywhere that we go, it should be a consecration to the glory of God. Imagine being surrounded by a desert, and because you have the life of Christ where you step, flowers bloom up from the ground and green ground. That's really the idea. You have been given so much life from Christ Himself dwelling in you by His Spirit that that is not an Overstatement. It's just a metaphor trying to get you to understand the reality of your existence. And we don't let certain things take root in this space, do we? Because It's sacred. Adultery, anger, drunkenness, backbiting, do you know what they are to us? They're snakes. And as Nick pointed out, a snake is an unclean animal and it is meant for one thing to either be chased out or to have its head chopped off. That's the idea. That's our sacred space. And I hope that that is fruitful as you think about your different spaces in your life and letting them be sacred unto the Lord, consecrating your spaces. But there is also a sacred vocation. And I get this from the idea of the priesthood, a sacred calling, a sacred uh overarching task for your life. As Peter said earlier, you have been bought with the precious blood of Jesus, Jesus Christ. You are not your own, he says, but you have received special orders from God Himself to be His Servant for his interests and his glory and his promotion. Your life, your words, your thoughts, your deeds are not to be propaganda for your own glory. You are not to be like those on National Geographic who praise, who give the praises of the excellencies of the Lord the lidar system or of sa of science and technology. You yourself are just meant to always point everyone to the glory of God. The Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. That's what it means to be a servant. You proclaim his praises in everything. That is what you've been called to. This is what God meant in Deuteronomy when he said, and when, and what great nation is there? That has such statutes and righteous judgments as are in all this law which I set before you this day. Have you ever wondered about that statement? Have you ever heard of it? Have you heard that statement before? I'm getting blank stares. Have you heard of that before? Are you all with me here? Okay, let me read it one more time. And what great nation is there that has such statutes and righteous judgments as are in all this law which I set before you this day? Do you understand what's going on there? You've got to understand that statement is that the law and what it would mean for that society is a piece of propaganda. That's the main purpose. The law itself, and the kind of society which flowed from it would be propaganda or promotion for the excellency of the government. Which the law described. This is not unusual. We see this in many ancient Near Eastern cultures. If you've ever had the opportunity to see this the steel of Hammurabi, has anyone seen Besides those who just went to the Bible Museum with me, you'll see laws covering the whole thing, except for the top. On the top, you have Hammurabi and the God of Justice. And the God of justice is giving Hammurabi a ring, and he's giving him the staff to rule. And Hammurabi just keeps his hand over his mouth, showing that he just listens to the God of justice. The laws, interestingly, on that steel, on that giant monument, if you were to look into the how the nation performed their laws, you would find that they never obeyed those Laws. Now isn't that interesting? What it therefore tells you, scholars say, is that those laws were not just there for people to follow, they were there for a different Reason. They were there to show you that Hammurabi is the greatest, that his kingdom is excellent, and that we should always follow him It was a monument to the excellencies of his glory. And the same thing is being said. If you were in an ancient Near Eastern culture and you heard Deuteronomy 4, verse 8. And what great nation is there that has such statutes and righteous judgments as are in all this law which I set before you this day? You would know exactly what was being saying, this is propaganda Yahweh is saying, there is no God like me. I rule. I am the greatest. I am most excellent. No one can touch me. It's a promotion for the excellency of the God which the law described. And do you know what he has done to make sure no one misses the point on how excellent he is? He has established through his son a priesthood that covers the whole globe, like water covers the ocean. And he places within their hearts and their mouths the desire to always say, There's no one better than my God. There's no life outside of my God. There's no hope outside of my God. I'm talking about you. I'm talking about what you're on the earth to do. You hear me, Emma? You're paying attention. I'm telling you, you've always wondered what your identity is, and this is what you you were meant to do, to proclaim his praises. Your heart will sing, girl. Do you see what I'm saying, Christian? Everything in your life is meant to promote to the world a single truth. Everything that we do. There is no thing, and there is no one greater than Yahweh. I think that's an expression of love toward him. And so I leave you with a question. There are so many stones unturned in our modern lives. How can you begin to live out in sacred space your sacred vocation? How can you promote with your words and with your life that everything else pales in comparison to Yahweh and to his kingdom. How can you begin? That's the question that sits in front of us. And it's a question that you are meant to ask Because you are God's temple and you are God's priests. Let's pray together. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, you are most excellent. There are no words in our language Which can capture your excellencies. Lord, we thank you for teaching us tonight. Jesse Crutchley has never, on his own, ever taught anyone in this room. If anyone has ever been taught or realized anything, it has come from you. Because you alone give teaching. You alone are the prophet, Lord Jesus Christ. There is no one good but God We understand why you placed such an emphasis on those words when you spoke them, Lord. There is no one good but God. I pray, Lord, that we would be a temple. That through the good works that you do within us, they would be like a smoke rising up to the heavens, and everyone would see us as a temple. That they would be to your praise, that they would be to your glory. I pray, Lord, that you would release this world from the blindness of the idolatry. It looks, Lord, like we as Christians will be the ones ashamed in the end. There's always some new invention and some new device to comes out that looks like God is even more unnecessary. And therefore, Lord, we are tempted to doubt. But I pray that that would never be be. Help us to increase the singing of psalms. And help us to understand that the singing of songs is meant for the reinforcement. Enforcement of our faith, that we will never be ashamed. It will be the wicked that will blow away like dried-up leaves, but that we will be planted Like oak trees on this earth. Help us to realize that and let it show. And may your kingdom shine with brilliance again amongst your people. And maybe and may it attract. May the love of Christ crucified. And the glory of you, Christ, ascended And the companionship, Christ, of you sending your spirit. Be a great excellency and report that goes throughout all the earth in what you are doing. And may there be many That join your kingdom. We pray these things in your name. Amen.