To the book of Acts, chapter fifteen, and we will pick up in our reading from verse twenty-two to thirty-five. Then it pleased the apostles and elders with the whole church to send chosen men of their own company to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas, namely Judas. who is also called Barsabas, and Silas, leading men among the brethren. They wrote this letter by them. The apostles, the elders, and the brethren, to the brethren who are of the Gentiles in Antioch, Assyria, and Cilicia, greetings. Since we have heard that some who went out from us have troubled you with words, unsettling your soul, saying, You must be circumcised and keep the law. to whom we gave no such commandments, it seemed good to us, being assembled with one accord, to send chosen men to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. We have therefore sent Judas and Silas, who will also report the same things by word of mouth For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things, that you abstain from things offered to idols. from blood, from things strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you keep yourselves from these, you will do well. Farewell So when they were sent off, they came to Antioch, and when they had gathered the multitude together, they delivered the letter. When they had read it, they rejoiced over its encouragement. Now Judas and Silas, themselves, being prophets also, exhorted and strengthened the brethren with many words. And after they had stayed there for a time, they were sent back with greetings from the brethren to the apostles. However, it seemed good to Silas to remain there. Paul and Barnabas also remained in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord with many others also. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for your word and we pray that we would gain the wisdom that we see present here by way of your spirit. in this group of people, both the council and the congregation that received their decree. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated Well, last week we all went to Presbytery together by way of this passage. We attended an ancient council and presbytery meeting. And we saw floor debate around a single question. How is someone forgiven and adopted into God's family? Some of the Jews answered through the ceremonial law. Yet Jesus used Paul, Barnabas, Peter, and James. to establish the long-strand standing truth seen in Abraham himself by grace alone Through faith alone, in Christ alone, we are forgiven and numbered among the elect of God. It was established right there within that council before our eyes, what a glorious Presbytery meeting This morning, we begin by moving into the results of the meeting. I hope your Bibles have separated out this new section by seeing the format of a letter, for example. Which we I just read to you, the letter and the reception of the letter. And this morning we're gonna what we're gonna do is review our context, and then we're gonna move into the apostles and elders' decision that is sent out in that letter to that church Looking at some of the wisdom that's there that we are to carry forward in our own time. And boy, do we need it. So let's begin by just reviewing the context here. I want you to simply notice in chapter 15, verses 15 through 17 from last week, a few observations. First, in verse 15, James points out that Peter's testimony of the visitation of God to the Gentiles, which is quite a significant statement, by the way, God visiting them. But that that, the point I want to make is that it agrees with the prophet's plural. Notice that it does say prophets and not just prophet. And it is true that James only quotes the prophet Anos, as we went over before, but the plural reminds us that the church is reading the gospel from the minor prophets to understand what to believe concerning God and what he requires of us. What is God doing It's a major question for them that over at this point, about a decade, they're slowly figuring it out on what he's doing both experientially and theologically, and they're having that confirmed from their reading of the minor prophets. Very important for us to recognize here, and it shouldn't be new to you to hear me say something like that. That we know the gospel by way of the minor prophets at the least. Because from the beginning of Acts, we have read Acts through the lens of their minor prophets as a guide to our understanding. If you remember, for example, Habakkuk, understanding the gospel through Habakkuk, understanding the gospel in this passage from Amos, understanding the Pentecost through Joel, and we could go on with the list and how we looked at Hosea or Zephaniah. These are all the minor prophets, and it's what they use, the apostles, in order to understand the gospel according to the scriptures, which are the minor prophets in this case. All of them play together, the minor prophets, they play together and sound forth as one beautiful message of good news, like an orchestra, each playing its separate instrument, but converging. into a single song. That's the context in which we're working here with this letter. Now I want to develop that context a little bit more. To develop this context, therefore, we look, what we want to do is look over time, and we can't look at all of those minor prophets this morning We look, though, at the symphony of the prophets, the song that they're playing, the themes that keep coming up in each one, and how each one plays their own tune to it And we do that in order to be able to understand what's going on within the church. If you pulled all the prophets together, which is what they were doing at this time, you would see that God the Father has given all authority in heaven and earth. to Jesus as the Davidic Messiah in order to, in Amos' words, repair the damages and raise up the ruins of God's kingdom on earth. Now, this was the big surprise for them at this time is that this restoration project was not going to be just among the Jews. but across all nations, as God gathered people from every nation into his family by way of the work of Christ. and his spirit. Jesus the Christ will not just do a local work amongst one nation, but has been anointed and established. And the ascension at the right hand of the Father, in order to re-establish the entire creation under the glory of God. And one way that Christ is doing that is by bringing these Gentiles into the church. By faith, through grace. That's what they're discovering in the Minor Prophets. And if you were to read through the Minor Prophets, I'd encourage you to read the whole symphony together and to mark how they repeat each other, but have little tiny modifications that develop the themes. And that's the context, as we develop the context, that's really what's going on here with the letter from Presbytery. We are now prepared to understand the letter that they are receiving in chapter 15, 23 through 29. The council can see what God the Father is doing through Jesus Christ and his Spirit. In their own lives, by way of God's providence, they see it. And James confirms it through the minor prophets theologically And now they are going to seek to uphold God's will and how they write this letter to the Gentiles They can see that Christ is uniting the nations, but there is a threat for the nations to be divided over indifferent things. And now they're going to develop a letter to keep the church at peace, which is to say, to keep up the work that Christ Himself is doing. Let us not separate that which God brings together. is essentially the principle they're working from. I want you to notice first that the letter corrects the error concerning circumcision and the ceremonial law in verse 24. There are some who have troubled you in word. They said that they came from us and they have this authority, but they never did. Here's the correction. Then observe, however, that in verse 29, the church court ruled, based upon what they know Christ is doing in history. They ruled that the Gentiles should still obey some of the kosher laws on food offered to idols and from those uh that involve blood, and that they should avoid association with pagan temple life, which is what I think it means by sexual immorality, by the way. Okay. Pagan temple life. Just stay away from the temples. Stay away from your association with them because it's a huge stumbling block. There'll never be any fellowship if you keep doing that. Which is against what Christ is doing at this moment in history And so, as good leaders, they seek the truth, but they also call the church to give up their rights to eat in different foods For the sake of the larger purposes of a peaceful and ordered kingdom, that is what Christ is doing. They see what Christ is doing through the Spirit, and the church is seeking to stay in step with the Spirit by their official action and decree to the churches. You see that? Now, that is a tremendous amount of wisdom that Christ has given to those leaders. You should pray for that kind of wisdom in leaders today, that they would have the eyesight to see what Christ is doing now. Practically speaking, just consider the situation for them. James points out in verse 21 of chapter 15 that Moses has been read throughout many generations. Moses was read in the synagogue every Sabbath. Why does he say that? This is what he's trying to do. He's saying, in other words, Don't you realize that the ceremonial laws have been taught to this group of people forever? And you think that their conscience is just going to change overnight? Sorry about that. Woo! Man, I hope they didn't sound like that. Like a little puppy Do you think that the Jewish conscience will be settled in a manner of days or even years when it has been read to them from childhood in every synagogue service On the other hand, Christ is at this very moment uniting Jew and Gentile just as he said he would in the blessings of Abraham. They are coming together in a single kingdom. And therefore, with those two things in mind, we rule in order to keep up in step with the Spirit of Christ. The council calls the Gentiles to be sensitive during this transition time for the sake of Christ's kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. You will have to endure with your Jewish brothers. But the reason why you will have to endure is because they can see what Christ is doing. And that's really where we you can see we're we're really funneling ourselves down into seeing what the wisdom is that Christ has given to this council that is meant to be a wisdom in every council, even in the council of our own hearts. And here it is. Christians maintain the well-being of the church by developing Christian wisdom And Christian wisdom is making decisions in light of what Christ is doing at this time and in this place. So let me state that again. Christians maintained the well-being of the church by developing Christian wisdom, which that council had. Christian wisdom is making decisions in light of what Christ's will is at this time and at this place. We sometimes make the mistake of thinking it's just memorizing the Ten Commandments and then applying those laws the exact same way in every situation. That's not wisdom. Wisdom is knowing what Christ's will is in each time and each place. And of course, it's always lawful. And so what I'd like to do with that truth that I hope your conscience accepts is: I want to give some instruction and then I want to give an exhortation. The instruction will just be instruction. It has to do with two case studies where you can begin to see how Paul uses this Christian wisdom as he seeks to make decisions for the churches. And then the exhortation I want to unfold a bit for our present circumstances and what the church will be facing in the future. So let's begin just with some case studies. Think about that for a moment as you look at the pastoral letters. I hope that you've had the opportunity to read through the letters of Paul as well as some of the general epistles. What you'll find in there is that this letter has in fact gone out to the churches, either by word of mouth or the letter itself. But not everybody was as excited about it as those in Antioch. Paul carried it to those churches, but they did not comply. And I'm sure they had all of the reasons. Give me liberty or give me death, whatever the thing is going to be at the moment. Paul worked with them in each circumstance, therefore, as a good shepherd, and so what we have left behind are his instructions on how to deal with situations like that. And he shows us Christian wisdom. And it's the same kind of Christian wisdom that we see within the council. The principle which Paul uses in wisdom is what I've already stated, that you must know Christ's purposes at that time and in that place. And that's what we'll see in two main examples I want to give to you. The first main example is from 1 Corinthians 10, verse 31 through 33. As soon as I quote 1 Corinthians, you know that we're dealing with food sacrificed to idols, with that association with pagan worship. Exactly what was talked about in the letter. This is what Paul has to say. Listen to the wisdom, based on the introduction of this sermon. Listen to the wisdom. Therefore, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. Give no offense either to the Jews or to the Greeks or to the Church of God, just as I also please all men in all things. not seeking my own profit, but the profit of many, in order that they may be saved. Do you see how that is relying upon the same Christian wisdom that the council relied upon? The guiding North Star, which Paul uses to navigate the situation, is to remember what Christ is doing. What is Christ doing with Paul? What is Paul's vocation in this situation? What is Christ doing with the Jews? What is Christ doing with the Gentiles at his time? He summed all those things up and was able to use it as a North Star for his actions. Number one, he knows that Christ commissioned him to bring the gospel to the Gentiles. Christ used Paul to gather the Gentiles into his kingdom as a part of the restoration of all creation. Number two, Paul, therefore, is not going to let what he eats and what he drinks to get in the way of the larger goal of what Christ is accomplishing through him. Because he understands the big picture, he doesn't miss the forest for the trees. Or, as like my grandmother would say to me, Jesse, you are making a mountain out of a molehill. Just drop it It's the same kind of thing here. You know, when you're making a mountain out of a molehill, by the way, you don't feel like it's a molehill. It feels like a mountain to you. But how do you know if it's a molehill or a mountain? Paul tells us you know what Christ is doing. You know what his purposes are. You know how he's acting in your time, in your place, through your vocation. That's how you know God's will by way of the word and his providence. Paul knows what Christ is doing, and so he knows, in other words, how to prioritize what is important at the moment. and what is not important at the moment. And that, my friends, is just a little piece that Paul gives us in this case study of what Christian wisdom is. You can see how saturated by the word you would need to be to actually be wise, can you not? How in tune with God's providence you must be in order to be wise. Now here's another case study, and I think this one may surprise some of you as we continue on the first main point, which is just some instruction so we can look at this Christian wisdom that the Council used. and that Paul used in two main case studies. Remember that the letter to Antioch was written because Paul elevated the issue of circumcision to the highest court of appeal. Did he not? He began arguing with the circumcision party. There was no little argument. And then he said, let's take this to the elders and the apostles in Jerusalem, which is like an appeal to the Supreme Court. And yet, when we flip one page, I don't even have to flip in my Bibles right here on the opposite page in chapter 16 of Acts. Take a look at chapter 16 of Acts and verse 1 through C, and look at what Paul does. Only a person with Christian wisdom who really understands what Christ is doing could make a decision like this on one page and then another page. Then he, Paul, came to Derby and Lystra, and behold, a certain disciple was there named Timothy. Do you remember him? We have 1 and 2 Timothy. Paul wrote those letters to him for him to take over the pastorate in the post-apostolic age. The son of a certain Jewish woman who believed, but his father was Greek. See the problem? Now listen to this. He was well spoken of by the brethren who were at Lystra and Iconium, which meant he would sit for ministry. Paul wanted to have him go on with him, because Paul wanted somebody to help him who's fit for ministry. And he took him and he circumcised him. Because of the Jews who were in that region, for all knew that his father was Greek. You see the situation that Paul is confronted with. The same Paul that just elevated the situation to the Supreme Court. But because he understands what Christ is doing, And what things are indifferent and really matter or don't really matter and which ones really do matter, based upon what Christ is doing in the world by way of his spirit, he's able to make this decision. Do you see the wisdom? It's the same wisdom as the first case study, and it's the same wisdom as the council. On the one hand, with the circumcision party, Paul knew that he had to take a stand. Paul knew that the gospel was at stake, which is why he wrote the letter to the Galatians. Paul therefore stood in Acts chapter 15, correcting them so that they could see what Christ wanted them to see. Christ wants them to see that forgiveness is not by way of the ceremonial law. And so he stands for it. He says You will not be forgiven that way. You will not be, you are not Abraham's son that way. It is only by way of faith. Abraham is the father of all those who have faith. And so he stood for it at the council because he understood what Christ was doing at that moment. And he also sees what Christ is doing. In this moment, on the other hand, in order to continue gathering the elect of God Paul needed or wanted an assistant. His name was Timothy, and he did not want to have unending bickering with the Jews in each city, and so he has Timothy circumcised. In order to accomplish the larger purposes for which Christ has commissioned him. How did Paul know what to do in each situation? I mean, when you When you say to Timothy, as Paul, hey, I really you're well spoken of, you went to Greenville Presbyterian Theological Seminary, you must be good I really want you to work with me. Timothy was probably like, yeah, this is great. I really want to. But you're gonna have to be circumcised. I mean, you think that was good news to him? This was not a like decision What's the Christian wisdom that would lead him into such an act? And for Timothy to submit to the knife. He kept what Christ was doing at that time and place always before him, so he knew what sacrifices to make for what. And that's Christian wisdom. It's the same thing that we saw within the council. It's the same thing in the first case study, and it's the same thing in the second case study. Now that's all instruction. I'm just giving you uh Biblical knowledge. But there is also an exhortation here. And this is where we get to see that has been implied this entire time is that we are called to have the same kind of Christian wisdom today. Did you not know that we have the same set of problems? We are not at this congregation fighting over kosher laws. But do you not think there will be things that will divide us? Do you not think that masks have that potential What about mandates when they are handed down? What are we supposed to do as a church When do we wear masks or not wear masks? When do we follow mandates and when don't we follow mandates? What do we do? What's the wisdom that we're supposed to have? It's going to be a different set of problems, but it's the same thing with each generation of the church. And you, as a generation, will be put under more pressure and therefore required to have more wisdom. What I find interesting is that not only do we share a similar kind of problem with the ancient church, things that can divide us, that tend to be indifferent, actually. But there's also a same kind of providence amongst that ancient church as there is today. Do you think that this council had this wisdom as soon as Jesus Christ ascended? Some suggest that between the interaction of Peter and Cornelius and this council is about 10 years. The church has been working out over time by way of the guidance of the Spirit what Christ is doing in the world. And they arrive in this council. Christ brings it all to a head by way of a crisis. And they're able to accumulate their experiences and accumulate their growing knowledge of the scriptures, especially in the minor prophets. And they as a council are able to declare what God's will is, not just in general, but specifically for their time and their place to stay united as a church And Christ is doing the same thing for you today. I remember being in Florida looking forward to surf lessons when COVID was announced. Boy, was that a disappointment! And I remember at that same time being almost clueless. But I tell you the truth, and I look across the United States of America and every other pastor that I could look at and leader, and they all looked clueless too. And guess what you looked like? Clueless on how we're supposed to conduct ourselves in this social atmosphere. But have you not noticed that over time Christ, by way of his spirit, is giving wisdom to his church? That we might understand what he is doing in this generation, at this time, and at this place. You know that he is. I see on some of your faces that you are more awakened to the will of God today than you have ever been. It's the same thing that happened in the ancient church. It's the same providence that is the providence with us today. Christ is pouring out wisdom on us. and we are able to accumulate our experiences as well as our growing theological knowledge and Join them together, knowing what God's will is today, and therefore able to make decisions for the peace and order of our church. It doesn't mean that the decisions will make everybody happy, but as long as you know what Christ is doing, you can stand by your decision whether people are happy or not. And Christ will work by his Spirit to keep his people in the truth that you have chosen. And therefore, we not only have the same problem. We not only have the same providence as that ancient church and growing in wisdom to know what Christ is doing today, and calling us to do, which is really to separate from the world, if you want to put it in summary. But we will have the same peace. Those who have received the Spirit of God will respond like those from Antioch when sessions And presbyteries and general assemblies that are sound in the faith act today. And when they send out their decrees and their counsels to you as a congregation about mandates and masks or whatever it is, We will sound just like them. When they had read it, they rejoiced over its encouragement. When they had read the council's decision that Christ had given to them through experience and theology, they rejoiced. And they saw what it was going to do practically for everyone. You know, in many ways, for those of you who um You know, I've said a lot of words up here. Sometimes it's good to have a song to remember them by. And so of course I turn you to Kenny Rogers. Christian wisdom in many ways is you've got to know when to hold them. You've got to know when to fold them. You do in fact have to know when to walk away. And other times you gotta know when to run. If you've never heard that song, don't bother Because the real question that we're considering here is not Kenny Rogers or a card game The question we're considering is: okay, but how do we know? How do you know when to hold them? How do you know when to fold them? How do you know when to walk away and when to run? And what we have done is we have looked at some case studies and discovered that Christians do this by developing over time, by way of the Spirit, experience in theology, Christian wisdom. Not legalism, Christian wisdom. Christian wisdom is making decisions in light of what Christ's will is at your time and your place. By way of the rule of God. Do you know what Christ's will is at this time and place? Do you know what Christ has called you to as a family, or as an individual, or as a church family, or as an American citizen? You better get on it. And pray for your leaders that must make those kinds of decisions. Pray that they'd be able to see what God is doing through Christ today. Devote yourselves to that prayer. It is my prayer that we would take Ephesians chapter 5, verses 15 through 17 seriously. See then that you walk circumspectly. Not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is. Let us pray.