Please turn with me now as we consider the word preach to Proverbs chapter two. We'll be looking at the whole proverb. You all look wiser already. Beginning in verse one. If you have a pen to take notes, that'll be great. This is a study. You can ask your neighbor for a pen, they might have one. My son, if you receive my words and treasure my commands within you, so that you incline your ear to wisdom and apply your heart to understand. Yes, if you cry out for discernment and lift up your voice for understanding, if you seek her as silver and search for her as hidden treasure for hidden treasures Then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. For the Lord gives wisdom. From his mouth come knowledge and understanding. He stores up sound wisdom for the upright. He is a shield to those who walk uprightly. He guards the paths of justice and preserves the way of his saints. Then you will understand righteousness and justice, equity in every good path. When wisdom enters your heart, knowledge is pleasant to your soul, discretion will preserve you, understanding will keep you to deliver you from the way of evil. From the man who speaks perverse things, from those who leave the paths of uprightness to walk in the ways of darkness, who rejoice in doing evil, and delight in the perversity of the wicked. Whose ways are crooked and who are devious in their paths, to deliver you from the immoral woman, from the seductress who flatters with her words. Who forsakes the companion of her youth and forgets the covenant of her God? For her house leads down to Sheol or death, and her path to the dead. Now who go to none who go to her return, nor do they regain the paths of life. So you may walk in the way of goodness and keep to the paths of Of righteousness. For the upright will dwell in the land, and the blameless will remain in it, but the wicked will be cut off from the earth, and the unfaithful will be uprooted from it Please pray with me. Father, we do ask for your wisdom. Just in the reading of these words, or even in just the preaching, these words have no electricity. Nothing to power. We ask that you would stand behind them with your almighty power, and that you would knead them into our hearts, and that this yeast would Spread throughout Severn Run, and we would become wise and wiser. In the name of Christ. Amen. Last Sunday we discovered the purpose of Proverbs. Which is to walk skillfully under God and before humanity. The prerequisite to all of these benefits of wisdom is the fear of the Lord. Now I've included in your bulletin this week So here it is written for you before The fear of the Lord was defined as that affectionate reverence by which the children of God bend themselves humbly and carefully to their heavenly Father's law. that is being thrown at you from the book of Proverbs. And you must well we'll talk about how to get that. Okay? Notice This is really where this whole sermon is going. This is why we have chapter two before us today. Noticeably the preamble, verses one, chapter one, one through seven, which we looked at last week. It tells you what wisdom is, what is offered to you in the book of Proverbs, and the prerequisite to getting it, but it does not tell you how to obtain it Chapter 2 tells you how to obtain it. And that's what we're looking at today. The first this this whole chapter is how to obtain it. Now I just want to show you very quickly that that is in fact what's happening. Here, that this is the chapter that shows you how to obtain it. So we're going to flip back and forth just a little bit here. In Proverbs 1, verse 2, notice how it says, to know wisdom and instruction and to perceive the words of understanding. I understand there's different translations out there, but just stick with me here. And then if you go to our chapter, verse five says, then you will under I'm sorry. Verse 5B says that you will find the knowledge of God. We're talking about The same thing here. If you're going to attain the prerequisite, if you look at 1. 7, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, look at 2. 5a, then you will understand the fear of the Lord. And then if you want to achieve the purposes of the book, you look at ver at three to receive instruction and wisdom, look at two nine, then you will you will understand righteousness and justice, equity and equity. In every good path. Those are the sa it's t I don't know, I gotta talk to the English translators. We're gonna have a word. It's the same Hebrew words, folks, okay? It's the same thing being offered in Chapter two it's going to show you notice how the word then in chapter five and then in ch and and I'm sorry in chapter two verse 5, then, and then in verse 9, then that means there has to be an if. If you do such and such, then you will obtain these things Alright, so chapter two really is about accomplishing what was offered to you in the first chapter. And as you could guess, the first part of chapter two is going to show you the things in order to get the thens. to get those consequences. And that's how this whole the whole struct the whole sermon is structured is if and then, and then the benefits of that. But I want to show you a basic structure because uh it's really important. It's not to understand what Proverbs says, you have to know how it says it. You've got to see the structures that are happening So let me just point out a couple to you and I'll put more graphs in next week. Number one, I want you to notice that there's 22 verses in the chapter, which is the same number of letters in their alphabet And there is an alphabetic thing going on here between Aleph and Lamed, and we don't need to talk about that. We can talk about that over l you know God's lunch. I'll talk to you about Aleph and Lamed. Okay. But you would suspect if it's 22, we have two equal divisions of 11. That's that is one way to structure this whole chapter. It's two divisions of 11. You will go a long way in your reading if you know that. But even more so it follows this pattern, 443. Some of you have a cell phone number that starts with that. There's no significance. against your cell phone. Proverbs. But that's how I want you to look at this though. Read it with 443-443. Okay? 443-443 four three. That's how you want to look at this, and that's how the whole the whole thing is structured. Four four three, four four three. If you were to follow four verses, then four verses, then three, and then four verses, then four verses, then three. Those two Those two groupings, then you're going to the meaning is going to pop right out to you as to what the author is trying to communicate. And I'll try to bring that up for you this morning. So let's look at the first four verses then And like I said, this is showing you how you will develop a godly character. That was what was promised in the in that remember where you drop the rock and the rings go out and the Pond from chapter one, the center of the passage. That was um righteousness and equity, right? Justice And judgment, uh Mishpat in the Hebrew, that is what is on offer here, and it's going to tell you how to obtain such a thing. And um we're gonna need to keep talking about this because this is something you need to ponder for some time. You're not going to walk away having these characteristics. You're just going to have knowing how to do it. So Proverbs 1, 1 through 7 was structured, like I mentioned, like a rock dropped in a pond. This section isn't structured that way. There's a parallel development. Here's another image with water. One way that proverbs are structured is dropping the rock in the pond and they radiate out. Here's another one. You ever been to the ocean and the and the wave comes up onto to the seashore. And then there's another wave behind it that pushes the water up even higher. And sometimes as a child you would play to try to keep back and make sure that the water doesn't touch you. Well that's what's happening here within uh these first four verses is that there will be a word mentioned which will be the first wave and then And then there's going to be a second word in the second part of the verse that m intensifies and pushes the word even harder. So notice with me in verse 1, just so you can see this. It's very easy. You see, verse 1, my son, if you receive my words. Now notice the wave pushing it higher. If you don't just receive them, treasure them. And they're not just my words, they're my commands. Do you see that? And that's going to happen all the way through these, and that's the image that you've got to see. That'll go throughout all of Proverbs, and that's very helpful to you. Look for the waves pushing each other up. Intensification. It's called poetic parallelism. Okay. So and it moves in couplets like that. Receive, treasure is in verse 1. Verse 2, incline, apply, and then it's going to go all the way to verse 4 So let's just take a look at those couplets, those things that go together and intensify one another. These are the things that you have got to do if you want to develop a godly and ethical character. If you want to walk under God and before men, this is what you've got to commit. Number one, receive and treasure God's word. Receive my words, he says. My son, if you receive my words, this of course applies to Daughters also. If you receive my words and treasure my commands within you. Receive my words intensifies and becomes treasures, and the words become commands The words and commands, really he's speaking primarily of chapter 10 and onward. Chapters 1 through 9 are him pleading with uncommitted youth to please listen to him. It's not until you get to chapter 10 that you're going to start receiving instruction proper. If you want to, go ahead and flip to chapter 10 and Proverbs. And notice the major shift. You're going to see all kinds of individual proverbs there. You see them? As soon as you hit 10. Those are the teachings that he's primarily concerned with. Those are his commands The two expressions mean that you must receive the teaching, not as you would receive United States history, but as someone who receives instruction on riding a bicycle That's how you have got to picture yourself here. Get your brain out of the classroom. That is not the setting here. The setting should be you thinking about riding a bike. When you're riding a bike, you do not take your Child in front of a whiteboard. You don't go to a class to ride a bike, I don't think. You take them out on the street, you put them the helmet on their head, you put them on the bike, and you say, Now listen I'm gonna give you a push and you just pedal. And then they're gonna fall and you're gonna say, Well, let's this is what we need to do this time. Let's not try to turn around. Let's just stay straight. And I'm gonna keep hand on your back just for a little while longer and that's going to go on and you're going to keep giving them commands. No paddle paddle paddle paddle paddle paddle paddle paddle right it's exactly What's going to happen. And that's exactly what's happening here. Is that the restruction the instruction here is in that kind of context, and you should picture hearing these instructions with your helmet on, ready to get to action, and glorifying God. Just as you would in riding a bicycle. Now there's a further connotation here where it says, don't just receive these things. Treasure them. Which means that you are emotionally connected to what's happening. And it really means that you're going to store these things up because they are so treasured By you. The word is used, it says here treasure. There's a sense of storing. The word elsewhere in scripture is used for storing silver. Silver was the most expensive metal during their time. Not gold. So you have to ask the question: you know, storing here, it's not being literal. There's a metaphor that's going on here. How do you store words? It's not talking about storing words in a book It's not talking about storing the commands in the book. It's talking about storing them, and the way that we would do that is through memory. The expectation is that the proverbs would be memorized. That if you were going to grow in wisdom, that you would have God's word, not only the Proverbs, ready at hand. And that the more you memorize, the better is the idea. It's not mindless. There's an affection that's connected to it. You really love these things. They are your foundation. It's not mindless memory, but memory has to be to be involved. Memory of some sort. The Holy Spirit, in fact, when you see him move from nation to nation, making the gospel message, his words, cling into and saturate into the hearts of a new nation, you will notice that nation memorizes Scripture. The Holy Spirit is always working that way. For example, I've I've heard reports that because the gospel has taken hold of those within sound South Korea that the children there have memorized their scriptures a great deal. In fact, when one professor went to give lectures there, the children came before him as a present in a Presentation, and they recited the Ten Commandments to him in Hebrew. And then they recited all of the uh thirty-two campsites of Israel in order to remember all of God's great. deeds in the Old Testament, or the majority of them. The same thing happened in South Carolina. Slavery is abominable, but there was in fact slavery in South Carolina And the Holy Spirit gave a revival amongst the slaves where they came rushing into the church. There was only maybe about 90 in this one church, and it blossomed to 500. And one of the first Things that happened is the slaves began memorizing scripture and the shorter catechism. The uh townsfolk, some townsfolk became furious because the slaves all of a sudden they were finding that Reading on the street, and that was a forbidden at that time. And they asked um people were being thrown in prison for teaching slaves how to read, but they weren't teaching them how to read. They were learning how to read through memorizing their Shorter catechism. They learned all the words and then they could pick up the other words and sentences, and it really revolutionized the whole oh Charleston, South Carolina is where this took place. But they m memorized a shorter catechism that that is very similar to ours. And so you can see there the work of the Spirit moving in the same way. Based off of quotations, you know the scriptures, um, Paul didn't sit at his desk with a Bible in front of him And Jesus didn't walk the streets holding his Bible. There's indications, therefore, that based off the quotations of Jesus and Paul, that they most likely had the entire Old Testament memorized. And certainly they were wise. And but I do want to reiterate that memory isn't enough. Memory is at least What you must be doing, but it has to have affections tied to it. I just want to bring up this one story. If you remember the Christmas story, the magi, they have one thing memorized That the star over that they're supposed to go and where the star is, that's where they'll find their Messiah. And they search for him. They've memorized that, and their heart is attached, so they search for him. They go to the scribes who probably had all the Old Testament memorized, and not one of them got up to go see the Christ. So memory is not a foregone conclusion, but it is, it's got to be attached to the heart and to obedience and to the fear of the Lord, that humility. And so I would uh turn you on to especially music. There are plenty of um there's a few things out there For Roots, I think, has a few things now where you can start I think there was one called Salty uh back in the day, and uh and you could learn scriptures directly from there. But memory has to Here's the second one in verse 2. Remember the wave. Incline, even if you can't pick this up in the English, is here in the Hebrew, so that you incline your ear to wisdom, let the wave push it up, and apply your heart to understanding. There's an intensification here. And this can be summarized as this Pay attention so closely to God's words to you that you would forget yourself and you would become like Him. Here it's talking about a process of unselfing. No longer remaining yourself, but taking his word so seriously that you have none of your own. You only attach yourself to his. And you become those words. They are stamped upon your soul as if it were soft wax. Have you ever seen a baby that has eaten so many carrots that they turn orange? I have. You should turn orange in in this sense. Do you see what I'm saying? You should be eating the scriptures so much that you would turn the same color. And that is the idea. You would become so attuned and inclined to God's word that you would begin to look like God in his communicable Attributes, of course. You're inclining and applying the heart is a process of unselfing and becoming another. Now that's verse 2. Now let's move on to verse 3. I'm just going to hit these Verse three, you can see the intensification. You're to cry out, and then you're to lift up your voice. Yes, if you cry out for discernment and lift your voice for understanding And here the crying out and lifting up not only intensify each other, but the whole progress of this passage is intensified. At this point, you've moved from receiving to now moving forward. You're an active learner. You're pursuing. And here the particular way that you would be pursuing, as you might have guessed, is prayer Prayer is the bringing of our desires before God, which means that you would have a desire to know God, to know prudence, to know judgment. To have wisdom. And that this desire would burn in your heart so readily that you would be crying out to Him and intensely lifting up your voice that He would give it to you That you would have a desire here for discernment and understanding. Discernment and understanding denote insight and confidence and godly living. It is a disposition or a way of being It is who you would become. It is not something that you can take off. It's not just something you know about. It's a characteristic of you. It's your character. And that you would cry out to God to give you these things. In verse 4, he says that you are to seek and you are to search. You seek her as silver and search for her as for hidden treasures. And this is the final step. This is the four. three. This is the final step in acquiring godly and socially competent character. Jesus speaks about seeking and searching for this life as if searching for a pearl, and let me just bring up to you That in the day of Solomon or day of Jesus, a single pearl, very different than us now because it we culture pearls now, they did not. It was roughly worth five million dollars during Jesus' day. And so if you knew that $5 million was buried in your backyard, what would you do? I would dig up my backyard, just so you know I don't care what it looked like. It'd be dug up. You would seek and you would search. And that's the same point here is that you would put your whole heart into this, that you would seek it as if it was the most valuable thing for you, that it is in fact the most valuable thing for you. These are the steps that you would take to gain the things that are offered to you in the preamble. And so you've seen one wave of a word intensify another wave of a word, each describing what you must do to attain the social purposes of Proverbs and the prerequisite which is the fear of the Lord. And this is confirmed by the next part of the passage in verses five through eight. It gives you the benefits of developing a godly character. If you do those things, then five through eight, which is the next four, shows you what will happen Then, verse 5, you will understand the fear of the Lord. Now, I don't have it for you, but I do want to point out to you that there is a structure going on here where you should match up verses to truly understand what's happening. Five should be matched to nine. Six with ten. Notice the parallel parallelism even in the language. Then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. That's that's five. Nine. Then you will understand righteousness and justice, equity and everything You see that? Now let's go to let's try it out again. Six and ten. For the Lord gives wisdom, his mouth from his mouth come knowledge and understanding. 10. When wisdom enters your heart, knowledge is pleasant to your soul. Alright. Oh yes, that's right. So you want to match those up, and that, and I'll and I'll say a little bit more about that. If you were to match them up by indenting each one, then you'd end up with uh a kind of staircase, and I'll show you that next week. But that's what's going on here. It's the benefits of doing those things will result in a godly character, and that's the next four verses here. Then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. But I want to clarify because something shifts in verse six, and this is perfect for us as a culture. We as a culture would believe that if we did everything that it said in the first four versus then it would naturally follow that we would grow in wisdom. In other words, we are people that follow steps and methods and techniques Expecting for a result every time. As if you could spiritually engineer yourself and others around you. But that is not what this is saying. This is more complicated than that. Yes, you must do these things, but in the end, it is not techniques or willingness or memorization that will cause any of these things Those are going to be secondary causes. The primary cause for you growing in this way is verse 6. Notice the four, it is God who will give the wisdom. He will do so through these means that he's given. Search it out. He'll work through that, he promises you. But in the end, when you ascribe, how did this happen? You have got to say, God caused it to happen. And that points out really the purpose of that one of those purposes of the prayer, how important prayer is It's not simply a matter of technique and step following, for the Lord gives wisdom. He gives wisdom in two ways. I want to show you that very quickly. Notice that the first four verses, five, six, seven, and eight, all deal with knowing God. Notice after that that it's dealing with living with others. And so if you follow those first four verses, one through four, then you are given life by God to walk with him and human beings. In other words, you are given theological education and ethical education. Two main spheres That's how that's set up by the author. Now, though it's the Lord that gives wisdom. Reading your Bible is not enough. The Bible has no magical problem. Powers. There is actually something called Bibleolatry. Did you know that? Idolatry of the Bible. And we don't want to conf The only reason that your commitment to God's Word would result in the fear of the Lord is because the all-powerful Yahweh stands behind the word, making the word work through his spirit He is active in your life. If you understand anything, if you are obedient in anywhere, it's because God is present and active in your life. Now that's a great deal of intimacy. if you run over your life real quick. All the ways that you've been following him. And verse 7 shows that it is just to confirm this that I'm not Just coming up with this, verse seven says, It's he that stores up sound wisdom for the upright. He's the shield to those who walk rightly, it's he that guards the paths of justice. You see that It's God who does all these things. Yet if you take a look at the matching steps in 9 through 11, this is where you have to puzzle through it a little bit. Look at nine through eleven. There's a personification here where it switches talking about God to what the virtues themselves will do within you. Look at verse nine. Then you will understand righteousness and justice, equity in every good path. When wisdom enters your heart and knowledge is pleasant to your soul, look at this in verse 11, discretion will preserve you. Now this is a literary technique. It's God that will preserve you through discretion. That's how you should understand. this. God will make you a person who has discretion, and that discretion will become a preservative for you in your life. life so that you don't fall off the cliff into wickedness. Here's how the logic works. If only God can make you fear him, and you must fear the Lord before you can have understand Or discretion or any virtue, then it is from God's gracious hand that anyone has become godly or socially competent. Then he uses these things, not just his direct acts, but those things that he creates in you called virtues. He uses them to guard you and your friends. And your children. Just as if he has given you armor to fight the battle. Job twenty-eight twenty says, Only God has wisdom, and therefore he's the one that must dispense it. But we are not inactive. God has promised that He would do so in His almighty power, and He'll work through the means of verses 1 through 4. search it out, that you would pray for it, that you would commit it to memory, that it would become dear to your heart, that you'd spend your life trying to understand And this tells you that if you have any wisdom, but especially the wisdom that saves you from the wrath and curse of God, then you must, Christian, be thankful in your heart For what God has given to you. This is the hidden wisdom from God. Christian, I'm speaking to you. Your life should be full of thankfulness. Every time you stop and you go Yeah, I do believe in the promises of God, especially the promise through Jesus Christ. That's a gift of wisdom to you. And we must live lives that are Thankful because we have that. It's been given to you. He stored it up in his storehouse and he dispensed it to you. Second, this thankfulness, and you may want to make some notes here Second, this thankfulness should bud and blossom into a flower with four petals. Your thankfulness should blossom into a flower with four petals, and I'm just going to repeat the teaching. This is the way to summarize. The petal of treasuring God's Word. The pedal of applying God's Word, the petal of praying God's Word, and the pedal of searching God's Word And based upon the teaching, I ask that you would pay particular attention to the pedal of praying. And I want you to remember this: that based on the testimony of some of our brothers and sisters, Who have prayed for at least two years for some things, and it took the full two years for it to be reached, that God will hold you to your word. God will hold you to the fact that you do have to search these things The interesting thing about that is that by the time if you're still praying for two years, you really want it. Which means you're already starting to meet one of the qualifications in the first four verses. And that's why God does that. He wants you And that would be entirely appropriate to this context. Now that's it. So you have verses one through four, tell us the way to it. That's four. Then you have five seconds That tells us godly education. That's the second four. And then you have ethical education in the last three, nine, ten, and eleven. Four, four, three See that? Okay. And you can see if you remember that, then you can go back and study this with a great deal of purpose. But now we move, and we've already touched on this Now that you've developed your you have the means to attain the godly character for you, your friends, and for your family, and raising them up, and you know what it will bring you, it wants to show you the main purpose for why you would. Be given such a godly character. The main purpose for you being given or obtaining this godly character is that you would be safeguarded against wicked men and wicked women. That's what the rest of the passage says in twelve and all the way down until um nineteen. So notice how it picks up In 12, to deliver you from the way of evil, from the man. And these are going to alternate in pattern also. If you take a look at 12, it talks about the man And then if you move then into sixteen, which is the second four, it talks about the woman to deliver you from the immoral woman. 443, again for the rest of the passage, okay? Wicked man, wicked woman, and 443. The last three verses are just a summary of the whole passage. So let's take a look at the purposes of godly character and understand this wicked wicked man and this This is the second eleven verses, four four three. Four is safety against wicked men, four safety against wicked women Woman and then three are the summaries. So the safeguard against wicked men and the wicked women, I'm going to cover those together. If you read the whole all of the first nine chapters of Proverbs, you will see Especially in chapter 8, that woman wisdom against the unchaste or wicked woman calls aloud from the city gate to uncommitted youth. Now, why does she stand at the gates of the city? Because the youth are outside of the city, and if they enter into the city, they will be a part of public life which has many, many Temptations. So before they enter in, she wants them to listen to her so that they are prepared to enter social life. That's the whole idea. She calls aloud, before you enter into commercial and social life of the city, listen to my words. In the city dwell the wicked man and the wicked woman. Will you survive? That's the question that hangs in the air. And the two characters, it's not a foolish question because the wicked man and the wicked woman are exceptionally persuasive. They have many victims. You ever seen those poor little insects stuck in a spider web all wound up? She and he have many Such victims in their own web of deceit. Both the wicked man and the wicked woman are described as those, verse 13, who leave the paths of uprightness And in verse 17, she has left the covenant of her God. What this means is that they grew up in the church. It means that they have left the church, and this is part of their persuasion. The uncommitted youth that are still being raised in the church will be tempted by their own brothers. And by their own sisters, and by their uncles, and by their mothers, and by their fathers. And that, my friends, will be exceptionally difficult. And will require a great deal of prayer. For a child to turn against mother or father, whose mother or father is calling them to lick wickedly Lifestyle, the temptation to leave God in your faith will and can come from family. The life of the wicked man and woman is described as perverse and And that should bring Esau to mind, and we covered that in Hebrews on worldliness. That's what they're all about. The worldly way for the man and for the woman, it's romance outside of marriage. Big items in Proverbs. Those who get money and a success in life without working hard, that's a wicked man in Proverbs, and those who want to have intimacy or romance And not be married. That's the second one. Those are the two biggies in Proverbs. Both of those are wrong paths. Both perversity and romance outside marriage may be understood As violating the boundaries that God has clearly put into place. And now, when we think of boundaries or transgressions, most of the time you think of people shaking their finger at you and And being um morally meticulous in your life and and nosy. But transgressions are the the form that God has placed on our lives, boundaries that we are designed to operate within that That we might flourish. Just as a fish flourishes in water, so too you flourish when your romance is in marriage. And so too will you flourish when you don't follow the wicked man and you work hard for your money Job 38, 8 through 11 puts it perfectly. If you want to understand what it means to transgress in the power of God, Job 38, 8 through 11 is the way to go. Listen to this. Listen to how God sets boundaries Verse 8: Who shut up the sea behind doors when it burst forth from the womb? When I made the clouds its garments and wrapped it in thick darkness When I fixed limits for it and set its doors and bars and place, when I said, This far you may come and no further, here is where your proud waves shall halt. Ocean, you must stop here. River, you must stop here. Sea, you must stop here. Those are the boundaries of the sea that the Lord has established, and in the same way He said, human beings You must stop here. You must not transgress these boundaries. Do not move into the way of the wicked man or the wicked woman who has transgressed and violated all the boundaries that I have set in place. Do not be like a proud wave of the sea. And you see what happens when an ocean or a river It's the same message here. If you break or trans Transgress the confines that God has given by going towards the influence of the wicked man and the woman. If you want nice things in life with no hard work and romance with no marriage, then you're like a proud wave breaking your boundaries. And it will result in death in some form. The influence of the wicked man, furthermore, and woman, I want you to notice in verses twelve and sixteen, because again, there's the This connection between these verses to deliver you from the evil way from the man who speaks perverse things, and then it comes out even more in verse six. 16, to deliver you from the immoral woman, from the seductress who flatters with words. Do you notice that? The primary influence of the wicked man and woman comes from their speech. They know how to talk you into things. They're great at public relations and rhetoric, which is the perfect script. Of those who do that full time, namely called media. That's what they do full time. They do focus groups and research to figure out what will most persuade you. Thousands of people are tested to make sure that they will be successful. So let me tie this all together The wicked will be from those who abandon their faith and will seek to influence others to do the same. Your brothers and sisters and friends, their life will seem attractive because they'll have romance outside. And everything will seem like there's it's just fine. They'll be making money but not working hard and everything seems just fine. But I'm telling you right now, resist the matrix. Don't give in to the illusion. Don't give in to the illusion. The original context would have been Israel's youth going to Israel. And so pretty much everyone would have grown up in the church and they would And of course that's how it would have unfolded. Now, however, we not only have those who have left the church, but those who were never a part of it. And this means that there is a whole world of smooth speech Persuading you to leave the covenant you have with Yahweh. Do you get a sense of the gravity of what you are up against? That's why it's so important for you to know the first half of this Chapter, chapter two. How will the youth survive? It is only if they use the means that God has given in the first four verses, and if God makes those means effectual within their You see that? That's how this whole thing comes together. You need to develop a godly theological formation, a and an ethical formation that you might be able to To withstand this kind of onslaught against the wicked man and the wicked woman, and if you have friends or family, then you must work in them also. Ask the question: will they be able to survive? That's the question. The summary says there's really no other choice in the last verses here, 20 through 22, or three verses. There really are only two choices. You will stay on the path of righteousness and have stability, or you won't, and you'll be cut off. Solomon has told you how to accomplish the one and how to avoid or be preserved and protected. From the other. Now, in conclusion, I'm going to pull the whole thing together, and here's the point. You've missed this sermon, I'm sorry. But here's the point: you must commit to God's word Through his words he will give you a godly and socially winsome character so that you are protected from the intimidation. influence of men and women, you will not in this life be totally protected. You will stumble, but you will not fall. Through his words, he will give you a godly and socially winsome character, so that you are protected from the influence of wicked men and women. Through here and is in the mind of our author Solomon. Take a look at Exodus 15 another time. It's divided into two portions. The first portion is how God held the waves up on either sides. So that Israel could pass through safely. He provided the means of wind in order for it to be so. The second half of Exodus 15 says that God, like the waves, he will keep the nation And their persuasive, pagan, and ungodly speech, he will keep them at bay, just as he has done the waves, so that his people will pass safely through the wilderness. And the means by which he will do so is not wind, but you committing to the first four verses of this chapter. He promises to back you up in your work and make all that you do effectual. So I pray that you would begin getting on your knees. Now, crying out loud for discernment as you stuff the scriptures into your soul. Now let me add with a few practical directions There's some things that have to be said. You're really supposed to have the whole book of Proverbs in your heart before you say one word out of it, which is why I'm relying upon scholars that That have this book memorized and have taught it for decades to make sure I'm not missing the balance somewhere. And so I want to balance some things out a little bit. This vision for wisdom, you have to know, and you'll Learn this later, it can only happen through personal discipleship. You can't go home and just do this on your own. You have got to work with people that God has worked in. And they have something to give to you that God gave them. It's called some form of wisdom, and they in experience then can pass they can pass that along to you. So there has to be a walking together for the this to be taken for this to take place. It cannot be reduced to a system. You can map out all your calendar on how you're going to do this and not one thing would change. It can't be reduced to a system. It has to be life experience and growth in human judgment. This is not just a science, but also an art, wisdom. Let me also just point out Proverbs 4, verse 18. Go ahead and flip through that with me. It says in ch in chapter four, verse eighteen But the path of the just is like the sun shining that shines ever brighter onto the perfect day. Here's the point. This is A process, not an event. You can't just put these things into place and then you become wise. You are going to have to progress in the same way And wiser and wiser. As it says to the pastor in 1 Timothy 4 12, let your progress, progress, not event, let your progress be evident to all And I pray that your progress and wisdom would be evident to all. Let me also take this time for another practical direction. You must be careful as to when your children are ready to walk into the gates of the city. They need discernment. You don't want to send just send them into the city without discernment. At some point there comes where they have to get out of the nest. Right? But there has to be a some level of discernment, or you would pray that there would be some level of discernment before they are thrust into the gates. And let me tell you one major fault that our culture has made in putting young children into the center of the city. far too quickly is through social media. Social media is an immediate thrust into the city. Go ahead and argue with me afterward I'm serious. Go ahead. Show me examples of how it's not. I guarantee. And then I want to take a look at all the pictures that you've taken of yourself, and I want to know why you took them that way. Because the city has influenced you and and the picture of beauty and what you're supposed to be, how you're supposed to present yourself in order to be acceptable. The use of social media should be earned by demonstrating that you have the character to stay strong. If your child's mind is a canvas, then to whom will you entrust the brush? I would also, just as a practical direction, ask that you would consider this. This is not a command. This is what is what we call a good inference, not a necessary one. It may be necessary for you, but this is a this is good and I'm reworking this in my own mind. I would ask that you would consider limiting your cell phone use and your TV use insofar as it hinders your attention span to be able to retain God's Word. You have to figure out how this applies to you. I can't come out and say, thus saith the Lord. Lord on any of this, particularly with the how much screen time you should have. That would be ridiculous for me to do. But research is coming out and I sent you the article that the attention And that those who continually have a cell phone on them, particularly if you're under the age of twenty, you are already during this service have been distracted over three hundred times because your brain is rewiring itself relative to the same pace of how social media works, which means you're not getting anything from my sermons. You're not getting Anything when you sit down, or barely anything when you're reading the word, which means you are at an unnecessary risk of not being able to fulfill the first four verses of this chapter. Just by an irresponsible use of the technology The technology is good. It can be used for good purposes. I love it for flashcards, for example. But just as Jesus asks us to do with every other area of life, you have got to have some self-respect So experts say, and this is going to shock you And set you back a little bit, experts recommend that you would have a maximum of 45 minutes a day per screen time that includes any device. Owners of technology such as Apple Yahoo do not even allow their children to have screen time during the week unless they're typing a paper. And that should tell you something. And then I want to say lastly that you would maybe you should at least start by considering having a digital Sabbath. All devices are put into a bag or a basket Saturday night Except for maybe one responsible adult who will leave theirs in the car in case of an emergency, but that you certainly don't bring your devices to church. And some of this will be more applicable to you than others. We don't really have an issue. Some of you might even still have a flip phone and we know you don't have a problem. And then the last practical direction that I want to give you is that I would I'd encourage you to memorize Proverbs four twenty through twenty-seven as your first memory project. You can start with just 420 and then 421 and go all the way up into 427 that you would have that whole section memorized. It is a great summary of what is being added. asked of you. And as you turn around these words around inside your mind, then you'll better understand what it means to walk humbly with God. I do want you to notice in turning to Proverbs 4. 20 that if you were seeking to grow in wisdom, this is how you would know. This is where you would begin to see your progress. You would commit yourself, verse 20, to the words, by giving your ear to them. And then you would give your eyes to them, verse 21. Then you would give your heart to them. And then you would keep your heart so they never leak out. And then you know what's going to happen? All that internal internal anatomy work that you've done with God backing it up, you're going to start to see that your mouth has changed and the things that you say Verse 24. That your lips are no longer perverse, but they say things that are helpful to people. In verse 25, that your eyes aren't looking at pornography or evaluating things incorrectly And that your feet aren't set towards a lifestyle that is contrary to God, but instead that are established on his righteous path. These are worth your memory. Proverbs four, twenty through twenty-seven. And in the end, what you will have, as is promised in chapter two, is discretion Verse 11 in chapter 2 says, discretion especially will preserve you. Let me tell you in closing what discretion is. We have a built-in discretion biologically. That means that if you try to offer me a rotten egg, I will not eat it. Because I smell the egg and I say, oh my gosh, that is so gross. Why why would I ever eat a rotten egg? Or milk, rot uh sour milk. I'm I'm gonna smell it and I biologically am resistant to it. The same thing happens to you as you grow in wisdom You will grow spiritual sensitivities to know what is evil and to know what is good. Some things will just stink to you that never stunk before. Also a sign that you have grown in the wisdom that is here. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, there is much work to do. There's a whole life ahead of us in developing this Character, and we know that we cannot develop the character on our own. And so we begin even now to cry out to you that you would make us wise. We pray, Father, that you would give us the self-discipline to commit ourselves To your word, to commit ourselves to teachers of your word. And Father, that you would take this word and that you would plant it within our hearts and that it would spring up. And that it would produce a harvest that is a hundredfold. We pray that you'd make us the right soil so that things can grow unto your glory. We ask these things in your name. Amen.