412 through 16 in 1 Timothy. Let no one despise your youth, but be an example to the believers in word, in conduct, and love and spirit in faith. in purity. Till I come, give attention to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. Do not neglect the g n neglect the gift that is in you, which was given to you by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the eldership. Meditate on these things. Give yourself entirely to them, that your progress may be evident to all. Take heed to yourself and to the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this you will save both yourself and those who hear you. Let us pray. Oh Christ, we are seeking in your name to discover what it means to be a healthy church. And we could discover that all day long, but unless you effectually move It would be useless. And so we ask that we would not just be hearers of your word as to what health looks like, but that we would be doers. That we would become a witness of heaven on earth. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we used the frame or paradigm or lens of stewardship to understand the instruction that Paul was giving to Timothy. It helped us to understand the whole letter Now it especially helped us understand the particular passage of the letter that we studied last week. We ended up concluding that a healthy church does in fact consist of those with a stewardship mindset. And stewards are those who don't bury their talents, but instead strive to bring about godliness in themselves and in the world for the sake of the returning king. This week we continue in the letter of Timothy, which is 1 Timothy, and we'll begin by some observations. The first thing that I want you to notice Is that though our reading is from 12 to 16 this morning, 12 is directly responding and related to verse 11. And verse 11 says These things command and teach. When Timothy seeks to fulfill his stewardship Some, now we move to verse 12, in the congregation are in fact dismissing him, apparently because he is young. Timothy is young. Some educated guesses surmise that Timothy was in his twenties or his thirties. That's pretty young, especially with such a task. The question that we all want to raise, though, and that Paul will go on to answer, is: well, how is he supposed to keep them from despising him in his youth, looking down on him? What is at least one way, or what are some ways that Paul will instruct Timothy to overcome people looking down on him? And that brings us to our second observation. One answer in verse 12 is that Timothy must walk. Circumspectally. That's a summary of the list that I see here. In fact, he must be an example to the congregation, showing himself to be a serious person. Paul ends up listing six ways to do this in the NKJV. It's the word, conduct, love, spirit, faith, purity. We're not going to go through the whole list because we don't need to, but one word on the list is the Word. And that really helps us to get at the heart of the kind of instruction that Paul is giving That he says. Paul wants Timothy to watch how he talks. Ways of speaking to be avoided when you're in a leadership position and you actually want to have some kind of influence on people. I'm sure you could come up with a list. But it would definitely include not speaking falsehoods. If people think you're a liar, you're not gonna no one's gonna follow you. Or being uh outbursts of wrath or anger? Or what about a person that you can tell always holds a grudge and is bitter towards you? You want to be you want to be a you want to uh listen to them What about those who slander? Those who have abuse of speech and filthy talk? Those are the kind of things that Timothy just needs to avoid so that he can get a little movement forward here But there are things on the other side of the point that he would want to embrace, like speaking the truth, speaking in a way where people understand that he's lifting them up and he's not tearing them down, even if he has to say difficult things Tenderness, forgiveness, seeing that he gives thanks, especially to God and Jesus Christ. What we see here with Paul is Paul relying, as per usual Upon the whole canon of Scripture and giving instruction to this young man on how he's going to make it as a pastor or evangelist in this community We see the same kind of teaching uh in Proverbs. In fact, the whole thing is set up the same way. We have a kind of a teacher who's giving the lessons in proverbial form, and the youth of Israel are meant to be listening so that they can be contributors to society, that they will be the future leaders Undoubtedly, or at least I imagine, Paul drawing upon that tradition in the canon. Paul is doing, in other words, what he's doing is instructing Timothy on how to grow in maturity He's instructing Timothy how to be an authoritative source of good for the community. If you were to pick up the language of Ruth, Paul is breaking down what it will take for Timothy to be that wing for that group of people, for them to view him as a wing or as a tree that is fruitful and gives shade from the sun That's what Paul is doing. And that's our second observation. Now here's our third thing I want you to notice in verse number 14 Besides his speech and the other things that are listed, what Timothy is going to need to do is that he is going to need to exercise the pastoral gifts Which the Lord gave to him, number one, and number two, that the the same gifts which were publicly recognized by the eldership, which in if you were to look in the original language, this is literally the Presbytery, and laying on of hands. And so consequently, in verse 13, we see where that would make sense. His pastoral gifts are starting to then be listed here. Timothy must give attention to the reading. Timothy's got to give attention to the reading of the reading of the word. He has to give attention to the exhortation of the word. He has to give attention to the doctrine of the word, Which is the living out of it a particular lifestyle You look in Titus, that's how doctrine is used. Reading here is not Timothy going off on a mountaintop and just reading by himself. That's not what he's encouraging him to do here. Undoubtedly that's a part of it, perhaps, maybe not on a mountain. But this is in fact a public reading among the congregation, particularly in a worship service. And then you can see how that would fit with exhortation because after the reading of the word, there then needs to be an exhortation so that people can understand and start to apply it to their lives. And here, Timothy is to summon his hearers to understand and to respond to the scripture that has been read, especially in light of Christ. For Christ said, All the scriptures speak of me And as a good steward of the word, that's what he would need to do. And now that brings us to observation number four. Timothy in verses fifteen and sixteen must devote himself to all the parts of his particular stewardship, which many call he is an evangelist. It's a very specific task. He must work hard. He's got to be an example in speech. and the others. He must work hard to bring the Word of God to bear on the lives of the congregation. And if you go back to verse 11, he must strive to command and to teach all of the Christian way of life passed down from Christ. and his apostles. I think we can get a real nice clear picture here of the obvious job that Timothy has among the Ephesian church. Let me give you one last observation I think this ends up being perhaps the most important, especially for our application today. I want you to ask, to what end? What is it that Paul wants him to accomplish with all this work, with all this sacrifice, with the all of the character development that will need to happen within him as a young man? Why? Why would Timothy run this race? What is the trophy? What is it worth? What will Timothy gain? Well, this is what he says right here at the end of the passage. He says, continue in them. For in doing this, you will save both yourself and those who hear you. Now that, my friends, if you have your head screwed on straight, that is totally worth it. I don't want you to be confused by this. The word save can end up referring to many different things. I mean, do a word study on your own time on the word save in the Bible, and you can be saved from just about anything. There are special uses. Of the word, particularly with our salvation. But save spreads out, and you can be saved from a lot. In one sense, only Jesus saves and is therefore our only Savior But in another sense, Christ uses many means to save us, not just in an ultimate sense, but in small ways through our life as we're walking down the path. Lots of things to be saved from My wife saves me from a lot of dumb decisions. We can be safe from bad choices. We can be safe from unproductive paths. We can be saved from confusion and error. We can be saved from trouble makers and false teachers. And the list could go on. I'm sure you could have a list that's a mile long. But the point is that Timothy can save both himself and others who hear him from this chaos. He can save them in some sense, perhaps in some little way, from those who hear him By devoting himself to godly character, good teaching, and preaching. Because that's his vocation. That's what Timothy has to do. That's his stewardship, that's his call. But we can broaden this out. I mean, if you saw a young man working that hard and you began to see that the Lord was working through him Whether you were a preacher or not, wouldn't you become inspired, or shouldn't you become inspired to be a person who saves others just like him? Don't you want to be the kind of person who saves people from bad decisions, from terrible paths? From confusion and error, from depressive states, from discouragement, from dispute from being disheartened, from thinking the wrong way about themselves, from self-pity. I mean you could go on and on. There's a lot to save from. You could even become more tangible and say, save somebody so they don't go over their budget. We could do that with the pop-up pantry and handing out food The list could go on and on, like I said. And so our doctrine this morning is not going to be just relegated to the land of the preacher. You can see that this spreads out very quickly, that Timothy ends up being an authoritative example for us as a church, and yet another picture of what it means for us to be healthy. And so our doctrine this morning is this. A healthy church is a church that works diligently to save each other. A healthy church is a church that works diligently to save each other. This does not need to be newsworthy. I don't expect you to be, did anybody watch the news anymore I'm just trying to think of like a news channel. I actually have an antenna on the top of my roof. I watch WJZ sometimes, but it won't be newsworthy like that. We're not gonna see somebody on the news talk about it. Maybe it'll be small ways But nevertheless, that's our doctrine. A healthy church works diligently to save each other. Now what I'd like to do is to unfold that in two main ways. His means and your ministry. His means and your ministry. A healthy church works diligently to save each other. His means and your ministry. Let's begin with his means. And you'll understand what I mean by that title in just a second. Underneath of our doctrine lies an important lesson about how Jesus Christ works. to save his people. I've actually been waiting for some time to say that to you. I've been so excited about this passage coming up Underneath our doctrine lies an important lesson about how Jesus Christ works to save his people. I want you to remember with me for a moment a very, very old picture. It's been around for a long time and it's been iterated throughout all of history Whether it ends up being a picture that is painted for us by the authors of Scripture, or if it's painted for us by Augustine, or if it's painted for us in a book like Pilgrim's Progress The picture is the picture of the Christian life as a path which leads to a glorious celestial destination. Many of the children that have gone through our academy here have drawn a map of this path, so they have a real clear picture of what this looks like. Now, one main question is: how will any of us, given what lies on the path, how will any of us make it to our end destination? How would any of us be saved? Along the path are ditches to fall in, there are exits that distract and destroy There are fire-breathing dragons on some paths. How will we reach the end? And the abbreviated answer, of course, is that Jesus Christ is not only the author, but he is the finisher of our faith. Many of us take residence in that. He, in fact, preserves us to the end. If we were to look at other parts of our confession than what we read today, you would see things like They whom God has accepted in his beloved shall certainly persevere therein to the end and be eternally saved. Now that was a shortened version of what our confession says. It's quite beautiful how they lay it out. So we know who will get us to the end, but the question I'm asking is: how will he do it? And how will we do it with him? And our confession goes on to answer this well by saying that Christ gives us means to preserve us. In the case of Pilgrim's Progress, I just want you to think of this as an illustration or an example. I'm trying to speak to you about the nature of how God works in your life. About the way this world works for Christians. In the case of Pilgrim's Progress, we witness this in the many characters who help Pilgrim reach the celestial city. He doesn't just get on the path and then he's there. You could think of evangelists, those of you who are familiar with the story, you could think of faithful, you could think of hopeful, you could think of think of goodwill. And there's a bunch of other people that have got to jump in for him to even get five minutes down the road. I mean as soon as he heads off he falls in something he can't get out of And that is a great picture of our lives. And Pilgrim's Progress is just illustrative. What that author is trying to do is to point us to the authorized examples, and the pages of Scripture are filled with. With means that Jesus Christ, the eternal Christ, sends to us that we would make it to the end, that we would be saved all along the way by different things. Think of the scriptures. Can you think of the means that Jesus Christ provides? Can you recall any examples of the eternal Christ preserving his church through means? Think of the scriptures. I wonder, as soon as I mentioned that, those of you who are thinking quickly, I wonder if you thought of David and how the Lord preserved him David fell into grievous sin along the path. There he was walking along the path. He's got a great reputation so far for saving Israel. From all kinds of stuff. All that we saw in Judges, all the problems that they had, David comes along and he gives them order. The eternal Christ through David gives them order. David's going along the path and he decides to exit. And how he looks at Bathsheba, the plans he undertakes with her husband And he was just continuing on that path. But the eternal Christ sent him Nathan the prophet. Nathan told him that Story, you remember that story? Nathan told him that story. David him just convicted himself with his own judgment and conclusion. And Nathan said, You're the man You are the one. The eternal Christ, in other words, used Nathan to sober David up to repent and to get back on the path, though his path would be treacherous From that moment forward. I wonder if you, besides David, thought of Nehemiah and his reading and exhortation of the word, since I brought that up earlier. Or after the incarnation of the eternal Christ, Christ Himself clarifying the will of God from the Scriptures. Himself being a helper or a means, is him unfolding the scriptures for us as we watch him unfold the scriptures for the apostles as a means for us to be preserved in the truth, not to fall in the same traps as the church of the past. And then after his ascension, Christ sends his Spirit, literally named, to be our helper, to be our aid. He is a means to a particular end. Or has a means. And then we have Christ sending the apostles to be our guide. And the apostles were even means to each other. Do you remember that story? Where they were all getting ready to sit down to dinner, both Jew and Gentile, but then Peter separated himself? What was the means that the eternal Christ used to get Peter back on the path? And in line, the text says, in line with the gospel of Jesus Christ. It was Paul. Paul ends up saying something to Peter. He confronts him publicly. And let us not forget our passage here this morning, Timothy. He is a great means sent from the eternal Christ through Paul to save those who will hear him in the Ephesians chapter. church. This is how life really works. There's this is this is the the clear picture of how God works within our lives. Christ uses means in order to save his people sometimes from sin, sometimes from error, sometimes from discouragement, sometimes, sometimes, sometimes, sometimes, etc. That is the nature of reality. And that brings us to our Smackdown into not just the means in general that we've seen throughout the whole world at all times being used by the eternal Christ But your ministry. You see where this is going, right? You are a means. This ends up shedding great light on our own ministry. We are the means which Christ will use to save each other. That's how this whole thing fits together within the kingdom of God. This becomes obvious if you were to just take a moment and reflect on how Christ keeps you going. Who is it that Christ sends to you To keep you going. I know you have people in mind. It might even just be somebody on a podcast that encouraged you. But that's all the work of the eternal Christ He's keeping you on the path towards the destination. What means has he used in your life Throughout the years, I have told my stories. I'm done telling my stories, really, until the next time. I'm asking you about your story. What means has Christ used to keep you on the path to the celestial city? What songs has he used? What conferences? What books? Or more importantly this morning, what names are on the list of those who have picked you up? to help you keep going. Or maybe they were just a part of the picking up. It took seven people, maybe, but they were a part of it. There's there are people that are on your list, is the point. Who has entered into your life as a means in the hands of the eternal Christ saving you unto ultimate salvation. I want to give you an example this morning from Rosaria Butterfield. She's written a lot. She's actually quite helpful most of the time. And here she is writing about her conversion. I just want you to, in in light of what we're learning today about us having our own ministry as means to saving each other, I want you to listen to the means in Rosaria Butterfield's life. This is a a bit of a spectacular conversion, but if you look at it, it's really just the way everything happens Under the Lordship of Jesus. This is what she wrote. She says, I began researching the religious rites and their politics of hatred against queers like me. To do this, I would need to read the one book that had, in my estimation, gotten so many people off track, the Bible. While on the lookout for some Bible scholar to aid me in my research, I launched my first attack on the whole on the unholy trinity of Jesus. Republican politics and patriarchy in the form of an article in the local newspaper about promise keepers. It was 1997. She's a handful. The article generated many rejoinders, so many that so many that I kept a Xerox box. For those of you who are kids here, that's a box. We used to make copies. So many that I kept a Xerox box on each side of my desk, one for hate mail and one for fan mail. But one letter I received defied my filing system. It was from the pastor of the Syracuse Reformed Presbyterian Church. It was a kind and inquiring letter. Ken Smith encouraged me to explore the kind of questions I admire. How did you arrive at your interpretations, Ms. Butterfield? How did you know you are right, Miss Butterfield? Do you believe in God? Ken didn't argue with my article. Rather, he asked me to defend the presuppositions that undergirded it. I didn't know how to respond to it, so I threw it away. Later that night, I fished it out of the recycling bin And I put it back on my desk, where it stared at me for a week, confronting me with the worldview divide that demanded a response. With that letter, Ken initiated two years of bringing the church to me, a heathen. I fought with everything I had. I did not want this. I did not ask for this. I counted the costs, and I did not like the math on the other side of the equal side. Then, one ordinary day, I came to Jesus open-handed and naked. In this war of worldviews, Ken was there, his wife Floy was there The church that had been praying for me years for years was right there. Jesus triumphed, and I was a broken mess. You can read the fuller article. I really skipped around because this sermon can only be so long. She was a broken mess. And it would take countless hours of work for Rosaria working with the church, singing psalm after psalm. To become healthier and healthier and eventually to be called wife. But that is how it works. That's the point. Jesus saves. But did you see how he did it? That's the story of the whole world. Jesus saves and you see how he does it. He uses the means of your ministry. It was about a church and a pastor and his wife, just some little church. Christ did not return in the flesh and reveal himself to a postmodern scholar. He sent his servants. It started with just a letter He sent Ken and then Floy, I believe that's how you say her name. He sent other members of the church and with them he sent his word and he gave Rosaria ears to hear and to follow. Now this is not entirely a spectacular or an unusual story. All of you in the congregation are Christ's servants. whom he has directed to be the means by which he saves others in countless ways. It is you who will save his followers from error It'll be you who saves them from devastating and tragic sin. It will be you who saves people from misery in small ways. And whatever other dragons show up in their lives It will be you that helps them to slay the dragon, to crush the head of the serpent. It will happen in small ways. And it is totally worth it. I was just at, like many of you or some of you, I was just at Tom Wenger Jr. 's Jr. 's uh funeral. And there was slideshow picture after slideshow picture of him and family and friends. And I had uh one of Ellie's friends sitting next to me. My family was walking around and saying hi to people, and and so her friend would still stay there, and I just kind of scooched over in the pew And I said to her, do you see these pictures? Do you notice that my friend Tom doesn't have a bunch of pictures of himself with cars around him He has a bunch of pictures of family and friends in his congregation around him. And because he made that decision to sink himself into human beings, his life was good. My brother was just a little older than me, but he lived a good life because of that choice. It is totally worth it to give yourself to this vocation and this ministry. And my brother Thomas is an example of that. It is totally worth it to be a means to save somebody. That's why we had 1,200 people at the funeral. Because he was on the path. He wasn't perfect. But he was on the right path as an example to us as a young Timothy. And so there it is with you. Perhaps it's time to think about what will be on your slideshows at your firm. Will you embrace your ministry, saving those around you in the name of Jesus Christ? Who needs around you just a simple kind word today for you to not walk by them in the narthex and not know their name one more Sunday? But instead to stop and encourage them because you've seen something in them and you just want to tell them. Who needs a wake-up call? Some of us need to be grabbed by the collar Who needs a thoughtful and patient, long-standing conversation? How will Jesus Christ use you as a means of his salvation? In any of these scenarios and more. I ask you that question because that's our doctrine. That's what we're supposed to remember through all of this. We are to remember that a healthy church works diligently to save each other in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Please pray with me.