It was about six months ago that um uh I preached through this psalm in the morning service, uh but I was reminded that within this book it's all good and it's never So it doesn't matter that six months ago we may have heard this psalm, we'll hear it again tonight. But as one of my favorite preachers often says, uh, before we go to the word of the Lord Let's go to the Lord of the Word. Let's pray. Gracious God in heaven, this is your message to us. This is your revelation of yourself to us. This is your is your mercy to us. We pray, Lord, that you will even now be working on our hearts, working on our minds, that we would hear what you have to say to us from Your scripture tonight, that it would take root in our hearts and transform us into people that please you. We pray, Lord, that you will use uh your word from Psalm 51. To make each of us here tonight more and more into the image of your Son. We pray, Lord, that you will be blessed and that we would be blessed as well. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Psalm fifty one To the chief musician, a psalm of David when Nathan the prophet went to him after he had gone in to Bathsheba. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to your loving-kindness, according to the multitude of your tender mercies. Blot out my My transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is always before me. Against you, you only have I sinned, and done this evil in your sight, that you may be found just when you speak, and blameless when you judge Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin my mother conceived me. Behold, you desire truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part you will make me to know wisdom. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me hear joy and gladness, that the bones you have broken may rejoice. Hide your face from my s Sins, and blot out all my iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me. Do not cast me away from your presence, and do not take your Holy Spirit from me Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me by your generous spirit. Then I will teach transgressors your Your ways, and sinners shall be converted to you. Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed, O God, the God of my salvation, and my tongue shall sing aloud of your righteousness. O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth shall Shall show forth your praise. For you do not desire sacrifice, or else I would give it. You do not delight in burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart These, O God, you will not despise. Do good in your good pleasure to Zion, build the walls of Jerusalem, then you shall be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness Righteousness with burnt offering and whole burnt offering, then they shall offer bulls on your altar. The flowers fade, the grass withers. But the work Of our Lord remains forever. This is God's word to us. It comes to us through David, a prophet and a king. that God ordained. Brothers and sisters, have any of you ever had the occasion to use a spruga? Have you ever had to use a screwgun? I know some of you are smiling because you probably wish you had fewer occasions to use screwguns. If you use a screw gun, it makes putting a lot of screws in really, really easy. I mean you can do a hundred screws like nothing But the problem is if you're like me and you're trying to screw in a hundred screws, by the time you get to like screw twenty five Your arm gets a little tired, your attention gets a little off. And when you hit the screw with that Phillips Head screw bit, sometimes you'll hit it off center. And instead of grabbing the screw and screwing it right in real fast, it just spins on the head of the screw for just a minute. Now, it's not a big deal at first, because it catches the screw and then it screws it on in. But if you're doing a hundred screws and you do that every other screw, by the time you get to screw ninety-nine, you may not be able to screw it in Then because every single missed mark, every time that that screw screw bit spins on the screw, it diminishes the utility of that tool. Diminishes the utility of The screw gun. And brothers and sisters, this is like what sin does to us. Even the believer, even a Christian being sanctified by Jesus Christ, by his Holy Spirit. For even that person, sin chips away at their utility and hinders their usefulness for the kingdom of God. We are not destroyed completely by our sin. We are spared that destruction by God's great mercy in Jesus Christ. But our sin does affect us. Every sin that we commit in our lives is like missing the mark on that screw. And it diminishes our utility and our usefulness for God. And if that sin is left unchecked, then we will become completely unrecognizable for the task that God has designed. Now, this can happen to anyone. No one is exempt from this. And I want you to think about a king of Israel. One who was said to be uh to have a heart after God's own heart, even that king, David, was susceptible to this kind of diminishing utility that sin Remember David's life, he was blessed by God. He was the youngest in his family, and yet he He was a a joyful boy who tended his father's flocks and who protected his father's sheep from lions and bears, and all of this he acknowledged was because of God's guidance But remember what David did later in his life, after he'd been king for a while. Do you remember what he did with David With Bathsheba, how he saw her, how he lusted after her, how he sinned in bringing her to him, and how he sinned to cover up other sins. I don't need to go entirely through the whole narrative because I'm sure you're familiar with it, and if if not, you can go home and look through it. It's in 2 Samuel 11 and 10. 12. But we're told in the beginning of this psalm that Psalm 51 was written by David as a response to that specific sin event. Do you remember what happened at the end of that account after David is confronted? By Nathan the prophet. He brings to him a story of a poor family with a beloved lamb, and of a rich neighbor who, out of his greed and selfishness, takes that family. Family's lamb, because he's not willing to use one of his own to feed his guests. When David hears this, he is angry. He is angry because of the injustice of what he's just heard that a rich man would take a poor family's only beloved lamb. Do you remember those words that Nathan says to David? You You are the man. David had done precisely that. And this response From David's heart to that event is not David trying to convince God to spare him from the effects of his sin. It's this psalm, this response, it's not uh David uh trying to make an excuse for his sin. Remember, it is not that David's special status before God had been removed from him, and that's what led him into sin. No, David had forgotten what it meant to be chosen by God. David had forgotten what it meant to be anointed by God, what it means to be loved by God. David had lost the joy of being saved by God. God. He had lost salvation's joy. And we have to ask ourselves, can such a joy, salvation's joy, be restored? I'm glad you would ask, because that's exactly why the Holy Spirit has given us this Psalm, Psalm 51. He gives us this psalm to show us that salvation's joy is restored by rightly recognizing who Yahweh is, by faithfully requesting His mercy. And humbly responding to his loving kindness. Psalm 51, I pray you will see, shows us that salvation's joy is restored by rightly recognizing who Yahweh is faithfully responding and uh requesting his mercy and humbly responding to his loving kindness So David first shows us that for salvation's joy to be restored, we must be rightly recognizing who Yahweh is. And he shows us this in the first six verses. In verse one, he shows us specifically that Yahweh is a merciful God David seeks help from the only one who can help him, and that's Yahweh Himself, the merciful God. And he says this: Have mercy upon me. O God. Why would David go to God and ask for mercy if God is not a God capable of giving mercy? You don't go to a tree if what you want is milk. You don't go to a cow if what you want is maple syrup. You go where you can Achieve your goal. And so David goes to the only place where he can receive mercy. You can go nowhere for forgiveness except to God. And this is very established in Jewish history. Remember what happened when Jesus was at a house And they cut a hole in the roof and they lowered a paralyzed man to be in the presence of Jesus. Do you remember what happened when Jesus said that that man's sins were forgiven? The Pharisees, they couldn't deal with this. They knew that only God could forgive sins. And so for a man to forgive sins is blasphemy. Yet he said, which is easier? What's easier for me to say? His sins are forgiven, or he should get up and walk. And Jesus, so that they would know that he has the power to forgive sins, so that they would know that he is God. The only one who can give mercy and forgive sins. He told that man to get up and walk. And what happened? He got up and he walked. David seeks help from the only one who can help him, and then David pleads with God. He pleads with God to do what no one else can do, to do that which only he can do, to blot out his transgressions. to wash him thoroughly from his iniquity and to cleanse him from his sin. Now it's important to realize that These three terms, transgressions, iniquity, and sin, these represent the entirety of the way that the Hebrew language speaks about sin. We have the idea of transgression, which is breaking God's laws. It's either not doing what he's commanded to do or doing what he is commanded not to do. We have the iniquity, which is what we understand as original sin. It's the iniquity that we're all born with. And then there is sin itself. Which is the concept of missing the mark, no matter how hard you try or how well you do, you will never reach the standard of righteousness. God has. So in saying these three terms, David is showing us that God's ability to forgive sins is to forgive the entirety of man's sin. The complete picture of sin. There is no sin that is outside of God's merciful power. No sin of adultery, no sin of conspiracy, no sin of hypocrisy, no sin of duplicity or murder or dishonesty, none of the sins that David committed. Are outside of God's power to forgive. David seeks that help, and he seeks that help from the only God who can give it. And he seeks it based on one thing. He seeks it based on who God is. Look at what he says. He says, according to the multitude of your tender mercy. According to your loving kindness. The only thing that David brings up as the basis for why God should forgive him is the person of God Himself. Now when we a experience a situation like this in our own life, well let's say we have uh we have harmed someone that we're close to With. We will go to them and seek forgiveness, won't we? But often our reasons for seeking that forgiveness are not pure. Sometimes they're selfish. Sometimes we are motivated by the wrong things. And when we go to a person seeking their forgiveness, we we we come with all kinds of reasons. I'll never do it again. Ever said that to somebody? Please forgive me, I'll never do it again. I hear that five or six times a day. I probably say it five or six times a day too, and I just Don't realize it. No, we can't do that. We can't appeal to God to forgive us for some reason. We can't say, God, please forgive us for the sin we didn't know any better. Please, God, forgive us for this sin. We feel really terrible about it. No. We can only go to God and debate forgiveness from Him based on who He is, based on the fact that He is God, that His mercy, His loving kindness is at His pleasure to dispense. But that's not the only quality of Yahweh that David wants us to see, or that the Holy Spirit wants us to see. We see that Yahweh is a merciful God, but we also see that Yahweh is a holy God. And we see this in verses 3 to 6. We see God's holiness. By David's right recognition of his condition, a condition which you and I share. David confesses his sin openly and sincerely, and he says, For I acknowledge my transgressions And my sin is always before me. Against you, you only have I sinned and done this evil in your sight, that you may be found just when you speak, and blameless when you judge. God is holy, and so all sin is an affront to him and his holiness. Is it even possible for us to ponder God's holiness and his magnificence and not to be confronted by the vast gulf that exists between us. The great distance between our righteousness and God's righteousness. No one who truly knows God can pretend for even a second to themselves or to anyone else that they are as good as God. We're as holy, we're as just, we're as patient, or as loving. David is making it very clear that God is not at all to be blamed for his sins. God is not to be blamed for the sins of his sins. people. Nor is God to be blamed for the consequences of sin. They're the just consequences. These are the blameless judgments of God. God's holiness demands it. David's sin demanded it. Your sin demands it. Remember, when you and I sin, there is only one guilty party. And that guilty party is never God. God is not guilty because we sin Yahweh is a holy God. And David recognizes that there was never a time when he was not wholly dependent on this holy God. He says, Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin my mother conceived me. Behold, you desire truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part you will make me to know wisdom. David is showing us God's holiness, and that it wasn't just his sinful acts which make God's miraculous mercy and salvation necessary. David recognizes that even before any deeds could be done, while in the womb, every single human being has fallen short of the glory of God. It is in the inward parts, in the heart and the soul of man, that God desires purity and perfection. And it is in those inward parts that we have. been broken by the sin of our father Adam and by the sin of our mother Eve, and by the sin that rests within us. It is on that heart that God writes his laws. It is on that heart that God gives man a ration. A rational mind, capable of reasoning, capable of understanding what he wants from us, capable of being fed by his revelation. It is in these hidden parts where we rebel against God also, and where we know for a fact that we're rebelling against God. God deserves our absolute submission and obedience in every part of us, especially in our inward, our most inward. Parts. Now, in rightly recognizing who God is, we will find ourselves rightly recognizing who we are. It's personal scrutiny. And personal scrutiny can be painful It's difficult to look at the shining white light of God's purity and then to look back at ourselves and to see the darkness and the dinginess. The disgusting quality that we have because of our sins. But we have an awesome God. We have an awesome God who's full of tender mercies and loving kindnesses, who has the power to cancel sin, and is so merciful that He does this for you and I. He does this for those who never could deserve it and never could earn his mercy. There is only one place that we can go after rightly recognizing who Yahweh is, and this is the place where David goes in this Psalm. In verses 7 to 12, David brings us into a period of faithfully requesting God's mercy. Now, David faithfully requests that God do that which he rightly recognized God can, and he's the only one who can, and the only one who does, do this thing: the removal of sin. And he says it in verse seven, purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. No. Now David's use of hyssop could be intended to draw our minds to the Passover, where hyssop was used to apply the blood to the doorposts. He could be using it to draw our minds to Leviticus 14, where we see the ritual cleansing of the lepers, where hyssop is used by the the priests to cleanse the leper. And if you look there in Leviticus 14, you'll see an interesting little bit of cleansing. The Lord has given all these rituals that must be done. The priest takes the the hyssop and he mixes uh some of the blood from the sacrifice with scarlet and with cedar And then he takes this blood on this hyssop and sprinkles it on the leper and pronounces the leper clean. He pronounces him clean And the leper is clean. But if you go to Leviticus chapter 14, after the pronouncement of cleanness, there's about 32 verses telling what the leper must do And washing his house and sleeping outside and doing all of these things. Those things are not what make him clean. It is the pronouncement of God's priest that is what makes him clean. And in the same way, God pronounces us clean through the work of Jesus Christ. And as the scriptures say, what God has called clean can we call unclean. So we cannot just be depressed when we think about ourselves and our condition. We must understand that our God loves us so much that He has pronounced us clean and we are clean. Clean indeed, if we are faithful in Christ Jesus. David then says, Make me here joy and gladness, that the bones you have broken may rejoice Only a person with faith in the living God of Scripture can request to hear joy and to request gladness in their hearts and in their lives in a time of trial and suffering. Now, brothers and sisters, this is crucial. Our joy and our gladness are not conditional upon the state of our affairs in life. If you have a broken bone, do you generally rejoice? It usually doesn't happen that way. But this is what God gives us. The joy and gladness that can be present through such suffering and pain is only because of God's sovereign mercy. God can make even those overwhelmed by tragic death and tragic circumstances recognize the joy and gladness that He has brought Either before that tragedy, or maybe that he's bringing even through that tragedy. Only eyes opened by God can see this. And this is the awesome character of our God, the God that we worship. It doesn't matter what Satan is trying. It doesn't matter what Satan's minions are trying to do to the church or to Christians. It doesn't matter what the world is trying to do to you or to those that you love. Our God is so good and powerful that He can manifest from such pain unimaginable joy. Unimaginable gladness and happiness, amazingly rich blessings that prove His power, His goodness, and His loving-kindness. And David's faith is not only in God's power to cancel sin or his will to cancers cancel sin, but David's faith is in The inevitable finality of the canceled sin from God's mercy. He says, hide your face from my sins and blot out my iniquities Now in the Hebrew language, God's face is used to indicate his presence. And there is nowhere that God's presence isn't. There are many scriptures that point us to that fact. But for something to be removed from God's presence essentially means for it to be removed from existence. So for David to plead with God that he would hide his face from his sins is really David saying, remove my sins from existence. And if the Lord forgives sins and turns his face away from our sins, they are indeed gone. They cease to be as if they never were. David then finally requests that God do the only thing that really matters to someone who has had their sins forgiven. He requests that God sustain him from further sin by creating in him a clean heart, a holy nature. He says, Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit. David wants his heart clean so that it wouldn't be bent toward evil any longer. He shows us that it is the work of God's creation, because he uses the same word here that's used in the creation account. He shows us that it's not a modification of the heart before it had sinned. It's not even a restoration of a heart to its condition before it had sinned. No, it is a unique and a new creation, a creation by God's sovereign and creative will. Our hearts must be made by that one who's mentioned in John 1. That one who it says, without him nothing was made that was made. It is Jesus Christ who creates in his people a new heart. David has asked for a steadfast spirit, and this steadfast spirit is one that does not waver, it's one that does not succumb to temptation. It doesn't even imagine breaking God's law for selfish gain. And this is what we all need if we are to have any hope of living in a way that fits our function and our For what is the chief end of man? Man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. So David then says, Do not cast me away from your presence, and do not take your Holy Spirit from me. He wants to live in the presence of his God. And he might be thinking about his predecessor. Do you remember David's predecessor on the throne? It was Saul. And Saul had sinned against God. And he was no longer king. The Lord took the kingdom from him. Now David had committed this heinous act, this heinous sin against God. Would he Lose his blessed kingdom from God? Well David's next request shows us the true yearning of his heart. It's not to keep a kingdom. He says, Restore to me the joy of your salvation and uphold me by your generous spirit. David's not requesting a reversal of the consequences of his sin. And this is very significant because Nathan told David what would happen as a result of his sin, and the child, born of Uriah's wife. Died because of his sin. David is not requesting that God turn back time to the point before he could sin, so that he would have the chance to do it all over and make everything right. David is motivated to recover the joy of his salvation. It is salvation's joy which motivates us to obedience and the manner of living in which God delights. If God's salvation brings you great joy, the greatest joy, is there anything else that you would be seeking in order to have joy in your lives? Our salvation is what should bring us the most joy. Our salvation from a God that we rightly recognize, from a God that we faithfully request his mercy. Because God is compassionate. He is a compassionate God. He is compassionate to those who have confessed their sin to Him and who faithfully request His boundless mercies. But we cannot stop there because David doesn't stop there. The only course of action for one who is rightly recognized who God is. God is, faithfully requested that their joy of salvation be restored, is to humbly respond to God's loving kindnesses. And we see this in verses thirteen to nine nineteen. David first presents the personal or individual response, and he says, Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners shall be converted to you. The individual responds to God's loving kindness with a zeal to share what God has done Now, there is a common mistake uh amongst people who who don't know uh Christians, and and they think that the Christians share their testimony or witness in order to receive some kind of reward. But this is just not how it is. Christians, we share the truth of the gospel because it's true. It is true that God forgives sinners. It is true that God forgives sinners who don't deserve that forgiveness. And so we evangelize and share the gospel because God has made it real to us, because it is real. When God forgives sin, there is no escaping the gospel. Sometimes we call it our testimony. I think that's wrong of us. I think we should call it God's testimony, because it really is a testimony of what God has done in our lives, not anything that we have done. It's only our testimony if we twist it into being, uh, you know, I I was kind of bad and then I I thought really long and hard about the bad things I did. I decided not to be bad anymore, and now I'm good If that's our testimony, we rob all the glory from God. But if we actually share what God has actually done, If we are willing to tell a person that we were once a murderer, an adulterer, a hypocrite, and the Lord God changed us, well then Transgressors will be shown his ways. The individual also responds to the miracle of mercy with praise and adoration of the living God. See what he says: Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed, O God, the God of my salvation, and my tongue shall sing aloud of your righteousness. O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth shall show forth your praise. God spared David's life, which is the penalty. For the guilt of his bloodshed. He basically is a murderer. And David responds by declaring that God is the God of salvation. David is not praising his salvation. David is not praising the mercy that God has given him. David is praising God, who shows mercy. David is praising the God who saves, not the salvation he has been given. We worship the God of grace. We don't worship grace. itself. We worship the Lord of holiness. We don't worship holiness itself. We must love the forgiver and not merely the forgiveness. And the individual's response of true worship is more delightful to God than any animal sacrifice or ritual observance. And you can see it there. For you do not desire sacrifice, or else I would give it. You do not delight in burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart. These, O God, you will not despise. God doesn't want outward expressions of our contrition. God doesn't want penance. God desires true repentance. He desires us to have a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart God does not despise. And every one of us can relate to this. We can understand that God doesn't want fake friends. God wants real friends. Because you have real friends in your own life, don't you? Last year when Ashley's father passed away, we were able to be blessed by one of Ashley's true friends, who without asking us, without even telling us, she just got in her car, packed her things, and drove up Uh and she was here for a week to spend with Ashley just because that's true friendship. That's what we recognize. True friendship. And the same is true for us. Yahweh desires us to be his true children, his true friends. He doesn't want us to simply say that we love him. He wants us to actually Now, there's not only an individual response to God's loving-kindness, but David finishes with the corporate response. And he says, Do good in your good pleasure design, build the walls of Jerusalem. Then you shall be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness, with burnt offering and whole burnt offering. Then they shall offer bulls on your altar. Now, this concept of building the walls of Jerusalem is all about the security and defense of the church. And how does God secure his church? How does God defend his church? He does this by converting sinners. He forgives sinners and converts them, makes true converts, those who truly believe him. And he does this because we know that the church is filled with wheat and tares. They are sowed right alongside each other. But don't ever get discouraged and think that the church is only full of tares. God is planting the wheat and he is converting the hearts of his people. The result is that the church is built up because that's how God builds his church. He forgives sinners. And the church expands and grows and is given gifts and talents that can be used for God's Glory. Ultimately, in the new heavens and the new earth, one of the gifts that we will offer to God is the true sacrifice of our everlasting life. We will be worshiping him forever, and it will always be pleasing to him. We will be giving him all that we are perfectly because there will be no sin and no ability to sin. Now, I just want to conclude with one thought. In all the history Of all the world, there has only been one human, one man who never had to say anything like what is in this psalm. And that's our Lord Jesus Christ. Our God, Jesus, is perfect. Do you know what his name means? His name in Hebrew is Yeshua. It means our God saves. Our God saves. The salvation of God is Jesus Christ. And for salvation's joy to be restored, what we must do is look to Jesus. We must be beholding Jesus Christ. We must be delighting in Jesus Christ. For some of us, this is easy. For some of us, it seems like uh like they're just always on fire. But if you're like me, that fire waxes and wanes. I mean, some of you, maybe the beginning of your conversion was when you were four years old. And you wonder: where is that fire for God? Well, that fire for God is only going to be restored if your joy in the salvation from God is restored. And that means that in order for you to be on fire for God, to have zeal for Him and the salvation that He's given you, it means that you must constantly be looking to Christ. You must be constantly looking to the Lord of your salvation. Because if you look to Christ, you will rightly recognize who God is. It's in Christ that we see the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. His death blotted out every transgression and all of our iniquity We were rightly and justly judged as deserving nothing but death and hell forever. But our God, through Jesus Christ, has declared that we shall share in his righteousness. And his inheritance. And Christ has given us a new heart, a heart of flesh, a heart that can respond to him. A heart that is capable of acting as a dwelling place for the Holy Spirit, that we can be empowered to live in a way that delights our Heavenly Father. May salvation's joy be restored in your life. May you be truly thankful for it. May it be the fulfillment of all your hopes in this season And if it is not restored, I pray that God would grant that it be kindled anew as you seek him in the face of Christ Jesus. Let us pray. Gracious God in heaven, we do adore you, and we love you, and we thank you for giving us your word that we can use it to rightly recognize you. We thank you that you have given us so many mercies and loving kindnesses, that we have so much blatant evidence for your love for us. We ask you Ask, Lord, that you would help us if we are finding ourselves falling into spiritual depression, that you would restore to us the joy of our salvation Restore to us the vision of our salvation. Restore to us our first love, that we may never look away from your Son. Help us, Father, to do this, that we can live lives that please you, that honor you, and that glorify you. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.