God's holy word. Mark chapter one, starting in verse 29 through 31. Now as soon as they had come out of the synagogue, they entered the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John. But Simon's wife's mother lay sick with a fever, and they told him about her at once. So he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up, and immediately the fever left her, and she said Let's pray. Most awesome God, help us. Help us to see what you would have us see in your holy word. Guide us by your Spirit. And I pray, Father, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. One of my favorite accounts in all of Scripture is the account of Joseph. And it's not his his prophetic dreams or his amazing technicolored coat that I'm drawn to. No. What I love most about his story is how much it is filled with God saving him from something Something disastrous, and then putting him into a place where he needs to work hard and do great acts of service, which are used to save others. If you remember the account of Joseph, he was the favored son, he was given special treatment. And while all his older brothers were out doing hard work, feeding the flocks of their father, this seventeen-year-old was just hanging around. Hanging at home until his father sent him out to check on his brothers. If you remember, his brothers were going to kill him. But God saves him from their murderous intent. Do you remember how God saves him? He saves him by having him sold into slavery. Doesn't seem like much of a saving, does it? And then he's saved as a slave. From a terrible accusation from his slave master, Potiphar's wife. And do you remember what God saves him to? He saves him to prison And while he's in prison, God gives him a miraculous interpretation of Pharaoh's dream, saves him out of prison, and we might think, finally, there's some Peace, some rest for our brother Joseph. Yet what is he saved to? He saved to the most strenuous and intense work that he could ever have. He is the second in command of all of Egypt. And God used him. saved him to that service that he would save not only all of Egypt, but he saves the family of Israel Now the gospel, according to Mark, is not about Joseph, but it is about God's purposes being accomplished. This book is the good news of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And so far Mark has shown us that God prepared his people to encounter him. All the Old Testament prophets pointed to him, especially that last Old Testament prophet, John the Baptizer, whose ministry was that specific Purpose. It was to prepare the people to encounter the Messiah. Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ, was himself prepared for his own ministry and was proven to be the perfect spotless Lamb of God. We saw that the gospel, the good news that Jesus preached requires a response from us. And that response can transform our lives, as it did for the first four disciples he called, away from their life as fishermen, to then follow after the Son of God. And last week, most recently, we encountered Jesus' authority in his teaching and in his commands. We learned that his authority is over all things, even the spiritual world. We learned that because he commanded an unclean spirit that had no choice but to obey him. As we go through Mark's account, we are encountering The Son of God. And I hope for us, as it was for those people of Galilee, that each encounter is giving us a clearer and clearer picture of who Jesus is, who the Christ is, and what he is accomplishing The gospel, the good news, is told to us by Jesus that the days are fulfilled or the time is fulfilled, the wait is over. Now is the time in which we must recognize the Son of God and flee to Him for salvation. He is the Holy One of God. That unclean spirit from last week was telling the truth. And Mark has given us a hint already as to how we're to understand the Christ. If you recall, he started the whole book by giving us quotes from the prophets, specifically from Isaiah. And I believe that Mark wants us to recognize Jesus as the Messiah, foretold not only by the prophets in general, but specifically by Specifically by the prophet Isaiah. And so there's two passages before we get too far into this that I'd like to read, and uh you can follow along with me. I want us to read this because I hope it's going to help orient us as to how we're to understand everything that Mark is going to share, especially when he shares these miraculous events in the last First, we're going to start at Isaiah 42. We'll look at the first nine verses there, and then Isaiah 35. So if you want to flip to Isaiah 42, You can follow along as I'll read. And then you can put your finger or your thumb right there at Isaiah 35. And I'll read that also if you don't feel like flipping. Isaiah 42, verses 1 through 9 Behold, my servant whom I uphold, my elect one in whom my soul delights, I put my spirit upon him He will bring forth justice to the Gentiles. He will not cry out, nor raise his voice, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, and smoking flax he will not quench. He will bring forth justice for truth. He will not fail nor be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth, and the coastlands shall wait for his law. Thus says God the Lord, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread forth the earth and that which comes from it, who gives breath to the people on it, and spirit to those who walk on it. I, the Lord, have called you in righteousness. and will hold your hand. I will keep you and give you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the Gentiles, to open blind eyes. To bring out prisoners from the prison, those who sit in darkness from the prison house. I am the Lord, that is my name, and my glory I will not give to another, nor my praise to carved images Behold, the former things have come to pass, and new things I declare, before they spring forth, I tell you of them. That's the first passage from Isaiah 42. And now, if you're there, Isaiah 35, just going to read verses 5 through 10. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. Then the lame shall leap like a deer, and the tongue of the dumb sing. For waters shall burst forth in the wilderness, and streams in the desert, the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of water. In the habitation of jackals will where each lay, there shall be grass with reeds and rushes A highway shall be there, and a road, and it shall be called the highway of holiness. The unclean shall not pass over it, but it shall be for others Whoever walks the road, although a fool, shall not go astray. No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beast go up on it. It shall not be found there. But the redeemed shall walk there, and the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and come to Zion with singing, with everlasting joy on their heads. They shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. I hope you heard some of those parts from Isaiah, especially verse 7 of chapter 42, in which the prisoners are released from their prison. They're released from darkness. The Messiah's righteous calling is to bring God's people out of bondage. The bondage of sin. The first exodus from the bondage of Egypt was a mighty work of God for the Israelites, but that wasn't the final work of God. God, the Holy One of God, the Messiah, Jesus the Christ, has come. And Isaiah was telling that he would come. And he would ransom his people, he would redeem them and save them from the path of uncleanness and put them on the highway of holiness. Brothers and sisters, God saves his people from darkness and brings us into his light. He saves his And so here in our passage tonight, in these few verses, we're going to see that saving work of Jesus on display, and I hope we'll see something that is important for us to realize. We are saved for a purpose. Mark chapter 1, verses 29 to 31, in looking at this, I hope we'll see that the Son of God saves us to serve Him. Christians, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, saves you to serve Him. And we are going to look at this in two ways. First, we're going to look at the saving work of Jesus, which is most of this passage, verses 29 through the first half of verse 30. And then we'll look at the serving work of the saved, which is in the last part of 31. So we'll look at the saving work of Jesus and the serving work of the saved. First, the saving work of Jesus. And we see the very first thing we see is that the saving work of Jesus is desperately needed. Mark is again in just three verses going to use that word that means immediately three times. We see it right there. As soon as. There's no time to waste. As soon as they come out of the synagogue, they enter Simon's house. They go there. And as soon as they enter Simon's house, something else happens. They recognize that Peter's mother-in-law is Suffering tremendously. Now Mark just says she's got a fever, but if we go to the physician and we look at Luke's account of this, he uses a different term. He uses a term from Hippocrates, which we might expect, because he's a trained doctor. And the term there is what I'd like to just call a mega fever. It's a mega fever. It's such a high fever that this is the kind of fever you would immediately rush to the emergency room for. It's more than just aller allergies. It's more than just a common sickness that she's laid up with. She is in the grips of omega fever, literally taken by the highest of fevers. And what do they do? Well, they do something else without wasting time. They immediately go and tell Jesus. High fevers can be dangerous. They can be deadly. In this time period in the first century, it was basically a death sentence to have that kind of high fever. So what are they going to do? There's no Tylenol There's no ice baths. They can't go and put her on a on an IV drip. That technology didn't exist. What could be done for them? What could be done for a person in that situation? Well the disciples had an idea. They go straight to Jesus immediately and they tell him. I wonder if they had thought that maybe she was similarly possessed, like that But Mark wants us to view Jesus in light of Isaiah. He wants us to see that the saving work of the Messiah is exactly this kind of work. It isn't just about making uh people with unclean spirits well again. And it isn't just about making sick people well again. Rather, what we see is we see that the saving work of Jesus is an ultimate solution. It's the ultimate solution. Peter's mother-in-law was raised up by Jesus. She had been taken by the high fever, and now we see there that she's taken by the hand and raised up by Jesus. She is being translated from death into life. Or like we saw in Isaiah, she's going from darkness into light. And we see the full restoration of God's good order in her life. Immediately, again, no time wasted, the fever leaves her. I love observing that there is no prescription that Jesus gives. There's no take two pills and call me in the morning or put the lime in the coconut. This is all that is needed. Takes her by the hand, he raises her up, and she is now cleansed. She's made new, she's restored. Her body has its physical order restored. And as if that wasn't miraculous enough. We see what she does in response to being saved. I can imagine all those men, those disciples who were worried about her, the disciples who didn't waste any time in telling Jesus about her condition. I could imagine them all fussing over her. her couldn't you insisting please stay rest you've had a hard time but she doesn't do that what she does shows us the serving work of the same We are saved. Our lives are reordered for a purpose. Peter's mother-in-law, her purpose, she was reordered in her physical body that she would accomplish her calling. That she would be able to do exactly what God made her to do. To serve Jesus, to serve the disciples who were there with him. She was reordered for Christ's purposes, serving him and his disciples, and restored to what is essentially a new life. Beloved, God saves us by Jesus Christ, but he also saves us for Jesus Christ. We are saved to serve him. The Son of God saves you to serve him. And there's a few things that we need to take seriously and consider from this passage. Let's look at the disciples. They saw the need for saving. They recognized that Peter's mother-in-law was desperately in need of help. And so I'd asked, are we that observant? Do you pay that much attention in the lives of people around you that you would be able to say, that person desperately needs Christ? To know that, you must actually know the person. And in order to know a person, that means you have to spend time with them. It means you have to build trust with them. You have to prove your love so that they will feel comfortable being honest and open with you about their true condition. And then you can know what they desperately need. You have to have a life that's been ordered by Christ, a life that has room for others, a life that heeds his commandment of loving one another. We can't even notice someone else's needs if we're completely preoccupied with our own needs, can we? What might have happened? If the disciples' immediate desire was to sit and ask Jesus a thousand and one questions about what they just witnessed in the synagogue, that poor woman would have Died. And so the disciples had a proper concern for Peter's mother-in-law, and that led them to do something, didn't it? It led them to immediately do something. I found it interesting that they don't go to her and they don't say, if you could just muster the strength, just get up out of bed and come downstairs to Jesus All would be made well. That's not what they do. Do you realize what they do? They go to Jesus. They tell Jesus about her desperate need We must do the same, brothers and sisters. The best thing that you can do for someone you know who needs to be saved. is to plead with your Savior that He would take them by the hand, that He would raise them up in new life, that He would make them Christians So that's the disciples. Now let's look at Peter's mother-in-law herself. Jesus saves her from the mega fever. He essentially Gives her new life. She likely would have died if he had not intervened. And once she was free from the bondage to that disorder, she serves him She wasn't saved to sit. She was saved to serve. Notice also that she doesn't run out the door and head to the synagogue. If you look at a bunch of commentators on this passage, they'll tell you all about the archaeological evidence that Peter's house they found and it's across the street from the synagogue and this and that and the other thing. She doesn't run out there, no matter how close it was. Because her work wasn't in the synagogue. Her calling wasn't in the synagogue. She stays where Christ had called her. She stays there and serves in the home. Jesus and his followers. Now sometimes, if you're like me, when a preacher is talking to you about serving God and serving his people, sometimes it can feel like the only thing that they want us to focus on is what can we do for What can I do at church? How can I serve at church or through the church? But look at how she serves. Peter's mother-in-law doesn't serve at the church, she serves where she is. She serves Jesus and his people. She serves Jesus as she serves his disciples. In Matthew 25, verses 31 to 46, Jesus teaches us that what we do for his people, we are Doing for him. He says, Assuredly I say to you, and as much as you did it to the one of the least of these, my brethren, you did it to me. And for most of us, this will mean serving his people right where he calls us. Serving them at home. Serving them in your your workplace. Yes, of course, there's service to be done in our church. And I never want to discourage anybody from wanting to serve in the church. But not everyone is called to spend all of their time and all of their energy and all of their labor directly in the church or for the church. Church. We can't get caught up thinking that we're not actually serving Jesus unless we're doing it in the church. Right? Sometimes the mission field is in the nursery, at your house, or in the backyard. Or maybe it's just right there in the neighborhood, or it's in the study group. God will call you to be where it is that He wants you to serve and He will save you to allow you to Now I'd like to end our time in this passage by doing something together. It's something that as I was preparing for tonight, I just couldn't stop doing it. So I hope it's helpful for all of you. I want you to try. If you can close your eyes if you feel comfortable doing that, if you trust the person that sits next to you. Close your eyes and try to imagine. The face of Peter's mother-in-law. We don't have a description. We can't, we don't know what her her hair color was like or anything. But try to imagine. First, try to imagine her face As she's laying there, dying from this mega fever. Try to imagine what it may have looked like. In my mind, she doesn't look very happy In my mind, she's not very energetic. In my mind, she's in pain, and I can see it on her face. She's exhausted. In my imagination, she's afraid. All of it shows up there. Essentially, this woman is miserable. She's in that condition that affects every one of us She is stuck in bondage to sin and misery. Now imagine with me Okay? Change gears a little bit. Imagine her face as Jesus takes her by the hand and lifts her up I imagine her eyes are closed and she feels some pressure, gentle pressure on her hands, and all of a sudden there's this mysterious strength in her body. I can't help but see her eyes go wide, wondering what's happening, and a smile spread across her face, not a normal smile, one of those smiles that hurts. A smile that makes your cheeks cry out for relief. Though you would never dare stop that smile just to have the relief. That's the face of her as she's being saved. Now finally, try to imagine her face as she's serving. Does your imagination allow you to make her face go back to that place she was in, in misery? Can you imagine her uh going about serving? Maybe she was maybe she was making a meal. Maybe she was just cleaning up a comfortable place for them, or I don't know, fluffing some pillows. Did they have pillows in the first century? I don't know. She was doing good work, serving them. Can you imagine her doing that with a scowl? After being saved from the mega fever? Can you imagine her grumbling or muttering to herself under her breath, these men are old enough to make their own sandwich? Can you imagine her looking the same as she did while she was almost dead? Try as I might, I can't imagine her like that while she's serving. I can't imagine her serving except having that great joy, that excitement of the redeemed all across her face, in her whole body. She is saved. She gets the opportunity to serve the one who saved her. I imagine every time she glances over at Jesus, maybe she's bustling around doing a bunch of stuff, and she catches him out of the corner of her eye and a tear fills. A tear of gratitude comes there. As she sees the one who's given her the strength to serve, who saved her from death and darkness. At the same time, I imagine the joy in Peter. And the joy in the disciples as they watched this woman that they love, who was almost dead, saved now to joyfully serve her Lord, to serve Of Jesus, the Holy One of God. Brothers and sisters, we are in this same place. We are suffering, we are miserable. If we're honest with ourselves, we are at death's door This life is but a vapor. It lasts such a short amount of time. Until the Lord Jesus Christ comes comes and takes you by the hand, lifts you up, and raises you to new life. We were in bondage that saps our strength and our energy and our desire. As if we have this unbeatable fever. But when Jesus breaks those bonds, when he saves you, he is saving you to a new and glorious purpose to serve him And to serve his people. May the Holy Spirit keep us mindful of our salvation, and may he keep us joyful in the service that we have been saved to perform for Christ, the Holy One of God's glory.