Please turn with me to Psalm one thirty nine. Title of the sermon is Search Me and Know Me. I'll read the psalm in its entirety, but I'll only focus on certain portions of the stanzas because the psalm is so long. But I think you'll you'll definitely get the gist of what he's communicating and you can study it in detail. This is Psalm 139 for the chief musician, and it is a psalm of David. But Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know my sitting down and my rising up. You understand my thought afar off. You comprehend my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways. For there is not a word on my tongue But behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. You have hedged me behind and before and laid your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain it. Where can I go from your spirit? Or where can I flee from your presence? If I ascended into heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, you are there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall fall on me, even the night shall be light about me. Indeed the darkness shall not hide from you, but the night shines as the day, the darkness and the light are both alike to you. For you formed my inward parts. You covered me in my mother's womb. I will praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are your works, and that my soul knows very well. My frame was not hidden from you. When I was made in secret and skillfully wrought in the lowest parts of the earth, your eyes saw my substance being yet unformed And in your book they were written, the days fashioned for me, when as yet there were none of them How precious also are your thoughts to me, O God! How great is the sum of them! If I should count them, they would be more in number than the sand. When I awake, I am still with you. Oh, that you would slay the wicked, O God. Depart from me, therefore, you bloodthirsty men, for they speak against you wickedly. Your enemies take your name in vain. Do I not hate them, O Lord, who hate you? And do I not loathe those who rise up against you? I hate them with a perfect hatred. I count them my enemies. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my anxieties, and see if there is any wicked way in me. And lead me in the way everlasting. Please pray with me. Father, we pray that you would help us to truly know you And that it would lead to truly serving you and welcoming your scrutiny. In the name of Christ. Amen. There's no more important question than this question. Do you know God? It is an important question if you are a non-Christian. Or wondering if you want to be a Christian or not a Christian, if you're churched or you're unchurched, if you fall into the category of irreligious. It is the most important question of your life: Do you know God? But it is also the most important question of those of you who would say, yes, I do. I've met him. We've been walking together for some time now, or a little time now. The question is still the most important question for you Do you know God? Do you really know Him? Are you really getting to know Him? It is a question we should ask every day. This psalm teaches us that the true knowledge of God leads to a relationship of loyalty and welcome scrutiny. It is almost a test to test ourselves as to whether or not or what kind of knowledge we have of him. True knowledge of God leads to a relationship of loyalty and welcome scrutiny. There's knowledge, there's loyalty, and there's scrutiny throughout this passage. And I want to begin with knowledge. We see immediately that David knows God. Did you hear the overtones and the repetition of the word know? I hope that you've heard it through the whole service because we've been sneaking in little bits and pieces of this psalm throughout. But knowledge is a primary theme here, and David knows God. We've seen him and how he knows God through all the Psalms. It's different than we might have thought of the knowledge of God. Children, do you know God? Let me give you a little bit of a test here and lead us into what David has to say about his knowledge of God. Children, have you ever hid behind a door? Hoping that when your parents come into the bedroom, you would jump out and that you would surprise them. Or did you ever hide in a closet and then when your parents come in looking for you, you would jump out and you would surprise them? Or wherever you would be maybe under the dining room table and then you grab their foot and surprise them. Don't do this to your grandmothers. Okay? Only this yeah, don't do that to your grandmothers. You could surprise your mom or your dad, and you could surprise your grandma, you could surprise your friends, but could you surprise God? Is there any place that you could hide from him? That leads us into what David is going to develop here. You know, just as David knew, that God cannot be surprised. And David will confirm this all through the Psalm. He confirmed this in what he says about God. I hope that your Bibles are paragraphed because the paragraphs are, at least the first three, are descriptions of the attributes of God. Students of theology categorize the attributes of God under two headings. Are you ready? Communicable attributes and incommunicable attributes A communicable attribute means that we have something in common with God. God loves, and we too can love. Incommunicable means we don't have something in common with God. And David knows God in three ways, in a way that we do not have in common. That's what we see unfolded in this passage. The first is that God is omniscient. You can just glance through verses 1 through 6. The second is that God is omnipresent or present everywhere. And the third is that God is, and this is a new one perhaps for you, omnificent. Meaning that he is all creating. Now you can see the all-knowing in verses one through six. You can see that there. You can see that he is all-present. Where can I go from your spirit? In verses seven through twelve. And you can see that he is powerfully creating and sustaining in verses 13 through 16, for you formed my inward parts. And based on this categorization, the theologian would say that David knows God. David is a good theologian and he knows communicable and he knows incommunicable attributes if we were to read through the Psalms. And he knows all the communicable or some of the communicable actors here in this particular psalm. And the young Christian converts are very excited at this point, especially if you're naturally attracted to the Reformed faith. The fact that I said any Incommunicable this morning has gotten you excited. If only we had Jeremiah's ribs afterward, the day would be complete. You go out as soon as you become a young reformed convert and you buy Burkhoff's systematic theology. You're very excited about these words, you memorize all these attributes by reading A. W. Pink. And you feel like you know God. And then this is what I see. Tragedy hits, and you didn't know Him as well as you thought you did. In some sense, I do believe it's true. Those of you who get excited about communicable and incommunicable attributes, and listing out as attributes in scientific fashion. You know God in some way because he first knew you. Yet I want you to notice that David does not describe any of his attributes in that way in this psalm. He never uses the terms. Because David knows God. To use those scientific terms is fine, but it doesn't go deep enough. David truly knows God. David does not use theological jargon simply to generalize and categorize in a scientific system. Look at verse 6. Look at how he develops. Every moment with God for David is relational God is all-knowing, knows David. Verses 1 through 6. In verse 2, God knows David in his sitting and in his rising up. He knows him when he's on the front porch or when he's in the shower. He knows when he's gardening in the backyard If you compare the scriptures in Deuteronomy 6. 7, you see that sitting and rising up, that God knows all of David's outward behaviors, every single one. In verse 3, take a look. You comprehend my path and my lying down are acquainted with all my ways God knows David's path. We know from Proverbs that this is a metaphor for his plans and the deepest motivations of his life. He is all-knowing. God is omniscient, is the way the theologian would put it. But here, David just recounts everything that he can within the space that he has, that God knows everything about him. His secret thoughts, his behaviors, his attitudes, his getting up, every action. Omniscience is a relational term for him And then he moves on in 7 through 12 to talk about God being everywhere. God as everywhere is always with David. Now I want you to notice what he does here. He did this in the first six verses, but I didn't want to repeat myself. In 7 through 12, he's going to use a poetic device called amerism. You know what amerism is? Amerism is to list the polar opposites. So that you can see that God controls everything. Or that He is everywhere. He did that in the first six verses, showing that He knows everything. sitting and rising, two polar extremes, and in between. He knows every action in between. Sleeping and waking And here he's going to do the same thing, showing that he is everywhere. David uses this device to capture his omnipresence in 1 through 6. In 7 through 12, where can I go from your spirit starts us off. Or where can I flee from your presence? In verse 7. And now notice the opposite. If I ascend into heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in hell or in Sheol, behold, you are there. And everywhere in between, he is present. His presence is overwhelming in verse 8 through heaven and hell. And then in verse 9, you may miss this, but it's east and west. If I take the wings of the morning, the sun rises in the east, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, which dwelled in the west for him, for David Another merism that God is everywhere. And notice that once again a word like omnipresent doesn't do justice to David's true knowledge of God. Notice verse 10, the intimacy that he experiences in the midst of God's presence. Even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. We see here in knowing the transcendent God, he has not forgotten about his meditations in Psalm 23. It is the same God. The transcendent God is the most intimate God. He skillfully knits together. The Lord is my shepherd. He leads me because he is everywhere. And of course, God can do this because he is everywhere. And then in 13 through 16, David knows God as creator and sustainer. What we wouldn't expect, God is present at the conception of the child. God is present while the child is, He is forming the child in the womb. He sees baby. But words like omnificent Lacked the wonder and the intimacy given in this psalm. David recounts how God was present at his conception, how God formed him in his mother's womb. God was there forming and shaping him And he goes further than that if you look at these verses. He praises him because he is fearfully and wonderfully made. What kind of person makes a baby? Marvelous are your works, and that my soul knows very well. And he goes on in saying, My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in secret. Your eyes saw my substance being yet unformed. And then he speaks about the plan that was written for him God, like an architect, uses a blueprint to form and make each human from conception but not only in conception, in verse 16, throughout their lives. I don't know how you escape God's sovereignty from verse 16. The days are planned or made for us before we even have a single day. God is bigger than you thought. He's actually bigger than the terms theologians use. And David is trying to capture that as he goes into the wonder and the amazement of the formation of the child. David does not just know God like someone could know God by memorizing categories in a textbook. That's the danger. Is you could memorize the words and think you know him. And David sets you away from that danger. David truly knows God, and that David is relating intimately to this God. And I'm glad that we can see this. Oftentimes, in Calvinists and in Reformed communities, those who know all of the theological jargon are the ones who are treated as if they should be the leaders of knowing God. And that is not how it actually plays out. There is a place for theological jargon. I myself love it. However, knowledge of those terms and being good at scientific organizations is not the same thing as truly knowing God. Here's what I have to say about that. You want to know the true theologians? Have you been comforted or terrified by the fact that the living God knows your every thought and move? Have you experienced that? That's what David is experiencing. In that top stanza in 139, when he says, you have laid your hand upon me. You have hedged me. That is in the Hebrew military language of someone taking you over in violence. And if you know God, you know what I mean. Have you ever been lost and lonely as a widow? And feeling alone. And the only courage that you could get is because you knew that God was everywhere and was with you. Because that's knowing truly his incommunicable attribute of omnipresence. The widow is the smart one Oh young Reform theologian, have you ever found peace? Because although you lost your baby in the womb, you still know that God knew your baby God knew your baby and knows your baby These are the true theologians in this congregation, actually. The widow, the lonely, those with miscarriages. Those are the ones where God enters into the specifics and they know all of his incommunicable attributes. In a way that David knew, relationally. You can tell that this kind of experiential knowledge is happening with David. Look at how he brings this out in verses 17 and 18. How precious also are your thoughts to me, O God! How great is the sum of them. You don't see that happening when you read a theological textbook. It's when you go through experiences with God from His Spirit and His Word that you see praises like that. If I should count them, they would be more in number than the sand. And you can tell too that David isn't just getting a bigger head. He's not getting puffed up with knowledge, but is getting a more profound relationship with God. You can see what it leads to here as we move into this next point, that true knowledge of God does lead to a relationship. Specifically, it says here in this passage, the way that he unfolds it, is that it leads to a relationship first and foremost of loyalty. Notice at the end of verse 18. When I awake, I am still with you. This is a lament psalm, a psalm of petition. Where David is seeking to have confidence in his God. And as he leaves his dreamlike state, His time of meditation on his God, these are the words that come out of his mouth. I awake. I awaken from my meditation, my reverie of your sublimities, and I'm with you. You are my God. I am still with you. True knowledge of God leads to a relationship of a statement of this kind of loyalty. David was in a meditative state, contemplating the beauties of his God, but then he awoke with confidence and he resolved to follow him. This is interestingly because notice what he does in the next stanza in 19 through 22. You wouldn't expect this. Immediately, his loyalty to God is expressed in his hatred of anything that is against God. Now that definitely rubs us the wrong way, and I am not going to water that down this morning. I'm going to let you sit in it. Because that's what David does. This is really the key to the whole psalm. David, with very practical feet on his loyalty, shows that his commitment to God meant hatred of God's enemies. And this is key. David is in some sort of spiritual battle here, and half-heartedness will not cut it. Those who are against Yahweh must be his enemies also, or he will side with them because his heart is prone to wander. We saw that in Psalm 51 The kingdom of God versus the kingdom of man. He had to be sold all in. In order to wage in this war, David must have full confidence in God, which he has now Because of the meditations that he has done. And this confidence leaves no room for half-heartedness. Otherwise, the enemy will overtake. David draws a sharp line here. And I want you to notice what he does. Because a lot of us still feel safe once the line is drawn. But I want you to pay attention to David's words. He draws a sharp line not only between God's community and the world, but all those who say they are part of God's community, but don't really serve God. And that is brought out in verse 20. You can think of Jesus saying, many of you will say, Lord, Lord, but I tell you, in that day I will say, I did not know you. And I think of the word knowledge in this psalm. In verse twenty, it goes like this. For they speak against you wickedly, your enemies take your name in vain. And this is what he means by that. This can be a case of false witness. Someone swearing in the name of God in order to unlawfully convict someone. Someone religiously and reverently using God's name to convict someone who shouldn't be convicted. Do you see how they're siding with God, but not really? That's the danger. False prophecy. Associating God's name with what you say so that you have credentials and competence to the things that you say, gaining importance. Thus saith the Lord was said by many people that were rebuked because God never said that. Read the Old Testament. It happens over and over again. Thinking they were a part of the community in their prophecy, come to find out they were just using the Lord's name for their unselfish ambition. And then lastly, false worship. And this is brought in Isaiah 1:13, especially, calling upon God's name religiously to cover over the fact that you have no real heart for Him The main problem of hypocrisy. David would stand against all of them because they used the Lord's name in vain as God's actual enemies. The line is drawn in the sand, and lukewarmness is not accepted Notice, though, that this is not a blind rage or a personal vendetta that David has. David is expressing his zeal for Yahweh. He's saying these things To Yahweh, expressing his confidence and making sure that Yahweh knows about his loyalty that is within his heart This is how it works. The Christian life is a development, really. You could summarize the whole thing as a development of love and a development of hate. Both are a part of the Christian life. If you love God, you will hate sin. For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us That denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age, looking for the blessed hope and glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from every lawless deed, and purify for himself his own special people, zealous in the same way that we see David here, zealous, for good works. What you see on the page is David's zeal that he is expressing in poetic form. It is always like this. Those who have true knowledge of God and are growing in true knowledge of God will switch their loyalties from the world to the omniscient, the omnipresent, and the omnificent creator of this world. Giving him their soul loyalty. Now, I don't know if you realized it, but as we come to an end of this particular point and we move into verses 23 and 24, we are in a lament psalm. We're following. If you were to go back to the sermons that were I preached on Lament Psalms, we're following the form. I'm just not bringing out the poetics for you because I've already done that. David begins with an address, O Lord Right there in verse 1. He meditates on God, developing confidence. We just did that in the three attributes. Next, he laments the vain voices of God's enemy. And now in the final part of the Psalm, David will petition, just as we've seen in the past, whether it's petitioning for rain or petitioning for Absalom's plans to go down the tube so that David would not be killed by his son. There is now a petition. This petition you're used to God for hi for David asking God to frustrate the wicked As I just mentioned, he prayed against Absalom's plans. But that's not what happens in this Psalm, which is why I chose it. It is a very different kind of petition. It is a petition that reveals with all the certainty and zeal and confidence within the heart and breast of David, the human condition still elicits a kind of uncertainty because of the enemy that dwells within ourselves. A humility that is present in our next our next point. David does not petition for God to frustrate the plans of his enemies. Instead, he petitions God to scrutinize himself. This is another mark of those who know God and are growing in their knowledge of him. True knowledge of God leads to a relationship not only of what we have seen of loyalty, but of welcome scrutiny. Now, scrutiny is a critical and a personal self-examination. Or you can be examined by another person. You can be scrutinized or feel scrutinized. And we can see now how this psalm takes on complete and entire unity. The last two verses explain why everything was there to begin with. Who better could scrutinize than Yahweh? The one who has all knowledge, the one who is present everywhere at all times, even at your consent Deception. Who knows you better? Who could scrutinize you more than him? And David, because of the relationship that he has with him, he welcomes it in this personal examination. And you can see the whole psalm coming together. The psalm takes on an intense unity. You'll notice actually poetically there's a unity here. Notice how it starts off with, you have searched me and known me. And then when you go to this final stanza, verse 23, search me, O God, and know my heart. And then in verse 10, which is actually the center of a chiasm I didn't bring out, even your hand shall lead me and your right hand shall hold me, verse twenty-four. and see if there is any way uh any wicked way in me and lead me in the way everlasting. Everything is moving towards this consummation in this point. David realizes that if he wants to truly be loyal to Yahweh and he knows who Yahweh truly is Then he must invite Yahweh to search him and to cleanse him, that no way of offense or wicked way would be found in him, that they might have perfect communion together You can either welcome or you can resist intimacy with God. When Adam with Eve sinned, they hid from God. And how often, brother and sister, have we been doing that? And after hearing this psalm, how silly is that? And how unproductive to not allow our loving God, in whom we are in covenant, with whom we are in covenant, the covenant of grace, to enter into us in intimacy, cleansing us. To have a relationship with God, we must honestly confess that we cannot elude the hound of heaven's active and personal omniscience, omnipresence, and omnificence. And must dismiss the deceptive covers under which most mortals take refuge, divesting ourselves of hypocrisy is what one scholar writes. David really has it, doesn't he? He really knows God. He knows Yahweh, and so he professes loyalty. What else could you do if you really knew him? Why wouldn't you want to be on his side? Why wouldn't you want to serve him? What God is better than him? He knows himself and so he professes his uncertainty. But even in his uncertainty, he strives for loyalty By petitioning Yahweh to search him, to find any wicked way in him, and to lead him into the way everlasting. That's what you have in this psalm. You have knowledge, you have loyalty, and welcome scrutiny. Something that all those who are seeking to know God know. That's how we started off the sermon. Do you know God? Is the most important question of your life. And now we're starting to define By this one psalm, and there's many more we could look at. This isn't the whole picture, but David is giving us a uh some picture of what it means to know him. When you really know him, you'll see his incommunicable attributes. But it will lead to praise and intimacy and warmth, not cold, simple intellect. You know, to help you as a widow, or if you've lost a child. And it moves you to loyalty. And because you know him, that he's the one that leads you, he's your shepherd, you welcome him in to Scrutinize you. You show him your deepest secrets and your thoughts. True knowledge of God leads to a relationship of loyalty and welcome scrutiny with our God. You know, the way that David here is and this kind of moving, he has this uh meditation. And then he moves out. You can see in these verses, he just explodes in passion. It's beginning really in verse 17, then especially in verse 19, this zeal that he is expressing. It does need to be balanced by the other psalms. You could get the picture just by this psalm that knowing God like this happens all at once. It doesn't happen all at once. Of course, this true knowledge of God trickles in little by little. One professor told me that getting to know God and being in relationship with Him Reveals the Christian life to be like a yo-yo. Sometimes the yo-yo is way down, and our relationship with him is poor. And we barely know these things about him. At other times, the yo-yo is up in the palm of his hands. We are far away, and we are close. But the good news is this, is that Jesus Christ is not only our justifier and reconciler before God the Father, but he is also our sanctifier. And this is what the professor, how the professor put this. The good news about the Christian life is that the yo-yo string is getting shorter and shorter. And you are remaining closer and closer to him. You are getting to know your God. You are entering into the life of the Psalms and exclaiming some of the same things that your David would exclaim. Question is, how can you begin to shorten that string now? Let's stay in step with the Spirit Let's stay in step with our sanctifier, Jesus Christ. And God the Father is faithful who will do it through him. The biggest way I can think of in the church today is to stop pretending. It's called hypocrisy. Hypocrisy was not just a problem that we see with on the pages of Scripture. It's always a problem that plagues the church It is like first blight on tomatoes. It looks like it only gets the bottom leaves that are close to the soil where the fungus come from, but if you let it go, it will go through the whole plant. It looks like it would only be in the first century church, but it goes throughout all the ages of the church. Hypocrisy. Pretending. Hypocrisy is pretending to be one thing on the outside and you are another on the inside. You go to church. That's good. You say all the right words. That's good. But it's not good if you're just keeping up appearances. And your heart is as black as coal towards God. He knows everything about you. He knows all of your secret thoughts. And it's time you don't have to do this with another person. Just as I don't have to tell you what happened on my wedding night, you don't have to share your devotional time with your God, with any person in this room. That's one of the glories of having Him and not having to go to a Roman Catholic priest for confession. I can go right to Jesus in the privacy of my heart and share with him my darkest thoughts. And ask him in loyalty to cleanse me from them. Stop pretending, at least before him. Wear your ties to church and fool the rest of us, but don't think you're fooling God. Take your heart before him. Admit to him what he already sees. And then, as he guides you, pray and ask for that trusted Christian in the community that can walk alongside of you. And help you put these things beside you, increasing your loyalty, that you can walk in the way everlasting. The God of peace himself will sanctify you completely. And will preserve your whole spirit, soul, and body, blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, he who calls you as faithful, who also will do it. But it begins by you no longer pretending. Please pray with me. Father, we thank you for this truth that you have given to us from your word. We thank you of the hope of knowing that we are like yo-yos. We thank you that your true knowledge of yourself is being revealed here in this passage and that it leads to a relationship of loyalty and welcome scrutiny. We ask now that you would take these truths and God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we have focused on you in this psalm. We ask now that you take our focus to the Son, who mortified all our sin on the cross. We ask that you give us that freedom, that you'd show us the one only who truly was loyal to you, that you'd show us the one who you searched and you found no wicked way, that he might be our perfect atonement. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen, Amen