Let us turn to the scriptures tonight in Colossians chapter two. It's going to be in two parts, and I just ask that you'd patiently bear with me as I read all of chapter two. For I want you to know what a great conflict I have for you and those in Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh, that their hearts may be encouraged. being knit together in love, and attaining to all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the knowledge of the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Now this I say, lest anyone should deceive you with persuasive words. For though I am absent in the flesh, yet I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith as you have been taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving Beware lest anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit, according to the tradition of men, according to the basic principles of the world, and not according to Christ. For in him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and you are complete in him, who is the head of all principality and power In him you were also circumcised with the circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, buried with him in baptism in which you You also were raised with him through faith in the working of God, who raised him from the dead. And you, being dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh He has made alive together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses, having wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which was contrary to us. And he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross, having disarmed principalities and powers, he made a public spectacle of them, triumphing or stri uh triumphing over them in it So let no one judge you in food or in drink, or regarding a festival, or new moon, or sabbaths, which are a shadow of things to come, but the substances of Christ. Let no one cheat you of your reward, taking delight in false humility and worship of angels, intruding into those things which he has not seen. Vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind, and not holding fast to the head, from whom all the body, nourished and knit together by joints and ligaments, grows with the increase that is from God. Therefore, if you died with Christ from the basic principles of the world, why as though living in the world do you subject yourselves to regulations? Do not touch, do not taste, do not handle, which all concern which all concern things which perish with the using, according to the commandments and doctrines of men. These things indeed have an appearance of wisdom in self imposed religion, false humility, and neglect of the body, but are of no value again. against the indulgence of the flesh. We'll focus in on verses sixteen and seventeen as a part one, and then, Lord willing, next week we'll continue with eighteen through the end of the chapter, and we'll have a basic review this evening also of the rest of chapter two. Please join me in prayer. Father, we thank you for your words here, and we do pray that you would apply them to us. Lord Jesus Christ. You are our master, and you alone are worthy to be our lawgiver. May we only follow you in your name Amen. Well, as we look at chapter 2, I'd encourage you to have scriptures out. We're going to be moving through and truly doing a sermon study of this. In chapter 2, we're going to be going through and leading our way down to 16 to provide some context, and it's been a couple weeks, so We pick up our study in Colossians in 16 through 23, but I want to make a few orienting points beginning in verse 1. Notice again that in verse 1, where it says, For I want you to know what a great conflict I have for you, that the word conflict here is an unfamiliar usage to us within our society. It is a word here that, and you can go back and listen to the sermon, that means struggling in prayer. That is the conflict that he has. This is an unfamiliar usage in this passage, according to our society, but it's not far-fetched. If you were to just turn to Colossians 4, verse 12, he uses the same word In the same way. Apaphrist who is one of you, a bondservant of Christ, greets you always laboring fervently for you in prayers. It's the same word there, the struggling or the conflict. He struggles or prays for the Colossian church. And when we skim down to verse 4, we can see that he's doing this praying because he is concerned that this church would avoid temptation. The temptation of false teaching, that they would not be, as verse 4 says, deceived with persuasive words. Although Paul has never seen them in person, that's how he means by in the flesh, he loves them and before God is responsible for them. He does not want this church marching to the orders of some philosopher. That is, in fact, what the language means here when he says that he longs to see them in good order. It is actually military terminology. He doesn't want them marching to the beat of some other drummer. He wants them to stand in the ranks in the good order of verse 5. As soldiers following Jesus Christ, faithful and steadfast for that king. Now, through church planners, the Colossian church grew, as you can see. here, put down roots into the soil of Christ. They became like well-built houses, verse 6. You can just imagine the flourishing church My friend Brian Le Piccolo is planting a church in Westminster, and I remember when he first started, and I love hearing his stories because you know just the other day he was saying we have exceeded a hundred members or a hundred people. attending, including the children. And I'm just thinking, it just started with a couple people in your living room, Brian. Look at the what the Lord has done. And we see the same kind of thing here, under the leadership of a Paphrist with this church plant. They had become followers of Christ. And Paul uses this metaphor of roots going down deep to suck up more and more nutrients from Christ. Christ. And he uses another metaphor of being constructed like a house, perhaps with the Lord as the head of his body or the temple. That's all in verse 6. But just as plants in your garden, you know this, they can be uprooted. And just as buildings can be demolished, so too can man-made philosophies and human traditions uproot and destruct this church plant. And you. I wonder if you have seen any Christian friends shipwrecked when they entered into college or Whatever it would be. The threat was real, was Paul's point, and it comes through in his struggling and wrestling in prayer based on the deception that could happen amongst this. Newly minted church plant. In fact, I want you to notice how real this threat is, and the repeated warnings are a key structure for understanding these passages. Notice in verse 8 now that there is a command or a warning, beware. And notice again in verse 16, our passage tonight: let no one Judge you, another warning. And then again in verse 18, let no one cheat you or rob you. Yet another warning. There is a skeletal structure that runs through all of the veins of this passage of warning. Don't let anyone disqualify you. Don't let anyone rob you. Don't let anyone judge you. Who was this threat? That's the difficulty Quite honestly, you could study all of the commentaries in my office and at any library, and you would still not know. No one really knows what the actual threat was. There are different speculations. But this we can say, whoever they were, they embraced the outmoded and outdated administrations of the Old Testament. Testament, and in essence, what they were doing was refusing to follow Christ as their king, and what God had continued and ordained with Notice in verse 11 some of the language that Paul chooses here on purpose based on the opposition that was present. In verse 11, obviously, using this language. Circumcision was still being promoted instead of baptism as the mark of the covenant. 11 and 12, you can still see that in the minds of these opponents Outward circumcision instead of the inward regenerating power of Christ's Spirit was a problem. And then you can see in our verse tonight, outdated ordinances. Enforced on people as if God were still enforcing them. Food laws, drink laws, Jewish festivals, the New Moon festival, Sabbath festivals And that's the context, and this brings us to our main passage tonight. So let's take a look at verses 16 and 17, which we've arrived at now under three very, very quick points. The command, the diet, and the festivals. They're so quick, they're not even going to feel like individual points. We're just going to, that's a hop, skip, and a jump. Maybe that should be the name of the book. points. Hop, skip, and a jump. So first the command. Take a look in verse sixteen with me. Paul says, let no one judge or condemn you in these things, these things being the food or the drink or the regarding the festival new Moon or Sabbaths. Now what does he mean by that when he says, Don't let anyone judge you? How is it that you can control the judgment of another person? People are judging me all the time. I can see it on their face. What does he mean here? I experienced this kind of judgment at a recent uh county council event. I was testifying for the humanity of the pre-born, and I chose to argue from scripture, not from mutually respected common grounds such as science and medicine or embryology. And uh there was a lot of great arguments that happened this evening, but as I gave mine from Scripture, uh one woman realized what I was doing. It took her a moment, I think she was in disbelief, and I heard her mockingly laugh And yet by God's grace I did not let her judge me. And I noticed that no one else in the room, let her judge them either. And that's what's going on here. We all knew what the Lord wanted from us and the kind of testimony that He wanted us to give And that was all that mattered, not jeers or a woman's opinion. And Paul is commanding the same thing here. Don't pay attention or give way to people who are still promoting dietary laws and antiquated feasts And forcing them as if, thus saith the Lord, know instead how Christ runs his kingdom and follow him, for he is the king. And he has the right to be the lawgiver. Now that brings up a question. How does Christ run his kingdom? Well, how could I answer that before it's time to eat and fifty But here he does give a couple ways, and this brings us to our second point. It's the diet. Here you can see there's talk in verse 16 about food or drink. Let me just mention that Christ does not give redemptive value to certain religious diets, food or drink. We learn this very quickly from Matthew 15, 10-12. When he had called the multitude to himself, he said to them, Hear and understand. Not what goes into the mouth defiles a man, but what comes out of the mouth. This defiles a man. Then his disciples came and said to him, Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this thing? And I'm sure Jesus did not let them judge him. But there's another one here also because there were some dietary laws in the Old Testament, and this is Acts 10, verses 12-16. In it were all kinds, the sheet that descends from heaven, in it were all kinds of four-footed animals of the earth, wild beasts, creeping things, and birds of the air. And a voice came to him, Peter, Rise, Peter, kill and eat. But Peter said, Not so, Lord, for I have never eaten anything common or unclean. And a voice spoke to him again the second time, What God has cleansed you must not call common. This was done three times And the object was taken up again into heaven. And so here we begin to get a clue as to how God's decrees through Jesus Christ are being installed in regards to food and to drink. And now we can ask, how else does Christ run his kingdom? And this brings us to our not hop, not skip, but our jump. The last one, the festivals. Christ has made certain festivals of no consequence, Romans chapter 14, or he has replaced them. Consider, just for example, and I won't quote the passage because I think we're so familiar with it, consider how Jesus replaced the Passover and other feasts with the Lord's Supper When we elect a new president, that president makes changes, whether you like them or not, in the administration of how America runs. It can be tax breaks. Or more taxes, or whatever. When God the Father anointed and installed Jesus as Messiah, Jesus had the authority to put God's new covenant administration into practice. And that's what we're seeing here. This is really all about Christ being the king and following him. Now, up to this point, this has all been a bit abstract. So in 17, I wonder if Paul thought the same thing, and therefore gives us a metaphor. He says that those things. food and drink and festival and new moon, that those things are a shadow and Christ is the substance. And this is repeated with examples in the book of Hebrews in two places, but basically this is the gist The priesthood, the sacrifices, the entire temple system has been deemed unnecessary. Not that it was bad during its time, but it is it was temporary and now is unnecessary because of the coming of Jesus Christ Christ is now the great high priest. Christ is the sacrifice. Christ is the head of the temple, his church. And all of those things may now fall to the wayside. since he whose sandals we are not worthy to tie has arrived. Now you'll notice, I hope you noticed that I have dealt with food and drink, festival, or new moon, but I have not dared to touch the word Sabbaths. Have you noticed that? Well, let's talk about that. If this is a list of outmoded and outdated Old Testament ordinances And Sabbaths are on this list, then Sabbaths are outdated, some would reason. Here is the main question that everyone must ask. Is the fourth commandment a shadow replaced by Christ, the substance, or the body Now I want to begin by asking what does the word Sabbath mean in Colossians in order for us to arrive at answering that question? And we have to ask this because if you were to do a word study, you would find that there are many different meanings of the word Sabbath. For example, in Luke 18, 12, and you're welcome to write these down and look them up later, it means week. In Leviticus 23, 24 and Chronicles 36, 21, it means rest for agricultural land. In Ezekiel 2012, it refers to all different kinds of Jewish festivals. There were many feasts. And in Exodus in Deuteronomy, obviously, it's one day in the Considering that the context is of shadows that pass away then I believe that it is self-evident that Sabbaths here must refer to Jewish holy days or feasts and not the fourth commandment. Paul in no way could be calling the fourth commandment a shadow. I don't know how we would say such a thing. The Ten Commandments were struck in stone. Jesus said in Matthew that not one iota would be removed from the moral law. The inscription in stone and the testimony of Jesus argue against the treating of the fourth commandment as temporary or in a shadowy-like substance. How could you conceive of Christ being arrived as the anointed Messiah to destroy setting aside a day to worship God? How could that fit his office? From creation, we have known that we are to worship God according to Romans 1. God revealed that his worship should be held one day out of the seven, and from creation to the resurrection the day was Saturday From the resurrection onward, we see the apostles observing the fourth commandment on the day of Christ's resurrection, Sunday, or the Lord's Day. Now, I'm not going to go into more than that, because he's not writing a treatise on the Sabbath. But that begins to answer some of our questions And I mentioned that just because there's so much debate around this passage regarding the fourth commandment. But don't forget, this isn't a letter to the Colossians on the Lord's Day or the Sabbath. Paul is concerned and therefore gives commands on diets and holy days so that God's people would follow Christ. The first warning was in verse 8. Tonight we looked at the second warning, which is the title of this sermon in verse 16. And he wants us to make no mistake: the threats are real. You may not be tempted by Jewish dietary laws or the Jewish calendar, yet we are all tempted to follow other man-made laws and traditions. Think of the coercion of the fundamentalist movement, at least parts of it. It's unfair to say the fundamentalist movement is too general. At least parts of it that Brad has brought up We struggle, all of us, to keep Jesus as our master. But that is what he is. He is our king, and therefore we must follow his law and only tell other people to follow his law. When we say, thus saith the Lord. And that includes the fourth commandment. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this beginning or kind of introduction to this section. Father, we ask that you would help us as we consider what we have heard in the summary and also in verse 16 with regards to Christ being raised as king and establishing his law, his ordinances and institutions, his baptism, the institution of his supper Father, we ask that you would help us not to fall stray to the deception of those who would teach us that the fourth commandment is a shadow. But instead, Lord, we would see the great work that you are doing. That whereas we were commemorating and memorializing as a part of your institution, your creation now What is more fitting to celebrate your new creation than to worship you on the day of our Lord's resurrection? We pray, Father, that your Sabbath would be your Christian Sabbath, and your Lord's Day would be established amongst us. And that we would set that day aside to worship you, to commit ourselves to acts of mercy and necessity, where it may demand And may you be honored in this. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would keep us from deception. In the name of Christ. Amen.