On the same day Jesus went out of the house and sat by the sea, and great multitudes were gathered together to him, so that he got into a boat and sat, and the whole multitude stood on the shore. Then he spoke many things to them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went out to sow. And as he sowed, some seed fell by the wayside, and the birds came and devoured them. Some fell on stony places where they did not have much earth, and they immediately sprang up because they had no depth of earth. But when the sun was up they were scorched. And because they had no root, they withered away. And some fell away amongst thorns, and the thorns sprang up and choked them. But others fell on good ground and yielded a crop, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. The disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? He answered and said to them, Because it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been given. Whoever has to him more will be given, and he will have abundance But whoever does not have, even what he has, will be taken away from him. Therefore I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand And in them the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled, which says, hearing you will hear and shall not understand, and seeing you will see and not perceive For the heart of this people have grown the hearts of this people have grown dull, their ears are hard of hearing, their eyes they have closed, lest they could see with their eyes and hear with their ears, lest they should understand with their hearts and turn. so that I should heal them. So blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear. For assuredly I say to you, That many prophets and righteous men desired to see what you see and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear it. Therefore hear the parable of the sword When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, then the wicked one comes and snatches it away, what was sown in his heart. This is he who received the seed by the wayside But he who receives the seed on stony places, this is he who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy, yet he has no fixed He has no root in himself, but endures only for a while. For when tribulation or persecution arises because of the word, immediately he stumbles. Now he who receives seed among the thorns is he who hears the word, and the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful. But he who receives the seed on the good ground Is he who hears the word and understands it, he who hears, he indeed bears fruit and produces, some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. I grew up with Aesop's fables. Anybody out there familiar with them? There's a few rounding about. You don't hear much about these fables anymore. Fables are little stories that challenge the reader, usually directed towards the young Uh and challenge them to ask a question. You read a fable, one of those fables, and the the kid's natural response if you're reading it to them is, Dad, what's that story mean? I mean, what what is that all about Well, that's the very nature of fables. They are intended as wisdom literature, and as such, there is a truth that is embedded in the story, but not explicitly explained in it. You have to ponder the story in order to be able to come to a conclusion about what it teaches. As an illustration, one of my favorite is the fox and the grease. The fox is walking along one day, he's upstairs, and he notices uh a uh cluster of grapes hanging above his head. Now these and he thinks to himself, these grapes would be really good right now. I don't know that fox eat grapes, but that's not the form of the story So he stands there underneath the grapes and he jumps up to try to get the grapes and he can never quite get to them no matter how high he jumps or no matter how many times he keeps doing it. Over and over he jumps up and tries to get the grapes And finally, he becomes convinced that those grades are just too high and he's not going to get them. And so he turns and he walks away. He says, well, they're probably just sour after all That's where we get the word sour grapes from, if you ever hear that. Now what does that story teach? Well it is pretty clear. The moral of it, as they say, is that when we can't get something that we really wanted, our natural, shall I say, sinful self tends to turn its own its head and now we start diminishing that thing, casting aspersions on it, or bringing it down, not because we know that's to be the case, but simply because we have been deprived of it. It's like a person who has had a job offer that has held out or promotion within his office and and he finds out he's really wanting it, but some other guy in the office gets it. And he walks away and he says, Well, it's not all that's cracked up to be anyway. I'm sure that that's not the job wasn't really all that important. Somehow another, when we diminish something, then we don't have to face our own faults and our own failures The fox and the grapes, the story tells us more about us than it tells us about the grapes. And that's what fables do. They teach us a truth, but that truth is hidden within a story. And it's a truth that we have to have eyes to see and ears to hear to understand. But once you see it It is so clear. Jesus' parables are much like Esau's fables in this regard. Each one teaches us a message. A clear message of some sort, but the message is hidden in the story by its very design. We are to learn the application of this story as we ponder that story. The key requirement is that we are to, using Jesus' words, understand it. Like Aesop's fables, we have to understand a parable before the application becomes clear. Jesus tells us this in the passage today, down in verse 23. He who receives the seed on the good ground is he who hears the word and understands it. He draws a clear distinction between hearing the word and understanding it. And so it is with the gospel of Jesus Christ, and so it is with the parables of the kingdom. We have to understand the word. Then we can fully grasp it, and then the depth of our understanding can increase. Our lives are supposed to change as a result of understanding these parables because the seed is supposed to bear fruit. That's why it's been planted. But that bearing fruit hinges upon understanding. It comes from pondering the passage itself. pondering the story. And that's what I want us to do today. Of all the parables that Jesus is going to be teaching us, starting in this section, the sower and the seeds is probably the most important. It stands at the head of what are called the kingdom parables. And there's a reason why this parable comes first. Not in Matthew, but in Mark, where it also precedes all the others. The disciples come up to Jesus and ask him, as they counted here, but he says something in Mark that is not said here. In Mark's version, he says, Do you not understand this parable? Well, if you don't understand this one, how can you understand any of them? And so there's a sense in which the parable of the soar and the seeds has to be understood if we're to understand any of those which are to follow Therefore, we need to pay attention to it. Let's get the details of it into our mind. It is the details of the story that carry the message. I'll list them briefly for you. What are the details of this story? Well first there's the sower. Everybody know what a sower is. There's not many farmers in here anymore. A farmer's sower is a person that is sowing seed. That's what he's doing. A sower. He's sowing seeds. So the details are first the sower and the seed itself that he is soaring. Sowing. Next is the field where the seed is planted, and the differing sorts of soil that is in the one field. And then there are the effects that the different types of soil has on the seed that has been sowed on it. And then lastly, not lastly at all, but there is the outcome of the whole story. What is the whole picture that is being presented? That is a detail also. And the very last thing we are to notice. Is that we must not overlook that this story was written with the intent that only those who have ears to hear would understand it. Those are the details. Let's consider now what the details mean. Let's think first, and I'm going through these at the speed of heat. These are going to be fairly quick. I don't have time to go into great detail with them. Let's look first at the sower. Oh, who is this guy? Who's Jesus talking about, saying that a sower is going out into the field and he's spreading seed? Well, the sower is the Lord Jesus himself. That is what it represents. First and foremost, historically, in the context, Jesus has come to his field, which is the nation of Israel. And he is going about sowing the seed of the kingdom that I'll speak of shortly. So historically, first we must see this as Jesus speaking of himself and what's going on But then secondly, paradigmatically, as we will be going throughout all of these, it is Jesus taking his seed, the seed of the kingdom, throughout the whole world. So the idea of the sower here is our Lord Christ in his incarnation while he was present in the world in Israel. But it is also Jesus in his glorification working through his church as he takes his seed throughout all of the nations of the world. world as we'll get to. So what is the seed? The next detail. Well he says the seed is the word of the kingdom. Okay. The word of the kingdom. The word that the kingdom has arrived The good news that God has visited mankind as he said he was going to, and he has brought about within this world a whole new world order. Our Lord has done something incredible He has caused to come about within space and time a new way of living to be manifested, a new sphere of existence for people to inhabit. It is under the heading of a new creation. Just as astonishing as if we were to look up and see in the skies a new world or a new sun suddenly burst into uh uh sight. There is a new covenant relationship that has been established between God and man And that alone should be cause of great rejoicing. God has done this And he has done this in the person of his king who has entered into this world, his Messiah, his anointed servant. This person has come into the world. Jesus, the one actually sowing the seed, is the one who has brought this kingdom. And it is his message that is the word of the kingdom. Now we begin to see how Jesus is picturing for those who have eyes to see, to understand what is going on. In his ministry. Now, the field then that Jesus is ministering in is in fact the world. But it's not the world all at once, and we should recognize this. As we will see in the parable of the tares that are coming up fairly soon, the field is the world. But it is the world as the sower, as the king, as Jesus moves through the world. What we see in the parable of the seeds is God bringing about his kingdom as it is growing throughout the whole world, beginning incrementally and sequentially in Israel, and then moving throughout the rest of the world of the earth. He comes into the world in the land of Israel. That is the first division of the field. You know, back in the old days you used to have sections of land. And uh it's interesting down in Mississippi they have what's called sixty-six section and that section of land is always set aside. The proceeds from that go to support the public health uh school system And but within each section of land you have particles of land that you have. And and so if you were to think of the earth as being a section of land then each of the cultures, each of the word uh people groups, each of the nations would be an individual portion of that section. And the sower goes through one, sows that field, goes to the next one, etcetera, in order till the whole uh uh land has been uh planted And what we see here is that Jesus coming into the world, into his first division of land, which is the nation of Israel, and as he comes, he sows And that is how the teaching is to be applied. Now, what about the types of soil? Well, the types of soil represent to us individual people who live within each of those sections As the sower comes through. They are the ones present when the sower brings the word of the kingdom to them. They hear that word. They hear it. This is an address, this soa, this parable does not address people who don't hear the word. This is not addressing that poor person down in Africa that everybody always points to that grew up and never heard the Word of God This addresses those nations like Germany, like England, like the United States, like wherever the Word of God has come in space and time, and people actually hear the Word that is brought to them And all around Jesus at that time there were people who were present, who came and listened to him. And there were those there who just didn't care. They were there because this is what's happening on the 6 o'clock news, and they get a chance to go see it themselves. You know? Hey this guy Jesus is out there in Galilee. He's doing some really neat stuff. Let's go see what it is. Maybe we'll get a few cakes, we'll stop back on the way and have a glass of wine under a fig tree or something. And you know, it'll just be a good weekend There were those. There were those who just didn't care. They went to hear Jesus or they heard the word. And then they went on with their lives as if nothing had happened. And then there were those who were the flash in the pan. You know all about these folks? These are people who hear the word and boy they get all excited and they're all burning and yes we're gonna go out and convert the world and I I'm gonna give you know I'm gonna sell all that I possess and give it to the church and and by the way boy this is gonna be neat. Lasts about a week, and something else gets them excited. And now they may remember they got excited about Jesus last week, but this is what's important to me now. And so what happens with those who are flashing the pen? They get excited about the gospel, but it just doesn't last. And then there are those who initially make a commitment. They make a move. They start following Christ. But as things start begin to get tough, as pressures build up As the cares and worries of this world tend to pull them away from having Christ at the center of their life. As Satan is very successful through all of his maneuvers of getting them to shift their focus from Christ. to themselves and to what's wrong with their lives or what do they want to do or what is it that's going on that they think is important And so the next thing you know, Christ is not sitting on the throne of their heart, but they're right back there themselves. These are ones who grow up, serve for a time, but the cares and worries of the world choke out the gospel. But then there are those others There are those others. The ones to whom the seed comes and the idea of God's kingdom Kingdom is so fantastic. And the beauty of Christ in the midst of it as our King and as the one who brings all the things that are are worthy to be rejoiced in. And who holds out the promise that that this kingdom that He's brought is going to last forever and that the only thing that is going to happen to us is that one of these days we're going to die and live with Him forever. That's the worst that's going to happen to us. And these folks, there is nothing in the world more precious to them. Nothing. These are the ones who hang in there. And the cares and worries of this life that Satan throws at them cannot displace Christ from the middle of their heart. And people coming up with new exciting things that seek to distract them away from the excitement that they had with the kingdom, they see this new and exciting thing as just one more piece of tinsel No, is that right, Tinsel? Yeah. Uh one more piece of flashy bling that ultimately doesn't mean a thing And so, no, I'm not going to give up this diamond of the kingdom for that paltry thing. And certainly they are not like those who just come to hear Jesus because it's a neat little thing to do There are those few, and in them the word of the kingdom strikes deep, and the roots are set firmly. The stalk grows strongly, and fruit is born in its time. 112, some 60, and some 30. Brothers and sisters, that's how it was historically in Christ coming into the land of Israel. And so it continues paradigmatically throughout the ages as the Word of God comes through the voice of Christ speaking and sowing the seeds of the kingdom, if you will, as he in God's providence moves throughout all of the world's cultures, the nations and people groups. When Jesus using his body, which is his church, to spread the word, the seed, the word of the kingdom. And people hear. And as each person hears, this parable is acted out over and over again. The effect of each type of soil on the sea determines how each person responds to the word. And that's the next detail we need to notice. Each person is different. And their stories are different thereby. Each person is different, and it is the nature of the difference that is in that person that determines how they respond to the word of the kingdom. That is the way that the Word of the Kingdom judges us. It reveals to us And reveals to the whole world the type of person we are. The word of the kingdom is a two-edged sword, exposing the hearts of all to whom it comes. That's what it did when Jesus first brought this message. It revealed the hearts of all of those who heard it. It laid open to the world to see what type of people they truly were. And so it continues today. As we continue the work of Christ spreading the word of the kingdom, we need to take this into the account. As the word comes to us individually, each one of us here in this room, and each one of us as we think about it, wherever we may be, we have to realize that the word of the kingdom, as you have just heard it expressed, is judging us. And exposing to us and to our consciousness what type of person we truly are. We have to be we have to realize that. And as the word comes to our families, and it begins to work on those who are closest to us. We have to recognize that the word of the kingdom will open up to us an understanding of how each individual person in our family is to be understood. As the word comes to our church, so it happens here. What will we see in each other? As the word of the kingdom is addressed to us and exposes our true reasons for attending church and being a part of it. As the word of the kingdom comes to the world about us and through us, as we go doing the work of Christ. As we see our neighbors and our co-workers and our casual acquaintances and our closest friends being exposed to the word of the kingdom which we are to bring We will see that word judging them and giving evidence of how they stand, what type of person they are before the living God. We should not be surprised that the word does not always produce the effect that we most desire. We may grieve. We may grieve when we see it doing this, but we must not be dismayed. Because the word is simply doing its job when it exposes our hearts and the hearts of others. How can a person repent? Brothers and sisters, think about this. How can a person repent if they don't know what kind of person they are to begin with? Certainly, Peter learned this very difficult lesson at the hands of our Lord Himself, when the depths of his sins were brought out even to his own consciousness. And we must plant the seed. And we must expect and recognize how each person responds. But then we must not at that point despair Because it is ours to wait on the harvest, not to force it to happen. Many perhaps will not respond as we wish. Yet we must look for the fruit that will come from the seed that is in fact planted in good soil. And not be discouraged by how the seeds that appear to have been fallen on bad soil, if you will, that they have not yet borne fruit. That's the central point of this parable, by the way. The main point of the story is this. God will have his harvest from his field. That's what this parable teaches. The harvest will come. We must not get lost in those details nor give undue attention to the fact that three of the four seeds fall on bad soil. The point of the passage is The sower gets his harvest. Because there is seed that is in good soil that grows up and produces lots of fruit. Hundred, sixty, and thirty. The main point is not that there will be some, and perhaps many, that will hear the word and not respond. The main point is not that though is that though there may be some, there will be many Who, in fact, respond well. And these folks in whom the seed is planted will discover their lives changed. And we with joy will see it. We will see how the word that God has planted in their hearts through us will make living for Jesus become the main point and the central premise of their life. How they will bear fruit in their time, that their ultimate motives and their deepest heart's desire will be to serve the living Christ. And as a result of that, fruit is inevitable. So what does this mean? That means the kingdom is going to grow It can't help but grow. It means that the kingdom is unstoppable. And that's Jesus' entire point in this parable. All that opposition that is going on around him All of the people following away, those seeds that are planted on bad soil, and disciples leaving him left and right. That's going to happen later in the Gospel of Matthew, but that's what we should see. This parable says that though the apparent circumstances are that the kingdom is being stopped in its tracks Yet it is not. The word of the kingdom has been spread And is being spread, and though many hear and fall away from it, though many rise up in opposition, yet the word will not fail to bring fruit. God through his Christ Christ, through his sword, is establishing his kingdom on the earth, and the gates of Hades itself will not prevail against it. Many may suffer, as the Lord Himself suffered, yet the seed that they cast will fall on ground that has been prepared for it, and therefore it will bear fruit Finally, there's the detail of there are the ones who have ears to hear, who will hear and understand. Who are these and whom the soil finds or the seed finds good soil? There the soil has been previously prepared by the Holy Spirit. It has been deeply harrowed. Any farmers in here know what a harrow is? Harrow is, yeah, there's one or two. A Harrow is a great big uh uh uh implement that you haul behind a tractor and it's got s uh pokes that things that poke down in the ground and as you pull it it turns up the the ground and and breaks it open so that the seed can uh find soil without having to fight through the the weeds. And so the soil has been deeply harrowed, fertilized, watered, and made ready for the seed that is coming. The Holy Spirit has already done his preparatory work, and all that remains is for the seed to fall in order for it to grow. As we stop and think about this In application, I would just like to point out a few things. This past few weeks have been very difficult for our church and for me in particular. I was commenting to Judy and we kind of chuckled and said if it weren't for bad news there wouldn't be any news at all, it seems like I mentioned uh news of my friend's son committing suicide. There have been difficult issues that have faced our church, some of which were shared with members of the congregation just this week. Our brother Doug Johnson taking a turn for the worse. Another beloved family in our church facing difficult decisions and heart-wrenching circumstances Relationship issues have come to the fore here recently in several cases, and and we have some serious health concerns that have arisen among us. In periods like this, as we go through them, I'm sure that all of you have memory of such, you begin to wonder if God is really building his kingdom after all. Discouragement begins to raise its ugly head. Well, such was kind of happening on me this week. I recognized the symptoms. I was trying to fight against it. And then right in the middle of the week God sends a testimony into my life. So folks come in and speak to me just because they wanted to. And they said of how our church has affected them and touched them, and particularly how the messages that they have heard here has been taking root in their lives And how it's making a difference in their lives in many ways. In the midst of all that was going on, God reminded me. That no matter how many seeds seem to fall on barren ground, or what cares and worries may spring up in this life and threaten to choke out the gospel Yet he will have his harvest. Amen. And brothers, sisters, grabbing hold of that means that we're grabbing hold of the whole meaning of this parable. And it makes all the difference in the world. I want you to grab hold of it also. First, you and I together. We must be judged by this word that has come to us. Jesus is still sowing his seed amongst us. He is still working the field of which we are a part. And therefore we must be judged by the word of the kingdom that is coming to us. We must look at it, and in the clear light of its content, we must ask ourselves, have we received it? Do we really understand it? Has it changed us? Has it changed the way we're looking at our lives, our families, our church, the world around us? Is the fact that in Jesus Christ God has established a different kingdom, a different civilization, a whole different culture, does that mean something to us and cause us to be delighted. Does it move something deep within us and call us to cry out, yes Lord, I want some of that. I want to live in your kingdom. I want you. And I want to serve you and bear fruit for you. And that is the deepest desire of my life. The first thing we must do with this parable is understand it and be judged by it. And then we can grab a hold of the hope that is in it. For those who are judged by the Word of God, the Word of the Kingdom, have proven to be good soil then we have this sure and certain hope to guide us. Our lives will not be lived in vain. We will bear fruit, the kingdom will advance in us and through us, and God will have his harvest and will rejoice in the fruit that we bring. Something in this world, perhaps nothing in the uh I'm sorry, nothing in this world, nor in the next. None of the devices of Satan nor of the schemes of man can stop this kingdom's growth and its harvest. The world is God's field. His son is the sower. The Holy Spirit is the harvester. And though many fall away, though many rise up against us, even in our own households, Yet the fruit will be there, some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty. Let him or her who has ears to hear, hear, for this is the Word of God. Let's pray.