Chapter nine. We're continuing on in the Gospel of Mark. Starting in verse 2 of chapter 9, the Bolton says we're going to go through verse 10, but we're actually only going to go through verse 8. We'll cover verses 9 and 10 next week in the next passage. Mark chapter nine, starting in verse two, reading through verse eight. Excuse me. Now, after six days, Jesus took Peter, James, and John, and led them up on a high mountain apart by themselves, and he was transfigured before them. His clothes became shining exceedingly white like snow, such as no launderer on earth can whiten them. And Elijah appeared to them with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus Then Peter answered and said to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here. And let us make three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. Because he did not know what to say, for they were greatly afraid. And a cloud came and overshadowed them. And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved son. Hear him Suddenly, when they had looked around, they saw no one anymore, but only Jesus with themselves. Please pray with me. Oh gracious God, thank you for your word. Thank you for sending your son. Thank you for loving us so much. We ask God that you will work through your Spirit, who uses your word to lead us into the truth. Show us, Lord, what we must set aside If there are ways that we have thought of you in the past, please, Holy Spirit, cut those ways out of us. Cut those thoughts and remove them. Fill them with truth. With lofty, wonderful, good, and real thoughts of Jesus, our Lord and Savior. And I pray Almighty God, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I know it's been a hectic time with Christmas and New Year's and a whole lot of things going on, so maybe you missed some things that were going on in the news. I certainly did. I didn't know that aliens had come to New Jersey. Ashley had to tell me all about this. The way she told me She was terrified one night, looking up at the sky. She said, it's one of those drones. She saw one of those drones. And I didn't admit to her at the time, but I'll admit to you now, when I saw it. I thought she was right. When I looked out of our window and I looked up in the sky and I saw what was shining brighter than I thought stars should shine, I said, Maranatha? Perhaps this is it. And then God, in his mercy, He turned my sci-fi nerd brain off. It wasn't aliens. Wasn't drones from other countries spying on us. I I pulled out my phone, I got out my star chart. And I looked at it and I said, Oh, it's Mars. That's why it's so bright. It's a planet. It's not a drone. Sometimes we think we know what we're looking at, don't we? We can convince ourselves, yes, this is that's exactly what I'm seeing, until additional information is given to us. Until something from outside of us, external to us, is consulted, especially when something authoritative is consulted. Now I'm not suggesting that my my Star Chart app is authoritative, but it certainly knew more of what I was looking at in the sky than Ashley or I did. That's why all of us need to love God's word even more than we currently do. It's why all of us need to depend on God's word so much more than we may even now. He has given us this external authoritative information. That reveals to us what we can never know for ourselves. This is what Mark has been doing from the very beginning of this account. He has been telling us the good news. He has been giving to us the gospel. And what is that good news? It is that Jesus of Nazareth, Jesus the Christ, is the Messiah. He is the Son of God. And he has shown us this in these eight chapters that we've gone through so far by showing us that Jesus can do what only God can do. If you recall, he had healed many. There was one that he healed that even before he healed him, he said, I forgive you of your sin. And that he could prove to those who witnessed it that he had the power, that the Son of Man had the power to forgive sins, then he told the man, Take up your bed and walk. And in front of everyone, he did. He has taught with authority like no one else had taught. He cleansed lepers, something that only God has ever done. No man could do it. He commands evil spirits. Do you remember that? He commanded unclean spirits to leave countless. He commanded the countless unclean spirit of legion to leave that man and left him in his right mind as a human being again. Not only could he command spirits and command men, but he commanded the very earth itself, even the wind and the waves and the sea, obey him. Recently we went through Peter's confession. If you have your Bible still open, you can just probably look on the the the page that should be right there. In chapter 8, we have the center of the gospel, in which Jesus asks his disciples, Who do men say that I am? And we find out that Peter has been given a marvelous bit of authoritative information that was not within himself, but came from outside of him. It was from the Father that he was able to confess that Jesus was the Messiah. And yet We also saw that Peter made some grave errors, didn't he? Thinking that he could somehow rebuke the Messiah. He had just confessed that he's the Messiah, and now he's going to chastise and correct the one he had just confessed? We learned from that account that there are some things that must happen, that Jesus must suffer That Jesus must die, that Jesus must rise again from the dead. So Jesus then teaches the reality And that reality is that he is not the only one who will suffer. In the last passage that we had from Mark, we saw that all who follow him All who want to be disciples of Jesus Christ will suffer. And yet, despite that suffering, it will be worth it. And do you remember why it's worth it? It's worth it because this is the only way for any of us to have real life. It's to lose our life, to give it up. And to find it in Christ alone. And so if we are going to follow Christ in that suffering, if we are going to lay down our own lives, take up our own cross, and to follow after him, to walk as he walked. As Peter did, as the disciples would, then we need something more. We need more information from outside of us. And praise the Lord God Almighty. He doesn't leave us. He has given it to us. Mark doesn't end his gospel saying if you want to save your life you have to lose it. He keeps going to tell us what happens next. And so we have this passage before us. In this passage, we see that all Christians need God to reveal to us who Jesus really is. Brothers and sisters, you need God to reveal to you who Jesus really is. And so we'll look at this in two ways. First, we're going to look at God revealing. God, He reveals. We'll look at that in verses 2 through 6, and then we'll see who Jesus really is. in verses seven and eight. So let's start with God reveals in verses two through six. Look at verse two. Now, after six days, Jesus took Peter, James, and John and led them up on a high mountain apart by themselves, and he was transfigured before them. God reveals, and the first thing we see about how God reveals is that it is according to his will. He reveals how he wants to. He reveals when he wants. We have a time statement here. Mark doesn't give us very many time statements. He says about six days later. If you look at one of the other parallel passages, it says about eight days later. Really what we can understand is it's about a week. About a week has passed since the confession and the teaching of what would happen to the Messiah. God reveals when He wants to reveal. But God also reveals where he wants to reveal. We see he takes his disciples, these special three, up onto a high mountain. We can't force God to reveal himself to us in this church or any other church or any other place. God will reveal where he wants. And he reveals to whom he wants. It says that it was Peter, James, and John. He took them apart by themselves. We've seen before that Peter, James, and John have a very special place. Among the disciples. We know that John has a very special place among the disciples. He's the one whom Jesus loved, his beloved disciple. And he was the one who was given that vision that we read earlier from Revelation. Peter is always listed as the first of the disciples in every list in the scriptures. Now, we don't take that as the Roman Catholics do to mean that it has a place of primacy or supremacy, but it should let us know that there is something special about Peter that we should recognize. It was special that Peter was the one who was given the confession of the Christ by God the Father. So God reveals according to his will when he wants, where he wants, to whom he wants. And he does it how he wants. And we see how he wanted to reveal it to them. These three on the mountain, he wanted to show himself. as he really is to them. Did you notice the similarities in the vision that John received and the transfiguration, the descriptions? We'll come to another passage where a vision of the Almighty coincides with what we've seen here. So God reveals according to his will, but he also reveals what cannot be known otherwise. Look at verse 3 with me. His clothes became shining, exceedingly white like snow, such as no launderer on earth can whiten them. There's something unearthly about what is being revealed to these disciples. His clothes were not like any worldly garment. It's interesting here, it says that you know, as no launderer could have ever made it white. Well, i there's a little bit more going on there than just somebody who washes clothes. The word there for launderer is a fuller. The Bible's full of statements about the fuller's field. And these were fields where these men would take these fabrics and they would treat them with minerals. From the earth. A foolish field was a field that had those special minerals that were needed to treat these claws. Typically, it wasn't just for anybody. You know who would have had these special claws that were treated in this special way? Royalty, kings, those who deserved to be given honor and respect and reverence. Jesus is far more than any earthly authority. When it says that he is exceedingly white, we need to think about the other ways that the Bible talks about. The color white. Think about it. There's not a lot of colors in the Bible. Have you ever realized that? Not a lot of color statements. Mark doesn't even tell us what color hair Jesus had And yet he tells us that these garments, when Peter, James, and John see them, are exceedingly white. It made me think of Moses' face. Shining after he was in communion with the Lord. Or thinking about Psalm 51, when David says, purge me, cleanse me with his Take away my red sins, and what will be left is whiter than snow. I want to read for you something from Daniel chapter seven. We had read there a couple Sundays ago, back when we were looking at other passages, but look here. Daniel chapter 7, verse 9. Listen to what he says. It's a vision that Daniel was given. I watched till thrones were put in place, and the ancient of days was seated, his garment. was white as snow, and the hair of his head was like pure wool. His throne was a fiery flame, its wheels a burning fire. That's a vision of the ancient of days Remarkably similar to what we see, to what Peter, James, and John had seen. Well God reveals according to His will, God reveals what cannot be known otherwise, and God reveals that he is the one to whom the law and the prophets pointed. Look at verse four with me. Look at who was there. And Elijah appeared to them with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus. Moses, representative of the law. He was the giver of the Torah. Elijah One of the most revered of all the prophets, the prophet who didn't die. The prophet who, even today, those who Who are uh practice Judaism. They are waiting for Elijah to return. It's interesting that they were there speaking. With Jesus. Now Mark doesn't tell us this, but Luke does. He tells us what they were speaking about. If you remember that passage in Luke, you know that they were talking about something very specific. They were speaking about the death that Jesus would suffer in Jerusalem. And an interesting word is used there. It's the word Exodus. Is speaking about his Exodus. Moses, Elijah, all the prophets. They were looking to Jesus. They were looking to him. He is the one to whom all the scriptures have pointed. And the last thing that we see about how God reveals is that He reveals something very important that we have to realize. We must realize this, brothers and sisters. God reveals that you cannot figure it out for yourself. You cannot Peter's confession, it came from the Father. And yet here, his response shows again that he just doesn't get it. Even having that information from the Father, he still didn't understand who Jesus is. Look at what he says. Then Peter answered and said to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here. And let us make three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah, because he didn't know what to say. And we were greatly afraid. Why do you think he said it was good for us to be here? I know what I would have thought if I was there. Oh, how special I am to be one of these three. That God would show himself to me. And we must be careful about that. Because if we somehow think that God is revealing it to us because there's something special in us, that's the death of evangelism, brothers and sisters. That's the death of sharing the gospel with anyone. Because then it'll you'll leave it to your understanding. About who it is you will share the gospel with. Why does he talk about tabernacles? Do you guys remember the tab what the tabernacle was? It was the tent of meeting. It is where The priests would go to meet with God. He dwelt in the midst of the cherubim over the judgment seat in the Holy of Holies. When I read this, I see Peter going, it's time for a new temple. Let's make three temples. It's time for a new a new Jerusalem, a new Zion. Let's do it right here. Because he did not understand. He didn't even know really what he was saying. I don't I don't want us to think ill of Peter because would we have done any better If if we had a if one of you had a vision of Jesus in the backfield, I think that's where we build our new worship center, wouldn't it? And could we fall someone for that? And he said he let's make one for each of them. Boy, that that's the clincher that Peter really didn't understand what was going on. As though they're equals. As the Moses and Elijah and Jesus are on the same level, even? Oh, poor Peter. He didn't know what to say. He didn't know how to respond. He was terrified, and it recalls us to the Israelites when they first encountered God after the exodus. at the foot of the mountain, watching the clouds descend, and Moses ascending the mountain. And what did they say? Not again, please. We heard the trumpets, we heard the voice, we are terrified. Will you please go and intercede for us? God revealed to Peter and James and John what they needed to know in order that they would be able to accomplish his mission for them. They needed to see the Sun because they needed to see who Jesus really is. And so we'll end by looking at these last two verses and seeing who Jesus really is. Jesus is the beloved Son of God. It's plain for us there in the scriptures. Did this remind you of something that we've heard before in Mark? Do you remember Jesus' baptism? Another miraculous voice, the voice of God Almighty. It resounds, and what did it say? This is my beloved Son. In whom I am well pleased. It teaches us some things. We learn some things about Jesus, about who He really is. He is God, that's for sure. He's described just as Daniel's vision of the ancient of days. John's vision confirms it for us. There is no difference. And yet there is a distinction. Jesus, the Son, the beloved Son, is not the same person as the Father. And so if you have any Unitarian friends out there, Just ask them, was it did Jesus do some trick with his voice at this moment? Was he throwing his voice into the sky and it was echoing back? No. This is the Son, the Son of God. We also see that Jesus is something else. He is the Son of God. He is the Christ, the Messiah who was promised. He is the one that everyone has been awaiting. The one to whom the law and the prophets pointed. But he is a very specific one, one that Moses spoke of. If you want, you can turn to Deuteronomy chapter 18. I'm going to read a short passage for us from there. A passage in which Moses tells the people of God something very important. Starting in verse 15 of Deuteronomy chapter 18. This is Moses speaking. He says, The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your midst, from your brethren. Pay attention. Because Moses says something. He says, Him you shall hear. According to all you desired of the Lord your God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God, nor let me see this great fire any more, lest I die. And the Lord said to me, What they have spoken is good. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brethren, and will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And it shall be that whoever will not hear my words, which he speaks in my name, I will require it of him. But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or who speaks in the name of other gods, that prophet shall die. And if you say in your heart, How shall we know the word which the Lord has not spoken? When a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the thing does not happen or come to pass, that is the thing which the Lord has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously. You shall not be afraid of him. Peter, James, and John were afraid. of this man they had been following around because they finally saw, even though they knew and had confessed that he was more than just a man, they saw it. They saw the sun. This is the one to be obeyed. If you remember Hebrews chapter 1, do you remember what it says there? It says, God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in times past. to the fathers, by the prophets, has in these last days spoken to us by his Son, whom he has appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the worlds. who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sin. Sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high, having become so much better than the angels, as he has by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. This is the one. This is the one whom they had learned would go to death for them. But it was also the one that they had learned. That they would follow in death. The one who came as a man, the one who came as a bond servant, the one who came in the form of humanity, who knows our weakness, who knows our frailty. This is God Almighty, who has purged us of our sins. We need God to reveal who Jesus really is to us. And we need it for the same reason that Peter, James, and John did. They needed to know this, to see this, that they would be able to suffer for Christ's sake And brothers and sisters, you need to know it too. You need to know who it is that you're suffering for. You're not suffering for a mere prophet. You are not suffering for an idea. You are suffering for the Son of God. The one who has called you to himself, who has restored you in peace with the Father, so that you may be strengthened To endure this life and what may come at you because you are a follower of Christ. Think about Peter in all of his faults and all of his failings and all of his bad responses to what Jesus was doing. Do you know what is generally accepted as true is the tradition of Peter's death. Do you know the tradition around Peter's death? He was taken to be crucified. And he was taken to be crucified because he refused to back down from the truth that Jesus Christ. Who had been executed by Rome had risen from the dead. He was killed for the resurrection But the tradition is that he was unwilling even to die in the manner of his Savior. And he said, Crucify me upside down. I don't know how familiar you are with crucifixion. Crucifixion is already a heinous and terrible way to die. It's designed so that the person's body weight suffocates them. And so in excruciating agony, they must lift themselves on the nails that have pierced through their feet and into the cross in order to just take a breath. And wouldn't you believe it? They do that despite the pain because your body will do what's necessary to get that breath in. I don't know how someone dies by crucifixion if they're crucified upside down. Is it suffocation? Did he bleed out? From what I read, it was a more excruciating and difficult and lengthy way to die. What could have led Peter to that? What could have given him the strength to suffer and to face that? But to know without shadow of a doubt the one for whom he was dying That it was not cleverly devised fables. It was the truth. God has come, taken the form of man, and done all that was needed. That he would be with him where he is forever and ever. Brothers and sisters, you don't need this same kind of mountaintop vision. You know why? Because you have this. You have more than Peter ever had. Who's thinking about this? You have what Peter Maybe never dreamed would have been given. You have the book of Revelation. It was written far after the time that Peter died You have God's entire word, and so I want to close and encourage you all that you would take advantage of this revelation of God. You need to beg God to reveal who Jesus really is to you through this, his word. And if you don't know where to begin, I'll tell you where. Just start in a gospel. Start with a gospel. I always recommend start with the gospel of Mark. Start with the gospel of Mark. You don't know how to get yourself into the habit of relying on God's revelation. Just do it. Just go to the Gospel of Mark and read. I promise you, it won't take that long. You can get through the whole book of Mark in about 35 minutes. And that's even accounting for the time that you're going to have to wipe away all those tears that keep you from being able to read. Trust in God. Beg him to reveal who Jesus really is through this, his holy word. Please pray with me