God's holy word for God's holy people But Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea, and a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judea and Jerusalem and Idemea. And beyond the Jordan, and those from Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they heard how many things he was doing, came to him. So he told his disciples that a small boat should be kept ready for him, because of the multitude, lest they should crush him. For he healed many, so that as many as had afflictions pressed about him to touch him. And the unclean spirits, whenever they saw him, fell down before him and cried out, saying, You are the Son of God. But he sternly warned them that they should not make him known. Please pray with me. Holy and awesome God, thank you for preserving for us this your holy word. We ask God that you would Shine your light into our minds and into our hearts, that we would see your truth from your scriptures. Father, I pray that the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. Well, I imagine that most of us most of us enjoy a variety in our diet, don't we? We like to eat all different kinds of things, all different kinds of foods. Sometimes we'll get sick of a routine. But I also wonder if you aren't a little bit like me. And there are just some foods that you can eat them every single day, and you will not get sick of it. For example, I do not know what it's like to go one day in life. Without cheese. I can't tell you what it's like. To my knowledge, I've never had one day of my whole life that I didn't have cheese. Even when I was a baby at the breasts, I'm sure my mother had cheese, and it was mine through her. Well I wonder, is there something like that? Is there something you could eat over and over and over again that you would not get sick of? I think in my household it might be pizza. Have we ever heard somebody say, oh, pizza again? Well, so far Mark has been feeding us a steady diet, hasn't he? And he isn't weary of giving us the same food over and over again. He isn't weary of repeating himself because what he is repeating is something very good for us to remember. Believing that Jesus is the Messiah is not a crazy notion. It is not a silly belief. Over and over again, Mark is showing us, with the events from Jesus' life and ministry, that Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ. He is the Son of God. God Himself spoke at Jesus' baptism, saying, You are my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Verse 11 of chapter 1. Jesus calls men to follow him, men from all kinds of walks of life, and they do, they follow him. From fishermen to tax collectors, they leave their old lives and they follow Jesus into a new life. He casts out unclean spirits, he forgives sins, and he proves that he has the power and authority to forgive sins by healing. The paralyzed man. He cleanses a leper, something that only God can do. And just last week we saw that he restored a man's withered hand on the Sabbath day. Showing that he is indeed the Lord of the Sabbath, as he has claimed. Well, tonight in this passage we see once again that Jesus' power and wisdom proves he is the Messiah. Jesus' power and wisdom proves he is our Savior. And so we're going to look at this in two ways tonight. You can probably guess them. We're going to look first at the power of the Savior. We'll see that in verses 7 and 8. And then we'll look at the wisdom of the Savior, verses 9 through 12. So we look first now at verses seven to eight and we see the power of the Saviour. Look there with me. But Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea, and a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judea and Jerusalem and Idumea. And beyond the Jordan, and those from Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they heard how many things he was doing, came to him. So we notice first that the Savior's power is obvious. Do you see how it is evident? It's evident to everyone, not just to those who had witnessed it firsthand. Those who hear of Jesus' miracles recognize that something special is happening, something Different, something unique that hasn't happened before. It's obvious to the Hebrews. Many of them follow him, even though it's clear, very clear, that the religious leaders and the religious elites do not follow him. It's also obvious to the Gentiles. We're told that the crowds gathering are made up of people from all over the region. These are people that have only heard of what Jesus is doing. The people from Tyre and Silon, they weren't looking for the Messiah, but they were looking for a Savior. And we also see that the Savior's power is irresistible. They come from beyond the Jordan. They come from outside of the Promised Land, outside of Israel. These are Gentiles. The power of this Savior being shared in their lands. Has given them confidence to go to him to seek the salvation that they need from this man that they've heard about. And what these people had heard was too spectacular to ignore. If you were suffering or a loved one Was suffering and you heard of this miraculous healer doing all these wondrous signs, how would you react What would you do? Would you be willing to travel a few days' journey in hope of their healing or your healing? Would you have sought this Savior that you'd heard about? Many did. So many that things could easily get out of hand for Jesus and his disciples. The size of this great multitude. could present a danger to Jesus and a danger to his mission. And so we see, in the way that Jesus deals with this situation, the wisdom of the Savior. And we see this in verses 9 through 12. The Savior's wisdom is practical. Look at verse 9 and verse 10. So he told his disciples that a small boat should be kept ready for him because of the multitude, lest they should crush him For he healed many, so that as many as had afflictions pressed about him to touch him. Jesus has a greater purpose to fulfill, greater even than healing people of their physical afflictions. He will not let that greater mission be put at risk. And so he does something very practical. He withdrew to a place where he could minister wisely. A place where he could safely escape the crush of the crowd if that was necessary. He knows the crowd. He knows what they seek from him. And he knows how they think they're going to get it. If a thousand people were all desperately trying to touch one man, that can quickly turn into a very bad situation. And so Jesus' plan wisely fits his circumstance. He anticipates what could get in the way of his fulfilling his father's will, and he practically plans to overcome it. These last verses show the Savior's wisdom isn't just practical, it isn't just fitting for the present circumstances, but we also see that the Savior's wisdom is tactical. It's a tactical wisdom. We see this in verses eleven through twelve. And the unclean spirits, whenever they saw him, fell down before him and cried out, saying, You are the Son of God. But he sternly warned them that they should not make him known. Tactics. This is a term that we often associate with military action. If you look in the dictionary, it deals with the most effective ways of securing one's objectives. The sage's wisdom is shown in his planning ahead to ensure that his objective His father's objective is going to be achieved. Jesus warned the unclean spirits not to make him known because it wasn't the proper time for his true identity to be so plainly declared. Now there will come a time when Jesus' true identity will no longer be in question. And this will be after he's done and taught all which is necessary. To establish that claim as true. In Mark chapter 14, verses 61 to 62, Jesus freely admits that he is the Christ, the Son of the Blessed. And from that point, there is only one aspect of his mission which is left to accomplish: the cross. Jesus knew That if people were confident that he was the Son of God, the next step that they would take. Would be to put him to death. And so it wasn't the right time for that kind of declaration of his identity. But Jesus also knew that the unclean spirits have unclean motives They're declaring the truth of his identity, which they know better than anyone who was following Jesus at that time, and it's not so that he would be glorified. It wasn't so that people would follow him. We'll see the impact of those unclean spirits that did cry out in verse 22 of this chapter, and we're going to get there in a couple weeks, Lord willing. For these demons, these spirits to cry out in that way, it could, and it likely did, give people the wrong impression about Jesus. And so we've seen that Jesus' astonishing power drew great multitudes to him, and he wisely dealt with them in a way that protected his ultimate purpose and mission. Jesus again proves He again demonstrates that he is the Christ, the Messiah, the only Savior we must seek. And he proves this by his power and his wisdom. So I'd ask you, brothers and sisters, have you heard of the power of the Savior? Have you encountered the power of the Messiah? How do you respond? When you have been told of the wondrous miracles of Jesus, is it anything like the response of these crowds? Are you pressing toward Jesus? Are you pressing towards him? Hoping beyond hope that you would just get one glimpse? One touch? Are you desperate for his healing power? Like this crowd is desperate. Have you heard where he can be found? Do you know where you must go if you want to encounter Jesus? If you want to encounter his saving power? Are you willing to do whatever you must to get there? Are you willing to sacrifice whatever you must to get where Jesus is? There's a lot of people trying, thronging, clamoring to be near him in this crowd For some people, just the sight of a crowd like that from afar off could be daunting. Have you ever been in a crowd of a thousand people? At General Assembly, when there's 2200 commissioners all there, it's daunting just to walk into the room because of the murmur and the sounds and the stimulation. Are you the kind of person that a crowd like that would make you afraid to go where Jesus is because there's so many people there? This is the nature of following Jesus. There are going to be a lot of people who come around the Savior Who want to be around the Messiah? There will be a lot of people coming around Jesus that will be looking at him with pure motives, coming to him for salvation. There will be many who will be coming to him perhaps just to get something from him I imagine the Gentiles from Tyran and Sidon, they might might have looked at that crowd and they might have thought, boy, none of those people are like me. They don't look like me, they don't dress like me, but those aren't my people. Maybe I shouldn't be here. Maybe that's not where I should go. And yet they pressed on anyway. It didn't stop them. So I exhort you, brothers and sisters, work diligently not to let the followers of Jesus be a reason that you might abandon your own quest to be near Him, to touch Him, to receive His miraculous healing. There are some who've been following him for a long time. They've seen him do a lot more. They've seen and they've heard him teach. There are some who may have just heard about Jesus. And so they're coming to him for the very first time. They may still be wondering if this is real. Every church is going to be made up of all different kinds of people. But we have to remind ourselves, it is not our similar personalities, it is not our similar interests or our similar attitudes or our similar walks of life that makes us the church, that makes us one body of Christ. It is the one Savior, the one that we all seek, that makes us part of the crowd that is around Jesus May we never lose sight of this truth. We are church because Christ made us his family, he called us to follow him It isn't the power of the crowd that draws us in. It's not the wisdom of the crowd. It is Jesus, the Savior, who draws us to Himself. And we can all learn from the example of Jesus. Healing, afflictions, casting out unclean spirits, these were all very good things for the Messiah to do. In fact, these are things that Isaiah said the Messiah would do. But was this all that he was called to do? Do you notice how Jesus orders the many good things that he's called to accomplish? God the Father had given him a mission, a purpose that only he could fulfill. It would have been wrong. It would have been a sin. For Jesus to endanger that mission so he could be more available to the crowd, or Or maybe somebody in the crowd would have thought, Oh, this Savior is very relatable to me because he's willing to stay here all night long in this dangerous situation, healing everybody. Jesus was not willing to risk his ultimate purpose. I wonder if having the boat nearby made anyone think, is this guy scared? Is he afraid? Is he trying to get away? Does he not want to be with us? Does he not care about us? Whatever could have been their reaction, it didn't stop Jesus from doing that which was practical and wise to protect himself, to protect his disciples, to protect his ability. to fulfill his calling from his father. Are you Are you going to these great efforts to protect your ability to fulfill your calling from God? Dads and husbands, you have a calling, don't you? Let's take as as an example just one of them, provision. I think most would agree that fathers and husbands are called to provide for their families. Are you taking the necessary practical steps to protect your fulfilling of that mission? Let's put some put some flesh on those bones. Are you staying up too late at night so that you go to work late every morning? Putting your job at risk. Do you do things at work that if somebody found out you might get fired Do you work hard because you work for the Lord Jesus Christ, even if you don't particularly like your boss? Are you doing practical things to protect your ability to fulfill that aspect of your calling? Or let's say protection. You protect your family, don't you? That's something as fathers we are called to do. As husbands, we are called to protect our wives. There's a lot of ways that this can happen. Are you practically ordering your life for that protection? There's so many ways that they must be protected. I'm not saying do you have gun embankments or fifty caliber machine guns in your front yard in case people come? That's not the kind of protection I'm talking about. Your family, without your guidance, could find themselves going down wrong paths. Do you know what your children watch Do you know what your children read? Do you know who your children speak with? Do you know what's being said by their peers at school? I have to repent of this myself because the older I get, the less I care about whatever the world and the culture is caring about. Social media means nothing to me. Somebody had to tell me what Instagram was. That was Ashley. I didn't know what Instagram was. That might be a problem because Instagram is being used. To feed our children nonsense. It's being used by the world to distract people from their callings. And so, dads, are you aware of these things? Are you aware of the books that might be in your kids' school? Again, another is schooling is one of the ways that we might try to protect our families. Are we preparing our children for what they might hear at school that could be counter to the word? A lot of this is hearkening back to the sermon from this morning. We could put this in the category of are you taking care of that deposit? Moms and wives, you have a calling. Sometimes it's difficult for us to all agree what that calling is, but I think it's clear that moms are the nurturers of the household. A household without a mom. It's usually a pretty cold place. Sometimes it's cold in here, yes. But there's lots of moms in here. There is a calling that God has for you to fulfill, and is there something that gets in the way of that? Please don't be offended if anything I say is is strikes close to home. But a lot of the times, in my experience when talking with moms and wives, One of the biggest challenges to fulfilling their calling is everybody else. They look at other moms and other wives and they say, I can never do it like that. Why even try? Are you having practical protections against that in your own life? Are there is there a small boat that you have nearby close at hand? Do you know a mom that you trust that you can call and say, I'm doing it again? I'm feeling like I'm worthless. So you can get that encouragement that you need to be reminded of what God has called you to do? Kids, you have a calling. Did you know that? There are things that God expects of you, that He wants from you. Are you taking practical, wise steps to protect your fulfilling of that calling? Sometimes it's difficult to pay attention in class, isn't it? Sometimes it's hard to keep your mouth shut. Are you do you have a small boat close at hand? Is there another seat you could sit in so you don't have to sit next to the people that make you talk so much? It's not that big of a deal, is it? This is a practical thing you could do. Or in class, if you want to understand what's going on, are you putting in the diligent effort to understand the material? Or are you kind of just sitting back waiting for somebody to, you know, for osmosis that just is going to get into your head? Are you putting in the effort? Kids, are you are you getting along with your siblings? Is that a priority for you? It's a small boat close at hand because the enemy is going to try to he's going to try to distract your parents. He's going to try to destroy your household. He's going to try to destroy your whole family by making you forget that your calling is to love your brother. 1 John 2, 1 John 3, it's very clear. If you don't love your brother How is the love of the Father in you? Kids, there's something else I wanna I want to talk to you about It goes back to the power of the Savior. Now, when we've grown up in the church, and I grew up in PCA church, so I'm telling you from my own experience, I remember learning about Jesus and the miracles of Jesus happened from the time that I I can't even remember a time where I didn't know what Jesus had done When that happens, it can become old hat to you. You can kind of relegate that to the realm of stories or myth. Right? They were in coloring books when you were two years old, and so it's just a coloring book story. I want to encourage all of you, take very seriously what the Bible tells you Jesus has done. It's real. He really did heal multitudes. He really did cast out demons. He really is the Savior. And just because you've heard it from the time you were very little, it doesn't mean that you can just forget about it and stop thinking about it. Have for yourself a small boat close at hand. Tell yourself. Remind yourself. Sunday school's important. Church is important. God is important. And therefore, others in other walks of life, we need to do the same. If you find yourself in the period with an empty nest, right? Have a small boat at hand. You can easily be distracted from your calling if you get really used to hanging out in your underpants all day. There's nothing to do There's lots of good daytime television. I don't know, I don't watch daytime television. But you see what I mean? Do you regularly have people to your house as that small boat of protection? It's there. It keeps you ready. You know what your calling is. Your calling is to serve God and to serve the church and to love others. Do you plan on that? There's so many other ways that we could think about this. I encourage you to take some time and meditate on it yourself. What do you need that would be a practical help To keep you from straying, to keep you from being in danger of not fulfilling what God has called you to do. And the last thing I just want to bring up is that we can learn from the way that Jesus deals with the unclean spirits. And what we learn from that, there are people in this world who will use the truth as a weapon. They will take the truth out of context. They will throw it in your face as though it is something for you to be ashamed of. And when you confront them with it, perhaps you've heard this. What? I'm just telling the truth. The easiest scenario I can imagine in my mind is one that happens, we'll say, every once in a while. When a brother throws his brother under the bus, What? I'm just telling the truth. This is just what happened. But we don't want to use the truth as a weapon. And we need to be aware that some can use the truth as a weapon. We need to be ordered in the way that we tell the truth, especially when we're talking to people about the truth of Jesus. Because if we do it without love and we do it without order, we can end up doing more harm than good. Brothers and sisters, may our gracious God help us to be more like Jesus Christ Using our power and our wisdom, the gifts from our Father above, to fulfill his calling on our lives. Please pray with me. Almighty Lord, thank you. Thank you for your word. Thank you for our Savior. Thank you for the example that Jesus is to us. We ask you, Lord, that you would help us not to forget His power not to forget his wisdom, but that we would learn from it. Help us to meditate on it in this week to come. Help us to be concerned about finding wise and practical ways To keep ourselves from being at risk of ignoring your calling on our lives. And God, it occurs to me now that If we're going to do that, we need to know what you want us to do. We need to know how you have called us. And so, Father, help us, when we are in your word, to see To see where we fit and to see what you are calling us to do. And if we are confused, Lord, help us. Help us to have the courage and the humility to seek help. To go to the gifts that you have given us. Oh God, we want to serve you. And we want to glorify you by fulfilling our callings. Please, Lord, hear our prayers that you would give us the power we need and the wisdom of Christ to serve you as He did. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. We have a final