I would also encourage you to keep your word open, keep your Bibles out. We'll be flipping around to some of the parallel passages as well. God's holy word for you, God's holy people. Then they departed from there and passed through Galilee, and he did not want any one to know it. For he taught his disciples, and said to them, The Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of men, and they will kill him. And after he is killed, he will rise the third day. But they did not understand this saying and were afraid to ask him. Then he came to Capernaum. And when he was in the house, he asked them, What was it you disputed among yourselves on the road? But they kept silent. For on the road they had disputed among themselves who would be the greatest. And he sat down, called the twelve, and said to them, If any one desires to be first, he shall be last of all, and servant of all. Then he took a little child and set him in the midst of them, and when he had taken him in his arms, he said to them, Whoever receives one of these little children in my name receives me. And whoever receives me, receives not me, but him who sent me. Please pray with me. Gracious God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your preserving it. We thank you for revealing yourself to us that we can know who you are. We can know what you expect of us. As we have prayed already, Lord, we beg you that you would use your Spirit to lead us into the truth, to guide us into what we must know from this passage. And we beg you, Holy Spirit, that you would change us. Change us through this word, that we would be more like Christ. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I wonder if you have heard this quote, which is famously attributed to Albert Einstein, although when I searched on the all-knowing internet couldn't find any real verification that Albert Einstein ever said this. But the quote is that coincidence is God's way of remaining anonymous. Have you ever heard that? As though somehow when things just happen to line up, it's just God choosing not to let you know that it happens. But we're Christians, we understand differently. God is in charge of all things. And so if something coincides with something else, it's not God remaining anonymous. It's just God reminding you that He is sovereign and in control. And as we were listening to Pastor Jesse's sermon this morning, I could not help but see that Paul is teaching Something that would seem like it's a coincidence. It would seem like it just so happens that Paul is teaching something that Jesus also taught, but we know that it's no mere coincidence. Paul is teaching the Word of God. And what God has given is the lesson that we learned this morning, that we have to live as Christians, following the examples set before us. And loving each other self-sacrificially. I don't call that coincidence. I call that providence. And it's not a coincidence either that the passage we have before us tonight It's happening on the evening of which we received that sermon this morning. Paul is teaching what God has always been teaching in his word. And so tonight we see that Jesus teaches something very similar. I hope we'll see it together. And I just want to remind you that in Mark, this gospel has been taking us through What could be considered snapshots, photographs of Jesus' life and ministry. And each one of these pictures that Mark gives us is for a specific purpose. Do you remember that purpose? It is to show us that Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ. He is the Messiah. He is the Son of the living God. He is God Himself. And all of the things that we have seen in Mark, all of the healings, all of the cleansings. Remember, he cleansed the leper. No one's ever been able to do that. Only God can cleanse someone of leprosy. Jesus has been teaching, teaching with authority, like no one else has ever taught. And people are listening. Vast crowds and multitudes are flocking to him Flocking to him because God is choosing to reveal himself. God the Father is revealing himself in this man, Jesus. Others thought that they knew him. They thought they knew his mother and his brothers and his sisters. Remember that? And Jesus thought, nope, my mother and my brothers and my sisters, my family are those who do the will. Of my Father in heaven. Through Jesus, God is revealing Himself more fully than He ever did with the prophets. We saw all this in Mark chapter 8 with the confession of faith when Peter confesses. Jesus asks, Who do the people say that I am? Do you remember K Peter's confession? He finally gets around to it. You are the Christ. You are the Son of the Living God. And Jesus teaches, that's not from you. Flesh and blood did not give you that confession that comes from heaven, that comes from the Father. And if you recall, we had just seen after that incident, Peter tries to rebuke Jesus. In his worldliness and his flesh. Jesus is merciful to Peter, just as he's merciful to you and I. He gave Peter and James and John a very Spectacular vision. Do you remember this? On the top of the mountain, Jesus is transfigured before their very eyes. They see the glory and the majesty of the one who is the second person of the Triune Godhead, the Son of the Living God. He comes down from this mountain. And what we saw last week was that someone had brought to the disciples a demon-possessed child. One who had been long suffering under the attack of this unclean spirit. And the disciples, do you remember what they couldn't do? They couldn't cast it out. They didn't have the power. And Jesus taught a valuable lesson about power. That the power must come from God. And the power in a Christian's life, in your life, comes from dependence, utter, absolute and complete dependence upon Him. And so in his great wisdom, after this vision of the glory and majesty of Christ, after teaching that power comes through absolute and utter dependence upon God Himself. He gives us this passage. A passage in which I've been praying that we would all see that Christians must follow the example of Jesus Christ. Giving our lives in service to others for God's sake. Brothers and sisters, I've been praying that you and I would understand that you must follow the example of Jesus Christ. You must give your life in service to others for God's sake. We're going to look at this under three headings tonight. We'll look at verses 30 through 32, and we'll see the example. We'll look at verses 30 through 35 and examine self-sacrificial service. Sorry for the alliteration. I'm not Baptist, I promise. And then the third heading we will see for God's sake. We're going to look at the example, self-sacrificial service, and for God's sake. So let's jump into it now at verse 30. Then they departed from there and passed through Galilee, and he did not want anyone to know it. The first thing that we see in the example of our Lord Jesus Christ. That he knows exactly what his disciples will need in order to be able to get the lessons he has for them. He says that he doesn't want anyone to know that they're going through Galilee. We can imagine. Having gone this far and marked together why that's the case, because every time Jesus does something amazing, he's crowded by the vast multitudes. So many that he needed to to feed what could have been upwards of six, seven, eight thousand people Jesus knows what you need to understand and he wants you to understand it and so he'll order things. He'll make things happen so that you will be present when his teaching is coming. He didn't want distractions for his disciples, and he tells us why at the very beginning of verse 31. For he taught his disciples. This was not a time for them to watch him miraculously heal those who come to him. This is a time for them to receive his teaching. And if you turn with me to Luke chapter 9, I just want us to look at a parallel passage. Luke's account of this. If you look at Luke chapter 9. Verses 43 through 45. I'm going to go ahead and read it for you, but you can turn there just to make sure that I'm not making this up. And they were all amazed at the majesty of God. In Luke's account, this is also happening right after the healing of that poor, suffering child. But while everyone marveled at all the things which Jesus did, he said to his disciples, Let these words sink down into your ears. For the Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men. But they did not understand this saying, and it was hidden from them, so that they did not perceive it, and they were afraid to ask him about this saying. You'll notice the similarities to Mark's account. Even afterwards comes a teaching, the same teaching about who is greatest. But we see here that what the Lord is saying, he's saying, let these words sink down, let it finally sink in. Because your Savior, the example of Christ. That you must understand your Father as he understands the Father. You must understand the ways of God your Father in the way that he understands. Everything that Christ is doing, everything that Jesus is doing is part of his Father's plan. It is his Father's plan. His suffering, his death, his resurrection, this is what you must understand is God's plan to save you. Look what he says in the second part of verse 31. He teaches what he has already taught several times in Mark, and which you and I have been learning since we were wee babes. The Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of men, and they will kill him. And after he's killed, he will rise the third day. Do you remember when Peter rebuked Jesus? He said, May it never be. And Jesus looks at his disciples and he says, get it behind me, Satan. Because there was a temptation, like the temptation in the wilderness, to go forward in a different way than the Father's plan. If you recall the temptations in the wilderness, do you remember what Satan said? He said, I'll give you all the kingdoms of this world if you do something specific, if you bow down and worship me. He was trying to give the Lord Christ a kingdom without the cross. But Jesus knows his Father's will and his father's plan. There can be no kingdom. You cannot be in his kingdom if Jesus Himself does not go to the cross. And so I call this a very crucial truth. Crucial in that kind of punny way, because crucial means of the cross. Relying the cross. We must get this. The cross is necessary. And though the healings and the teachings and all the miracles and the wonders that Jesus performed, they are amazing to us. We should marvel at them and see that he is who he claimed to be. But don't you forget it, the most important part of what he had come to do, taken on flesh. Was to die on the cross and pay the penalty for your sins. He is the highest He is the greatest. He is the best. And yet, as we were reminded and have been reminded in Philippians over and over and over again, what was it that Jesus did? He took on human flesh. He was obedient. He made himself obedient. Obedient even to what? Even to death, and not just death, the death of the cross. Learn from the example of Christ, who knows that it will be difficult for you to understand this. In fact, it will be nearly impossible for us foolish humans to really get it. Look at verse 32. But they did not understand this saying. And they were afraid to ask him. If we're honest with ourselves, I think we recognize that we're a lot like the disciples. We're always Afraid to admit when we were wrong. Or when we didn't get something. We cling to the old understanding Just like the disciples did. They were clinging to an old understanding of the Son of Man. When we were looking and examining Jesus' teaching that the Son of Man must suffer, right after the confession. We turn and we looked at Daniel chapter 7. And in Daniel chapter 7, we see that the Son of Man, there's something amazing that happens. He is given glory and dominion and power. And this is what the disciples had been longing for. They thought this is what the Messiah would do, the Son of Man would come in majesty and glory. They were afraid to find out that they were wrong. Because again, what is this, the third time now? Jesus says, I need to die He will be betrayed and he will be killed. And don't be afraid to ask God Don't be afraid to be changed by God, for him to change your mind. That's the discipline, the loving chastening of our Lord, is that he will, maybe at times, allow you to be mistaken. But he won't leave you there. He loves you so much, he will change your understanding of him and of yourself. And so, in looking at the example of Christ, who will die, who is teaching his disciples this is what must be We must see again our compassionate Savior who knows exactly what you and I need. And he knew exactly what the disciples needed. They needed to be confronted. About their wrong way of thinking. And so let's look now at this second section, verses 33 to 35, we will talk about self-sacrificial service, and we'll see that we get to that topic because Jesus is willing to have a very hard conversation with his disciples and to confront them. Starting in verse 33, then he came to Capernaum And when he was in the house, he asked them, What was it you disputed among yourselves on the road? But they kept silent, for on the road they had disputed among themselves who would be the greatest. It seems like over and over and over again these disciples are showing that they just don't get it. Look at what Jesus does here in confronting them. This is, for most of us, this is a very challenging idea or example to follow. Most of our fleshly inclinations are to just let things slide. We just somebody's wrong. Okay, let's Let's let it go. Let's keep the peace. Jesus loves his disciples so much that he won't allow them. He knew he's omniscient. He knew what they were arguing about. He wasn't asking the question so that they could finally tell him. He knew it. And he knew that they needed to be confronted by it. And they're arguing about who would be the greatest. We can relate to this, can't we? It's a frequent argument or dispute among human beings. It's definitely a dispute among brothers. Perhaps brothers and sisters. If I ask you which is the best soccer player, I'm pretty sure I'll know what your answer is. He might have a different one. We want to be good because nobody ever tries their hardest to be mediocre. We're we're doing our best. We're giving our best. We want We want to understand that. Now, as I was listening to the sermon this morning, as Pastor Jesse was preaching, I kept thinking, I wonder. I wonder if this is what Sintigi and Yodia were doing. Maybe it wasn't all that bad in that they were like, you know, clashing with each other every chance they got. Maybe they just thought they were better than each other. They needed that mind of Christ, that mind of humility. Jesus loves the disciples so much that he's willing to address their sin. What was going on in their own hearts? And so, brothers and sisters, I just want to encourage you that sometimes if you love someone, it will require you to speak a hard truth, to confront them with their wrong understanding. People we love dearly, sometimes we must confront them with the wrong understanding that they have about God and about Jesus Christ. But I also was thinking about this for myself. Sometimes It's not just that we have to be willing to speak a hard truth if we love someone. Because if you love someone, you also need to be willing to receive a hard truth from them. The disciples were receiving this truth from the Lord Christ. Look at verse 35 with me. And he sat down, he called the twelve, and he said to them, If anyone desires to be first, he shall be last of all, servant of all. This is where that self-sacrificial service comes into play. It's a new desire that must be in you. It must be a new understanding. And clearly this is how we need to understand verse 31, what Jesus is teaching about himself. I ask you, the one who goes to the cross To die. Remember what the it says in the Torah, it says that whoever hangs upon a tree, what does it say about them? They're cursed. Yet Jesus was willing to go and accept that for you. And he is teaching us about himself. That if anyone desires to be first, he shall be last of all and servant of all. Well, Jesus is the first of all. Remember Philippians two. He was in uninterrupted glory. And he had the right to stay in uninterrupted glory, glory that's only given to God. And he had a right to stay there because it wasn't robbery for him to be equal with God. He is God. It wasn't something that could be taken away from him that setting aside the glory, he would at somehow be At risk of not being able to take it up again? And yet what did he do? He took on the form of a bondservant. He took on flesh. He did this for you. In John thirteen we have a A wonderful example that Christ gives of himself. That's when Jesus washes his disciples' feet. And he reminds them, you know who I am. He says that a servant can't be greater than their master, and they've been calling him master for the the years that they've been following him. And he says, take notice of this. I'm the one that's your master, and I'm washing your feet and serving you. Servant of all. And that's the example of our Lord Christ. He is the perfect example of self-sacrificial service. See why I'm talking about coincidence? It's no coincidence that this passage is happening tonight and the sermon This is what God wants us to understand. And it's not just today that He wants you to understand it. This is throughout His Word. John is saying in chapter 13 and giving us that example so that we would understand exactly what Jesus is saying here. And in verses 36 to 37, I love it, Jesus gives a very real-life illustration so that we will definitely get the point. Following Christ's example, laying down our lives in service of others, has a danger to it. That danger is pride. When you do something good for someone else and it costs you, it's not you're not through the woods yet. Because the temptation to think something highly of yourself. Is right there, creeping, waiting for you. And so we see that the only remedy The only solution for that problem is that everything we do, everyone we serve, all of it is done for God's sake. And that's what we see in verses 36 and 37. Verse 36. Then he took a little child and he set him in the midst of them. And when he had taken him up in his arms, he said to them, Whoever receives one of these little children in my name receives me. And whoever receives me, receives not me, but him who sent me. We don't serve others to get something from them. Verse 36, uh if you look at some commentaries, they might say things like the word here that's used doesn't necessarily mean a small child, but yeah, that's uh it's paid on, right, from which we get paidobaptist or pediatrician. But I don't buy their assessment that we can't tell this is an infant. It's pretty clear this is a wee little baby. Because the verb that's used here for take him up in his arms is literally a contraction meaning in the crook of the arm. And if you just look at the little babies that we have around here, and in what, six, seven months, there's going to be five more of them? It's gonna be a lot of little babies to get this illustration. He's got this baby in his arm. And I love it when he says that he sets them in the midst of him. I think that might just be an awkward phrase in the Greek because in my brain I've been studying the vision of twelve guys in around the You know have you ever watched it happen? When when it's a brand new baby and there's the whole family's there and they're gently cradling his head and making sure that it just rests exactly as it needs to be Until finally they hand him back to Jesus and holding him in that crook of his arm, this is when he starts and he shows that this is it. Whoever receives one of these little children, one of these infant babies, I'll ask you, brothers For God and for them and for their parents and all those things. But concretely, what do you get from a baby? I mean the only thing concrete that you get from a baby is not something that anybody wants. And so you're not serving the baby to get something from them. You must sacrifice yourself in service to a baby. There's nothing to get from them. And that is how you serve God That is how you can be great in the kingdom of God without being full of yourself, without succumbing to pride. You serve, you love, you give up your way and your interests and your desires. Not for others, but for God. And this is the method that we love one another. That we love our neighbors as ourselves by doing this self-sacrificial service, not for their sake, not to get something from them, but we do it for God's sake. Because he says right here, if you receive one of these little helpless children in my name, what are we doing? We're receiving him. Whoever receives him is receiving the Father. And so there's a couple quick applications that I'd like us to end with. One thing that I just want to point out. Most of us know the golden rule, don't we? Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. I think we've mistaken the golden rule for a golden contract. It is not a contract. There is no promise involved there. It's not that you do unto others, and then they must now treat you. As well as you've treated them. Nope. We treat others well for God's sake. Even if they're not treating us well. What does the Lord Christ say we must do for our enemies? The ones who are oppressing and persecuting us? We pray for them. They're not praying for you. You get nothing from praying for them. Think about what he's saying here with this idea of these little babies. And I kept thinking about how I was when I first became reformed. We call it the cage stage Calvinists. You've probably heard that phrase. Cage stage because you need to be put in the cage. Otherwise you're going to hurt yourself and you're going to hurt other people. Come on. If we have the right mindset like Christ has and we see that a new convert, a new believer, one who has gone from living life entirely for themselves, but the Holy Spirit is now calling them to him. We must see that they're they're like an infant. They need tender care. You cradle their head as you pass them around. You don't toss them like hot potato. And sometimes I feel like that's what we end up doing with people who are new to faith. We start hammering them with all these doctrines and these ideas and this systematic theology and we love that. We're Westminster and we're confessional. So oh you just now learned who Jesus is. Here's the confession. That's not the way to go. That's not very gentle. We must have the right expectations of new believers. And so I'd encourage all of you, especially parents with your young children, be patient with them. Be patient with them. Elders, when we're having those interviews for for the admission to the table, be patient. Remember who they are. They're covenant children. They're at an age where they're starting to really analyze and think things through, but they're not going to have it all down. I promise you, most people in most churches do not understand the hippostatic union. You can't expect an 11-year-old. To give you a perfect word-for-word explication of how there's God and man in two natures in one person. We we can't expect that. And I want you to see that if you have really unrealistic expectations of others, it's probably because you have unrealistic expectations of yourself. Your faith that God has given you has been given to you for a purpose. And it's not so you can just sit around knowing things and believing things. The faith is that you would know where you must go to receive the strength that you need so that you can do the work that God has put before you, which is to give your life in service of others. There's no other way that you can do that except to go to Christ and to receive it from Him. This makes sense of so many challenges that we have in our life. Have you ever done something for someone and there's some strings attached? You know what I mean. I promise you I will do the dishes if only you will do my laundry. Or uh I hear this in our house, I will load the dishwasher if you will unload the dishwasher. Right? Or maybe it's the other way around because you need somebody. The unloading is harder to do because there's fewer dishes to load. Don't do things with strings attached. This one hit me hard as God had me thinking about it. Have you ever gently reminded someone all that you've given up for them? Have you ever gently reminded somebody all that you've put up with for them, all that you've done for them? And again, this had me thinking about Pastor Jesse's sermon. Could you imagine a mother doing that for her child? Her little infant child Going on and on and on about how much pain and how long the labor was to the little baby, as though the baby somehow it's their fault No. This is not what you and I are to do, brothers and sisters. We serve others for God's sake. Not for our own, not to receive reward or compensation or even praise, even validation. We serve and we love for God's sake. Came across a wonderful quote that I just want to leave you guys with. Comes from Nehemiah Rogers. He's a Puritan. English Puritan from the 16th century. He says humility is the repentance of pride. If you find yourself serving others And feeling good about how much you serve and how well you serve and how often you're willing to give your time for someone else. Remember that. Pride is an abomination to God. But the repentance of pride, it's humility. And where do we see the perfect example of humility? It's in our Lord Jesus Christ May the Holy Spirit empower you, brothers and sisters, to follow the example of Jesus Christ, giving your life in service to others for God's sake and God's sake alone. Please pray with me