One can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. O God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, I pray that you would use your preached word to accomplish your will. Lord, there is no chance of a human being truly persuading others into your kingdom or to advance in your kingdom. All of that work must be done by you. I thank you that you allow us to participate in things like preaching and listening. And I pray that you would work through both. I pray that we would not be just hearers of your word, but we would be doers. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Amen. If I handed out a piece of paper and on the top of the paper it said, I I want you to list out ten things that you think are wrong with human beings. What would be the ten things that you would put on that list? I would include the 1 through 10, there would be a line, and in just a few words, you would have to list those 10 things. I wonder if you would list the same things that Jesus has been listing in the Sermon on the Mount. Over the last three sermons, we have been focused on three different problems with which human beings struggle Number one, we can treasure the wrong things. We can make things that are not meant to be our ultimate treasure. We can make them our ultimate treasure. We have a treasure problem. Number two, we can have the wrong focus. And as we talked last week, if you have the wrong focus, it means that the things you should be focusing on are blurry or you are blind to them. Which means you're walking through your life without sight and really you end up in a ditch at the very least. So we have We treasure the wrong things and we can have the wrong focus. And now in this passage, we're going to see that Jesus brings out one more problem. And that is really synonymous or another angle on these other two problems. That's the whole point of this section. He's showing you different angles here. And that is that we can devote ourselves to the wrong objects. And in this case, the main example is wealth. Wealth becomes like a god. Now there are many things, as Bill as Elder Bill has pointed out, that can become like gods to us, just about anything. I I gave you a story, I don't remember one, was it last week or the week before? I gave you the the story of how even a fish can become idolatrous in our lives, or rockfish. And um here we're going to look at that this morning. We can devote our lives to the wrong object, especially wealth. That's the main one. So I want to look at this under two main parts of the path of this sentence here. I want to look at the main wisdom that Jesus gives to us. And then there is a main insight. There is main wisdom and then there is main a main insight. Let's start by looking at verse number 24. And guess what? That's the only verse we're looking at. So this is going to be really easy today. Anytime I say look at verse, it'll be twenty-four if we're here. So let's take a look at verse number 24. And the first thing I want you to see is the main wisdom there. Jesus states a universal truth and a well-known proverb at the time. Jesus states a universal truth in a well-known proverb at the time, and you can see right in the beginning of verse 24, the well-known wisdom saying is, no one can serve two masters. You see that there with me. No one can serve two masters, and then there is the semicolon. The The saying here, I wonder if if you're pondering this, it is a wisdom saying, so sometimes it can strike you like, well wait a second, that's not exactly true. I've had two bosses before And I figured it out. If you were in the military, for example, you have had to figure out how to work under different raking individuals who technically were still both your bosses, though one was probably the boss of the other boss. And you were able to work that out. So exactly what is Jesus talking about here when he says that you can't have or no one can serve two masters. Well what he's not saying, there's not the scenarios like I just brought up with the military. Or in in my case, when I was younger and we were building houses, we would have the main owner of the company We would then have a project manager over the particular house that we were framing. And then we would have a lead carpenter and then you would have people who have been around for a little while, and then you would have me who just showed up and they handed me a broom. Now that's a lot of different masters that are over you in a sense, but really when you look at it that way, if things are running the way they're supposed to, all of them are after the same goal. And that's the goal of the owner of the company. So you're still just under one boss, one leader, or one master. So that that's not the scenario that Jesus is thinking about. The real situation that Jesus is thinking about is that it would be two masters or bosses or leaders or rulers who are working on different goals and are on diverging paths. You know, if you wanted to, you could, because we were just in the context of the Lord's Prayer, you could say you can't serve two kingdoms. And that would mean that there's a king, right? So you can't serve two kings or two nations. There's just different national interests. There's different kingdom interests. There's different interests that different kings have. And that's what Jesus is pointing out here. Now, Joshua knew that. Joshua from the Bible. And that's why we included that in the bulletin this week. Did you see how he knew that there was a choice? You can do one or you can do the other. And as for me and my family, we're going to do this other one. He doesn't say, well, you could figure out a way to mix it up and do both. The philosophical name for that, or the theological name for that, is syncretism, and it's not something we're encouraged to do, to blend worship of Yahweh with the worship of other gods. If you were to think of examples in the scriptures of that kind of land, you could think of the golden calf. Does anybody remember that account of the golden calf and the Exodus? They still called it Yahweh. They were still seeking to worship Yahweh by way of the golden calf. And that was not commendable. So the mixing idea doesn't work. It really has to be one or the other. So take a look at the bulletin again and just see how Joshua puts that He says, Now therefore, fear the Lord, serve him in sincerity and truth, and put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the river. Serve the Lord. There is a one, or there is the other You can see the choice that Joshua makes when he says, As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Choose for yourself this day whom you will serve. Whether the gods which your fathers serve that were on the other side of the river, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell. There it is. It's all the way through. And I would encourage you as you're reading through your scriptures, see how there is that contrast. where there's two paths that diverge and you can't be on both paths at the paths at the same time. You can't serve two masters at the same time. You can't serve two kingdoms at the same time. You can't Serve in this situation two bosses at the same time. In fact, if we were to go back to that Lord's Prayer, remember part of the model of the prayer is, your kingdom come. And your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And that will mean that if there is a kingdom that is in contrast to it, then you're not on board. That's really what Jesus is pointing out here. You see this in the beginning of Matthew also. These contrasts are all over the place between two masters. Think about the beginning chapters and the Christmas story. You have the wise men who have traveled afar from the east. And then you, and they are coming to seek to worship the Christ. And then you have Herod and the interests of his kingdom. Now Herod does ask where the Christ is so that he may worship him. But we all know the story, and that Herod's true desire was not to worship him, but to find out where the Christ child was in order to murder him. Now that's two different masters. The wise men could not both go worship the Christ and serve Herod. So they have to deceive Herod. and depart in a way that he doesn't know, and not report back to him as as he has requested. So those are a few examples for you. Wise men worship Jesus the Christ. Herod seeks to kill him. And you're you're with one of those kingdoms or the other, Jesus is pointing out. You are either serving God, worshiping Jesus. or you are a part of serving Herod and killing Jesus, you cannot serve both masters. Now the main goal that I had for this point was to just make the proverb clear. I imagine it's pretty clear by this point. If you were to look through the rest of the scriptures, you'll see the contrast put in other ways. Let me just give you a couple so that you could research these yourself. Galatians 5. 17, let's write that down. And look at that as serving two different masters, and that you really can't do that. This is what Galatians 5. 17 says. It says, for the flesh lusts against the spirit. And the spirit against the flesh. And these are contrary one to another. We can't be doing both of those things. The flesh is one kingdom and master and ruler, and the spirit is another. Another one I'll give you that you could write down is Ephesians chapter 5, verse 8. For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. Do you see the contrast? So there is a, I know you know this, there is a kingdom of darkness and a family of darkness, and there is a kingdom of light and sons and daughters of the light. And you can't serve both the darkness and the light at the same time and in the same sense. Again, in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 15. See that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wives. So now you have a master in a kingdom that is called the master and kingdom of foolishness, and you see this in Proverbs, and then there is a wise king. That promotes wisdom, and you would walk in that kingdom by being wise. It's all over the scriptures, and Jesus' main point is that you can't serve both of those masters. You can't serve both of those masters. No one can serve two masters, verse number 24. So just begin to ask yourself. Have you been trying to do so? Have you been trying? A lot of the times, especially if you're attending here every Sunday, you're not usually, there are exceptions, you're not usually hell-bent on just serving darkness. Sometimes we do that quite secretly. Usually what we try to do because we're cunning is we figure out a way to mix it all up so that we so our conscience can be laid to rest. And I'm just want and I'm I'm just pointing out to you, Jesus says That actually can't really be done. If you're mixing it up, it's actually you're still serving the kingdom of darkness. So if that's something that you have been struggling with, and you should say, yeah, I've been struggling with that, because all of us are, now is a good opportunity today to talk to the Lord Jesus Christ. about wanting to serve him in sincerity and with greater purity of heart. And we'll struggle with that till we die. But with Jesus Christ and his faithfulness, he'll see us all the way to the end. Now, that is the main wisdom that's given to us. There is a main insight that goes a step further than that just kind of bald declaration that we we've heard here and that we've understood a couple different ways and from different angles. Now listen really carefully to this main insight because this is the m really the main emphasis Of what Jesus is teaching, and is it's what really connects to what Jesus has been concerned about the entire Sermon on the Mount. And it's this ultimately you cannot serve two masters. Because that is not what true service looks like. Here, I think what Jesus wants to do is he wants to give us a real understanding of what it means to serve. How would you define that word? To serve. If you had to create a video that depicted or portrayed to the world the true nature of service, what would the video look like? How would you capture it artistically? Jesus is very concerned about capturing the true nature of service here. And I'm going to point out that in just a second. And his insight is this. True service is from the heart. True service is from the heart. And that really gets to the heart of the matter here. You may serve a kingdom you hate on the outside, but inside you despise and resent it, and that's not true service. That's not real service. Take a look at verse number 24 again, and we have to work at explaining why is it that Jesus goes on like this? He says, no one can serve two masters. Certainly we could come up with a bunch of examples like we just did to understand what he meant there. But then look at how he explains it. There's an explanatory power to the words that he gives. Verse number 24, no one can serve two masters, semicolon, the word for. He now wants to explain this. For either he moves into the heart, either you will hate the one. Either you will hate the one and love the other, or else you will be loyal to the one and you will despise the other. You cannot serve God and man. And we'll talk about that example in just a moment. But do you see how he goes there where he's he's saying he's showing that there may be some way where you could You could serve two masters, but not really according to the real definition of service, because the real definition of service is that you serve from the heart. That you actually love the king. You love what he's trying to accomplish. That's what you're really serving. You may serve with your hands or with some kind of physical way, some other king, but in your heart it's not really service because you despise the person You despise what they're trying to accomplish, and you've resented them your whole life for what they have coerced you to do. The kind of pressure that they have put you under. That's really what Jesus is going on about here. And that ties in very well with what he has been concerned about this entire time, which is what? It rhymes with rhyrocracy. Everybody remember hypocrisy? He's been concerned about hypocrisy the whole time. He has people that are putting on a religious show. But he knows inside of their hearts that they resent him. They put on a religious show, but in their hearts they resent him, and he is calling them out here. And calling his disciples to say, that's not the kind of service that your God is looking for. Now, where else do we see that in the scriptures? We see that in sayings like You give me lip service, but your heart is far from me. And this is quite reasonable Now just imagine yourself in being a brother or a sister or a mother or a father. And let's just take a mom, for example, or a dad. Let's say that you're a mother or you're a father, and your children, or there is one son, let's say, who definitely serves you, if you say, please bring in firewood so that we can have a fire, they bring in the firewood. If you say, please help me bring the groceries into the house, they bring the groceries into the house. If they say, if you say to them, please help me by taking following me to the mechanic So that I can drop off my car for the oil change and then you can bring me back home. They will take you, they will follow you to the mechanic, and they will bring you back home. But you as a mother can tell on their face every single time you I'm seeing moms nod. Wow. You can tell every single time that you ask them a question to do anything for you, they resent you for it And you know that they are secretly thinking, I cannot wait to get away from you and out of this house. Now it would be reasonable, and it is reasonable for God to say to us, that's not how I want our relationship to be. And Jesus is pointing that out here. No one can serve two masters, and this is the great insight, is that when I say service, Jesus says, I mean from the heart. I mean from the heart. That's very convicting, and that is also very helpful to us as we seek to relate to our Father who art in heaven. is to be very careful to make sure that when we begin that prayer, we can begin by start by starting to say, our Father. And to remember what is that relationship supposed to look like? How is it that his kingdom would really come? His kingdom would come on earth as it is in heaven. If we can work by the power of the Holy Spirit to not despise him in the installation of his kingdom, but to be doing it out of love, because we love the same things that he loves. You know what St. Augustine said? He said, love God and do whatever you want. And he was after that same kind of heart that we're seeing here. Now what I would like to do I just gave you, I just repeated myself about five different times as to what Jesus is saying here, and that he's addressing it to hypocrisy. I want to give you a couple different case studies of where we can see this happening within the scriptures. So here is case study number one. And this is the case study for Matthew 19, 21 through 24, which is the rich young ruler. You'll notice if you go and you read this story that the same words that are used in this portion of the Sermon on the Mount are the same words that are used in the Rich Rung Ruler story. Jesus is really after the same goals and teaching, and so too is his spirit. So let me read it to you, and then I'll just say a few words Jesus said to him, the rich young ruler, if you want to be perfect, go, sell what you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. See the same language? And come, follow me. But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. Then Jesus said to his disciples, Assuredly I say to you that it is hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. And again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. He's pointing out the same thing, that if you're already serving wealth, it is very difficult and actually impossible, except by a work of the Spirit, for you to be serving God at the same time, or serving God, period. Now, one when you look across those who study this passage, there is a consensus that has formed. And it sounds like this, that commentators agree That Jesus is not setting down a law here in the rich young ruler for the whole world to give away their possessions. There is nothing in the scriptures that says that the ultimate act of spirituality is to give away everything. Instead, what they all agree on is that Jesus was working with this particular individual to help others who have the same struggle to be able to see what's going on inside of their souls And that would include us, especially a wealthy society that we live in as Americans, saying that if anyone wants to enter heaven, he must get rid of all his possessions. Instead, he was putting his finger on this man's core problem, one person wrote. He was in love with his money. That love for money was affecting his obedience to all other commandments. Jesus could have said, okay You say you've kept all the commandments. Let's start at number one. You shall have no other gods before me. Exodus 23. Young man, your money is your God. Your wealth is your idol. You cannot love money more than you love God and expect to enter his kingdom. He could have done the same with the other commandments. And finally, this commentator points out, this young man needed to set aside his idol. and follow Jesus so as to gain a treasure that would never rust or fade away. You see, it's that same teaching that we've seen in this whole section on the Sermon on the Mount, and the case study that we have is with the rich young ruler. So I'd encourage you to prayerfully and in prayer study that and ask the Lord to reveal your soul to you. Now make no mistake, living in America, it is very difficult to escape the temptations of Satan. and not live for the American dream instead of living for God who and Jesus Christ and the Spirit. God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Now that is the main wisdom that Jesus gives us here this morning. You cannot serve two masters or kingdoms or rulers I think we understand that now. And then the main insight, which is vitally important, is that true service is from the heart. You cannot love money and God from the heart. You will secretly despise one of them. I'd encourage you as you seek to dwell on the wisdom of this passage. That you would think of experiences in your own life where you've begun serving one thing and then despised God. when you were serving that, or when you were having a a nice stretch on the path of righteousness and you were serving the Lord and then you despise these other things. Tap into your experiences so that you're not just reading, you're living out the Word of God. And Jesus Christ will help you to do that. The main insight is that true service is from the heart. You cannot love money and God from the heart. Now I wanted to give you one more example. for you to dwell upon by way of application. And that is Luke 19, 4 through 10. This is another case study. So I gave you a negative case study, and for the final application, I want to give you a positive one of really the way that it should look for each of us. And this is the story of Zacchaeus. It says this in Luke 19, 4 through 10. We all know that he was short of stature. And so that explains this sentence. So he ran ahead and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see Jesus. For he was going uh for he was going to pass that way. And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and saw him and said to him, Zacchaeus, make haste and come down, for today I must stay at your house. So he made haste and came down and received him joyfully. But when they saw it, they all complained, saying, He has gone to be a guest with a man who is a sinner. Then Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Look, Lord, I give half of my goods to the poor, and if I have taken anything from anyone by false accusation, I restore fourfold. And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house, because he also is a son of Abraham. For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. Now, what was it in Zacchaeus' statement where Jesus was able to make that kind of judgment? That Zacchaeus was a true son by faith, a true son of Abraham by faith? What were the words that are said were said that Jesus was able to judge the case here with more wisdom than Solomon himself? It was these words, Lord, I give half of my goods to the poor. And if I have taken anything from anyone by false accusation, I restore fourfold. If Zacchaeus was still serving the god of money, he certainly wouldn't be giving it away. His goals and his aspirations have changed. He is now concerned with following Jesus. It doesn't mean that Zacchaeus won't make a good living wage. It'll mean that money's not Zacchaeus's God. That's what that will mean. And you can judge from that too, because if you take the language we've used from the Sermon on the Mountain, you look at Zacchaeus. What was Zacchaeus treasuring? Jesus. Above treasure. What was Zacchaeus' focus? Why did he climb the tree? Jesus. Everything has come into perspective, and the focal point was right. And here you're seeing that salvation has come to the house of Zacchaeus. And brothers and sisters, the same thing has happened to us. The same thing has happened to us where Jesus Christ has called us to focus on him. For him to be our God, for us to serve him. I know that there can be a tremendous amount of backsliding all the time. What Bill said earlier that we have hearts that are idle factories, what it means is that we can turn anything into something we're devoted to more than God. But Jesus in his grace, he knows you struggle with that, and here he is this morning by way of his preached word, calling you home. He's still seeking and saving you when you become in these temporary ways lost. And if you have been lost even up to this point, Christ is calling you. You know, you want to make wealth or status or your looks or something else or the American dream. You want to make that your main goal. I'm going to tell you something right now. In the end, you'll be disappointed. You'll wish in the end that you never did that. But you know what you will never regret? I'll testify to you right now, you'll never regret making Jesus and his goals your main goals. You'll never regret that. So come to Jesus. If you're coming to Jesus for the first time, come to Jesus. If you have wandered from Christ, come to Christ. What is your relationship to wealth? That is a main question from this passage. What is your main relationship to your possessions and to the American dream? The American dream unfolds in a thousand channels, all drawing you into a single body of water of idolatry. The American dream unfolds in how we view our occupations. The American dream unfolds in how we view our recreations and sports. The American dream unfolds how we view marriage, how we view children, how we view our cars or our trucks or our clothing, whatever it is. It is an all-consuming system. of idolatry. What is your relationship to the American dream? Do you serve God outwardly, but inside you despise him and his kingdom? This is going right to the heart. I would really, you don't need to say anything out loud, but I encourage you to just do a little heart check right now. And I'm just going to ask you, do you resent God? Do you resent him for the things that he calls you to do? When I was younger Jesus Christ called me to himself. I was the lowest that I had ever been, and I'm not going to go through my story again because you've all heard it. I didn't contribute anything to my salvation. There's no way that I could. I was the chief of all sinners. And Jesus Christ extended his grace to me But he didn't just extend it to me to forgive my sins, to call me away from sins. He has also called me to be his servant. And do you know what I still do do even though he gave me that grace? I remember when he gave me the grace. I resent him for what he asks me to do sometimes. And I know that that is wrong. And I know you know that's wrong. And Jesus Christ is being gracious to us here this morning. He's with us right now. And he's saying, Oh my children. I am good. You don't need to resent me. Let's reason together. so that you can see the goodness of my will. If you're resenting him now, let's talk to somebody and work our way out of that by his grace. And work on serving him from the heart. You've done that before, and it was always a great joy. Let's return together. I'm happy to talk, and there's other people here that are ready to talk too Let's not stay in a resentful relationship. So when when we pray and we say, our Father, that's not how he wants us to relate to him. This is meant to be extraordinarily meaningful. So let's keep that in mind in terms of our resentment. And then finally, I just wanted to give you something supremely practical. Which is, okay, well how can I tell if I am falling into some of these things? Because I can't always detect resentment. I can't always detect idolatry. Things get all swirly whirly inside of my head. And what I would say that has worked for me is those who are closest to you who are following Christ, there's two main things. Those who are closest to you, who spend day-to-day with you, who follow Christ, have they been saying things to you that give you the indication that your focus is off? And then number two, where do you devote your time? Calendars are a great revelation or sign of what you value. So if you look and you see what your calendar is filled up with, and it all has to do with you achieving something that really has nothing to do with the kingdom of God, then we already know that we've got a good pretty good test there. So I would just encourage you to take a look at to what do you devote your time and your energy. If you spend fifteen minutes in the morning curling your hair, that seems appropriate. It's nice to have a good appearance and especially to be hygienic. I'd encourage like deodorant and that kind of stuff too. But if you've been sitting in front of that mirror for five hours, you got up at 3 a. m. so that you had enough time to get to church at eleven The time that you're devoting to that is a revelation of something that's gone sideways in your heart. Unless it's your wedding day. I'll let it happen on the wedding day. I'll let it happen on the wedding day. To what do you devote your time and your energy? Christ has come to bring you salvation, to make you a true son and daughter of Abraham by faith, just like Zacchaeus. Where you serve God from the heart and you treasure him and his kingdom above all else. That's the good news. Amen. Let us pray.