Belongs to our God. Mark chapter ten. We're looking at verses thirty-two through forty-five. It's copied for you in the Bolton. But I encourage you to have your Bibles open and to keep them open. Mark chapter ten, starting in verse thirty-two, God's holy word for you, God's holy people. Now they were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was going before them, and they were amazed. And as they followed, they were afraid. Then he took the twelve aside again and began to tell them the things that would happen to him. Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and to the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and deliver him to the Gentiles, and they will mock him and scourge him. Spit on him and kill him. And the third day he will rise again. Then James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to him, saying, Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask. And he said to them, What do you want me to do for you? And they said to him, Grant us that we may sit, one on your right hand and the other on your left, in your glory. But Jesus said to them, You do not know what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? They said to him, We are able. So Jesus said to them, You will indeed drink the cup that I drink. And with the baptism I am baptized with, you will be baptized. But to sit on my right hand and on my left is not mine to give. But it is for those for whom it is prepared. And when the ten heard it, they began to be greatly displeased with James and John. But Jesus called them to himself and said to them, You know that those who are considered rulers over the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. Yet it shall not be so among you. But whoever desires to become great among you shall be your servant. And whoever of you desires to be first shall be slave of all For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many. Please praise him. Almighty God, would you please bless the reading and the preaching of your word? O Holy Spirit, would you work through your word? Work transforming grace into our lives. Make us more like Jesus Christ. Make us more Like you. We need you. We need you to help us understand what you are saying in your word, but more than that, that we would simply not be hearers only. But that we would, in fact, Be true, sincere believers, which means that we are doers of your word. And God, I pray that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord. My rock, my strength, my redeemer. We pray to you in Christ's name. Amen. There's a one of my favorite movies came out well, I thought it came out not so long ago. But then I found out that a lot of the movies that I thought came out not so long ago happened to be about thirty years ago. There's some things in the movie that I can't commend, so I won't tell you the name of the movie, but if you're aware of it, you'll know which one it is. There's a scene in which a father He's awaking early in the morning to go to work. And he lives in the era of the Great Depression. And his wife is frying up for him a single slice of bologna. One slice of bologna in a frying pan. And it's about five o'clock in the morning. And all of a sudden his little girl, she must be about four years old, wakes up. She smells the baloney And she asks if there's any for her. And the father looks at his wife and she looks at him and she knows what he's about to do. And she says, No, you need strength because you're about to go to work. And he makes up a story and says, I dreamt I ate a steak bigger than my whole head, so I'm not even hungry anymore. And he gives this one little piece of bologna to his daughter. He knew that strength for his day was not what he needed most. And he knew that the reason that he was waking up to go to work was not just so that he could go to work. He knew that God had given him a purpose, a greater purpose, and that was to serve, to serve his family, to sacrifice himself for their benefit. It's a wonderful picture of what we are called to do. And that's what Mark has been telling us. He's been giving us every opportunity with each of these snapshots from Jesus' life. in this gospel account to see that Jesus is the Son of God. To see that Jesus shows a different way, a new way of living. A new way of being and of understanding ourselves. He has healed in a way that no one could ever heal. And yet he's more than just a miracle worker. He has taught with authority in a way that no one had ever taught before. He's wiser than Solomon, and yet he's come to do more than just teach. Our Lord Christ has come to accomplish a very amazing reality to usher his people into a new heaven and a new earth. And by his life here, when he took on flesh, he chose What all of his people are to be, how all of his people should strive to live. The last time we were together in Mark, we looked at Verses twenty-three through thirty-one in chapter ten, and we saw that no one can save themselves. And this was counter to the understanding of the culture and the society at the time. If a rich person couldn't save themselves with their riches, how could anybody be saved? And we learned from Jesus that all things are possible with God. Our God is powerful and He is mighty to save. Everything about God's kingdom is different in how it operates. Everything about God's people should be different in how we think and how we operate. And so tonight's passage I've been praying that the Lord would help us to see that greatness in the kingdom of God is fundamentally different than greatness in the kingdom of the world. Greatness in the kingdom of God is fundamentally different than greatness in the kingdoms of this world. And we're going to look at this under three headings tonight. We'll look first at verses 32 through 34, and we will see the example of greatness. And then we will examine verses 35 to 40 and see the pursuit of greatness. And then together we will look at verses 41 through 45. to see the purpose of greatness. Let's jump right into the very first section where we see the example of greatness starting in verse 32. And what do we see? Who is the example of greatness? It's Jesus Christ, the great one. Now they were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was going before them. They were amazed. And as they followed, they were afraid. Then he took the twelve aside again and began to tell them the things that would happen to him. We notice first that they are following Jesus. He is not with them at this time. He is ahead of them. He is progressing faster than they are toward Jerusalem. And as they are following him, do you see That they are amazed. Why would they be amazed? Because of all that they had seen? Possibly. All of the miracles that Jesus had done, they are amazing. But I think this next thing that we're told helps us understand why they are so amazed. It says that as they followed, they were afraid. They know that Jesus teaches truth. They know that what he says is true. And you see what he is about to say to them. It's not the first time he's going to tell them what will happen in Jerusalem. It's now the third time. So they have an idea of what awaits them and what awaits Jesus in Jerusalem. And yet he goes stalwart, stable. He is not running from the future that he knows is coming. He's running toward it. And so they are afraid because they are lumped in with Jesus now. They are confessors of Jesus Christ now, and they know that what will happen to him Will likely happen to them also. They're amazed and they are afraid because of who Jesus has revealed himself to be And what he will be going to. And we see again that he is this great teacher. He again takes the twelve aside. To teach them, to tell them what will happen. And as he tells them that, we see in this great one, the Lord Jesus, he has great faith. Part of what makes Jesus so great is his great faith. He trusts his Father He knows what will occur. And look at what he says. Look at verses 33 and 34. Behold, we're going up to Jerusalem. And the Son of Man will be betrayed. And not only is he going to be betrayed, but he's going to be betrayed to the chief priests and to the scribes. What does that imply? What does that say without saying it? It says it will be one of his followers who will betray him It won't be that they suddenly stumble upon the group as they enter into Jerusalem and then they'll grab Jesus and finally they got him. No, he will be betrayed to them by one among them. We know on this side of the cross who that is. At that time, they did not. He'll be condemned. Condemned by the Jews. Not only condemned, but condemned to death. And so he knows that there will be a trial. And he knows that he will not be treated fairly. He knows that he will be delivered to the Gentiles. Because he knows that the Jews won't carry out the death penalty. They don't have that authority being under Roman rule. Only the Romans could do that. And then he knows what the Romans are going to do, what the Gentiles will do. You see it there? He'll be mocked He'll be scourged, spat on, and killed. He knows all of these things are happening to him, and yet he moves toward his future, unafraid Unabashed. He knows that the Son of Man will suffer. And we know that the Son of Man deserves greater honor than this. He is the greatest. Is that the honor that's befitting the greatest human being who will ever live, could ever live, has ever lived? No. Yet he goes ahead. How? How does he do this? Because he knows what his father will do on the third day he will rise again The Lord will not allow his Holy One to see corruption. He trusts. He has this great faith. And that is the example Of what it is to be great in the kingdom of God is to trust God, to live for God, to follow God, and do what he wishes. He has faith in his father's plan. And so he does not seek to do something else. He's not, oh, you know, you're up there in heaven, Father. I'm I'm down here, boots on the ground. I see it a little clearer than you do. If I go to Jerusalem, bad stuff's gonna happen. Maybe we just hang out in Antioch for a little bit. Maybe we'll go to Alexandria. That could be a great city, right? Or you know what? Let's skip it all and just head to Rome and just be in Rome. Start the church there Jesus obeys his Father and does his Father's will and follows his father's plan. And so this is our example of greatness. It's Christ. Though he knows exactly what he's going toward, he is not afraid. He is not delayed. He heads into the fire. So now let's look at verses 35 through 40, and we see the pursuit of greatness. Greatness is a good thing. It's not wrong for you to want to be great. It's not wrong, but it can be done in a wrong way. Look at what happens. Then James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to him, saying, Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask. In case you're wondering, the Greek is exactly as simple as that. They really are asking for a blank check. Lord, would you please sign your name here? And then we'll go ahead and fill in the line, the memo line, and the number and the amount Um you know, um wings, maybe a tail, that'd be great. How about a spaceship? No. They say, do for us whatever we ask. And notice how Jesus responds Think about us. If somebody came to you and said, Hey, I want you to do anything I ask you to do, most of us would be like, I'm just gonna say no on principle. He doesn't shoot them down. He says to them, What do you want me to do for you? And they said to him, Grant us that we may sit one on your right hand and the other on your left in your glory. They don't get it, do they? They do not understand what it is. To be in the glory that Jesus Christ is going to. Now it's a it's we can get it, right? You want to be around Christ. You want to be near him. Sitting in your glory has this connotation of wherever you are, we want to be there. But he says, you know, they come at it with this strange way, you know, uh we want to be as close to you as we possibly can be. One on your left, one on your right We can surmise all their motivations, all we want. Maybe they wanted to be his bodyguards. Maybe they just wanted to be close, near him. But we know Where Christ sits, right? Christ is seated at the right hand of the Father. So who do they think they are if they want to sit at his left? Who do they think they are if they want to be that close to Jesus? They show this great misunderstanding with their great request and their seeking greatness. They don't understand what it is to be great in the kingdom of God. And Jesus points out that they don't understand it. He says in verse 38, You do not know what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? And they said, Mm-hmm. Sure can. They have no idea. They have no clue the cup that he's about to drink, even though he's just told them. I'm gonna go be betrayed, I'm gonna go be scourged and spat on, and they're like, hmm, it's not that bad. It's not that bad. If in the end I get to have power and greatness and glory like you do And so James and John, and we know John, John's the disciple that Jesus loved. He's the disciple that reclines on his breast, who knows Jesus and really, really wants to be close to Jesus. And yet with their request and with their answer, they show not only do they not understand what greatness is, but they don't even understand themselves. They really think that they can do what Jesus is about to do. Well, if somebody could, then why does he have to? Why did he have to come? If just somebody else could have done it. They still don't get it. And when they are told what is really happening Look at the rest of 39 and verse 40. Jesus said to them, You will indeed drink the cup that I drink, and with the baptism I am baptized with, you will be baptized. But to sit on my right hand. And on my left is not mine to give, but it is for those for whom it is prepared. Remember, Jesus is following his Father's plan. The greatest in the kingdom of God is the Lord Jesus Christ, and he submits to his Father's plan. James and John, they're trying to make their own plan. Right? We're gonna we're gonna work real hard at this. We're gonna be greater than the others, and we will then have this this kind of forever that we're looking for. They don't understand God's plan. They still don't get it. And we know, we know they don't. We could turn to Acts chapter 1 and we could see them, even after all that time they spent It's the resurrected Jesus. They say, okay, now is the time? Is now the time? Well I want to pick out, can I have a blue throne next to your throne? And then um we can all we'll have his will be just a little smaller because James is younger than me, so we'll keep going. No. They have their own plan. They're working towards their own plan. And so their request. Their request. is in line with their plan. They're asking God to do what they think is good for them, what they think is best for them. Because they don't understand what God is really planning. But they will. They will. And this is what Jesus is saying. You don't quite get it, but you will. When they are killing you for my sake, you will finally understand. When you are being put to death because of your loyalty and faith in me Then you will get it. And though that cup that they will drink and that baptism that they will be baptized with, baptism there meaning cleansing. It will not be sufficient even to save themselves, would it? Only if the greatest The greatest in all the cosmos. Only he can effect the great plan that his father has put in place. Only he can do it. And he continues to teach the twelve and his disciples and his followers so that they will finally get this. And what he teaches in verses 41 to 45 is the purpose of greatness. Why is anyone great at all? Look at verse 41. And when the ten heard it, they began to be greatly displeased with James and John. We can relate, can't we? Sometimes it's it's difficult for me because disciples are so much like me. They are a mirror that the scriptures put before me so I see myself. And uh just thinking about myself, I don't think that they We're displeased with James and John because they said, You should be following the great one. Jesus is the only one who will receive glory. No, I think they're more displeased because they're going, We said we were gonna wait We were going to draw straws to see who got to be the greatest. We were going to prove ourselves to be greater than the others. Judas is right at the top. Man, he's been he's doing really good stuff with the money. Maybe he should sit at the right hand. I don't believe that they were displeased because the glory was being taken from Jesus. and what they were requesting. Jesus knows his disciples and he knows that they're getting displeased. The word in the Hebrew is or in the in the Greek is indignant, righteously angry. How dare they? But Jesus called them to himself and said to them You know. You know. I want to camp out just on that. You know. Jesus knows humanity. Jesus took on the form of a bondservant and came fully man and fully God, but he knows humanity. He has seen it, he has experienced it He knows how the world works. And he knows that his disciples know that. He knows that you and I know that. And he knows that we are all going to be tempted, as they were, to see our lives the way the world sees life. To see our role in the way that the world sees people's roles. In other words, to see our calling to the society of God in the same way that most people see their calling in the society of man. How does the world see themselves? Plenty of statements for us. Right? Nature. Rent in tooth and claw. We fight. I'll have to stand up for myself. No one else is going to. Stand on your own two feet. Hold yourself up by your bootstraps Need I go on. The world sees all of us as having this agency and power to do something for ourselves. And so if we have a skill that seems to be more advanced than other skills, we tend to think of ourselves as, hmm, I'm a little better than they are We see our gifts that God has given us as being used for our own purposes, our own plan, for our own glory. And they know that that's how the world operates. They know that those who are considered rulers over the Gentiles lord it over them. And their great ones exercise authority over them. So we're talking about people in the society of man that have been given authority or are considered great. And if you know your history, this is where we get into something called castism or classism, where there were actually people who were of a lower value than others because of their situation and their position. Okay, here we go. And so we must think about the purpose of greatness. Why does God make people different? Why are there different levels? When we look at the shorter catechism, we look at the fifth commandment, and we think superiors, inferiors, and equals, and people in the twenty-first century Boy, they get really upset at that, don't they? You ever told somebody, I'm your superior? They don't respond well. But we have to understand this in the way that we that God and Christ wants us to understand it To be over someone else does not mean that you're above them. To be given authority over someone else does not mean that you're more valuable than they are. In the same way, to be put under the authority of someone else does not mean that you are lower in value than they are. God has a plan. He has a plan. And his plan for you is that you would be exactly where you are. And we all move through different phases of this. You're a child and you're an inferior to most everybody. Then you become an older child and you're inferior only to the adults and then maybe those older. And we get how this works. And once we reach a an age, or let's just say, a greatness, of time spent on this world, we have a better understanding than most. And has God given that to elders, to our elders, so that they can lord it over others? I have to repent of this. Because often when my children ask me a question and I say, This is how it is and they say why, usually it's easier to just respond, I'm older than you, I know more than you, just go in. You'll understand when you're older. But that's tennis is the purpose of greatness, greatness and age. But let's talk about other areas of greatness. You might have greatness in pick something, drawing, maybe you're really good at drawing, or baseball, or refinishing kitchens and bathrooms You may be better at that than anybody else. Why has God done that for you? Why did God make you that way? Is it to set you apart from everyone else so that they can look at you and say, Oh, that's the greatest one? No. To be great in the kingdom of God is very different than to be great in the kingdom of many Brothers and sisters, you and I are saved by the Lord Jesus Christ to serve. Look at verses 43 and 44. Yet it shall not be so among you. But whoever desires to become great among you shall be your servant. And whoever of you desires to be first shall be slave of Allah. To be great in the world is to be the best, the most valuable. To be great in the world is to see yourself as better than others. Rules for thee and not for me. We've had a lot of experience with that in the last, let's say, ten years. Not so in the kingdom of God. What makes someone great in the kingdom of God is how low they are. Is how low they see themselves. And not low in terms of valueless, but humble. Humble, humiliated, as Christ humiliated himself. It was not a it was not something that was wrong for Christ to lay aside his glory To humiliate himself and to become like us. The greatest honor in the kingdom of God is to serve, and it's to serve all If you want to be the greatest in the kingdom of God, or you want to be considered great in the kingdom of God, you must be a slave. That's literally the word there, slave to all. Notice that it's not qualified. It's not slave to the officers of the church. It's not slave to fill in the blank. Servant of all. So the last thing we see in verse forty five is the great Savior. is the great one. And he is, again, the example of what it is to be great in the kingdom of God. For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many. The greatest man ever to live did not live for himself. He did not take on flesh for himself. He lived to die. And he came to give life through his death and to redeem you and to redeem me, to redeem all of his holy people. And so I leave you with this. How do you view yourself? How do you view your life, your gifts, your abilities, your desires, your pursuits? Are there anything that you are gifted at that make you great in an area? Why has God made you great at that? Why has God made you so funny? Why has God made you such a good drawer? Why has God made you so kind? Is it so that you can do your own plans and do your own things? Did he make you good at making films so that you can make your own films? How do you view others? Are you a request-y kind of person or a demand-y kind of person? Do you know what I mean by that? Do you ask things of others? Or do you make demands and then tag a please on the end? How do you view others in relation to yourself? Has God put people in your life to help you? Do you look at others around you and say, oh, this person can help me accomplish what I want? I will grow closer to this person and I will become friends with this person and I will ingratiate myself to them because they have an inn that I'm looking for. Do you see people as something to be used to enact your plan and to bring yourself to glory? Or do you see everyone else in your life, every single person that God has put in front of you, do you see them as an opportunity to serve Him by serving them? An opportunity to live as Christ lived and to lay down your desires and your wants and your life for them. Now the easiest way for us to see this is in the relationship of husband and wife, isn't it? So Christ tells us, husbands, you're to love your wife as Christ loved the church. You are to lay down your life for your wife. I like to think of this as, guys, we're going to work ourselves to death And I don't mean necessarily at a job that gives us paychecks. Because sometimes it's really hard when you get home from work and you are exhausted, isn't it? You've had a long day of dealing with all those let's not use bad words in the pulpit. There's a lot of people out there that can really drive us crazy So when we get home, is everyone there to serve us? Bring me my slippers. Why haven't you packed my pipe yet, Judah? Where's my drink? Where's the food? Where's my meal? Where's my chair? What's this mess? What's that smell? Why is that screaming? Do you see what will happen? If you look at your life and everyone in your life as someone there to serve you, you will resent the people God's put you here to serve. The reason you are alive is to serve them. The reason you have a household dad's. It's not so that you can point to them and brag about how good your son has done at college. Or how great your daughter was on her missions trip. It's so that you, as a household, can be seen glorifying God together. It is your calling to work yourself to death for that household, for God's glory. Wives and mamas. You know a little bit about service, don't you? What it is to serve others. I think moms get this probably better than most of us. Because for nine months their whole life is serving a baby. You can't eat shellfish Can't do all the kinds of things. You give up things, you take on things, you add routines so that that baby will be healthy and will survive. You live in service Of something that cannot really give anything for you or do anything for you. You make difficult choices. And once they're born, you have to make even more difficult choices. Because sometimes the best way that moms serve the ones they love so much is by doing things that those little ones don't like. Raise your hand if you like spankings. I love honesty. Good job. Nobody does this. But do you know that that might be the best way to show your love to someone? Saying no, Mike you don't actually love spankings, I know that. Saying no may be the best way to show love to someone. Sometimes it can be difficult, especially if you get things kind of twisted up and you think that you're The greatness of your relationship with your family is if you're best friends. Right? If we as parents Or trying to be best friends with our children. We will not love them as well as we can. As well as we're called to So Mamas, why do you serve that family? Why have you sacrificed so much of yourself and your life for them? If it's for your own glory, then every time your kids mess up, it wasn't worth it, was it? Every sacrifice is snapshot. It's just up in place. What was the point of going through all that? If now you've messed up. We can't look at our lives And so therefore us to serve us, to bring us glory, has to be part of God's plan to give himself glory. If we serve ourselves, then who are we actually serving? We're not even serving us. We're serving Satan. We're serving the enemy. And what we need to do, brothers and sisters, is to remember why we are here. We are here to serve God. And he's told us that to serve him means we serve everyone. If you want to be great in the kingdom of God, you are a slave to all. You serve all. Now there are of course some direct applications to the leaders of the church and officers and pastors and things like that, and we could I'm happy to talk about those direct applications, but there's no reason to do that now. Because most importantly, all of you who have been made new in Christ, who have been transformed by the grace of God through Christ, you have been made new in him to participate in his work. to serve his people, to build his kingdom. That's the whole reason that you are alive. I just want to close us with this. Revelation chapter five. Maybe one of the most powerful chapters of the entire Bible I wanted to read the whole chapter, but I took too much time, so I'm just going to read what the saints And the angels sing. And who they are singing it to? They are singing it to that one that we read of in Isaiah 53. They say you are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain, and have redeemed us to God by your blood. Out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation. And have made us kings and priests to our God, and we shall reign on the earth. There is greatness for you, Christian But that greatness is not for you. That greatness is to serve the glory of God Almighty, the glory of our King Jesus. And so in this life and in this world, You must aim to be a servant of all for God's sake and his glory. Please pray with me.