Good morning. Allow me a second or two to get myself set up here. Our scripture reading this morning is found in the book of Luke, chapter twelve. I'll be reading verses thirteen through thirty-four. So right chapter, but uh different verses from what you will find in your bulletin. And I encourage you, if you have your Bibles with you, to turn to that and to keep your Bibles open, because I'll be referring back to this scripture frequently during my sermon here. So here now the word of the Lord. Then one from the crowd said to him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. But he said to him, Man who made me a judge or an arbitrator over you? And he said to them, Take heed and beware of covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of the things he possesses. Then he spoke a parable to them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man yielded plentifully. And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do since I have no room to store my crops? So he said, I will do this. I will pull down my barns and build greater, and there I will store all my crops and my goods. And I will say to my soul, soul, you have many goods laid up for many years. Take your ease, eat, drink, be merry. But God said to him, Fool, this night your soul will be required of you. Then whose will those things be which you have provided? So is he who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. Then he said to his disciples, Therefore, I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat, nor about the body what you will put on it. Life is more than food, and the body is more than clothing. Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap, which have neither storehouse nor barn, and God feeds them. Of how much more value are you than the birds? And which of you, by worrying, worrying, can add one cubit to his stature? And probably a better translation would be, could add one day to his years If you then are not able to do the least, why are you anxious for the rest? Consider the lilies how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. And yet I say to you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. If then God so clothes the grass, which today is in the field, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O you of little faith? And do not seek what you should eat or what you should drink, nor have an anxious mind. For all these things the nations of the world seek after, and your father knows that you need these things But seek the kingdom of God, and all these things will be added to you. Do not fear, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Sell what you have and give alms. Provide yourselves money bags which do not grow old, a treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches nor moth destroys. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. And may God bless this reading of His Word to our full comprehension. And may he use it to move us to do the work for his kingdom that he requires of us. Now, over the past couple of years, we here at Severn Run ET have really been focusing on the themes of the kingdom and discipleship Pastor Arch's sermons have been focused on equipping us to be effective disciples, and equipping the flock here to be good disciples has been a high priority for the session. And it's part of their duties as shepherding elders to Come alongside and train and help you become better disciples of Christ. And through Archie's teaching, together we have examined a number of elements of discipleship, such as prayer, the study of Scripture, fellowship. Obedience, understanding right doctrines, and so on. But I believe that our scripture passage today really gets to the heart of what it takes to be a good disciple of Christ. It provides the foundation on which everything else rests. For our scripture today focuses on the element of motivation, what it is that motivates us to be a disciple of Christ or what the priority of our life is In our text this morning, this is referred to as our treasure. And it tells us that where our treasure is, that is where our heart is. It only makes sense that you will best serve and work the hardest for that which you value the most Now, as we look at our scripture this morning, we see that our conversation begins among the crowd. We were told earlier on in this chapter that a large crowd had gathered around Jesus. And this one fellow in the crowd had obviously figured out that Jesus was much wiser than other men. And so he calls upon Jesus to rightly divide his father's estate and to settle the dispute between him and his brother You know, we all know how contentious this issue can be, the division of an estate among families. In fact, a recent incident involving my mother-in-law's estate uh and uh the issues that it raised led me to this passage and ultimately has led me to the topic of this sermon. So we know this can be a very contentious issue. Anyway, this man wanted Jesus to step into the fray and Jesus simply wouldn't go there. He wouldn't take up the bait. He wouldn't take the bait. He wouldn't take up the issue. But he did use it as a lesson for the crowd. In verse 15. And he said to them, Take heed and beware of covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of the things he possesses. Now I believe that statement must have caused quite a stir among the crowd Because that is in fact where the crowd lives, isn't it? For the more religious among the crowd back in that day, many have been brought up with the idea that wealth was an indication that God was blessing a person. And so if a person was wealthy There was the belief that God was somehow favoring that person. And for those who perhaps were not so religious, they just defaulted to the natural state of man. We live in a material world, and it makes sense that the accumulation of material goods Are pretty logical choices for your life's highest priorities. The more you get, the better off you are. So the pursuit of more stuff is is seems like the right and logical thing to do. So I think that uh that Jesus' words must have seemed a little strange to the crowd. But then to further buttress this point, Jesus doubles down and he tells this parable about this rich man. Who has prospered and is now looking forward to his retirement. And so he makes plans for his retirement. He plans his investments and then he prepares to sit back, enjoy the fruits of his many years of hard work, and relax. But Jesus says in verse 20, but God said to him, Fool, this night your soul will be required of you. Then whose will those things be which you have provided? It sort of brings us back to where the passage started. Somebody's going to be arguing over this guy's stuff. So is he who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. Now, if you're here this morning and you wouldn't call yourself a disciple of Jesus, this is the challenge that Jesus would put before you. Your life does not consist of the abundance of your possessions. Now, if that's what you treasure in this life, it will inevitably disappoint you. And at the end of your life, you will look back on it and you will call it all foolishness But let's face it, that's the starting point for all of us. That's where we all really are until God reaches into our lives and changes us. When we are in the crowd, our treasure is based on earthly things. In my own life, my priority, my greatest treasure was acceptance and admiration. I was desperate to be considered special, the guy that you could count on to get the job done and to get it done better than anybody else For other folks, it's physical beauty or their appearance, concerned about fashion. For others, it's their health. That's a big line of propaganda nowadays. If you have your health, you have everything Well, brothers and sisters, as I get older, I appreciate good health more and more. But good health isn't everything. Maybe your treasure is education or achievement. But inevitably it comes down to what Jesus was talking about. Our treasure is based in the abundance of our possessions. And again, that's where the crowd lives. That's what they think. That's their value. But we hold that Jesus breaks into some people's lives. Changes their hearts, he pulls them out of the crowd, and then sets them on a different path. And this means that we have, or are supposed to have, a different priority, a different treasure Jesus addresses this in verse 31 when he turns from the crowd to his disciples and he says to them, Seek first the kingdom of God. He tells them that their highest treasure, their highest priority, is to be the kingdom of God, not the abundance of their possessions Now the kingdom of God is a phrase that we use a lot, but I think that many times we don't really think much about what it means, or perhaps our understanding of what it means is a bit hazy. So let's just spend a couple of minutes talking about that In the Lord's Prayer, after we pray, Thy kingdom come, what comes next? Thy will be done on earth as it is done in heaven, or better translated, as it is already been done in heaven. That's actually a definition of the kingdom of God. That God's sovereign purpose and will, which rules the heavens, will come here and rule all of the earth. This is reflected in the coming of Jesus, who is the King, and this idea permeates all of Scripture. Now the kingdom of God has such broad implications. How does God rule in our own hearts? That's part of praying for the kingdom to come. Lord, rule this heart of mine. We pray for the kingdom when we pray for the gospel to go out to all the ends of the earth. Or when we pray for just a small measure of peace in the world that's desperately in need of shalom, the peace of God. So we as disciples of Christ, as inadequate as we may feel, are to pray and to work for the kingdom And for that is our treasure. That becomes our priority number one. That's all that we live for. In fact, we are so dedicated to the kingdom of God that we are prepared to sell everything we have to advance it. Look at verse 33 again, where Jesus tells his disciples, tells us, sell what you have and give alms. Are you ready for that? Seek first the kingdom of God is a nice slogan. But are you really really ready to sell out, to give it all up for the sake of the kingdom? After all, this is our treasure, folks. This is what we give, this is what we live for. If we are disciples of Jesus, that's supposed to be our highest priority. Right? It's right here in black and white in front of us. That's what Jesus commands The kingdom of God is that for which we live. It is our highest priority and our most precious treasure. Well, I don't know about you, but as I thought about it, and I can only speak for myself. I had to confess, I'm not there yet. You know, we frequently, in fact, we're going to sing the hymn again today, All for Jesus, I surrender. I surrender all. Well, when I sing songs like that. I have to confess while I'm singing, Lord, that's where I want to be, but that's not where I am. That's the desire of my heart to be totally sold out for Christ and his kingdom. But I have so far to go. And I'm pretty sure I'm not alone. I suspect that each one of us struggles with this issue of wanting to hold something back for ourselves, not wanting to give it all up for God, but wanting to keep a portion for ourselves, either of our substance. or of of ourselves, of what's within us, instead of turning it all over to God and and advancing it for using it to advance his kingdom. We struggle with the idea of seeking first the kingdom. And if anybody here can honestly say that they don't struggle with that, then you need to be up here preaching instead of me. And see nobody rushing up to take my place, then I think I'm on safe ground here. That none of us is where we should be in this regard. But you know what? In one sense, that's okay. Discipleship is a growth process. None of us comes into the kingdom of Christ as fully mature Christians. You know, you think about the disciples, the original disciples. When Jesus chose his disciples, he essentially put them through a three-year-long intense on-the-job training program. And even then, as you look at Scripture, we'll find instances where they didn't get it. Where they failed to grasp what Jesus was saying to them, or they fell short in some way. And scripture repeatedly talks about the need to mature and grow in spiritual wisdom. So discipleship is a growth process. We need to learn how to pray, we need to learn how to study scripture and so on. And we need to learn how to put the kingdom of God first. But if you would be a true disciple of Christ, you can't be satisfied with just marking time and staying in place. There has to be in your heart the prayer, I want to be sold out for Christ. That's where I want to go with my life, where I put the kingdom of God above all else. That's what I want my life to look like. But I'm not there. I need to grow. Lord Jesus, please help me. And then we need to put our prayers, our words, and our thoughts into action, because the scripture tells us faith without works is dead. We need to step out and take risks. You know, I have two beautiful baby granddaughters and they both learned to walk at the same time. When my own kids were growing up, I was so preoccupied with other stuff I didn't really ponder this story. sort of thing, but now I do. And it's just amazing as I watch little kids walk. You know, you think about that process, that something drives them to want to walk. Uh I guess it's seeing mommy and daddy walking around on two legs. But something motivates them to want to do that. And they get to the point where physically they're able to stand up and they start to take those little faltering steps on their pudgy baby legs. Fall down on the rear ends all the time. Sometimes they fall against something, you know, hurt themselves. Every time they try it, they're taking a risk, but they keep going. Brothers and sisters, that's what it looks like for us as as baby Christians. And just like babies, as they eventually get older and those legs get stronger and their their coordination develops, and the next thing you know, you're running all over the house and mom gets not a second of peace. Well, so it is with us. As we continue to walk, as we continue to step out, exercise those muscles of discipleship, we're able to then walk and run, take greater strides as disciples of Christ. So for us the stepping out can take any number of forms. But a good place to start is with what Jesus was talking about, in the area of giving to God from the abundance of our possessions. Or to put it another way, tithing. So I'm going to skate right off into the thin ice here and talk about a couple of things. And frankly, this area of tithing is an area where we as a body could stand to improve. Now I have no idea how much anybody makes or how much any particular individual gives to the church. No none of the elders do. Arch doesn't know that. But I do know this. Over the past several years we've put together very conservative budgets. And at the end of the year, we find that we are falling short, that the giving is not adequate for the budget that we've come up with. Brothers and sisters, I have to say this, that we as a congregation are not rich towards God. I think it's something that we need to examine within ourselves Another way we can step out is by giving of our time or our effort. And I don't want to project too much of my junk on you folks, but this is something that I struggle with. I very much relate to the uh to the uh rich man who wants to retire. Not that I'm rich, but I I am retired. And um I'm sort of getting to that point where I want to sort of sit back and let other people pick up the slack. Now we as a church are better than most in this regard. I think we have a fairly high participation rate compared to other churches, but we still find ourselves in a circumstance where it's the minority of the people doing 100% of the work. And I, as this retired guy, sort of want to sit back and let other people take up the slack. But I have to remind myself that there's no retirement plan in God's kingdom. As long as I have something to offer, as long as we have something to offer God requires us to give of it. So that's another area where maybe we can work on uh on the steps that we take. Maybe you're stepping out to come on the board of a missions trip, like those trips we take to Fairmont, where we help out folks by repairing their homes. Um there are other mission trips that we take. The bottom line is that there are all sorts of opportunities to serve and to grow. And you don't have to look that hard to find them. Now none of this is for the purpose of brawbeating anybody or trying to make you feel bad about yourselves, because again, none of us are fully mature, but it's to encourage all of us, all of us. To examine ourselves, to open our hearts to the knowledge that each of us is falling short and is prone to falling back into the crowd's way of thinking. And then to say to ourselves, Lord, I want your kingdom to be my highest priority. Help me to do that. To seek first the kingdom of God is no small thing. It really opens the up the whole of Christian service. And it is our duty as those called to be disciples of Christ. Excuse me, I'm not used to talking so much. I tried to be a man of few words. The knowledge of seeking first the kingdom of God is our duty is and should be enough to motivate us. But God is so gracious to us that he goes beyond that, and he gives us all incredible promises and benefits for doing that which we should be doing anyway. Look at those verses starting in verse 22. We don't need to worry or to be anxious about our lives, about what we will eat or what we will wear, for God will provide those things for us. Now, this is not an excuse to be idle or to be forced stewards of what God has given us, or it's certainly not some form of the name it and claim it or prosperity gospel. But it is a clear, it is a clear promise that as we seek the kingdom, that's the key, that as we seek the kingdom, and as we work and give of our substance to the kingdom, that God will provide for us. In verse 31, but seek first the kingdom of God, and all these things will be added to you. Imagine that, the God of the universe. The one who created the furthest from planets and the smallest subatomic particles cares about you. He has promised to take care of your physical Material needs. That is an incredible promise. But beyond that promise for our immediate personal interests and needs, there's this other promise found in verse 32, where he says to us. Do not fear, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. First, I want you to ponder the degree of affection that's contained in those words Do not fear a little flock. You can feel the love that Jesus, that God has for us. But beyond that This is this incredible thing that it's God's desire and intent to give us a world where His kingdom reigned, where His will reigns on earth. We will, through the giving of our tithes and offerings This is the giving of our time, effort, and lives be part of creating a world where the will of the Father reigns on earth as it does in heaven. Can you imagine a world where justice prevails? Where people respect the law and those responsible for enforcing and administering the law are above reproach. Can you imagine living in a world where race, nationality doesn't matter? Because people look at each other as human beings who are created in the image of God be before anything else. Can you imagine a world where the most vulnerable among us are not exploited by people engaged in drug or human trafficking or the other evils of this world? Can you imagine a world where a person's work is as respected and honored and rewarded as it should be? Well, brothers and sisters, you don't really have to imagine those things because it is the reality. God will bring it to pass. And believe it or not, he will use those little faltering steps that we take in our pudgy baby legs to somehow bring it all about. I don't know about you, brothers and sisters, but that gets my pulse going. And if it doesn't get your pulse going, I honestly think that you need to see a doctor. Because that's just incredible. Brothers and sisters, consider how much our Father loves us. And use that knowledge to encourage us to make serving Him and seeking His kingdom our highest priority. Let's dedicate and continually rededicate ourselves to learning to seek his kingdom above all else, step by step. And then let's start by taking those steps, by taking those risks. Let's put our desires, our thoughts, our words into action. And then let God use us to create his kingdom here on earth. Please join me in a word of prayer.