Please follow along. This you know that all those in Asia have turned away from me, among whom are Phydalus and Hermogenes. The Lord grant mercy to the house of Oniciphorus, for he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chain But when he arrived in Rome, he sought me out very zealously and found me. The Lord grant to him that he find he may find mercy from the Lord in that day And you know very well how many ways he ministered to me at Ephesus. Let us pray. Oh Father, we thank you for being present with us here, for supplying to us your word. O Christ, we thank you that you have sent your Spirit to apply this word to our minds and to our hearts. And we pray that you would make the preaching of the word effectual as you have done. Even from before the days of Noah. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we went over a duty that we have as Christians. We were able to discover this duty by way of looking at the duties that Paul laid upon Timothy himself. Last week we saw that Timothy definitely as a pastor had the duty of making sure that the apostolic faith which had been passed down to him that it was preserved, that he did not corrupt it and he didn't let other people corrupt it. Timothy was to consider it as a very precious treasure and not allow it to be out in the reins of heresy gathering rust or any other kind of corrosion. We ended up summarizing these lessons for the church and for ourselves by saying that it is the duty of every Christian, in both word, thought, deed To preserve and protect the faith that's passed down from the apostles. We're now going to continue in the letter And it is a continuation of Paul giving instruction to Timothy in various ways. So let's take a look at these couple of verses, verses 15-18, and see what the Spirit has to teach us this morning. Take a look at verses 13 and 14. We're going back up to those verses just for a moment to remind you of what Paul's concern has been. He He tells Timothy, not just nonchalantly or casually, that he needs to preserve the faith, but he's using language that there's an urgency and a great danger that he wouldn't do so. So he tells him that you need to hold on to these things steadfastly. You need to guard them. This is elevated language. This would be like if a hurricane was sweeping through your property during the summer, let's say, or uh let's just say some kind of summer storm and you still had all your umbrellas up. I would speak with you in urgency to get them down so they didn't go flying through your car windows. Well, he's speaking similarly to Timothy here. You need to hold on to these things. And now you can see, once we look back at 13 and 14, of him saying, you need to be steadfast here, you need to guard these things. You can begin to see what he's doing when we get down to verse 15. In verse 15 and 16 and 17 and 18, Paul is concerned that Timothy would hold these things steadfast because look at what is going on. All those in Asia, including two what seemed to be leaders, Fagelis and Hermogenes. They have turned away from the faith, and the Greek word there is apostate. We all know that that's a bad word. This is what's going on. And that will help you to see how you're supposed to color 13 and 14 the words that Paul is using. When he says you better be steadfast, you better keep and guard this thing, this is the situation. is we've got lots of people who have heard the Word of God turning away from it. The way that manifests itself is they abandon the apostle But they're abandoning Christ in doing so. I want you to j uh perhaps you're do you remember Paul's ministry to Asia, which is basically where Ephesus is, when we talk about Ephesus. Do you remember his ministry to folks there? If you wanted to review it today, you could look at the book of Acts. For example, in Acts chapter 19, verse 10, it says this, and there's a longer section there you'd want to go back and read. He says his his preaching ministry, and this continues for two years, so that all who dwell in Asia, all who dwell in Asia, Heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. Now, some of these same people must have not just heard, but professed belief. And yet what we learn here is that at least some of them from Asia have turned away. Now This should also remind you of Acts chapter 20, about what Paul said to the Ephesian elders about what was going to take place in Asia. And this is another reason why Paul must be saying this to Timothy. You need to hold on to this, brother. This is no joke. He says in Acts 20, for I know this: that after my departure savage wolves would come in among you, not sparing the flock. Also, from among yourselves, men will rise up, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after themselves. That is the context that we're dealing with here this morning. When I tell you, as a Christian, that you have the duty to preserve and protect the apostolic gospel. This is the kind of thing that we have in mind that you yourself will face in varying degrees. Therefore, this is what Timothy was facing. And so Paul starts off by giving this example of what has happened in Asia that helps us to see the urgency of the situation of keeping and guarding. That's the first thing I want you to notice. Here's the second thing That even in the midst of such defection from the gospel, the Lord does not forsake Paul. The Lord instead sends a man, I I'm gonna get the name wrong. I practiced it for like a half hour this morning. Anisophoras, it's not right. It's close enough. Anisaphoris. Brad, I'll just let you know, Brad is a real blessing to me Brad helps me with things like this. Sometimes he'll send me an email, syllabi, give me each of the syllables so I can try to say the names right. It ha he knows he's been around for a long time. I've struggled with this for over a decade So I'm thankful for you, Bradley. The Lord instead sends this man to take care of Paul. With everything that has been said in this letter, we've got to look at that at Christ sending. Exactly what Paul needs. And if you look in those verses of speaking about this man who leaves his household behind And he goes and he he bring he bring he searches out for Paul. Paul's not immediate it's not immediately obvious where he is. Paul ha he this guy has to search through Rome to try to find Paul. And then I love the language that's used that He refreshed me. Now, you know, if you go to um if you go I unfortunately have first hand experience with this, but if you go to jail Today, you're gonna get a nice fresh set of clothes every morning. You get breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Some guys never want to leave jail because there's just so much done for you. You know, you get basketball time. But that is not the jail that Paula's in. I'm telling you right now. You know, you need to think like Turkish prison. I don't know. This is bad news. And so for him for for the Lord Jesus Christ to see what was going on and the discouragement that have would that that would have been rising in Paul as he hears reports over and over again Of all of the hard work that he had done in Asia, and now these people are leaving the faith, boy did he need some refreshment. Boy did he just need, even literally and metaphorically speaking a nice cup of water. And that's what you see here in this second part. The man left behind his household, he tracks down Paul in Rome. And therefore, Paul asks for mercy. I'm really thinking provisions here for his family, since he had to leave his family behind. And then he also asks for mercy for him. on the judgment day. Now it's not as if Anisaphorus was not a Christian. He's I think he's bringing up Matthew twenty-five, and he's saying, Lord, when he prays about this man, he says, This is one of your sheep So don't put him in the goat category on that day. And that's Matthew 25. And that would be great for Timothy to hear also. Think about how encouraging this would be to Timothy to know that even if I find myself in prison. Just like when the Lord sent somebody to Paul, I know he's going to send somebody to me too. That Jesus, even remembering his teaching from Matthew 25, he's got people out there that are going to show up. And clothe me when I'm naked, and give me food when I'm hungry, and give me drink when I'm thirsty, and a whole host of other things. There are some sheep out there. There's not just goats. Certainly Christ meant to strengthen Paul, and surely Paul is using all of his experiences not to complain to Timothy. That's not Paul Paul is using all of these to finalize the mentorship that has been going on all this time. And he's therefore encouraging Timothy to keep running the race. Hold on to these things. You've got to understand what you're facing. No matter how many people turn away from the faith, you've got to know, Timothy, that the Lord is with you and he is going to send you his people to help. And this brings us to a really sweet teaching today. And it is this: in times of turning away, I'm sorry to announce to you, there are times when there is great turning away. But at any time of turning away, we must help each other hold on to the faith. We have got to be the one who brings the water In times of turning away we must help each other hold on to the faith. That is the simple and beautiful message that is given to us here. First to Timothy and then to us. And so I'd like to talk about this with you this morning in two main points, turning away and turning toward. There are those who have turned away, and then our duty is to turn toward each other. And those are the two points I want to hold on to. The Holy Spirit has preserved the words of Paul to Timothy for us today. Christ wants us to know that holding on to the faith. It's not an easy goal to accomplish. And that may be very surprising to some of you. I'm almost tempted to ask you to raise your hand to see if you think holding on to the faith is an easy task. But I'm here to tell you this morning that it's not an easy task, and that might surprise you. That holding on to your faith until the end is difficult. Now, some of you might uh have a bunch of arguments that are forming in your mind against me, like I'm violating our confession or something, but I assure you I'm not, and I encourage you to listen. That holding on to the faith Is quite difficult. Now, even I'm saying that even knowing that Christ in his sovereignty preserves us, He still permits in his sovereignty holding on to the faith to be a difficult endeavor. And he, in fact, uses it. These are called trials, for example. Now let me give you a an image that uh popped up in my mind when I was thinking through this Uh during the summers, uh now my uh my f family uh was given a little uh John vote. It's about It's it's actually not as little as it used to be. I we used to have an eleven foot John boat. Man, that was like a death trap. But now we have a sixteen foot John Boat and we were also given a ten horsepower, I think it's ten. Ten horsepower a little outboard engine that we put on the back, and so we're able to go out of this one creek in Easton and go up towards the main bridge. Now when we go out, uh we're standing up on the John boat, fishing off of the pilings, just trying to catch some different rockfish and that kind of stuff. And, you know, I can always tell when a local comes by me in their boat. It's going to be a local from the eastern shore. which is where I primarily grew up, and they're gonna have, you know, a much better and nicer boat than me. It's gonna be like twenty five to twenty seven foot. It's probably gonna be a hundred thousand dollar boat. And they see me As a dad with my kids over there just trying to have a good time fishing. And before they came upon me, they were going really, really fast, because that's fun to do. And they see me in my little John boat, and I can tell they're locals because they slow everything down. And they make sure that there's only these little tiny wakes so that my daughter isn't losing her front teeth when they go by. But then there are those people who are probably from Pennsylvania or New Jersey who have who have rented a boat, they have no idea what they're doing, they do not slow down And they leave all this weight behind, and we're standing on the 16-foot John boat. And I have to say to my kids, you better hold on tight. Or actually I say, sit down. And then I'm saying other things in my head, mostly towards the other boater. But that ends up being a a picture of what Timothy is facing and what Paul faced and what you faced. And if you were standing on that boat and that guy went by with all of that weight and you were on the bow, And you said, forget you, I can do this. I'm gonna keep my f actually I'm gonna show you how cool I am, I'm gonna keep my feet close together, stand on the bow, and all this weight's gonna hit the boat, and you're gonna see that I'm just fine, and I'm gonna say, okay, well you know, we'll have dry clothes for you when we get home. Because you're definitely going overboard. And I wonder, you know, when we're thinking about the thinking about our faith and turning away and that Oh, this is just gonna be an easy ride. Uh I wonder if some of us have that same kind of attitude. It would be a poor attitude. that a person would have in standing on a boat and not taking into consideration the wake and the different wakes of life We want to take I want you to take that story, that picture that you have of us out there trying to fish, but then inevitably that boat comes by with the wake. Those are our trials, those are our temptations. And I want you to ask yourself: are you the kind of person who thinks they can just stand on the bow with no threat of going overboard? Or do you have enough experience now in your maturity to know that you need to hold on tight and sometimes you just need to sit down? Because keeping the faith actually is extremely difficult. And it will end up being, brothers and sisters, if you can keep the faith by the grace of God, it will be the greatest accomplishment of your life. The Apostle Paul ends up saying similar things to this. Actually he says the exact same thing. It's pretty interesting to consider the question will holding on to the faith, even in Even in keeping into consideration the sovereignty of Jesus Christ and his preservation, what would Paul say? Is it hard to hold on to the faith, Paul? Well, we've already heard some arguments this morning and how he speaks to Timothy, but consider his life. He was a very successful person before converting to Christianity. And you can tell this because of how much influence he had over society He was able to receive arrest warrants from the Sanhedrin in order to arrest Christians. You can't just be anybody to do that. And then we see clo the those who are being martyred, the clothes of being placed at the feet of Saul. This was a major influencer. And then after Christianity, that did not change. Jesus Christ decided to make this guy the guy who was going to be an apostle, number one, that's huge. And he's going to end up giving the gospel to the known world then. He stood before the highest politicians in the land. They wanted to hear from him. He survived the greatest threats. I mean, think of the shipwrecks, serpents uh poisonous snakes biting him, being lowered in a basket outside of a city, being stoned to death, but then coming back to consciousness after they drug him outside of the city. And yet In all of those various experiences and all of those accomplishments, you're going to read when we get to it in 2 Timothy 4, verse 7. The accomplishment that he places at the top of the list is he says this, I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. Man, there it is. Right at the top. Now that doesn't just mean that I kept my memory of the shorter catechism my whole life. He's not just talking about that. It means everything that Jesus Christ gave him, that Jesus Christ deposited him, which included his own faith, but also his faith being worked out in his various callings from the Lord, and it was the most difficult and it was the most rewarding endeavor that Paul had ever done. And my argument to you is that it is the going to be the same for you if you're looking at this correctly. I mean just think about it. Think of yourself back on that boat. Let's have the person go by and there's this wake. And it's usually not just one wave that's hitting the boat. It's gonna be bump bum pump. It's gonna be these waves. So let's just say there's three waves. that you're gonna have to make it through. You have the wave of the flesh. Do you have any idea how difficult it is to live with indwelling sin? Of course you do, because it's right there. You know those evil little thoughts you've had all day? You know all the evil thoughts you've thought about God and how you don't think he's fair and you are entitled to more and all that other stuff you were thinking about this past week And that that was not a word that was coming from a news channel, it was coming from your own heart, that we have found the enemy and it is us That is against you. There is something in you that is evil still, despite the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, and it does not want you to exercise faith towards God. And then, besides what you have in terms of indwelling sin, though it does not have victory over us, thank God, you still have the devil to contend with. And the devil has all these different devices. Do you think the devil wants you to make it to the end? He not only wants you To die in your faith and to shrivel up and to be a tree that was never really planted. He wants you to make everybody else around you the same way. And then you have the world. And so you have the world, the flesh, and the devil. You have these three things contending with you. These are the three waves that are hitting the bow, and you think That it's just going to be easy not to turn away. Well, here we have an account for you that everybody in Asia turned away. And I wonder Who do you know who has turned away? I was reflecting on this. Uh when I first became a Christian, we went to a praise and worship group is what we called it. I'm just thinking about the people there that were pouring into me as I first came to Christ. And I think now there's only a couple of them who haven't turned away. You cannot take your standing here for granted. You need to take it seriously, that it will be your greatest accomplishment to make it to the end. So I hope you see what I'm doing to you right now. I'm just I'm not trying to take away uh the assurance of your faith. I'm trying to actually help you. to know that you need to take care of your faith so that you can be assured. I want you to look, just like we talked about last week, I want you to look into the mirror what I'm saying and I I want I want I'm asking you, what do you see in yourself? Do you see a person who takes their Christian walk casually? And then I'm saying to you, a prudent man person foresees evil. And they hide themselves. But the simple-minded person passes on and they're punished So I'm asking you to be prudent in terms of your faith. That's the same thing that underlines our passage here this morning. The Apostle Paul encourages Timothy to be prudent and to not take these things for granted. Now that's the great turning away, and I hope that that brought in some sobriety to you. If you were drunk thinking you could make it through the wake of that boat without stabilizing yourself, I hope that that point in my sermon was a nice strong cup of black coffee. But now I want to look at turning toward. That's actually the bulk of the passage. We see people turning, we see one man turning toward Paul with the support of his household to help him through this. We turn towards each other, helping each other keep the faith until the end. Now, I'm imagining that you have heard this, but I'm going to say this again because I think it is helpful. Once upon a time, children, make sure you're listening. Once upon a time there was this guy who got stranded on an island in the middle of the Pacific. At first it was nice. I mean you're in the middle of the Pacific. There's no rent. It's beautiful. But after a while there's no food and you're just burnt to a crisp. So this guy started praying to God, oh God, please save me from this island. When he finished praying, an airplane, an airplane landed on the island. The pilot got out and he said, Hey buddy, you need a ride? And the guy on the island said, No, thank you. I pray to God and he will save me. And the airplane flew off Next day, the guy on the island, he prayed again. He said, Dear God, save me from this island. For your sake, which is like the ultimate prayer. And when he finished praying, a boat came right up to the beach. And the captain said, Hey buddy, you need a ride? And the guy said, No, thank you. God will save me. And the boat left. And as the boat's going off into the distance, the guy finishes out his day. And then he dies. And when he gets to heaven, he sees Jesus and he says, Hey, I prayed and I asked you to save me. What happened? And Jesus replied, What do you mean what happened? I sent you an airplane and a boat. And that is our situation. Brothers and sisters, I want you to just ask for a moment: what are the boats and the airplanes which God has sent to us to make sure that our faith stays alive? We know that the fundamentals are the airplane of the Word of God. Read in faith. It has to be read in faith, like we heard from the Heidelberg last week. If it's not read in faith, it is not nourishing your soul. It is the boat of worship, real worship You know, when I was reading this bulletin, or when I was singing earlier, I'm trying to practice this more and more, uh, when we're we're singing uh lavish love, abundant beauty. And it says, who am I that you should love me? I'm trying to put myself into the song Because I want the song to be a meaningful worship from me to God. I'm not just reading the words and never thinking about them. I'm thinking me. When it says on here that you are forgiven, I say, I'm forgiven. And then I seek to respond with thankfulness in my worship. I'm not always great at that, but I'm trying hard right now. That's the boat of worship, and that keeps us to the end. There's actual church discipline. It's another airplane that lands on the island. And there is prayer. Did I mention that already? Oh boy. Prayer is like five airplanes on the island. Calling out to God. And if you want to see what you're supposed to look like in your prayer life, you need to read the Psalms. You should be crying out to God just like the people you see in the Psalms. And at the end of their prayers and the Psalms, you'll see, Thank you, God, for saving me. From all kinds of stuff These are the boats and the airplanes and what I'm adding here t to to this morning, just because of anysof whatever his name is I'm saying that there's another big boat, and that is Christian community. That you are supposed to be helping each other to get to the end. That if you see a brother or a sister who is in the race with you and then their hamstring pops, spiritually speaking, you don't just keep running. You go back and you say, we don't leave anybody behind. Just like in the mod certain mottos within the military, we leave no one behind. We figure out ways to get everyone to the end. And in fact, you can begin to start to look at yourself, therefore, as a means of grace. You are one whom Jesus Christ sends as a secondary means that He will use to preserve people to the end. That's how the whole thing works. Jesus Christ effectually calls you to himself and then he doesn't just snap his fingers and you're at the end. You have got to get through the whole race and trial. And he has ordained all of these different means that he is going to use in order to get you to that place at the end. And one of those means, brothers and sisters, and this is very exciting, it is you. It is going to be how you work with your children. It's going to be how you work with your parents and your friends. It's going to be how you work with each other right here in this church family. You are the boat and you are the plane, as we are on our islands. Jesus sends you to each other to help one another keep the faith until the end. Now I have found that in order to relieve the conscience, we all know this. We already know what I'm saying to you. But a lot of the time we do not do it. And there are different reasons for that. One of the One of the reasons that we don't do it is we relieve our conscience when somebody says something to us, we say, Well, I'm going to pray for you. We usually forget to pray for them, but then we say, I'm going to pray for you, and then there's nothing else that happens, which could be okay in some cases, but in a lot of cases when it's not okay. So, knowing that about us, I believe Jesus, even in this passage, gives us some motivation that we would start taking more seriously the fact that we are the airplanes and the boats for each other. So there is an obvious allusion here within our passage this morning to Matthew chapter 25, which we included in the bulletin. Go ahead and take a look at it in your bulletin, real quick. It's in the Confessing Christ portion. This is a much larger passage I'd encourage you to read. I cannot think of what would be more motivating. than this passage. If you lived when Jesus was walking on the face of the earth, and you saw that they had stripped him naked, Would it not be your greatest honor to cover his naked body If you heard that down here at the Annapolis Detention Center, the Apostle Paul was put in there and he was feeling really disheartened. Would it not be your greatest honor to bring him something, some kind of care box to lift his spirits again? I mean Jesus, when he gives us this passage, he says that if you help any of each other This is not a passage that is just a humanitarian effort talking about every human being on the face of the earth, though it's good civically to do good things for people. Whether they're Christians or not. This is specifically the brothers and sisters helping out the brothers and the sisters, because he uses the word brethren here. He says that if you help each other, when I meet you at the last day, I will say to you, you clothe me. That's how tightly connected he is to his children. That's how as a father he thinks of his daughters and his sons. And so if you help one of his sons and his daughters, then this king, that's how he talks about himself here, then this king is going to say It was so close to my heart, my son and my daughter, and their current predicament and what they were going through for me that when you clothed them when they were naked and you refreshed them when they had no refreshment, you did that to me And so enter into your eternal reward. I just can't think of a better motivation for us to start taking ourselves more seriously based upon the fact of how Jesus Christ views the situation of us being boats and airplanes to each other. I could not be more delighted to finally face my Lord and for him to say, You clothed me when I was naked. That I don't even know that I would be I would just be a blubbering fool for a while because I would be so moved to be a part of something like that. That's how important it is to us. Now the Apostle James picks this up, who knows a lot. He's always repeating what Jesus teaches. James picks this up and he says In chapter 2, verses 14 through 17, something you have heard a million times. And I am hoping that this will be the time that it will really get to you. He says this, what does it profit, my brethren, if someone says he has faith but he does not have works? And then listen to the example that he gives. It's the same thing here. Can faith save him? If a brother or sister is naked, if a brother or sister is naked, And destitute of daily food, and one of you says to them, Depart in peace, be warmed and filled, but you do not give them the things which are needed for the body, what does it profit? Thus also, faith by itself, if it does not have works, it is dead One of the ways that we therefore could grow in the assurance of our faith is by noticing that Jesus Christ is working for us by taking care of each other. And if you don't take care of each other, you may also notice that you might start wondering if you are on the edge or if Christ is starting to warn you that you need to repent because you're a goat. I'm telling you right now that though he preserves people to the end, he also says, there is no idolatry that will enter into my kingdom. And he gives a whole other list of things. Perhaps it's a little confusing for you to see how this whole thing fits together, but all of these things must be true that he says altogether. And if you are the kind of person who casually stands on the bow of the boat thinking none of these things are going to knock me off, not even the knowledge of the fact that I do not help the people around me, then when you get to the end Do not be surprised when Christ says, I never knew you. Now, that's pretty serious for me to say that up here. And I'm not trying to undermine or subvert your faith. For some of you, hearing this message. It may be exactly what you need to hear because you are not a child of God. And you need to repent and you need to believe that you might enter into his mercy and his forgiveness. And that's exactly what Jesus Christ wants for you. That's what he's doing with this information. Is the Holy Spirit working on you? My words don't have that kind of power to get down inside of you and into your conscience and in your heart. That's the spirit. You better start paying attention. Christ is leading you to repent. And to express belief in him, that he is your salvation. Hide yourself under his wing. It's been long enough. Let's just stop the nonsense. You need to know that Christ is enlisting you into his army. Others of you have been backsliding for some time now. I don't know what you've been doing, but you have not been taking your faith seriously. And now is the time. If your conscience is being pricked by this, now's the time not for you to question your faith or your calling that you receive from Jesus Christ, but to just realize you've been backsliding in all of this. You haven't been taking them really serious, and he's been really patient with you. And this morning, by way of the preacher, he's saying, Enough is enough. Let's just do this It's time for us to step forward. I called you, I'm your Lord, and you need to serve me. And there's a bunch of other people in between. Let's just ask in the name of Jesus Christ When I ask you who needs refreshment right now, who's getting ready to leave the faith, who's really struggling with their faith, who do you think of? I have somebody on my mind immediately. I wonder who do you who do you have on your mind? And how what are you going to do about it You need to be the boat and you need to be the airplane. Does that mean that when you show up on their little island they're gonna be happy to see you? Sometimes no ma'am. They have been trying to run away from Christ as part of the problem. But if you could show up and plea with them, maybe Christ will use your message. Maybe he'll use you. To get them back into the fold. Christ says that the person who goes to get the one sheep that is lost is a person we want to commend. Who's the person that you think of that has wandered from the full? Who's being maybe not even under from their own um rebellion, but they're just at work? or at school or or in their family. They're just getting beat down. And you can see it's really affecting them. But nobody has reached out to them. Well then you need to reach out to him. This is uh could be a difficult sermon to listen to this morning, but it is pushing you towards your end. Have you ever been pushed before? I remember thinking I was a big shot in high school, uh especially in sports. And then I went to go play sports in college and I realized I was a little baby. What ended up happening was that I ended up getting Comparing myself in high school, you start to reach the top of the league, and you're kind of the red oak, and everything else is dwarfed. Everybody else is a freshman or a sophomore coming in. Then you get to college and you have the best of the best from every area, and they've been there longer than you, and they're more mature. And you know what ends up happening is you realize you have got a lot of improvement that needs to happen. And that's part of what's going on here in this sermon this morning, is we've got Timothy in front of us. Man, what a oak tree. We've got the Apostle Paul, what a redwood. We've got Anisophorus. Man, what an example. But I don't want you to be discouraged by these examples. I want you to be motivated and see what God intends for you. He wants you to be mature. He wants you to grow. Brothers and sisters, Christ intends for you to be a redwood. And in order to do so, you are going to make sure that you do not take your faith casually. It will be the greatest accomplishment for you to make it to the end. And you are also going to make sure that you are helping each other out to make it to the end. No Man or woman in the fellowship is left behind. We can therefore begin to take our doctrine seriously this morning. And we can say that in times of turning away, we must help each other hold on to the faith. Amen. Amen. Let us pray.