Three and four twenty-eight, three and four. A poor man who oppresses the poor is like a driving rain which leaves no food. Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, but such as keep the law contend with them. Amen. Please join me for prayer. Father, we pray that through your preached word, we would not just know about justice, but become more just. We ask that you would conform us into your image here this very night. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. What would you say in your life has been the greatest betrayal? What is the greatest betrayal of your life? If you were to pop out of your life for a moment, you could just ask, perhaps more philosophically, what would be what is the tragedy, what is the great sting of a betrayal? Why does the Lord abhor it as he does? A betrayal, according to the scriptures. It's presented to us as those things or a set of things that are used contrary to their intended purposes. If something is meant for life, the great betrayal is that it has turned on you and is now your death. Now that can happen in minor ways. Perhaps a student turns on you and in some ways becomes not a student hurting you Instead of learning from you. But it can happen in manner major ways also. We see it across all of our different areas of our life. A father has been given to each of us in order to provide and to give us security And yet oftentimes we see that that provision and protection becomes a source of pain and a source of insecurity in the way that fathers abuse. You could drop down away from parenthood and you could think just of uh our pets and our life, where we get a dog to guard our homes and our properties But then we hear of dogs who have turned and mauled the faces of our children. Or I remember going through the Holocaust Museum, and it was the greatest betrayal of all for me. When I saw that pediatricians who were trained to take care of children were taken under the wings of Nazis and used their knowledge of children to kill them in the hundreds of thousands. Or at the height of betrayal is a people who were meant to love King Jesus, but instead cry out, crucify him, crucify him. Now I've called this betrayal, but as we look at these proverbs, the word that's uh closer to what's going on here What the proverbist wants us to pay attention to is justice and injustice. What I gave to you was betrayal, sure, but it also, they were all examples of what is at the heart of what the scriptures call an injustice. God intending for a thing to bring life, but instead through its corruption, it begins to bring death. And you're going to see here in this passage tonight a few patterns of injustice, and then you're going to see really the pattern of the wise. And you might be surprised because the pattern here is an answer to injustice. You might be surprised as an evangelical Christian at what that looks like So let's go ahead and take a look at this passage together in looking for these patterns. That's what Proverbs give to us. They give us patterns that we are meant to imitate, just as Paul talks about in the New Testament. The very first pattern is given to us here in verse number 3. This whole section 2 through 6 is all about justice, and really 7 and onward is about justice. And injustice also. But I just want to focus on verses three and four. In verse number three, I want to show you the first pattern of injustice. Let's just take a look at it together and we'll read it. Verse number three: A poor man who oppresses the poor is like a driving rain which leaves no food. Now I don't know all of the, I don't like to get lost in comments on manuscripts. I don't even want to talk about what I mean by that. But I know that all of you out there have uh sometimes have different translations. And so you might not have in your translation a poor man who oppresses the poor You might have a ruler who oppresses the poor. And that has to do with a manuscript and the difference of a vowel. And I just want to say that whether it's a poor man who oppresses the poor or a ruler who oppresses the poor, they're both oppressing the poor. And it's a problem. It can be a problem for different reasons. Neither is a pattern that you want to pick up. It is a pattern of foolishness and a pattern of destruction. You can see both in the scriptures. If you were to turn on your own time to Matthew chapter 18, there is a servant whom a king forgives a very great debt. And yet that poor servant turns to his servants and oppresses them by giving them no mercy. There's one pattern. That would be the pattern of the poor oppressing the poor. Or if you want to see the rulers oppressing the poor, well, you could turn to almost any page in the scriptures. But you we've we've we have mentioned James already here this evening and so on your own time take a look at James throughout there and see how the rulers were using their power, which was meant to bring life, instead to exploit the poor that were around them. And the proverbist, because he wants us to see patterns and how we are to be in our life, he gives us a pattern from the cosmos. He gives us a weather pattern. He says that these people, the poor or the rich, who oppose the poor, they're like something that you've seen in your life before. Something that we all know is a pattern that's not good. And that is the pattern of a driving rain, which leaves no food for the community. And that's a great image for the proverbist to give because It plays on exactly what the injustice is that we had talked about so far. Reign, like a ruler, is meant to bring refreshment and life and to lift people up. That they would be stronger, not weaker, but a driving rain, the kind of rain that rips up the plants from the roots The kind of rain that has hail that breaks off the branches. That's rain that is moving outside of the boundaries that God Himself has intended. It's a It's a kind of um if if you had to file for insurance, you would have to call it an act of God, a kind of evil in the world, if your windshields were broken from hail and driving rain Rain is meant to bring life to the garden. It's meant to make our pastures more green But a driving rain destroys all of life. And a particularly in this part of the world, you could end up losing everything. Like in 2017 when so many people lost their livelihood in Hurricane Harvey. Not sure if you remember that, but in Houston, Texas, Hurricane Harvey brought record-bate-breaking round uh rainfall. Have you heard the statistics on this? It led to catastrophic flooding, but many areas received over 40 inches of rain. And with some spots, it exceeded 60 inches of rain. The event ended up causing widespread destruction and it's one of th it's one of the costliest natural disasters in US history. And the proverbist gives you that image. He wants you to connect to these different things like Hurricane Harvey, and he's asking you the question implicitly, is that who you want to be? In people's lives where they take shelter from you? Well his point is made as soon as we start to put questions like that. No, as human beings we don't want to be. We want to be wise. Then that's not what wisdom looks like. God's eyes are wide open to oppression. And he wants his community's eyes to be wide open to oppression, and so he gives you these patterns so you can see who's a storm and who's not, and you would make sure that you're not a hurricane or a driving rain. God is not pleased with this. It implicitly, here the proverbist and the spirit implicitly warns us adopting this pattern in life. I mean, think of the contrasts that are given to us throughout the scriptures. We're meant, according to Jesus, to offer each other a glass of water when we're thirsty. We're meant to be fresh rains on fields of grass. That's an Old Testament image of the Holy Spirit and people filled with the Spirit. Dew on the grass. And how much does that contrast to you being a driving rain that destroys the people that are with you? You flood everyone. They gasp for breath under your torrent. Well that's the first pattern that he gives. The second pattern, and we want to avoid that pattern. Second pattern that he gives I won't spend a lot of time on this, but you can see this here in the in 4A. So we have a poor man who oppresses the poor as like a drive in grain which leaves no food. And you see how that expands out to those who are meant to bring life bring death. And 4A, there's another person who's a part of this. It's a different pattern. It says this: those who forsake the law praise the wicked. And I think that's pretty plain there. We have someone who is a driving rain, and then there are people in this world who will support them. There are people in this world who will remain silent while they kill And that's what 4A is talking about. Those who forsake the law, those who don't care about justice, they praise and they support the wicked in different ways. Now that could happen in different ways. It could happen through silence. We hear about that a lot in the scriptures, about your silence and your indifference condemning. You can remain silent in the midst of injustice, but that is not the practice that is commended here. What is commended here, that's that second pattern, but what I want us to focus on is this third pattern, which is the pattern of answering the question, what should we do when we see injustice? What should we do when we see the driving reins? Now the title of the sermon should be, I don't think it's in the bulletin, but I think it is online already Shelter from the driving rain. That's what I ended up deciding that will show up online. And that's 4B. That's this next pattern. So you have one pattern of the person who destroys, second pattern is the person who doesn't do anything about it, but supports the person who is destroying. And then 4B has a pattern that is commended in the scriptures. And I would summarize it like this: you stand up against injustice and you do something about it. You could ask the question: what are we supposed to do about the injustices in the world? And the proverbist here is giving us an answer and saying, well, at the very least, you're supposed to do something about it in the name of God. That he expects to use you if you wanted to use complex theological language as a secondary means to accomplish his will And the way that the proverbist says it is in verse 4b, but such as keep the law, those who keep justice. They will contend with the people that are the driving rain. Now that's beautiful. And we have a lot of different examples throughout scripture where this pattern is then picked up. And human beings start to walk out the image of God, which is the image of justice and standing up for those who are downtrodden. I mean, and think of it too. Think of some of the examples. I bet you you could come up with a lot of examples right now where a person decides to contend with those who are the driving range. That the community wouldn't be under their terrible influence any longer, but instead life would be restored. Think about Paul and Peter, for example. Wow, what an example where the leadership We're so in love with God that they were willing to stand against each other if they saw injustice in their midst. That's actually in 28, that's what that's what verse number two is about. I didn't preach on that. tonight. But that's what verse number two is about. It's about a man of understanding and knowledge standing up against many princes. who are ruling unjustly. And Paul gives takes up this pattern and imitates his Lord He would stand Peter to his face for excluding the Gentiles from the covenant that God had just put them into as clean. Another example that stood out to me as I was thinking about speaking with you tonight was Tabitha. This is a gentler example. She's also known as Dorcas. The name sounds strange to me, so I like to say Tabitha. Tabitha is a gentle example. I'm assuming based on all of the references from Christ as to the leadership in Jerusalem that when I turn to Acts chapter 9, I believe it is, and I find Tabitha there and the condition of the people that are in her community, that part of the reason why they're poor in her community is because of the leadership being a driving rain. And she doesn't stand by and just let it happen. It ends up saying this of her. There was a certain disciple named Tabitha. This woman was full of good works and charitable deeds which she did. But it happened in those days that she became sick and she died. But when they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room, and since Lydda was near Japa, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent two men to him, imploring him not to delay in coming to them. Then Peter arose and went with them. And when he had come, they brought him to the upper room. And you could picture this. This woman dies, and you get to begin to see her impact on the community in the way that the community responds to her death in this next verse, there's a gathering that is around her. In verse number 39 it says, all the widows stood by, weeping, showing the tunics and the garments which Tabitha had made while she was with them. With her own hand she stood against The poor, or that the the bird the burden of poverty continually pressing down on her community. She stood against it and did not remain silent in her own way by making clothes for the poor. She did something about it. And in that way takes up the pattern and begins to imitate Proverbs 31. Proverbs 31, woman, it's remarked several times. That she makes clothes for her children and for the poor. Taking care of her community. That that that that that that That burden of poverty which can happen from rulers does not suppress or oppress the people as much as it could around her. What a gentle way to stand up against injustice. And then there are fire brands that are extra biblical, like Francis Schaefer. Francis Schaefer, in his book, The Christian Manifesto, called the church to stand up against injustice. He said in another work of his, which I forget the title of it, but he says that Christians, especially evangelical Christians, often forget that love is tied to justice. But that instead when we love, we have a kind of gooey sort of love, and we never stand up for anything. And he called the church out of that. He even said, there does come a time when force, even physical force, is appropriate. Now make sure you listen to me very carefully. He goes on and he says, the Christian is not to take the law into his own hands and become a law unto himself. But when all avenues to flight and all avenues to protest have closed, force in the defensive posture is appropriate. Now that is a very technical description, so I don't want you running off with port fit uh uh shovels and stuff Trying to, you know, use force. That's not what he's saying here. Let me give you an example. He goes on and he writes, he says, a true Christian in Hitler's Germany, this is a use of force, according to him. A true Christian in Hitler's Germany and in the occupied country should have defied the false and counterfeit state and hidden his Jewish neighbors from the German SS troops. The government had abrogated its authority and it had no right to make any demands. That's what he means. By standing up and not allowing a Nazi reign to drive everyone to death. He went on and he spoke he spoke about ways in which we should be standing up against injustice in America. And of course this was uh he's he's writing in the late 60s And he says, this brings us to a current issue that is crucial for the future of the church in the United States, and that is the issue of abortion. What is involved is the whole issue of the value of human life. A recent report, this was a long time ago, I imagine the reports are are worse now. But a recent report indicates, according to Francis Schaefer, that for every three live births, one child is aborted. Christians must come to the children's defense. And Christians must come to the defense of human life as such. And he worked hard for that to happen. Not a perfect man, but his points are in line with the pattern that we see here within Proverbs. He mentioned that this brings us to a current issue. There are other current issues that we see. We can see that as medical industries Become more and more bureaucratic or controlled by a longing for greed or money It is necessary for us as Christians to stand up for human life by offering medical advocacy. That's another one that I continually see, even in this congregation, where you're going to go, you're going to be in the hospital room With someone who is in the hospital bed, and when the nurse comes in or the doctor comes in and gives all kinds of bad advice or confusing advice, you're going to be there to be the advocate to stand up for the life that is in that bed Or when they have to go to a rehabilitation center, and all of the people who are in charge of that person's rehabilitation could give two cents about the person in the bed, you're going to stand there and you're going to advocate And make sure that those who are nurses who are meant to bring healing, who because of their attitude are now seeking to bring death, partially because they're overworked You will stay there and you will defend them against injustice that the driving rain will not fully flood them over. Those are examples that I see. Those are ways in which the pattern is being fulfilled even among us here by the grace of Christ. I'd like you to just take a moment and think about moments of injustice in your own life. I think the word betrayal does capture it. What are the ways in which you're betraying your calling? As a mom, or as a dad, or as a grandmother, or a grandfather, or a son, or a daughter, or a friend All of those names have the same thing attached. You are meant to bring life to a certain group of people that are in your life. And yet, we can enter into a foolish pattern where we become a driving rain and we destroy the people that are around us. What are ways in which you have been participating in that pattern that's destructive and you haven't really cared? Is now a time for you to repent? And to turn to your Lord and see the pattern that He has been offering to you by His Spirit It is when life brings death, and then those who could defend let death reign through their silence and indifference that the pattern is fulfilled in us and in others. And we are to refuse that pattern. We are instead, of course, this proverb is pointing all of us, like this morning, we're all going towards the center of the woods, and there we find Christ. And his pattern. And we're to be taking that one up because we now have his spirit and we've been given the mind of Christ. And his pattern sounds like this Come to me, all who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, because I'm gentle and I am humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. That is the most beautiful pattern. And because of Christ's work in your life, you may now move forward and participate in it. May He give us that pattern by His grace more and more among us. May we love. And may we stand up for justice. Let us pray. Father, we thank you that you have given us many scriptures surrounding