Please turn with me to Psalm six in your scriptures. Please follow along as I read the Psalm in its entirety, and then we will pray that the Lord will allow us to hear his voice this morning. With stringed instruments on an eight-stringed harp, a psalm of David O Lord, do not rebuke me in your anger, nor chasten me in your hot displeasure. Have mercy on me, O Lord, for I am weak. O Lord, heal me, for my bones are troubled. My soul is greatly troubled. But you, O Lord, how long? Return, O Lord, deliver me. Oh, save me for your mercy's sake. For in death there's no remembrance of you. In the grave, who will give you thanks? I am weary with my groaning. All night I make my bed swim. I drench my couch with tears. My eyes waste away because of grief. It grows old because of all my enemies. Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity, for the Lord has heard the voice of my weeping, the Lord has heard my supplication, the Lord that will receive my prayer. Let all my enemies be ashamed and greatly troubled. Let them turn back and be ashamed suddenly. Please pray with me. Lord, perhaps our greatest deficiency is trusting you in a time of trouble and in a time of affliction. We pray that you would teach us to lament. You have been teaching us. We ask that you would continue to teach us in this species, in this variety. We ask that you would show us how to relate to you, how to relate. To each other when our days are dark. In the name of Christ, Amen. We've seen in the songs and you've heard from my lips already this morning the word affliction. It's a word that goes way back in our tradition. It goes back into the inspired tradition of the scriptures. Scriptures, even into Isaiah. Affliction is from the verb to afflict. If someone afflicts you, they bring some sort of pain or suffering In the scriptures, we see all kinds of affliction. Consider, for example, Psalm 94:5, how the wicked afflict the righteous I'd ask that you just consider that on your own. This can be done in different ways, the wicked afflicting the righteous. You can consider even the progression of the Psalms in which we've already taken a peek. We've preached through all of these psalms up to this point between the two halves of the Psalm series. If you were to flip to Psalm one, which is just a couple pages back for you You would see the front porch of the Psalms telling us about the life that we would enter into. And then you see in Psalm 2 the front door to the Psalms with the decree. That God the Father would bless through his decree God the Son as the Messiah for triumph in the kingdom. Kingdom. But something very strange happens, or maybe something that we don't expect by the time that you hit Psalm 3. If you have the title that I have from the NKJV, it's this The Lord Helps His Troubled People. You would think with the installation of the king that there would be no trouble. But that is not the story of the Psalms, and nor is it the story of our lives, even though our Messiah has in fact been installed And so these Psalms are even truer to life than we would have thought. In Psalm 3, we see that David was afflicted specifically by his own son, Absalom. If you look there at that editorial note right under the title, Psalm 3. When we turn to Psalm four, we notice there in Psalm two, how long, O you sons of men, that there is internal leadership that is striking against the Messiah. Messiah, David, and that there was internal leadership who struck against Christ as he was installed. As we turn to Psalm 5 last week, still a psalm of David, still about lament. Still people railing against the Messiah. In this time, in verse 6 of chapter of Psalm 5, we see that they were bloodthirsty, that they were deceitful, that they were malicious. Liars. And we saw that in the life of Jesus Christ the Messiah also, his own people, the leadership of his people, lying against him that he might be Crucified. Each of these are what we would say afflictions from the external pain and suffering given to this Messiah and who's temporary David. and the eternal Messiah, Christ, from the outside, although his own people. As we turn to Psalm 6, we're going to begin to see a different kind of a Affliction. There are afflictions, and the response to those afflictions have been lament. In Psalm 5, we saw that David wrote a case. It was like a lawsuit against his enemies. And he brought it before God. Early in the morning, he had his name on that docket, bringing his case before him, and waiting on the Lord to act against his enemies. Here in Psalm 6, it's a different kind of affliction. But nevertheless, he still in this affliction brings his lament to God. And it might be surprising to you. Actually, the affliction here is because of David himself God afflicts David because of sin in David's life. We would call this a disciplinary affliction. And what we end up learning within this psalm is that during disciplinary affliction, the Messiah brings his lament before the God who hears, and we are to learn. From David, and ultimately from Christ. During disciplinary affliction, the Messiah brings his lament before the God who hears. I asked you this same question last time. Last week. When you are afflicted, when you are lamenting, it is a part of every person's life here. Do you bring it to God? And if not, why not? And if you do, I would love to hear those stories, how God has ministered to you. I want to look at a how this is defined, affliction, defined, affliction lamented. And affliction heard, as we consider this truth in this Psalm six, that during disciplinary affliction the Messiah brings his lament before the God who hears. To relate to God and to each other. We begin with the affliction defined. David is afflicted by God as an affliction of discipline. This is very clear if we start to notice in verse 1, for example. Now notice what he says here. Do not rebuke me in your anger. And then notice we've already read this word in other scriptures this morning. You see, the affliction is coming from God Himself, and the language that is used is disciplinary language. It's obvious from the poetic parallel that I just pointed out to you in 1A and 1B. Rebuke me, and then you know how this poetry works. He's going to repeat. But it's going to be a synonym, rebuke me, chasten me. And it's clear if we look out throughout the rest of the scriptures on how these terms are used. For example, the word here in the first verse, rebuke me, is also used in Amos And a bunch of other places, and it's always in a legal setting. Here's just one example, which should remind you of the sermon and the psalm from last week. In Amos 5:10, they hate the one who rebukes in the gate. And they abhor the one who speaks uprightly. Remember, court took place in the gate. That's where justice and the court hearing was held. And the rebuke there, again, is in a legal setting. He goes on with a more familiar term, chasten me. We read that in Hebrews this morning. It makes it even more clear. The word chasten or the verb chasten is used 40 different times throughout the Old Testament. And in every instance, the context is instruction, discipline, and development of obedience. That's the context here. So take, for example, what God promises to David as he thinks about Solomon taking the throne. This is from 2 Samuel 7. 14. This is God speaking. I will be his father, speaking of Solomon, and he shall be my son. If he commits sin or iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and with the blows of the son of men. You see that? It's again just another, it's just one instance of forty instances of seeing discipline and obedience. The Father, God the Father Determines and is committed to raising David's son Solomon in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. Something that we vow to each other here as our Son. Children come up for baptism. You see this in your bulletin, for example, in one of the readings that we've done in Hebrew in the Beholding Christ, Hebrews 12, 1 through 11. I won't reread it for you But it is there for you to read this afternoon to see that the word chastening is in there, and how you are to understand chastening. And again, it is in the context of discipline. In fact, afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been Trained by it. You are in a training ground. That is the context that David has. As you can see, we experience different kinds of affliction. Not only affliction, as you look through all of the Psalms, when we are innocent, there are Psalms where David will declare his innocence, meaning people have accused him of something that he never did. But there are also afflictions out of discipline for sin. That's clearly present within this psalm. I'm not sure about your worldview, but it's here. And it's throughout the scriptures that God will afflict because of discipline, because of sin. I use the word affliction because of Isaiah 30:20, where God feeds us the bread of tears. And pours us the waters of affliction for the sake of discipline. We hear about difficult things that are lamentable in our life. We hear of different afflictions Mary Chapin Carpenter, anyone familiar with her? She's a country singer. She wrote a song that I sang in high school called The Bug. Anyone familiar with that song? song, The Bug. Sometimes you're the windshield. Sometimes you're the bug. Sometimes it all comes together, baby. Sometimes you're just a fool in love. Sometimes you're the Louisville slugger, sometimes you're the ball. Sometimes it all comes together. Sometimes you're going to lose it all. Now, if any kind of song does a good job with lament, it's the country song. And that's what she has done. The rest of her song, if you were to study it And I'm a nerd and I did study her song. If you were to study it instead of just enjoying it, the rest of her song makes clear that in life pain will rap randomly happen to you, and we must make the most of the good times before they go away. That was her solution to the pain of the world, at least in that song. I haven't spoken to her personally. I'm sure she has a more robust worldview than that one hit. Here's the thing. David, I'm not sure if it would be he'd be considered a country singer or not. But he was a musician. And he was a singer. And he knew how to play the instruments. And he saw pain and he saw affliction and he never characterized it as random. But sometimes the afflictions he did characterize as God relating to him and other people because of sin. sin within their lives. And that's the question. It's the question as you hear the different voices within our culture, will you relate to your affliction as Mary Chapin Carpenter? Sometimes thinking of yourself as the Louisville slugger, and sometimes thinking of yourself as the ball, or will you do it as David? Will you, as you are afflicted, have the intelligence, the meditation, and the wherewithal to figure out why you're lamenting? Are you lamenting because of the mystery of God's providence? Or are you lamenting because He has made it clear? Clear that you are being disciplined because of your sin. If I were you, I'd figure out the difference. Sometimes we can't. God's will is mysterious, but sometimes He does very clearly reveal to you quite personally that it is because of sin within your life. It's not always the case that it's because of sin, but sometimes it is Is it here and here is another question as we think about going into the second point here in the sermon. A question that I haven't heard much amongst God's people. Is it ever appropriate to lament God's discipline? If God is disciplining you for sin, Would it be okay to lament that discipline and that affliction? Before I pointed these things out in the sermon and in this psalm, what would We've already established that this is because of discipline and because of sin in David's life, and now for the rest of the psalm until we get to the final set of understands us, he will cry out and lament. And so we may, we are permitted to go before the Lord and to lament even in In this kind of affliction. That's our next point. Affliction lamented. David laments this affliction in almost the rest of his psalm. Formally, considering the structure, verses six and seven are the lament. I am weary with my groaning. All night I make my bed swim. I want you to picture this. He leaves this general for you so that you can personally appropriate and fill in the colors and make it vivid. All night I make my bed swim. I drench my couch with my tears. My eyes waste away because of grief. He's talking about the kind of crying where you can't catch your breath. I've mentioned this to you before, and this almost makes it trivial, but he is ugly crying And we usually turn away from people and don't want to talk to them when that happens to us because we're so ugly. Our face begins to Contort. We're not able to catch our breath. You can hear a person where they took in the breath and they and they're just silent. And paralyzed with the grief. That's what's going on here. Whatever is your dark night of the soul is present here in this psalm. And it is a lament relative to the discipline of his sin. So, of course, you may go before him in lamentation over your sin That's formally. However, you see throughout the rest of here, besides just this formal lament, you see in the petition portions We say petition because he's crying out to the Lord. You see that even in verse 1, O Lord, verse 2, O Lord, verse 4, verse 3, O Lord, verse 4, O Lord, verse And he's still continuing to speak To him. In verse 6, we get into formal petitions, or lament. But even in the petitions, we end up seeing David lament over his sin. I am weak, verse 2. My bones, my core, my psychological being The very center of my motivations are troubled to be. My soul is greatly troubled. How long will this continue? Has anybody here ever said that to the Lord? How long, Lord? I love that he has to ask the question because he's waiting. You see this in verse in Psalm 5 where he says that he'll wait on the Lord. These same words are used vividly elsewhere. In Hosea 4 3, for example, where David says here in verse 2, I am weak, Hosea is speaking and describes the failing land and people. Therefore the land will mourn, and everyone who dwells there will waste away, with the beasts of the field and the birds of the air, even the fish of the sea You begin to picture that landscape, which was once fruitful turning into a desert, and now just there's present carrion for dogs. Holly and I were in Baltimore a while back and we saw, I'm not sure if Holly saw her or not, we were back from going back from the hospital, and I saw a young girl standing in the median strip with a cardboard sign And there's a lot of people standing in media and strips with cardboard signs in Baltimore. But this one, she took me back. I was taken aback by her uh because of uh how young she looked. You could in fact, if you were to use your imagination, you could tell that she was born athletic, the kind of girl that would have been on the field hockey team in my high school. school and she probably would have played lacrosse. But here standing in the medium strip she was thin and she was frail. And you could tell that her when she was younger, that that blonde hair that she had used to shine in the sun. And she was more beautiful than the flowers of But now it was matted into unintentional dreads because of being on the streets And you could you could tell as we drove by her that her eyes used to gleam, and I bet you when she was a little girl, her grandparents took great delight just in how cute she was. Maybe with pigtails but that's not how she was now her eyes were hollow and they were heavy from life And I say that to you, and she has her own story, and it's not the same story that David is telling here. But that's the picture that we get of David. Once youthful, dancing, leading worship, playing playing music for his friends and for the king when he was younger, able to wrestle bears and fight galleys. We see him in a sense in a median strip, holding up a cardboard sign and lament over how the Lord has afflicted him. in his sin. You've got to catch that picture that the Lord has taken him this far. Because otherwise you'll think that you have it the worst. That people don't know the experiences that you've experienced or how long you've been dealing with this. No, we we know. God knows. And God is in control. That's the picture that we have here. And actually, the lament deepens in verses 6 and 7, because while he's wasting away and his eyes have become hollow, and he's thin and frail. The scholars that I have read point out that verse 7, we make sense of that in context by saying, His enemies take advantage of his weakness. I've noticed that certain plants are fine in the garden until they're not watered for a while, and then pests can overtake them. And that is the same thing that we see here within this psalm. He's weary with groaning. All night he covers his bed with his tears, he drenches his couch with tears. And his enemies have no mercy on him. They take advantage of him. They politically maneuver in order to gain support for their programs and their agendas, perhaps. Because this is a political atmosphere. Have you ever been to that place? Not politically, but have you ever cried yourself asleep? Because that's what David is doing here. Are there tear stains on your pillow? And have you done that Because of your sin. And because of the affliction that has accompanied your sin. You see, the way that David is relating to God is very rare amongst the human race right now. And because you're hearing it, it is a calling onto you to go to this place. In some sense, I think we have. There's different degrees in which human beings will experience these things. But in one time or another, we experience a kind of dark night of the soul. That's poetically how we've put these kind of things. We haven't been to the exact place that David has been. But I do want you to notice that while he's there in lamentation because of affliction that's happening to him for discipline because of his sin. Do you notice two things that are present there with him? God is present. And pain. Usually we think God is present in happiness, and that will be true, and it is true even to this day. But here we see that God and pain are in the same room. Do you lament before God? I know of women who once a year go away to the beach. They get a bottle of wine that has flip-flops on the bot the wine label. And they cry and they comfort each other and they laugh together. And that's actually really great. It's nice to have nice friendships. But David didn't get a bottle of wine with flip-flops on the front. He went to his Lord and he lamented, whether at the beach or not at the beach. They're not mutually exclusive, but notice what he is doing and how he is relating to his Pain. He runs to his God. Is that possible for you? How long would you last? Is it possible for you? Why is it not possible for you? I find actually I'm asking the question because I find this actually exceptionally difficult to lament before God for any course of time where it would actually be meaningful. Most people that I speak to, besides the wine option and going to the beach, they will say, I feel like my prayers are hitting the ceiling and bouncing right back down, or that I'm crying out into just emptiness. And that may be why you don't consider it a possibility to lament like This over your sin. But I'm not asking you to feel guilty when I ask you the question. I'm not trying to figure out a way for you to convince me, no, I know how to lament. One man told me that he often thinks about how beautiful his wife is, but he never tells her. I said, why don't you ever tell her? Because I'm afraid she would make fun of me. You see, he's bashful like a little elementary school boy. There was another man who said to me, he said, I never share my feelings and I never did share my feelings with my father. And I said, why not? He said Because my father doesn't really listen or care. He just likes the sound of his own voice. Those are reasons why people don't do things. Emotional embarrassment, doesn't feel like people will listen And I'm asking you, why don't you particularly go before your God and relate to him this way that David is showing you as you are afflicted in general, but particularly for your sin. Just write the question down. And would you spend longer than two minutes thinking about it? Would you meditate on that perhaps for days? Just asking the question before him and ask him to teach you. Learn how to relate to God this way. Those examples that I give you are two people who have trouble sharing their emotions and their thoughts with others. And I'm asking the same thing of you. Why do you have trouble sharing your emotions? Thoughts with God. Write a list of reasons why and let's talk about it. Are you afraid that He doesn't hear you? If that is your problem, And it is most of the problem. Then the last part of this psalm will be exceptionally helpful to you because our final point is affliction heard. During disciplinary affliction, the Messiah brings his lament before the God who hears. God hears the prayers of the afflicted. You can see this mixed in with uh called a malediction instead of a benediction. Last week we did a benediction over God's people. This week we have a malediction over God's enemies. In 8 through 10, you see that God hears. Notice the repeated refrain as we see that God hears the prayers of the afflicted. For the Lord has heard the voice of my weeping. The Lord has heard my supplication. The Lord will receive my prayer. And now you know what? His enemies are in trouble. Because the Lord has heard him and not them. It's mixed with a rebuke to his enemies, but you can see the refrain. Here, heard, heard, received. And to hear or receive means more than being present and listening. It means that God acted in his life. That the strong arm of the Lord reached from heaven. and covered David and restored him to where he looked athletic again, and could stand before his enemies. David was close to dying. Look at verse five. In the grave, who will give you thanks? He must have been On his deathbed almost. And knowing that this is a Lamet Psalm, you would expect to find that God didn't just listen to David, but He listened to David's arguments. And that's present here too. God does hear, but what does he listen to? Well, in verse 4, David appeals to God's mercy. God listened to David's appeal for mercy. Return, O Lord, deliver me. O save me for your mercy's sake. Last week in Psalm 5, David appealed to God as king. This week he appeals to God as merciful king. As the king, God is responsible for the kingdom. When evil enters the kingdom, God must act. That was our message from last week. Here, David appeals to another characteristic of God, his mercy. You can't go wrong by appealing to the attributes of God. It's actually what you see David doing in the throughout all of the Psalms almost. The word here is Hesed. Remember that one? Kassed violmet David thus appeals to his covenant relationship with his Lord. In Psalm 2, God promised the earth to the Messiah. If the Messiah dies due to sickness, then this decree cannot happen. God must remember and have mercy on him and the nation. What in God's covenant relationship to you could you lean on in your prayers? Search the scriptures and how he relates to you. How has he related to people that are like you in the struggles that you're facing? In verse 5, in addition to appealing to his mercy, he appeals to God's glory. For in death there's no remembrance of you. In the grave, who will give you thanks? In other words, David will do no good for God's name if David is dead. The final song of this service will highlight this point. You can look through it now if you want to, but just make a note that we have the song on purpose. The song begins with waking in the morning, and then there's the chorus. May Jesus Christ be praised. And then they're going to work through the day. May Jesus Christ be praised. And then there's going to be sleep at night or lack of sleep at night. May Jesus Christ be praised. And then there'll be sadness in the future, and may Jesus Christ be praised. That is David's focus. Can you believe it? Can you believe that in the midst of his affliction for his sin, feeling the weight of the hand of God upon him, to the point where he's on his sickbed almost onto death, his concern is that he would be a good servant for the Lord and that God's name would be glorified and praised. May Jesus Christ be praised. was the refrain, was the chorus of David's life. But not in all ways because he was obviously being afflicted for his sin. But that's what the heavy hand of God does. It takes those places where our hands are dirty, and it humbles us that our hands would become clean. It's called progressive sanctification. That's what the verse in Hebrews told us about. That one little verse in verse 5 of this Psalm lets us know that God's discipline did its work in David because David's concern in the midst of pain is the glory of God. It did its work. Hebrews and discipline And although it's not pleasant at the time, it all came together. He didn't despise the chastening of the Lord. There it is, right before you. God's afflictions applied by the Spirit. They don't result in pride or bitterness or self-pity. They result in humble service and praise to the Master. When you're going on the trail and you're walking that life of agony and Pain. There will be pit stops of self-pity and bitterness, but it will not be the result. The Spirit won't allow it. And will be that you are the servant and he is the master, no matter what. And pain at that point isn't even the point, just as long as you're still able to serve him in some way. Paul was thankful even while in prison because they gave him something to write letters with. And that is to be our attitude, and we gain that attitude through the discipline of our Heavenly Father. It results in humble service and praise to our master. Perhaps God is willing to stop discipline because He saw that David took his place as a servant and stopped rebelling. I'd be willing to bet on that one if betting were I don't know. Okay. Forget it. And here's a question for you. Perhaps your discipline continues because you refuse to learn. Have you ever seen a stubborn mule? Has anyone ever called you a stubborn mule? Maybe that's what's going on. I don't know. You need to relate to your Lord. If you'd like, we can sit down and we can work that out together. But maybe you're being stubborn. Maybe it's time to submit. There's a story about that. It's called the Prodigal Son. Yet, here's something I have to say, considering the whole canon of Scripture. Sometimes, even here, disath Remains even when you get the point and you realize that you're a servant. He doesn't always lift his heavy hand. I want you to think of the Apostle Paul who has who Asked, Lord, three times he asked, please remove this affliction from me. And God said no. God wanted the thorn to remain to keep Paul humble because of the degree But I want you to notice, going back to the point that we're making here in the Psalm, whether the thorn remained in Paul or it was removed in David, God heard. That's the point. God hears the cries of his afflicted. It's affliction defined in the psalm. You see that in the first part. You see the affliction lamented both formally in verses 6 and 7, but all through the petitions. And you hear affliction heard in verses 8 and 9 and 10. And therefore the result that will happen to the enemy. During disciplinary affliction, the Messiah brings his lament before the God who hears. Is certainly the truth of this psalm for us to learn how to relate to the Lord and to each other. Now, this was true of David, who was a temporary Messiah. It is fully true of Jesus the eternal Messiah, but there is a difference that's obvious. Jesus never sinned. But he did lament. Jesus lamented as the Messiah, and God heard him, not only for himself but for him. for his people. Jesus, if you were to search the scriptures, used the same language that we see here within this psalm. Jesus used the language of the troubled soul. What do you think of when you think of Jesus at his most troubled Is it in the crucifixion or is it the Garden of Gethsemane? Same kind of language that David is expressing here. David has to be saved from the grave. Jesus was saved from the grave. I understand they're they're different. But we're meant to read and to overlay the two. David is always just a signpost for us to look past him. to the eternal Messiah. In John 12, 27 through 28, in that spirit, Jesus says, Now my soul is troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. No, that's actually not how it's written. This is how David would say it. How long, O Lord, save me from this hour? But Jesus says it with a question mark. Save me from this hour? Do you know why he had the question mark? Because this is what Jesus says directly after this. But for this purpose I came to this hour. Father, glorify your name Oh. And then a voice came from heaven saying, because he hears the afflicted. Thank you, Father. I have both glorified it and will glorify it again. You see the difference here is that although Jesus is not afflicted for his own sin, he takes on the affliction of our sin. That's why it turned into a question mark. Because the hour that he came for was to take on the affliction. He laments, but then as a servant, he chooses to go deeper into the darker night of the soul than we have ever felt for our sakes. The Father nevertheless saves him from the grave, just as we saw in verse 5 of this psalm. And now Jesus lives and he walks because the Father heard the prayer of the anguished and the afflicted, and the grave could not hold him. The enemy couldn't stand because the Father heard the prayers of Christ, not even the enemy of death And now he lives and he walks amongst us. He walks amongst the lampstand of his church. And he disciples or disciplines us. Depends how you want to celiby that. And what he's doing in this psalm for you, he's trying to and he's seeking through his spirit this morning, looking you right in the eye. And saying, I need you to learn how to lament over your sin. With me, not your girlfriends, only He lives and he walks amongst us, discipling us, bringing you to lament. Why? Because he has committed to you becoming his servant. Just as he was committed to David. It is the sole purpose of your life to serve him, to enjoy your God, and to glorify him There is no other purpose. It just works out in a million different details. Lamenting is difficult The reason why we chose this is for us to know our Christ who laments, and for him to teach us to be a people that know how to lament. Let me share with you an excerpt from a book showing how the church struggles with lament. This is from a book by Joni Ericsson Tata entitled A Step Further. Joni Ericsson Tata I hope I'm pronouncing her I think it's Johnny, but I I'm I apologize for that. But she's local a life of suffering, not disciplinary affection affliction necessarily in everything. And the story that I'm going to tell you here from her book is not disciplinary affliction. It is just affliction. So she says this. She says, let me illustrate. A friend of mine, Jeanette, and her husband lost their three-year-old son to cancer. Cute little Bradley, blonde and blue-eyed, for a year and a half his parents had known death was coming. And of course, when he died, their grief was very deep But throughout the whole ordeal, they were never bitter toward God. They continued to love and serve God, trusting God completely that He cared for them and knew what He was doing. About two weeks after Bradley's funeral, Jeanette attended a women's Bible study at her church. Afterwards, as she walked down the hall with some other ladies. She spotted a little boy standing tiptoe atop some small steps, straining to sip from the water fountain. The sight immediately recalled memories, memories of her own little Bradley who had always made a big production of climbing the little stairs to drink from that very fountain. And she began to sob. Walking beside her was one of her closest friends who sensed what had happened. This friend didn't say a word, just put her arms around Jeanette and silently held and comforted her. It was exactly what she needed. Then another woman who didn't know Jeanette saw her crying and obviously wanted to help Coming up, she patted Jeanette and said, I'm praying for you, honey. Praise the Lord. The words stung like fire. Later, Jeanette expressed how she felt at that moment. Quote, I really had to ask God to help me with my feelings about that. Woman. I know she only wanted to help, but the way that she said praise the Lord made me feel like I didn't have any right to cry if I was trusting the Lord. Pausing for a moment, she thoughtfully added, Maybe she just didn't know that trusting the Lord doesn't rule out crying. Maybe she forgot that God told us to weep with those who weep. To everything there is a season. A time for every purpose under heaven. A time to be born and a time to die. A time to plant and a time to pluck what is planted A time to kill and a time to heal. A time to break down and a time to build up. A time to weep and a time to laugh. A time to mourn and a time to dance. Please pray with me. Father, the danger is for us to learn about the genre of lament in your Psalms and to never learn how to be lamenters. But you are not interested in an intellectual refashioning, but a refashioning of our whole being to where we would be those who know how to lament before you. That we would be in your image and know the right time for crying, even when the affliction is over our sin. We pray that you would teach us how to enter into the Psalms in this way over our sin and the affliction and discipline that accompanies it. The pain that will spread out from the consequences that we reap from our own sin. Psychological burdens and confusion from the fruit of our sin. All of these afflictions, we pray that you would teach us how to lament, and we pray that you would show us how to walk side by side with those who lament. We pray that we would mourn with those who mourn. In the name of Christ, Amen