Let us hear the Word of God. This is now the second letter that I am writing to you, beloved. In both of them I am stirring up your sincere mind by way of reminder That you should remember the predictions of the Holy Prophets and the commandments of the Lord and Savior through your apostles Knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days, with scoffing, following their own sinful desires, they will say, Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation. For they deliberately overlook this fact. That the heavens existed long ago and the earth was formed out of water and through water by the Word of God. And that by means of those the world that then existed was deluged with water and perished. But by the same word the heavens and earth that now exist are stored up for fire, being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. But do not overlook this one fact, beloved. That with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some kind slowness. But is patient towards you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief And then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness? waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn. But according to his promise, we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. Amen. May the Lord bless to us the reading of His Word. Please be seated. First of all, thank you for the invitation to be among you. Some of you, a few of you may know me and have seen me. For some of us it's been years for some of us as it's been even almost decades. My last visit here was 2011, believe it or not. But also I I uh preached in a certain church in uh Oklahoma, even further afield than that, or further in this time distance And happened just my my last visit to Severn Run to come across a certain Dorful. And uh I rejoiced in just that reunion I had preached in Grace O. P. C. Norman in 2005, I think it was. Anyways, long story, long history, such a joy. to be with some old friends and new. The Ministry of CWI I'm going to show a little bit more visually uh through something like a twenty minute PowerPoint. Uh so we need to keep my uh hour long sermon down to about twenty five minutes or so. We'll we'll we'll see if we can make some swift progress. But before I do that, I also want to wave at you some of the items that we have on the table. The work of Christian Witness to Israel in a nutshell does two things, and we'll see it up on the screen very soon. In that we Reach out to the church to build a biblical burden for Jewish evangelism, which is a reformed principle as I understand it, and reach the Jewish community frontline evangelism, friendship evangelism, volunteer and mobilizing the church for its own evangelism of the Jewish community because CWI North America is concerned not with a piece of dirt, a land as such, but the six million Jewish people that live in the USA. Forty-two percent of the world's Israel live here. And therefore it's a local church mission field And that's what I want to see happen, and that's what I want to serve biblically, to resource with good materials, and then To help you be the church in Jewish America, where it's a matter of life, liberty, and the pursuit of Jewishness is uh It's all that that has occurred. So again, we have resources. We have four. These are freebies from McShane, Bonner, Spurgeon, and Abraco. And if those are not familiar to you, I need to have a word with your pastor. So I hope they are familiar and worthy of your reading. We also have our new magazine. This has been a locally produced magazine, mostly from my pen and my desk. heavily burdened with with uh producing it, please pray for that, but I'm really excited to bring some local context into Jewish mission in the US. So that's the issue number one. We literally have number two at the printers as I speak. The December issue. This is the fall issue. The December issue is Already available in PDF form if you sign up for our emails, but it will come in print as well. So that's our our magazine. Just very briefly in the magazine we do have a city focus on Pittsburgh and I'll refer to that in our presentation later. This is kind of a summary of what we do. So if you don't know what we do and you just want one page, a summary of what we do, can I commend that summary page uh of uh what CWI North America is. Then if you want the longer version, twenty sermons or twenty sermon lectures, um I don't lecture, I just preach. You know, I I I've given some lectures in certain seminaries and some of them are in here Um but they are twenty of a series on the biblical burden for Jewish mission, the historical hope for Jewish redemption, and the contemporary connection. So it's it's Bible history and present reality of Jewish mission in Jewish USA. So that's called the AC course, the Awakening the Conscience course. It's available on our website, it's on YouTube, it's in PDF. etc etc. So please avail yourself of the materials and again I'll talk a little more of those things as we go to the presentation. 2 Peter 3, verse 9 is the major text and verse that I want us to focus our attention on, though I'll be referencing the verses surrounding also. But I want to begin with a rather famous quote. It's not a scriptural quote. It's not even a theological quote. It's as follows. Gandalf, you're late. Those of you who recognize the line, it's from Lord of the Rings. It's the uh great meeting between the gentlemanly wizard uh and the little uh frodo um the hobbit. And Gandalf in his uh large stature replies to the little hobbit. A wizard is never late, Frodo Baggins, nor is he early. He arrives precisely when he means to. You see, in the first century, and indeed in the 21st century, there are those that would charge the Lord with lateness. slow to fulfill his promise. And what I want us to see as we reflect even on multiple arrivals of the Lord, a multiple Fulfilled promises of the Lord, he arrives precisely when he means to, in his sovereign providence. But what does this verse pertain to? What does his apparent slowness pertain to? Well, very simple answer is promise fulfillment. The Lord is not slow to fulfillment. His promise. And again, that could mean multiple things, and we could rightly apply it in multiple areas. One area that I want us to think of pertaining to Jewish evangelism concerns the arrival of the Lord promised, prophesied in The scriptures in the Old Testament, but also very particularly in Romans 9 through 11, which we have kind of summed up as the Puritan hope That the Lord will graft in again the natural branches. When, where, how, we don't know, and we're not going to stargaze or engage in in uh some kind of uh fantasies and mysteries, but rather the the truth of the word that speaks of Israel's redemption And that's what I want us to think of in terms of his promise fulfillment. Why do I draw us to that? Well, I draw us to that because the text is from 2 Peter Peter, the Jewish fisherman, who is writing this second letter to you, he says, in chapter 3 Verse 1. Well, if he's writing the second letter to you, what is the first letter that he wrote? It's obviously 1 Peter. But who is the you? When we go to 1 Peter 1 and verse 1, we find the you are the elect exiles of the dispersion. Now, who are they? Well, I chatted with none other than Michael Morales on this front and and he agreed with me, so I'm okay with that one. Greenville Seminary, for those that uh don't know of Michael Morales, I love him as a dear brother. The elect exiles of the dispersion are the Jewish people that are getting kicked out under Roman persecution. Jewish believers Jewish non-believers. And why do I say Jewish non-believers? Because we read here of the Lord being patient towards you not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. Indeed, we read in Romans 11, and so all Israel will be saved. Now please don't misunderstand. That doesn't mean every last one. Doesn't mean that all the Jews get a pass and they come in by a back door. No, I'm not saying that at all, but it does mean that there is a substantial turning unto the Lord that the scriptures speak of, and indeed that the Puritans believed and hoped for and longed for. So again, in the brevity of the moment that we have, I want to take three points of exposition or explication of the text, and then I want to take three points of application. uh more general. And so first of all I want to speak as you see the heading of the sermon is slow train coming. Well that's really the heading of my first point. I want to talk of the slow train coming. I then want to look at the sudden arrival and then the seismic event. So slow train, sudden arrival, and seismic event are the three of opening up the text The slow train, first of all, we need to recognize that the Lord's timescale is different than ours. We are so impatient. The Lord comes precisely when he means to. Think of the slowness of the prophecies of Isaiah, 700 years before the coming of Christ. We're at the time of year when we will read probably Isaiah 7, the Virgin will conceive and bear a son, and call his name Emmanuel God with us Seven hundred years were passing. In the intertestamental period, there were hundreds of years. Not a word from the Lord And old Simeon is waiting, and Anna is waiting, and a faithful Jewish remnant are waiting. And suddenly, an angelic message to a virgin fulfilling the promise of 700 years later: the Lord is not slow Well, a thousand years are just as a day, because the Lord comes precisely when he means to. Bob Dylan had an album called Slow Train Coming. For those of you who are of that era, it was in Dylan's Christian phase. The jury still owed us to where he is, and some of my colleagues would suggest he still has the heart of the matter. I I I trust and hope that he has. I think the Orthodox hijacked him after his Christian phase and tried to get him back into to Judaism. But all I have to say, those who are Dylan fans here will know slow train coming when he spoke against the uh hypocrisy that he saw in the church and and the state And there would be a slow train of comeuppance for America, as he sang in his song. Here I want to see a slow train of a different kind A slow train coming around the bend with regard to the promises, with regard to the covenantal promises, the sworn oaths of God that are irrevocable according to Romans 11. These are promises that the Lord has given and cannot revoke, cannot take back. I don't know if you've ever sent a text. It's gone to the wrong person. I remember hearing of a young man that was uh supposed to send a text to his uh uh his beloved uh as they were dating and it went to the mother. If you send a tax and it goes, it's gone. It's unable to be revoked. The Lord has promised towards the ancient people Sworn oaths that he cannot, he will not revoke And so that slow train of the grafting in again of the natural branches, as promised in Romans 9 through 11, is coming. We don't know when. But it's coming. You know, Samuel Rutherford was one of those good Scots Presbyterians that had an effect upon the English in the Westminster Assembly of Divines. We need more Scots in the Westminster Assembly, I think they They had such an impact. Samuel Rutherford prayed to be kept out of heaven that he might see the Romans 9 through 11 fulfillment That he might see the redemption of the Jewish people. He prayed to be kept out of heaven that thee and thine ancient kirk might be in mutual embrace. He prayed that Christ and his ancient kirk, ancient people, might be in mutual embrace. He didn't see it. The slow train didn't come in his time. But the slow train is coming. That's what we labor for. That's what we long for. That's what we know according to the scriptures. that the Lord will yet graft in again the natural branches. So we have this slow train of kingdom promises coming to fulfilment, whether it's Jewish mission or world mission or or local church evangelism. We can do that with optimism, and we'll come on to that by way of application. The slow train is coming. Second one I want to raise is the summer the sudden arrival Because in the very next verse, we move from that slow train and the promise to the fulfillment. But the day of the Lord will come And again, we need to have that in mind even as we engage in mission, even as we engage in local church outreach, as we engage in Jewish mission, Gentile mission, whatever. The day of the Lord will come. This slow train of the Lord's providence, promise, and even Patience, not wishing that any should perish, but that will come. I don't know where you are this evening, some of you, maybe some of you young people. Have not professed faith in Christ. The slow train is coming. The slow train will come. There will be a sudden arrival We must not think casually or put ourselves on the tracks as the train is coming round the bend, however slow. What do we read in the scriptures? As it was in the days of Noah, so it will be like at the coming of the Son of Man. What was it like in the days of Noah? People eating and drinking. Just doing their thing. Noah is preaching repent. Noah is preaching sin, judgment, righteousness. Where's the rain, Noah? Where's the rain? People continuing doing their own thing. Noah's preaching righteousness, judgment, sin. Where's the rain, Noah? Hundred years passes, more. Do you not think people will be saying, hey, where's your God, Noah? He's a bit slow, isn't he? Noah says it's coming. He's coming precisely when he means to And the rain comes and the door is shut. Is that the case for you? Will that be the case for you? What we have here is a slow train coming, but a sudden arrival. And it's not only sudden, but it's seismic. It's seismic. The heavens will pass away with a roar. The heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved. The earth and the works done in it will be exposed. Something similar to Revelation 6. You remember in Revelation 6, the sky is rolled up like a scroll. It's seismic. It's irreversible. There's no second chance here that some might present. The Lord's slowness has that saving and gracious purpose. The Lord's slowness Allows us, grants us the opportunity to both to proclaim and receive the gospel of God That slow train coming according to purpose may be that we may preach to the Jewish people That he is patient with them, not wanting any should perish. But there will be a sudden arrival, and it will be seismic. And we need to have in mind the parable of the wise and foolish virgins. Just as the ark door was shut, so the door is shut. When he comes again, there is no second chance. There are theologies that peddle a second chance. They're wrong. There are Roman beliefs that there's a purgatory for thousands of years or whatever, and eventually you'll get there. Sorry, it's not in Scripture. There are also evangelical theologies, so-called evangelical, I suppose, that peddle Israel's second chance after Jesus returns. Dangerous So Jesus comes back, they'll see him, they'll bow down before him. Sorry. They're the foolish virgins that don't have oil in their lamps. You don't get a second chance when he returns. And those that suggest that the Jews have a back door into heaven or they As some ministries suggest, there is a dual covenant theology that Jesus is for Gentiles and Torah observance is for Jews. No! The day comes, it's sudden, it's seismic, it's irreversible, and we must bring the gospel. To Jew and Greek, because of these realities. Well, let me take these three points and very quickly also then take give you largely just three other headings by way of application. Because of this slow train and then the suddenness and the seismic nature, I want us to think about mustard seed missions. Mustard seed missions is something we need to get into our minds in the 21st century, which is very fast-paced. Jesus didn't say the kingdom of heaven is like a bullet train It's a mustard scene. Takes time. The Lord makes all things beautiful in his time. And so I can come back here twelve years later and I can meet old friends of 15, 20 years. The Lord is making all things in his time. Some of the first century Christians were impatient. The apostle had to address us. Some had stopped working. There are some people today that go up on the mountainside and just wait for the end. They, we, need to be taught mustard seed missions. The Lord is not slow. He is long suffering for kingdom growth, for Jewish redemption. Forgive me, again I should have introduced myself as where I come from. I don't come from these parts, I come from Arkansas. Or a little further afield. I do live in Arkansas and it took me nineteen hours to drive here, but that's a whole other story. I come from Northern Ireland originally, just in case anybody had caught the accent. But I've been living here eleven years, and not a proud citizen. So your problems are all my problems too. We're in this together But just as I share this, the American mindset finds it hard to think in terms of hundreds of years. The European mindset finds that a little easier. The Jewish people find it easier still. We saw in Psalm 67 right at the beginning. I I I really should have given a little introduction to the Psalm 67. Because we sometimes think that, and it's just all within our own context, and we think God bless us and pity us and show us shine on us with your face that the earth, that the nations would know the saving grace of the Lord through our ministry. No, that's not where it begins Psalm 67, written 3,000 years ago. Psalm 67 is a little Jewish prayer meeting in Jerusalem. Praying for the world, which at that time was in total darkness. A little gospel light of the revelation of the true and living God was shone upon a little insignificant nation in the Middle East. Rest of the world, my Scots-Irish ancestors were dancing around stone on the highlands of Scotland. The rest of the world, total darkness. But this little prayer meeting 3,000 years ago was praying, Lord bless us, that the nations may know the God of Israel and his salvation. And here we are. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promises, not even to that Jewish prayer meeting 3,000 years ago. The Lord is not slow to fulfill. The early church was an expectant church. The Puritans were an expectant people. They were hope. We talk of the Puritan hope. I really feel we've lost that expectancy. We've lost that optimism. We've lost that hopefulness What would Robert Murray McShane, who prayed the opening prayer of our meeting and hardly saw any Jewish people in Scotland in 1842, what would he say today? Of me traveling around churches all over the US and meeting Jewish people and Jewish believers and meeting people who know Jewish people. You've got a Jewish dentist, you've got a Jewish doctor, you got a Jewish lawyer, you got a Jewish high school friend. What would McCain say? What would our Puritan forefathers say? Say what would Rutherford say? We need to realize how thrilling it is to be involved in mission And Jewish mission at such a time as this. And the mustard seed is growing. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise. Oh, I want more. I want it faster. I want it now. But the Lord is building his church. More Jewish people have come to faith in the last 30 years than the previous 2,000 years. The mustard seed is growing. In 1948, there were 12 Jewish believers in the land of Israel. Today there are thirty thousand, twelve to thirty thousand, from nineteen forty-eight to today. The Lord is not slow. They reckon there's a hundred thousand Jewish believers in the USA. The Lord is not slow. We're so impatient. And the line at the store, at the airport, we've got to have prime delivery. And as for those lights I gotta press the foot harder and get through that yellow light before it turns red. Must reseed missions, that's one point. Second point I want to raise is just uh again, and I really must Give you just largely a sentence or two. Persistent plotting. Persistent plotting. Faithful and expectant persistent plotting. The train is coming This is something that I take to heart because sometimes I think there is a danger in missions for wanting to have a success story. Because when I can come here and give you a wonderful success story, then that gets the money. We've got it the wrong way, Ryan. The money comes when you build a burden. When you engage in a principled ministry, whatever the results, the Lord doesn't say to us, Well done, good and successful servant. Well done, good and faithful servant. It's faithful, persistent plotting, is what this text is teaching us. Now we haven't time to deal with the surrounding verses, but will we find what kind of people are we to be? Holy, godly, patient, diligent, theologically sound and stable, growing in Christ. So there's no excuse for laziness in mission There's no excuse for ungodliness. Character matters in ministry. There's no excuse for pragmatism, but rather principled theological Persistent plotting. And when we do that, local church, parachurch, he comes precisely when he means to Plod on, dear brother. Plod on with kingdom optimism. Muster seed missions, persistent plodding, final point, watchman witness. Watchmen witness. I'll develop this maybe a little bit more on the slides as well, but we are to be watchmen of Ezekiel 3. 33. We're to sound the alarm. We're to alert Jewish people. In the church this morning I was at uh Nbui and the choir sang the intro intro it, uh, Say unto the cities of Judah, Behold your God from Messiah. Say unto the cities of Judah, behold your God. That's Christian witness to Israel right there. Only the cities of Judah or the cities of Boca Raton or Hollywood, Florida, 600,000 Jewish people in South Florida. Or New York City with two million, or two hundred and fifty thousand in Atlanta, or three hundred thousand in Chicago, or a quarter of a million in Philly, or five hundred thousand on the West Coast. Say unto the Jewish cities here Behold your God. We are to be the Watchman Witness Church. And again, and I'll stress it maybe a little bit more in the presentation. I've got one missionary in Pittsburgh, and I'll I'll introduce him to you on the screen. I have one missionary in Pittsburgh. We have a couple of other office staff, but that's it. I want ten missionaries, a hundred missionaries. But I'll tell you something, if I had, still wouldn't be enough Because we have six million Jewish people here. How are they going to be reached? By the church. Because actually that's the way it ought to be. It is the church's mission. It's not the work of the parachurch. The parachurch is that para coming alongside. Again, we'll develop that a little bit more. But we in all our ministry, because of the slow train coming suddenly, seismically, We're to have a watchman witness and sound the alarm to our Jewish neighbors, who I sadly think are forgotten Because we either think the whole Israel question is too messy and we don't want to go there. Or we think they're already okay because they're the chosen people. Not so. And so they're forgotten and they slip through the cracks. Let's believe in the slow train. Let's not be disheartened by the Lord's apparent slowness. Let's believe in mustard seed missions. Let's engage in persistent plotting and let's be the watchman witness who speak. To the cities of Judah and the cities of the USA, that one gospel of God, of the Jewish Messiah, Jesus the Christ. Well let's bow together in prayer just for a moment and then we'll switch to our uh presentation.