Amen. Let's open our scriptures together to Proverbs chapter 30. Our preaching will be taken from verses 24 through 28 this evening. Proverbs thirty, twenty four through twenty-eight. There are four things which are little on the earth, but they are exceedingly wise. The ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their food in the summer. The rock badgers are a feeble folk, yet they make their homes in the crags. The locusts have no king, yet they all advance in ranks. The spider skillfully grasped with its hands, and it is in king's palaces. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I ask that you would work through your preached word here to bless your congregation. May it redound to your glory. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. I'm not sure how well this would work in levels beyond high school football. But I had a friend in when I was playing high school football who was Pretty small, pretty skinny. You wouldn't think that he'd be able to accomplish much. If you were to see him walking down the hall, you wouldn't think, ah, a football player But when he was on the field and he was playing quarter cornerback, he had figured out a way to make the tackle every time. There were some on our team who were large, large enough for me to be quite scared in practice when I had to go up against them. And they would just use their brawn in order to accomplish the goal, for example, of being a linebacker. But this young man didn't have any brawn Instead, he had to use strategy. And it worked. He never, he very rarely missed a tackle and was often up for different awards for the football team. It's an example of what we're going to end up seeing in our passage in just a moment. But before we get there, I want to bring your attention to what we had looked at last week Because it is it matches up uh a little bit with what we have this week, or in two weeks ago rather. In Proverbs chapter 30, before we had the opportunity to look at 24 through 28 as we are doing here tonight, we looked at 21 through 23. In 21, it says that there are three things that the earth is for three things the earth is perturbed. Yes, for four it cannot bear up. And we learned last week that this is a list of when things go sour within society. And when people end up in leadership that do not belong there, they dissolve and destroy society. The idea of the earth not bearing up is about society not bearing up. And that is from two weeks ago that we had the opportunity to study that section of the Proverbs. And you'll notice that as we move into this week, we don't have things that are heavy on the earth pulling it down. Instead, we have things that are little on the earth and yet are able to make a big difference for the good. And two weeks ago we had those things which were huge, which made a bad difference. Now we have those things that are little that make a big difference. A good a good difference in the right way. In fact, I'd like you to see here this evening that the Spirit teaches us that what Christians lack in strength, meaning being little What Christians lack in strength, Jesus Christ makes up for by working wisdom in us. What Christians lack in strength, Jesus Christ makes up for by working in us wisdom By working in us wisdom. If you were to go back to that introduction, the wisdom that that young man had as a cornerback was a strategy in the way that he would take people's knees out for the tackle. And now what we're going to see within this passage is that similarly, though we are small, though we are not known for our greatness or our strength, Jesus Christ makes up for it by giving us wisdom. And I want to look at that in just the most obvious way that you can see there within the scriptures. We're just going to look at each one of these animals. We're going to begin with an introduction to wisdom so that we can, and that's the very first verse, but then I want to look at the ant. I want to look at the rock badger, I want to look at the locust, and then we'll look at the spider or the or in some translations it's the lizard Let's just begin then in taking a look at just an introduction to this section of the of wisdom that Jesus Christ gives to us. In verse number 24, you'll notice that it is an introductory statement. There are four things which are little on the earth, but they are exceedingly wise. He hasn't listed what the four things are. He's just introducing the four. And so this is an introduction to this section. He's introducing us to his list lesson And the first thing that he's introducing us to is the principle that is going to run through all four of the observations that Agor makes with these animals. The principle running through each four of them is that though they have limitations They are able to overcome their limitations by way of the wisdom that God Himself gives to them Though they have limitations, they will overcome those limitations by the wisdom that God gives to them. That's the principle that runs all the way through. There's also in this introduction, besides the principle, there is a motivation. You'll notice it says in verse 24 again, part B. That these creatures or these four things that are little on the earth are exceedingly wise. This is another way of saying that they have mastered their domain. And that is the kind of motivation for us. If you're trying to learn anything, you tend to think of yourself as an apprentice who is looking for a master to be able to teach you how to do that thing well. And what the proverbist has done here is he's given you four masters at this particular kind of wisdom so that you can learn from them. And so we're motivated. We all want to be wise that are that are in Christ. We long for that. We long to grow up and to be mature and no longer remain childish. And that is a promise here and a motivation. The last thing I'll say here, just in terms of the introduction to this wisdom, is in the next verse, though we'll talk about that in a second. I just want to peek in there for a moment so you can see something. In verse number 25, you'll notice that ants are personified. It says the ants are a people. Now that could mean it's a nation. And that's often used for human beings. And I think one of the reasons that the Proverbist has the Spirit has placed this here It's so that you would have no doubts in your mind that God is not asking you to grow as a biologist tonight He doesn't need you to become an expert in the activities of harvest ants. He wants you to learn from them in terms of growing in wisdom in his image. And so he personifies the ant, calling them a people or a nation, because he wants the nation of his people to grow in these same kinds of wisdom. So Now that we've seen that introduction with the principle, the motivation, and that this is specifically meant to be applied to you, let's just go ahead now into those lessons of wisdom. The first thing that we're going to see here is the ant. And the main point that he's pointing out here is that what we lack in strength. Jesus Christ makes up by giving us the wisdom of foresight, industry, and timeliness All of which are exampled or exemplified in the ant in verse 25. The ants are not a strong people, Yet they prepare their food in the summer or they make roo ready their food in the summer. If you think about making ready, and I think that we all have experience in watching ants making things ready. I assume that we do. They make things ready. You can see their industry. You see them all day long going back and forth, bringing more and more food to exactly where it is supposed to be. They're in a line uh with discipline continuing forward. And and the the other mark of them, besides the making ready or the industriousness that is a part of them, which is a wisdom given to us, is that they are timely. They don't try to do that in the winter when there's nothing around. They do that in the summer when you have left your sandwich outside of the picnic basket. So there's a timeliness here that makes up the difference. They are not strong. They can't show up at the picnic and take your sandwich from you. Instead, they work, while they're little, yet little, they're given a wisdom from God to where they're still able to make it through this life. And it's the wisdom of in industry or discipline or for and foresight. This is not the first time that we have seen the ant in the book of Proverbs. The ant is used to highlight not just the virtue that we see here. but also the vice that is the warned against. If you listen from Proverbs 6, 6 through 8, go to the ant you sluggard. Consider her ways and be wise, which having no captain, overseer, or ruler provides her supplies in the summer and gathers her food in the harvest. Now there are some additional attributes that are given here, more wisdom that I won't go into because I'm just focused on the passage in front of us from Proverbs 30. But you can see here that there's a warning That when this wisdom is lacking, that's called laziness. That's called laziness, or you're called the sluggard. And it's not just about a person who's always busy all the time. That's not the picture that we have within the scriptures. It's the person who's not busy at the right time. And that's the point about the ants. The ants are busy at the right time. They're industrious and disciplined because at the right time because they have forethought in order to store a way for winter. Oh, that we as human beings would have that kind of forethought with regard to our salvation. This, according to the scriptures, is the summer of salvation. Because salvation is for today. Jesus Christ has given each of you his word to be able to share with other people in your own way, with your co-workers or with your family. And today is the day Where God could cause repentance and you could turn to Him and receive salvation. But do you know there's a winter coming when that won't be possible any longer? So I encourage you here tonight that don't wait till the winter when there's no more the food of salvation is no longer present. Take that food now. And may Jesus Christ be your Savior. You can think of this also in terms of the sermon from this morning. That now is the time as parents and as grandparents to fill up these little ones in the summer of their childhood before the winter of regular life hits them. Right around 18 to 23 I start to hear children say, I don't like being an adult. This is not fun. And we understand that they need to work through that, but we do understand that there are realities that all of a sudden show up. And if they don't have the resources by way of God's means of grace to be able to deal with those things, their life will be harder than it needs to be. So now's the time to fill our children, to fill up their memories, just for them to store their word within their hearts. As they get a little bit older, for them to be for you to talk through those lessons with them, and then as they get older still to have a kind of dialectic back and forth with them because they like to argue Help them to work through God's word apologetically, defending the faith before them that they could stand up against any assault and be salt to this culture. Those are some ways where just thinking about the importance of salvation and raising our children and the nurture and admonition of the Lord, how we could be like ants. Now, there's not only the ant that we see in verse number 25, but when we move to verse number 26, at least in the NKJV, which I'm preaching from, we move on to rock badgers. And it says this. It says that rock badgers are a feeble folk, yet they make their homes in the crags. And the closest I can get to in my mind of a rock badger is kind of like what we would have around here would be groundhogs. If you've ever had the opportunity to be around groundhogs, you could see why they build something down into the earth because they are soft-bodied They are easy for predators. They can't run that fast. The only thing in their favor is they're kind of cute But it would be easy for a bald eagle to take advantage of them, for example. But that's not what happens. They're masters in staying alive, that though their bodies are soft, they hide themselves in the crags, it says That's the rocks. One commentator says to compensate for their vulnerability, they place their houses or dwellings in the rocks, making them inaccessible to predators. Though they have this limitation, they make it through life well because of wisdom. And we're able to gain from this also. That what we lack in strength, Jesus can make up in gracing us with him being our shelter and our rock, rather than just being exposed on our own. I'm sure you can think of many scriptures scriptures where Jesus is our crag, where he is our rock. I think of one from Matthew 7, 24 through 25. Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain descended, the floods came and the wind blew and beat on that house, and it didn't fall, for it was founded on the rock There's wisdom in living on the rock, who is Jesus Christ, living in his house, among his household, which is the church of God. And there are warnings given to us in Scriptures about what happens as little rock badger Christians when we go out from that rock. There are those that are exemplified for us in 2 Timothy 2, 17 through 19, known as Hemenaeus and Philetus. And their message will spread like cancer, it says. They're of this sort. And it details them in 2 Timothy 17 through 19, saying, they have strayed concerning the truth. You hear that language? They've moved out from the rocks. They're now out on their own, saying that the resurrection is already past. They've left the rock of God's truth and they've gone out making up their own stuff. And they're even overthrowing the faith of some, pulling others away from the rock. But in verse number 19, Paul reminds us that nevertheless the solid rock or foundation of God stands. But there's a warning there That those who neglect the wisdom of the rock badger do so at their own peril, leaving the rock of Christ. Oh, that's not wise. That's not wise. The Psalms tell us that we are feeble like dust, and we need our Christ. Well, we have the ant and we have the rock badger, but there is also this locust here in verse number 27. It says in verse 27, the locusts have no king, yet they all advance in ranks. The wisdom that we see here, the limitation that we see, the strength that we lack, that Jesus makes up, is the wisdom of unity. And because we are who we are, and this is God's word, we can say that what we lack in strength, Jesus makes up by gracing us with the wisdom of not just unity. But Christian unity. Christian unity, it's another gift of wisdom from Christ to us. We see that unity that though they do not have kings, they're able to carry on in their lives as locusts because they remain ordered and unified in rank. The locusts are a model for prudent unity. We see Paul calling us to such unity, which we now know as a kind of wisdom. And so we can say that the Apostle Paul calls you to the wisdom of unity. For example, in Ephesians 4, 1 through 6, it says, I therefore the prisoner of the Lord. beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which you were called, with all lowliness and gentleness, with long suffering, bearing with one another in love? Why would we have to have all of those marks? so that we can remain unified. And that's what he goes on to say. He says that you would do those things, that you would walk worthy of your calling With lowliness, gentleness, longsuffering, bearing with one another in love. Why? So that we could endeavor to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. That's how we'll make it Of course, unlike the locusts, we have a king. So how much more unified should we be? There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called in one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. One God and Father of all, who was above all and through all, and in you all. There's an overflowing unity in that passage. Because Paul wants you to have wisdom, the wisdom of unity, like the locusts. We can pick this up also within our confession. I'll just read one paragraph from larger paragraphs under the title of The Communion of the Saints. It would be worth for you to just go ahead and take a look at the Westminster Confession of Faith and look at those articles. But one section says that saints by profession are bound to maintain a holy fellowship and communion in the worship of God, in performing such other spiritual services as tend to their mutual edification. as also in relieving each other in outward things according to their several abilities and necessities, which communion, as God offers opportunity, is to be extended unto all those in every place who call upon the name of the Lord Jesus. You want to know how Christians are going to make it through this world? Unity. The wisdom of unity like the locusts. You can see why there is so much teaching in each of the letters to the New Testament, to the New Testament churches, and why there is so much teaching in the Old Testament. warning us to make sure that a brawl does not break out. If we're all heading in opposite directions, if we're all biting each other's backs, nothing gets accomplished. But dissolution. Dissolution and relationships snack snapping off like branches on a rotten tree. Oh, how the wisdom of unity is so important. And it is a wisdom that Jesus Christ gives to us. That though we're small, we're like locusts as we keep in stuff with the Spirit. We have one final insect. Now, depending on your translation, it either says that this is a spider or that this is a lizard. More generally, what we're seeing here is that it's some kind of an insect that has legs with little suction cups where it can crawl along the walls of king's palaces Now, if you've ever been to Florida, that description meets both spiders and lizards. Both of them can do that kind of thing. And so they go back and forth on the translations with this, but in verse number twenty-eight you can see that the spider skillfully that that mine says spider in NKJV, you probably have a little note there saying, or lizard. It's quite possible. The other thing I want to point out about verse number 28, if you would look at it with me, just so when you go back to review the sermon. is that if you were to look, for example, in a translation like the NASB, you will find that it's said like this. The spider or the lizard may be easily grasped by hands. It doesn't say skillfully grasps with its hands. And now I take that former interpretation and understanding because that goes along with the theme that we've seen. Though they have this limitation where they're easily grasped by the hands. Nevertheless, because of their wisdom, they dwell in king's palaces. And that is that final promise that goes along with this proverb. It's a fitting ending. It is an ending that we saw in the very first collection of the Proverbs as well. Is that those who are given wisdom by Christ, even the wisdom of salvation And the wisdom that he gives in working out our sanctification, they dwell in the palace of wisdom, according to the Proverbs. In Proverbs 9, 1 through 4, it says, Wisdom has built her house. She has hewn out her seven pillars. She has slaughtered her meat. She has mixed her wine. She has also furnished her table. She has sent out her maiden. She cries out from the highest places of the city. Whoever is simple, let him turn in here, as for him who lacks understanding, she says to him, Come to me She has built a palace of wisdom. And those who have been attentive to the mother and the father in the book of Proverbs 2, move into that palace. Like a lizard or a spider on the walls. That is the reward. But there is also, as we continue on in understanding the scriptures, it's not just the palace of wisdom that we see is given by grace to those who are wise by Jesus Christ. It is riches in heavenly places. We see in Ephesians 2, 4 through 7, but God who is rich in mercy Because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And he raised us up together and made us sit together in the heavenly places. in Christ. Just picture a heavenly palace if you would. The heavenly places in Christ Jesus that in the ages to come He might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. Christ has said, I go to make you a place. Many mansions. Those who are wise in salvation and in the wisdom of this sanctification, they shall be like this spider or this lizard. Dwelling in the king's palace, who is Jesus Christ. And that is what the Spirit has to teach us here this evening. There's a lot of wisdom. I imagine by this time your bucket is full. That was a lot. The main message of the Spirit is that what Christians lack in strength, Jesus Christ makes up in wisdom. We've talked about the wisdom of foresight and industry and timeliness, the wisdom of finding our refuge and security in the rock of Jesus Christ. The wisdom of being unified in love and faith and hope. And the wisdom, the results of wisdom, the fruition of wisdom, in being with the king in his palace. He has prepared that for us. I'd encourage you as you go off in this evening and even tomorrow to review those marks of wisdom. to review the list that I just gave you that is exemplified by each of the animals or insects. To review really what we all should be praying for from Jesus Christ that He would give us this kind of wisdom. If you look in your life and you see where you're seeking to exercise dominion, as we read earlier in our our bulletin, and you're finding that you're that you you have too many limitations and you're too small and it's it's really not working out for you. One of the things that you'll discover is that where you are too small in the exercising of dominion, you need Jesus Christ to give you wisdom in that area. And it is very high is highly likely that one of the pieces of wisdom you're missing, either totally or in degree, is from that list that was given here tonight. I'd encourage you to review that list. Review it before and look at it in relationship to your life and the different things that God has called you to. And I'd also ask that you would remember 1 Corinthians 1, 26 through 31. I'd ask that you would remember that Paul has said that we are little people. For you see your calling, brethren, that not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty. And the base things of the world and the things which are despised, God has chosen, and the things which are not, to bring to nothing the things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. As it is written, he who glories, let him glory in the Lord. And that is our that is the charge that we receive here this evening. Is that as we go to the Lord In our callings to continue to exercise dominion. And the Lord grants to you the wisdom that you have cried out for. May all of the glory go to our Christ. Any wisdom that we have is from him. You know that's true of each of those animals too. Do you think the ant or the locusts or the rock badger went to school as if the wind of the willows was a real thing? And they all had instructors? God taught them directly. And we asked God for the same kinds of wisdom. We need it from Him too. And He has ordained it that way that we would never glory in ourselves. But all of the glory would always go to him. We end up wise and he ends up glorified. Though we are small, he allows us to exercise our commissions by the wisdom that he gives us unto his glory. Let us pray.