Twenty-nine verse five. A man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his feet. Let us pray. Oh Christ, I pray that through the preaching of the word you will give your congregation wisdom And that you would be glorified. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. It seems that the primary symbol that Christians would use to represent their loyalty to Jesus Christ is a cross. Sometimes it seems like that symbol captures everything about Jesus for folks. The cross or his sacrifice as a priest. The problem with that is even if you were to look at our shorter catechism, you would see That Jesus Christ, in the great work that he has done and to for the obedience to his father and for the good of his people, he was not only called to be a priest He was also called to be a prophet, and he's also called to be a king. He's all of those things together, and it's really good to remember those other offices that he has. When you open up a book like Proverbs. If you flip through the pages of Proverbs, you're not going to see the substitutionary atonement or crucifixion or those types of things as regularly as you would in the Gospels, for example, but you certainly will see Jesus Christ By way of his word as a king, exercising his rule by being a great prophet also, and spreading among his people wisdom. that they can live a life walking down the right paths on mission for him so that he can be glorified and they can grow in competence and the good works that they will do through him. Now this week Christ is giving us wisdom from chapter 29, verse 5. And it's a short one there. I've read it to you already. It's a man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his feet. Now we've seen this kind of wisdom before. We've seen the kind of wisdom throughout the scriptures where Jesus and other authoritative teachers Tell us about certain kinds of people that we have to be concerned about because of the consequences of what it means to be in a relationship with them. Can you think of any? Can you think of any scriptural passages where certain character types or certain kinds of people are brought to your attention? It's important. If you're going to go through life competently and wisely, you've got to know about these kinds of people. I wonder what comes to your mind when I ask the question. What came to my mind when I asked myself that question was from Jesus Himself, Matthew chapter 7, verses 15 and 16. He says, Beware of false prophets. I keep that that those characters in mind all the time, given my vocation. But beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. That tells us something about these people And what we're supposed to pay attention to and look out for. And then he goes on and he says, you will know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? There's some wisdom there that Christ is giving to us about certain people that we should watch out for. Or the Apostle Paul said something similar in Acts. Talking to the Ephesian elders, he says, For I know this, that after my departure, savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. Also, from among yourselves, men will rise up, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after themselves. There's other character types and other kinds of people that we're supposed to be aware of throughout all of the scriptures. seven main types within the Proverbs themselves, but the the one that you have here isn't the false prophets like Jesus and Paul mentioned. The one that you have here is the flatterer And I wonder if you've thought about the flatterer recently. The flatterer, he says here, spreads a net for his neighbor's feet. Now, I wonder if our guard is a little bit down about the flatterer. If I said that someone was a wolf, then your guard is up. When I say someone's a flatterer, but interestingly, both fall into the category of predator. Based on the description that's given. The wolf, obviously a predator. The flatterer sets a net to snare and to trap you. Like a person would set a net to capture birds and take them home and pluck out all their feathers and cook them. That means that they are the hunter and you are the hunted. And it is good to keep those things in mind with this wisdom that Christ is giving us here with His Spirit. It appears to me if we look through the scriptures and we register in our own experience There are different kinds of flatterers in our lives. Can anybody think of the flatterer that was made the most famous on television? I think it's around like 1950s or 60s. This person would have been known as an archetype of being a flatterer. Eddie Haskell. Anybody remember? Yeah, I started seeing his name come up. It's funny how that has lasted all of these years. Eddie Haskell, good afternoon, Miss Cleaver. My, you are looking lovely today. That is a beautiful dress. Is it new? Those are the kind of things that you would hear from him. If you don't know who Eddie Haskell is, your parents can introduce you if you if they want. And maybe Ms. Cleaver would say, I don't actually remember what she said, but being a wise woman, perhaps she would say, Oh Eddie, you're full of compliments today, aren't you? What do you want? What do you want this time? Because she's aware of the archetypal character that he's playing, that he's a kind of flatterer, and although it looks like he is benefiting or being honest with her, that's not the real picture. He's spreading a net so that he and Wally could have her guard down and they could get away with something. Well, that's one kind of flatterer, and in that case, that's a person who's just unashamedly flattering you in order for your guard to drop so that you lack good judgment. But there are other kinds of flatterers that we have within our lives that I find to be far more common, and I see them within the scriptures also. Another kind of flatterer is just someone who only tells you what they know you want to hear. And that is deadly. But it doesn't feel deadly because it feels great for someone to feed our ego. To tell us how great we are, or how right we are in this situation, and how wrong everyone else is. But we know there's no real truth going through. There's something else going on. In fact, in the end, if you were to listen to them and and they're your sole counselor, in the end, you're going to end up in the wrong place at the wrong time doing the wrong thing. not successful in your mission for Christ, or if you are barely escaping the flames, so to speak. In other words, you end up snared in a net. You end up being snared in a net. So it's very important for us to pay attention to the flatterer. When we see here that Christ is giving us by way of a spirit in Solomon or the men of Hezekiah. Now let me frame this for you a little bit, more in terms of your mission in serving Christ and all the various things that you have going on in your life. One of the things that we are are decision makers. All day long you have to make different decisions. And Christ knows that So he gives us really important verses like in Philippians chapter 4, or a real famous one in Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2, and he says that You need to be renewed by the transforming of your mind so that you would know what God's good will is, so that you could do it. See, there's a decision that has to be made. So we have to figure out what's the good decision to make And the good decision will be what is pleasing to God or what is his will. We're decision makers. It's important to frame this flatterer in terms of the constant, of all the different decisions that you have to make. Let me put it this way, I I know a gentleman who invests millions in pharmaceutical drugs. The last I heard he invested I think seven million dollars. In pharmaceutical drug. So what ends up happening here is he is an investor in order for these pharmaceutical drugs to be able to go forward and to be able to help people with this medicine And people know that about him. So he has people calling him him up all the time trying to get a meeting because they have medicine, but they can't get it out to market unless he invests the millions of dollars To put into the research and the production and all of these things. So they call him and then they try to set up a meeting and they sit down with him at a big board table and they have slides and presentations. And he told me that he has to be very, very careful about who he's listening to when he's trying to make a decision about pharmaceutical drugs because millions, literally, millions of dollars are on the line. He had to become the kind of person that could read people, find out who's telling me the truth and who's flattering me. Everything is on the line for him. Who's going to give me the real data and who's going to misrepresent the data? for their own purposes. And so, interestingly, he made a list. I'll give you just a part of the list. He made a list that has these characteristics. He has two columns and he wrote down a list that says Feixpert. An expert. And he has these different features that he's known throughout the years where if he sees one of these signs over here that they're a fake expert and not an expert, not moving forward. Some of those fake spurt traits are the the fake spurt tends to use fancy and complex communication when it could have been said simpler. The fake spurt uses lots of jargon. The fake spurt presents too much data. The Fakespert presents with bravado. The Fakespert has really no priority to what they're communicating. It's just information dump. The fakespurt appeals to their authority, not the authority of the of what's actually the case, the facts of things. It's I have this degree or something like that. And the fake spurt is unaware of the actual aim of a project. They don't really know what's going on. These are the different things that he has picked up. He's picked these things up because as an investor he needs to make sure that he makes good decisions, good investments, and he does not lose his livelihood. And I think that that's a great frame for us. As we're looking at this passage here, we're not talking about fakesperts or experts. We're talking about the flatterer. But you should still be able to recognize when someone is flattering you or you're dealing with a flatterer, so you don't end up making an investment or heading down a path that allows you not to serve Christ, but instead perhaps to embarrass the name of Christ. Christ is encouraging you toward a similar kind of life as we see within that investor, the kind of carefulness that you take in your endeavors. He wants you to make good decisions. That's why he's given you an entire section in the scriptures of wisdom literature. What you put your mind to for his glory. He wants when you put your mind to it for you to be successful. And this will mean that you need people around you that give you good information, truthful information. So that you are able to make good decisions like the investor. And that will mean that you need to know when someone is just flattering you or speaking to your ego. Because there's a major reality here, social reality, that Christ is seeking to get across to you tonight. That flatterers are biased. And even though they have honey on their tongue when they speak to you, make no mistake, at the end of the day You will not be the one benefiting from the interaction.