Me to first Peter. We are in chapter one. And I'll read uh this evening verses thirteen through sixteen. Although I will be doing a review on what I consider to be a pretty tough paragraph beginning in verse ten. So I'll read first Peter chapter one, ten through sixteen. Of this salvation, the prophets have inquired and searched carefully, who prophesied of the grace that would come to you, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ, who is in them, was indicating. When he testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow. To them it was revealed that, not to themselves, but to us, they were ministering to things which now have been reported to you Through those who have preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things which angels desire to look into Therefore, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and rest your hope fully upon the grace that is to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not conforming yourselves to the former lusts, as in your ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, because it is written Be holy, for I am holy. Am holy. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would teach, that we might love and teach others, that we might glorify you. We ask these things in your Your name. Amen. You will need a Bible. Just to take a look and to more fully understand what Peter's saying, as well as the book of Acts. So 1 Peter 1:13 through 16. In this letter, Peter is not writing to folks, when you look through it, for any internal evidence, Peter is not writing for folks that are being burned at the stake. We know that that took place in history for Christians, in Nero's Garden, for example, but that's not this time in history. That would be later in history. He is, however, writing to Christians that are at least a great irritant to the eye of society. You can look in chapter 4, verse 7 And you can see the kind of things that are said. It puts it this way, 4-7. But the end of all things is at is at hand, therefore be watchful and serious in your prayers. I'm sorry, that's not the right verse. Is it 3-7? No, I don't know what it is. But they are called a reproach. They were reproached for being followers of Christ. And therefore, Peter writes to these Christians who were harshly criticized, and perhaps the joke of the culture. That's pretty much the level that it is. There was obviously some injustice with the internal evidence that we see, but they were basically an irritant and they were the reproach of their society. The criticism orbited around a single center. Do you have the verse? If you are reproached, thank you very much, Keith. We're co-preaching today. If you are reproached, so that's there's the kind of language that we see as internal evidence in the letter. What are the different kinds of things That they're going through. They're harshly criticized. They're the butt of jokes within their culture. This criticism orbited around a single center. They believed that Jesus is the living Christ. That's where all their problems were. Everything is revolving around that. And thus they were criticized by Jew and Greek alike who considered Jesus a fraud. So Peter writes exhorting in chapter 5, verse 12, and testifying that the message of the apostles about Christ is the true, not the false grace of God. If you want to understand 1 Peter, look at 5. 12 where he says that this is the true grace of God. Just follow another time. Look at all the times the word grace is used in First Peter, the grace of God. It really stands for the message of the apostles that has been handed down, the report of all that has been taken place, this gift from God the Father. Which is epitomized in Jesus Himself. So he writes to them to reassure them that they are in fact following the true grace of God and not a false grace of God. So to that end, Peter starts writing his letter in chapter 1, worshiping God the Father. And in that worship. There are many truths that are revealed. It starts in verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. We've heard that many times If you were to just pull out the teachings in there, you would find in that paragraph that God the Father, through the resurrection of Jesus, has begotten us again to a living hope. There's a lot in that statement. That God the Father, through Jesus Christ, has established a future inheritance for us that will never fade away That God the Father, through Jesus, preserves us in our faith till salvation at that last day. He would even, through the same power that he used to raise Jesus from the dead, also raise our mortal bodies, as Paul said. God the Father through Jesus He tries us to increase our faith that we would cross the finish line and not give up the faith So during Peter's day, when you hear those teachings that are coming out of Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, that God the Father through Jesus Jesus through Jesus through Jesus through Jesus through Jesus. That's the contentious point, right? That's what was difficult. That's what made them the reproach of their culture The detestable and contentious part of those statements already within the letter is that it was Jesus. The Jews and the Greeks in different ways denied that Jesus was the Christ. And this was the really the state of the question two weeks ago. So not last week, because Brad was preaching last week, but the week before that. Remember, I told you there's basically two groups of people Those that believe that Jesus is the Christ and all the implications of that, and those who deny, looking for another Christ if you're a Jew, or looking for some other total some other solution, perhaps insane. Caesar, if you're a Greek, the question that we asked two weeks ago was, who should you believe? If you were in their situation, would you believe Peter, or would you believe the leaders of the synagogue who were saying that Jesus is not the Christ, were still waiting, that he was a fraud? Peter is saying, obviously, believe me. And how does he convince us? How would he convince the original audience? What he does is he finds a common ground. I hope you remember this from weeks ago. He finds a common ground. Both Peter and the Jews agreed on on something. I just heard this the other day actually on a podcast. Uh Christian agreeing with the Jew, both being um revelational epistemologists is the way that they put it. In other words, they both place authority on the revelation of God Both Peter and the Jews agreed that the Old Testament law and prophets were the rule or standard of truth. And so Peter begins appealing to the prophets just as he had done in Acts chapter 2. going through all of those different prophets, which we'll look at in a moment, seeking to convince the Jewish men that were present there on that day. And it does say Jewish men. So Peter begins appealing to the prophets. If you take a look at verse 10, that's really where he's going with all of this in 1 Peter verse 10. Of the salvation, the prophets. That's why he begins talking about them. Because he's establishing this common ground and reminding them Of his arguments. He says here in this paragraph, beginning in verse 10, that those prophets searched diligently to know what and what manner of time the suffering Christ would arrive. Everyone was looking for the day of the Christ. I gave you an example last time from Luke chapter two, twenty-five through thirty-two. Is this all sounding familiar? I'm really praying that it is And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And this man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. See, this is a prophet who's waiting to see the Lord's Christ. So he came by the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law, he took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord Now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation which you have prepared before the face of all peoples, a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel It has finally been seen. Someone had been searching, namely Simeon, and finally it's seen. This is starting to flesh out the narrative behind these words that Peter is giving. But I found another example by God's word. Grace that I think Peter was really referring to. And so I want us to take a look at the prophet Daniel in chapter nine, just so that we can flesh out the narrative that we see here in 1 Peter. It just reminds me that any of these abstract theological statements always have a narrative behind it because Christianity takes place in time and space. It's uh it's historical. God has become man. And so if you turn to Daniel chapter 9, I want you to just show you in verse 2 and a couple other verses of what What's going on here? My Bible, that's page twelve sixty-nine, but you don't have my Bible, so that's not helpful to you at all. And I don't know what it is in the church Bible. But here we have Daniel chapter nine, and I want you to notice in verse two what it says. In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, understood by the books the number of the years specified by the word of the Lord through Jeremiah the prophet that he would accomplish seventy years in the desolations of Jerusalem Daniel's studying, and he's trying to figure out when the suffering Christ would come according to the years that had been given within prophecy. And if you were to read, you'd see that he then begins to pray in regards to that. Now take a look at 9, 25. He receives a vision. He starts to in this vision see what what will happen, what will the events what will the first events be, the second events that will take place. And here in twenty-five, I quoted this during our Easter season. Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the command to restore and build Jerusalem until Messiah the Prince, there shall be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks The street shall be built again, and the wall even in troublesome times. So he would take these visions, trying to understand exactly when the suffering Christ would come. And Peter is referring to this. Now look at in chapter 12 of Daniel Verses five and six, and look what happens to Daniel himself. Then I, Daniel, looked, and there stood two others, one on this riverbank, and the other on that riverbank, and one said to the man clothed in linen Who was above the waters of the river, how long shall the fulfillment of these wonders be? We all want to know when is the Christ's coming? And then I heard the man, clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, when he held up his right hand and his left hand to heaven, and swore by him who lives forever, that it shall be for a time, times and half a time And when the power of the holy people has been completely shattered, all these things shall be finished. Although I heard the same thing that just happened to you sitting here, although I heard, I did not understand. Then I said, My Lord, what shall be the end of these things? And then verse 9, and he said, Go your way, Daniel, for the words are closed up and sealed till the time of the end. And you know the one who was giving these visions or these messages to Daniel was the angel Gabriel. And of course, after the intertestamental period, we see the angel Gabriel showing up again in the beginning. Accounts of Luke, opening up the seals to where now we can see the content of the message and who would be the Christ. Peter is referring to all of that in his letter when he talks about the prophets. Those prophets As you saw in those accounts there with Daniel, you can do the same thing with Isaiah, realized that the Christ would be revealed, not to them. The book had been sealed. Daniel didn't understand But they would be revealed to the future generations. That's what Peter is referring to in that difficult paragraph. So when we now look And how uh he continues in that same paragraph, that generation Starts to receive revelation, and Peter is a member of that generation and will start to preach the gospel, giving reports. Notice in verse 12 of 1 Peter now, we're back to 1 Peter. To them it was revealed that, not to themselves, but to us. They were ministering the things which now have been reported to you through those who have preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent for them. From heaven. Do you see what he's doing? He said, We have common ground. We both agree in the authoritative teachings of the law and the prophets. Well, to what were the prophets referring? And he says. To the things that we're reporting to you. The things that have taken place on the streets of Jerusalem, the signs and wonders that you have seen in this man Jesus from Nazareth His crucifixion, his resurrection, these are all of the things that had been foretold, that were sealed before, and now they're being revealed. And we are the ones reporting them to you. It's the whole reason as you became Christians to begin with, because you believed the apostolic message. That's what Peter is saying. Those things have now been reported by those who preach the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. So who are those people if you had to prove that? Who are the people that are reporting or preaching the gospel to them by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven? Does that also bring up a particular narrative in your mind? Who was sent the Holy Spirit from heaven that then began to preach the gospel? Peter. Peter and the rest of the apostles in the upper room. Who has been reporting events that recently took place? To whom was the Holy Spirit sent from heaven? Take a look at Acts chapter 2, just to confirm this in your own mind, that you could have a clean conscience before God, and that you'd be able to contend for your own faith. In Acts chapter 2, we see that the Holy Spirit is given. Then if you look at 2. 14, Peter stands full of the Holy Spirit. Stands up with the eleven, he raises his voice, and he says to them, Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and heed my words, for these are not drunk, as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day. And look what he does in verse 16. What we have been what we've been waiting for from the prophets. In this case, the prophet Joel is what you see before your face today. And he will take these arguments all the way through this chapter. In verses 17 through 21, he will prove from the prophet Joel. In verses 25 through 28 of Acts chapter 2, he will prove from the prophet David. In 34 through 35, he will prove again from the prophet David, and then in verse 36, he draws his inductive sermon to a conclusion. Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. Jesus is the one. This is Peter's argument. Can you see how he's laying it out? That's what he's talking about here in 1 Peter. He's talking about all the teaching that he had done in Acts. Jesus is the one that all the prophets were wondering about. When the scroll was sealed, Daniel couldn't see that it would be Jesus from Nazareth. He knew there would be a Christ, but he was blinded to all of the details. But here it's finally revealed. Daniel, Isaiah, and the rest, Gabriel, long to see this day when Christ was revealed. And it has finally arrived. And Peter and the other apostles have reported it to that group of people. You can see why he would say all these things. He's reassuring them of what he taught them to begin with. So here would be the question. This all of this is background, all of this is review. Here's the question that would stand for them and stand and stands before your face right now. Do you believe that God the Father has established Jesus from now? Nazareth as Lord and Christ. That's the good confession. If you're able to affirm that And to continue to affirm it. And behind that question is this one: Do you believe that the Apostle Peter preaches the truth given to him from heaven Because if this truth is from God, you cannot resist it. God does not lie. If you answer yes to both of those, then you are ready to move on to the exhortations and verses. 13 through 16. If you answer no, then these exhortations make no sense to you. They are for those who have been reassured and recommitted to that main truth, that Jesus from Nazareth is the Christ, the one that perhaps made your dining room table with his father Joseph Is the Christ. Those are the kind of things that they would have to consider. And you have to consider it also. If you answer yes, now we can move on to the exhortations in 13 through 16. And you do see a set of exhortations, it's a series of commands. Therefore, all of that being true, you being reminded of these things that you were convinced of from the beginning, gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober, and rest your hope fully upon the grace that is to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ, as obedient children, not conforming yourselves to the former lusts as in your ignorance But as he who called you was holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, because it is written, Be holy, for I am holy. I've summarized this into three main exhortations. I've joined the first two together because I think Are you really getting at the same thing? Now, here's something you need to know about me. When I look at these exhortations, I do not see these exhortations as disconnected from everything that has come before. Everything that I just talked to you about is the lens through which we must look to understand these exhortations. I think that's the most responsible way to handle them in context. So you'll hear that throughout, and these will just be a summary of these exhortations. I'm not going to spend a ton of time on them, and then we'll move into a prayer. revisit some of them. So the first exhortation is he says, gird up the loins of your mind, and it is a participle, being sober. This is a metaphor from the ancient world. Do you know what this means? Has anyone ever told you to gird up the loins of your mind? I hope not. I mean not unless from the pulpit. It just sounds strange and normal Life. Gird up the lawn of your minds though is a great image. It's a metaphor from the ancient world. When they wore long robes, they would gird themselves up Pull up the robes, so to speak, so that nothing gets in the way and they are free to run with full liberty. To use all of their athletic ability That's what it's referring to. And being sober is referring to that same kind of sentiment: don't be intoxicated with delusions, but be clear-headed so that nothing gets in the way. You see, I think that's the context. That's the force of the metaphor in relationship to what just took place, of the situation that these people are facing and why Peter is writing to them. The culture of the Greeks or the Jews were tripping them up with the robes and the intoxicating drink of the thought of denying Christ and denying and denying that Jesus is the Christ. And he's saying, yet you know the words of the apostle are true. I reported to you all that had taken place as the fulfillment of what the prophets had told us. Stop letting doubts trip you up to where you were constantly an ineffective Christian, always learning, but never coming to the truth, never putting your foot down on anything Believe me, once and for all, they're not good drinking partners. Sover up. Get off their bottle and get back to the reality that I have told you from the beginning. Jesus from Nazareth is the Christ. That's what he's referring to, I think, most obviously from the context. He's saying don't let things trip you up. That these people in this culture are saying. Stop letting every wind and wave of doctrine make you sway back and forth as to whether or not you should be a Christian or not Believe what I have said. Remember the signs and the wonders to affirm that I am an authoritative teacher and that more importantly Jesus Christ is the teacher. That's the first exhortation. The second exhortation he says: set your hope fully upon the grace brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Is this the same kind of argument? Don't put your hope in some other messiah. Do you know what happened to those folks who put their hope in Barkhakva in 70? A. D. they burned along with the city. Do you know what happened to those who put their hope in Jesus from Nazareth, the Christ, in 70 AD? They got as far away from the city as they could If it were the Greeks, don't put your hope in the Greek gods. Don't put your hope in secular hopes of career, your looks, or science today. Don't put your hope in a philosophy of history that says there is no hope. Put your hope in what we have established already. Jesus is the Christ. Stop doubting. Jesus is the Christ. He is your hope. He will return and establish all. And then thirdly, he says, don't be conformed to your former life. Instead, be holy as God is holy. And this again is the same sentiment. This is more of the same. Since you are convinced that Jesus is the truth, that this grace that I communicate to you is the true grace from God, as he says in chapter 5. Then don't live like you are still convinced about your former way of life. Have you ever noticed that when people become unconvinced about their Christianity, they immediately start to backslide into what they used to do with their life? He's talking about the exact same thing. Doubts have assailed them. And he's saying: make up your mind, put your foot down on the apostolic foundation. If the apostle's teaching is true, then you are a child of God. And therefore, like father, like son or daughter, you must look like your father who was from heaven and no longer look like your former father, the devil. That's the whole point. It all relies on being re-established in that prior conviction. That's exactly what Peter is doing. You can see how every part of what I have said this evening, going all the way down, we've been down to verse 16. now is simply Peter seeking to reassure people and get them back into the race. What has hindered you? Could be a question. he would have asked. And he would say, whatever that is, remember the original message. Remember how you were convinced to begin with that Jesus is the Christ. He is reminding and re-establishing them, and I hope you in your first love and in your first conviction. And now that they are reassured, he exhorts them to gird up the loins, sober up, look to Jesus for their future, and live for God now. Get back in the race. Here in conclusion is what I want you to notice. The beginning of all of the girding up. The beginning of all the sobering up, of the hoping up, of the holying up. Do you notice what is prior to all of those actions? To have that ability to do any of those things, there is a uh not just a presupposition, but something, a reality that must be prior, that Peter assumes And it's not a fuzzy feeling. It's not an emotional high and a worship service. It is a deep-rooted conviction. Do you see that? Do you see that that's what he was doing? He appeals to his teaching And how he convinced and persuaded them in the beginning. And that is the basis and the foundation of the Christian life. As the person thinks. So are they. We've heard that in the Old Testament before. This would be the general statement: growth and continuance in the Christian life is from God. We read that earlier in the first chapter. Now, here's the second addition to this. But God uses the means of becoming convicted by the truth as a tool in his sovereignty. For you to be a continually maturing Christian. Not backsliding, not constantly doubting, and unassured. Not being tossed back and forth by every wind and wave of doctrine, not being ineffective effective in your life, it all begins with having conviction. Having truth and acknowledging it to be so. So let me ask you this: Do you know what the main apostolic doctrines are? of the scriptures. And have you done the hard work of growing in the conviction of Those truths? Have you worked out the arguments? Why are you assured that those teachings are true? Do you not know that Satan knows how to push every one of your buttons? And that if you are lacking in the knowledge to be able to establish one of those truths, he will work you down. He would sift you like we. It is what Christ Himself is seeking to do in you, to convince you more and more as the days go on. And here's another one. Can you defend those doctrines that are given to us against current threats, as we saw within Jude? Are you able to defend your faith against what people say? Or do you just bury your head like an ostrich? To the extent that you cannot, to the extent that you do not know the apostolic doctrines To the extent that you are not able to give arguments for why they are true, to the extent that you are unable to uh defend them against people that assail your faith, you will not be girded up. You will be hindered. You will wear a skirt of ignorance that continually trips you in your Christian life You will not be totally sober. You'll at least have a buzz. You will lack hope, at least in some degree. You will return to pagan ways, or never really having left them. You will not live the holy life that you could live. God has given you the gift of the Word, and He has given you the gift of His Spirit, that you would understand and be convinced in the depths of your heart that what He says is true. And Paul says to us, stay in step with the Spirit. Well, here's something you need to know. The Spirit is always present where the Word is. If you're going to stay in step with the Spirit, then you need to stay in step with the Spirit by growing in your conviction about the Word. That's truly what it would mean to be a people of the Spirit, is to be totally convinced. And in that, and from that, will be fruit and love. Remember what Jesus says in the parable of soils. It is those who receive the word and hold on to it that produce the heart. Not those who kind of know the word and then lose it, but those who really know it and are convinced. I'm sure you can think of some things to pray about tonight. I think our culture has led us into thinking that Christianity is primarily emotional. And we need to pray that we would return to the truth. If you do if you by the power of the Holy Spirit and through prayers dedicate yourself to the Word, the convictions will be Become so deep that your emotions will be deeper than you ever realized. But it doesn't begin with emotion