Short reading from verses eighteen through twenty in chapter one. This charge I commit to you, son Timothy, according to the prophecies previously made concerning you. that by them you may wage the good warfare, having faith and a good conscience, which some, having rejected concerning the faith, have suffer s suffered shipwre Of whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I delivered to Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme. Let us pray. Christ, these letters that you have ordained in your providence To be preserved for your church contained quite serious content. And we ask, Lord, that we would therefore take it seriously We pray, Lord, that as a result of our attentiveness, that you would bring about great health Please, Lord, show us the way, the way of true life and light that you have brought. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. What does a healthy church look like? I'm sure if we were to go through the scriptures, we could come up with a thousand bullet points. It's the way that the scriptures outline things. So far, just within this letter, we've made a few observations about what a healthy church should have as its marks. A healthy church submits to apostolic authority, for example. You could say apostolic and prophetic, that would be fine A healthy church knows God's purposes for God's things. Things like the law. That we use the law lawfully. And last week we saw that a healthy church witnesses to the long-suffering of Jesus Christ, particularly as understood within the context of justice. Well, let's continue our observations in this letter this week. We'll learn another mark of a healthy church by the time we get to our doctrine. Here's the first thing that I want you to notice: that here in verses 18 through 20, Paul takes time to strengthen the young Timothy in his pastoral charge and ministry. Paul, therefore, takes time to remind Timothy that his calling to the ministry was not just some neat idea It was not just some personal aspiration. Timothy did not fill out a personality profile or take some kind of personality test. Prophecies were made confirming that the Holy Spirit has set Timothy aside for this special work. You can see this in verse 18, for example. This charge I commit to you, son Timothy, according to the prophecies previously made concerning you. Now that can be a little confusing, these prophecies previously made concerning you. But this is a way during that time where the Holy Spirit would make clear who he has set aside for the particular work and commission of Jesus Christ. Now, if you were to go through the scriptures, there are many ways that you can see that the Holy Spirit sets people aside. I'm not going to list them all. I'll just give you a few examples from the New Testament. I'm sure you remember Acts chapter 1, for example, when the Spirit set aside a disciple. The disciples were in the upper room. They were praying that the Lord would show them who should take Judas's place among the Spirit, or among the apostles. And the Spirit worked through the prayers and the drawing of a lot In order to select Matthias. If you were to go to Acts away from Acts chapter 1 and over into Acts chapter 6, you see another selection process by way of the Spirit. We see some men were set aside to serve as deacons during that time. The Holy Spirit worked, in this case, through the election of the congregation. The brethren gathered, decided who were the men filled with the Holy Spirit, and they voted. And that's the model that we actually still have today. That's the Presbyterian model. It says this: therefore, brethren Seek out from among you seven men of good reputation, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. And then we have what I think is the most likely analogy to what happened with Timothy in his ordination, and that is in Acts chapter 13. During a time of fasting and prayer, the Holy Spirit said this: Now separate to me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. Then, having fasted and prayed, they laid hands on them and they sent them away. Something similar happened with Timothy and his ordination. And Paul is calling him or recalling him to that ordination activity and the laying on of hands and the prophecy that was spoken of him. Paul is recalling all of those things specifically in that last manner of Acts chapter 13 in order to strengthen Timothy in the current charge. When Timothy read this, I am sure it was sobering to remember that God Himself called him to this task at Ephesus. And I bet you it's the exact thing that Timothy needed. There are some indications elsewhere in these letters to Timothy that Timothy was perhaps a mild-mannered or timid person. And he needed some strength to be able to face these kind of people that we read about within the letter. And here Paul strengthens Timothy by way of reminding him of his ordination by Christ himself. Now there's a second thing I want you to notice, and that is I want you to ask a question besides answering it the way that I just did, ask this question and And seek a few more answers. Why would Paul seek to strengthen Timothy? Besides the idea that he may be timid Why would he seek to strengthen Timothy? Well, it's the other side of that coin. It's because the ministry was nothing less than warfare. And you can see that in verse 18. This is the analogy that Paul chooses to characterize the reality that Timothy faced It says there that by them you may wage the good warfare, or in some translations you may find, especially the older ones, fight the good fight. Paul describes this kind of warfare in another letter in 2 Corinthians 10, 3 through 6, this way. He says, For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal or fleshly, but mighty in God for pulling down strongholds, casting down arguments. and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ, and being ready to punish all disobedience when your obedience is fulfilled. Timothy, therefore, must be filled with courage for the fight. And by Timothy knowing that it was God who is the general, so to speak, And he is his soldier that is meant to strengthen him. That's how we would answer that question Already he has been warned about those who don't submit to apostolic teaching. Paul calls them insubordinate. He's warned about those who use the law unlawfully. The pressures are high because these are not individuals who just sit in their living room using the law wrongly. They seek to captivate. and take captive the whole congregation to their way of viewing things. If you read through these letters, they're publicly disordering the church. Now that is quite the battle that Timothy will have to face. The pressure certainly will be high, and at times the battle will be fierce. Now, the third thing I want you to observe is this. Reminders of Timothy's call, of his ordination, are not enough to fight the good fight. It's not enough to just recall the ordination. Timothy himself, the passage goes on to teach. must continue having faith and a good conscience. If he loses his faith in Christ Or if he is blown off course, using a sailing analogy, by ignoring what is right, he will end up shipwrecked like two other church leaders named Hymenaeus and Alexander, as you can see in verse 19. Paul ends up disciplining those two men by removing them from the sacred space of the church, it's an excommunication, and into the hands of Satan. This is a case of what I think God is doing: taking even those who are evil, like Satan himself, and using them as instruments for reconciliation. His hope, in fact, Paul, was that they would learn, as you can see there in the scripture, that they would learn not to blaspheme Or resist and reject the kingdom campaign of God the Father through the Son and the Spirit. Well that really covers our passage there. Those three observations, I think, hit on it well enough for you to understand what's going on. And did you notice the particularity of the passage this time? There's really not a bunch of general statements. These observations, if we look at just the passage and don't start inferring. Just yet, but if we just look at the passage, you can see that the emphasis is specifically from Paul to a single individual named Timothy. And he is trying to help this young man to do a great job in his ordained commission to this particular congregation in Ephesus. And you'll see the same thing in 2 Timothy. And in fact, 1 and 2 Timothy and Titus are called pastoral epistles because it is instruction for these these two young ones to do their pastoral work. And yet We may, because of the way that the Holy Spirit has set these things up, we may see that there are not only truths for pastors in this passage. But there are truths that are applicable to Christians in general. There are both. And so our doctrine this morning is for everyone. A healthy church is made up of healthy soldiers who maintain faith and a good conscience That is your doctrine this morning. So if you if you do have a pen, maybe you can write that down. A healthy church is made up of healthy soldiers. Who maintain faith and a good conscience. This is a bit of an unusual doctrine for us. If you were to go back and look at all of the doctrines that I have given to you over the years They are usually focused on larger community activities, and I don't often get in there and just speak about your personal life. Now I am addressing the church here, but you can see that I'm addressing the church as to who makes up the church. Listen to the doctrine again. A healthy church is made up. of healthy soldiers who maintain faith and a good conscience. So today is going to be a real day of self-examination. You can think about the community, but you also need to think about your own personal beliefs and practices during this sermon. So, what I'd like to do with that doctrine is to unfold it a bit by looking at three main things I'd like us to look at our work. I'd like us to look at our faith, and I would like us to look at our conscience. Our work, our faith, and our conscience. Now, for those of you who don't know, we are considered a reformed church. Now that word is used for a lot of different churches. But when we use the word reformed, it means that we connect To a historic movement that sought to reform the errors of the church and continue to want To make sure that we're reforming any errors that continue in the church. Now, one set of problems that have arisen within our history is around work Or vocation, or about calling. At a certain time, some vocations were elevated and considered sacred Such as life in the monastery. I actually remember when I first became a Christian, uh I was coming into the Christian community from the outside, and I think for that reason I was able to notice a few things But the way that the church elevated and talked about missionaries was different than the way they talked about a mechanic. The missionary was doing God's work and was in God's will, and the mechanic, well We don't know, but we're thankful that he changes our oil. That was something that was still a part of the church and always needs correcting. We sought to reform that a long time ago When instead of thinking about just a missionary, it was those in the monastery. The reformers re-established. This was one of a major movement within our history of uh of uh of our tradition, the reformers re-established that when Christ calls us into his service All human endeavors, all lawful human endeavors, are filled with spiritual significance. Now that is great news. It is liberating. Christian vocation does not limit Christian devotion to the special activities of a minister or an evangelist. Instead, it fills ordinary life with new spiritual motivations, a sense of the presence of the living God, and a heavenly hope, even while you're working on your car or somebody else's. As Christians, Christ gives us His Holy Spirit, in other words, to be holy as He is holy. And that doctrine of holiness That was pushed to spread out over everything to where even if you're working at the grocery store, it can be a holy activity if you are in Jesus Christ. Holiness does not mean leading the busy world of life for a life of solitude Holiness meant engaging in the business of this world with Christian wisdom and Christian diligence and justice and truth and contentment and a constant devotion to God. What a liberating teaching that came out of the Reformation. Christian men and women consider themselves as the servants of divine providence. Making the Word of God their rule and the honor of God the end of their common work. That's the mindset that's set in. Around here, in other words, We often speak of the holy living, the holy service that we have to family, to church, and to our civic spheres. We talk about it in those three categories just for the sake of being helpful. Well, with our passage today, we have the opportunity to have an even more realistic picture of our callings. And you can add to it now. Behind all of that doctrine of the Reformation and all the times that you've heard those categories of family, church, and state from this pulpit, you may add that you are soldiers. You must take the idea of soldiering and bring it over into the area of work. Now, I don't want you to get me wrong. I'm not saying from now on I'm going to announce four different categories. Family, church, state, and soldier. That's not what I'm doing. I'm not adding a category that way. What we infer this morning is that each of those domains are an act also of soldiering. Now, I said that that is a realistic picture of the world And it is, because if you think that God has just called or commissioned you to whatever lawful work he has called you, and it's going to be like a day at the beach or in the rose garden, you have got another thing coming. That is not what it is like to live in the world or to be in the world and not of it. What you want to do is you want to overlay the instructions from Paul to Timothy onto your own life Paul sends Timothy to contend with those who seek to destroy the church. Timothy cannot have any room for timidity within this task. He must stand in confidence of his ordination and his charge and his commission, even his authorization from Jesus Christ himself. And authorized by Christ, Timothy must preserve and order the church for life against those who would wreck the whole ship of the Ephesian congregation. And it is the same thing with you. See the similarities. Christ sends each of you Christians to contend with those who seek to destroy your families. Who seek to destroy your churches and who seek to destroy your neighborhoods. You have no room for timidity. You must stand with confidence in your effective calling. You are authorized by Christ Himself to preserve and order every domain amidst the storms and the swelling seas of this life, that you would not by your inactivity or passivity be a cause, an indirect cause of the failings of your families or your churches or your neighborhoods. Now, how is it that I can say all of this? Because you are soldiers. You are meant in your own way, not in the exact same way as Timothy. There were some special things about that But in your own way, you are meant to wage the good warfare. You are meant to fight the good fight And therefore, that is our first application this morning on our work. Our first application of this passage this morning concerns our vocations. Christian grandparents, Christian parents, church members, and members, Christian members of Anorental County, you are soldiers and you have been given a particular commission. I pray that you would fight the good fight. Well, there's more than just our work here that needs to be applied. There's also our faith. The next use we have of our passage this morning is to realize that if we are going to be good soldiers in every one of those domains, then there are these two last application points that you have to pay attention to. You have got to pay attention to your faith. Jeremiah talked about it as maintenance. It's exactly right. Maintenance and preservation and even health. You have got to pay attention to your faith, which we'll talk about in a moment, and then later we'll talk about how you have to pay attention to your conscience in order to be a good soldier in these domains. Faith can be used in a few different ways. We just referred to this within the Sunday school, which was serendipitous. But faith can refer to a body of truth. For example, when you apply to a Christian school, usually you have to read and sign their statement of faith. Has anybody here had to do that? Have you had to sign a statement of faith? I'm barely seeing any nods, and yet I know you're all in Christian schools. What is happening among the administration? Do we not check on people anymore? No Okay. Here we go. We'll wake up now. We signed has anybody here ever signed a statement of faith? Yes. Okay, very good. A statement of faith, as you know, is a body of truth to which members that want to be in that group assign themselves, even with a signature. That's one legitimate use of the word faith. But faith can also refer to our belief or confidence or trust in God. You would see someone who has a strong faith in God. When you see them have to walk through very difficult trials and they are still praising God through it all, you say, wow, look at their faith. How strong it is. When we entrust our salvation to Jesus Christ, we are not just accepting that the Bible teaches stuff about salvation. We are also really trusting in Jesus Christ. and that he will accomplish our salvation. That's a one of the distinctions with faith. It can refer to trust. Now in our passage this morning, you can make a distinction but not a separation. In our passage this morning, Paul is really focused on that second use Of faith when he mentions it within the scriptures. He is telling Timothy, and he wants us to know as soldiers that we must keep up our faith. and expectation that Jesus Christ is at work against the forces of evil. If you think that you have lost, you will not be a good soldier. I promise. Now, let me give you an analogy of what happens when people lose the second kind of faith in Christ. Now, the second kind of faith is always connected to the first kind of faith. Right. You can't separate 'em. What happens when people lose their faith in Christ? Here's an analogy. Now before I started pastoring here at Severn Run I spent a lot of time doing the work of a Christian conciliator. Many of those conciliations were done within the church, and many of those conciliations in the church were about marriage. Difficult marriages. Oh, I have got some stories for you that I can't tell you Throughout the years, this was a common pattern, throughout the years within the marriage, they would have one problem after another and never really deal with the problem. And they would be the kind of thing that would be big enough where those problems just don't go away with time. And each of those problems ends up being kind of like a brick or a cinder block. And over time, what you have are bricks that get laid down as a problem, and another get brick gets laid down on top of that one, and then before you know it, They're in a room with me, seeking help within their marriage, but there is a wall 20 foot high between the two of them of all of the problems that have accumulated Over the years, and they say to me, fix it. Now, when it comes time to do that work of mediation, they will rehearse all of the bricks Even ones from 16, 24, 40 years ago, every brick is remembered. That's why it's still in the wall. And here's the thing that you notice. Here's the pattern. If they lose faith, that the bricks can be removed and the walls torn down, if they lose faith, you can expect divorce papers to be delivered. That's the percentages just increased. Just based on my observations, I'm not a statistician. I haven't read some poll. When they lose faith, There's no more chance, at least within them, in trying to remedy or have a healthy relationship within their marriage. And so, even in the training, Among Christian conciliators, one of the things that they train you to do besides all of the mediation work you're supposed to do is you're constant Constantly supposed to be showing them hope so that they won't quit before you can actually get some work done. You have a job of keeping their faith up. So that they can do the work to start to tear down the wall. And if you could just get one of those bricks out, then it becomes uh revitalizing. And there's work to do 20 other bricks. The same is true for all of us. The world, the flesh, and the devil are actively working to make us lose faith. In the Father's plan through the Son and the Spirit. The world, the flesh, and the devil are masters and are actively crafting ways for us to lose faith in bringing good to our lives and to the life of this world And in fact, I'll just ask you, and I do not want you to answer: who here has already begun to lose faith? I'm not saying that you've forgotten what the Apostle Creed says. I'm saying that second kind of faith that you have no real expectation. that Jesus Christ is doing anything around here. Enough bricks have stacked. You don't see Jesus Christ walking around here physically. And I wonder if you have made sense of your life by beginning to entertain the idea That Jesus Christ has forgotten you and He has forgotten this world. Have you become like Naomi in the book of Ruth? bitter and exasperated at the providences of her life. Now, can't you understand why she would be bitter and exasperated, losing her family? You can see the gut punch and the loss of breath when something like that happens That's one of the ways that the world and the flesh and the devil. That's one of the moments that they sow seeds. They say, Look at the tragedy that has befallen you. Look at the suffering that you experience. You want to be able to make sense of that? It's because Jesus Christ doesn't really care. And you could, there's a whole bunch of synonyms to say that same kind of thing. But that's the kind of self-talk that can happen within us. And I wonder if you have brought that kind of idea into your soul and given it some room to grow. I wonder if the world around you is watering that idea So that it's become so strong that you have officially become a cynic. And you're just putting one foot in front of the other every day with no real joy. Have you begun to say, what's the use? That's a pure sign of problem. What's the use? Nothing changes. And that's why I just took you down that path that we can go as human beings. That is a regular path that human beings can head down. And whether you're a mediator or a fellow Christian or you're a preacher today, you've got to let people know that if you are going to keep soldiering for Jesus Christ, then it's worth it. Then you've got to remind them to keep up the faith. Keep up the hope that Jesus Christ is alive and active and working. You, therefore, have a role in the preservation of the people that are around you. You, in some sense, are God's maintenance plan for the people to your left and to your right. We have to be careful when those thoughts and sometimes they're just feelings, honestly. When those thoughts enter, when those feelings enter, as a soldier, you must always keep up your faith. Here is a verse that I would encourage you to meditate on, and perhaps you want to put it over on a wall or above a doorway where you have to walk under it every time. Maybe you should bind it to yourself somehow. I'm sounding awful Old Testament at this point. But here it is. This is from John 16, 33, an old favorite for soldiers. These things I have spoken to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world world. Now, did any of you soldiers get a little goosebumps on that verse? I did, and I'm ready to fight I'm ready to fight in the way that 2 Corinthians describes. And let's fight together. Jesus Christ is worth it, and he is present even here and now doing his work. So that's our work, and that is our and then in order to keep up that work of soldiering, we must watch our faith in that second sense defined, but we must also keep track of our conscience. To remain strong soldiers, we must not only keep our faith bright and alive, we must also keep our conscience strong and healthy. Now bear with me for a moment because I'm going to describe the human conscience But I think this will be helpful to you. Even if you want to take notes and talk to me about this later, I there are many doctrines that have been helpful to me. This is one of the most helpful Is the doctrine of the Christian conscience that is given to us in the Word. The first part of the conscience, out of three parts, Is what we could call the binder or the law. And this first part of the conscience, it is alive And it is aware of that thing which has authority over us and is a standard or a rule for everything that we do. The conscience is aware of that thing. That's the first thing that the conscience does. Here's the second thing that the conscience does. It not only acts like a lawgiver. or is aware of the law or attuned or attentive to the law, it also acts like a lawyer, particularly a prosecutor. The second part of the conscience either excuses you or accuses you of the very rule that has authority over you. And then the third part of the conscience draws the inference and shows you the sentencing and the results of either being accused or excused. Now I hope that's not too complicated, but let me give you an example. Here's just a quick one. All those who disobey God are deserving of just punishment. W We just heard that vow. There's the standard. If the conscience is healthy and good, it will acknowledge that as an authorized statement from God himself. Now put yourself in the place of a non-Christian for the second part, which is the prosecutor. And there's there's a, you can really think of the conscience as having a finger in the second phase, and they and the conscience does this. You disobey God. And the conscience has this friend called the memory. And he calls on his friend when you start to argue with him, and he says, Could you please remind him of all the ways that he's disobeyed God? And so the trial begins. Exhibit A, exhibit B, exhibit Z, and then we got to make up a few letters And go into other alphabets and all of the ways that you have disobeyed God. And then there's that final conclusion or sentencing, therefore you deserve just punishment. All those who disobey God are deserving of just punishment. You disobeyed God, therefore you deserve just punishment. Now, here's the thing. If you have a healthy conscience, then those three parts, as I just described, will work like a well-oiled machine, and you will take the appropriate action relative to what the conscience has told you. In this case, you would seek forgiveness and salvation from your sins By Christ who is offered in the gospel. That's what you would do. But we as human beings have a habit of not having healthy consciences. We gunk up the conscience at every level. At the level of the law, we can remain ignorant of what God's moral will truly is And we can even suppress or argue as to whether that's really what it says. Is that really applicable to me? We have a million ways to try to take away the fuse of that first step. And it's the same thing. Think about yourself. You all have consciences. Think about yourself at the level of the lawyer or the prosecutor. where you refuse to accept any observations that the conscience brings to you. And you are willing to come up with myths and fables and any kind of crazy stories in order to be able to excuse yourself from just being able to admit that this is right and you did wrong How many times has that happened to us during the day? And eventually, this is where it really gets scary. If you are not tending to your conscience, this is the scariest part. God at a certain point, it says in Romans 1, gives permission for your conscience to do this. Okay, have it your way. And that is an act of judgment. And that is very scary. And that is very dangerous. And you are watching it every day within our culture. You can see why Paul would bring up these two things to Timothy as he's out there with the Ephesian church. This is what, in fact, Hymenaeus and Alexander were doing. There's a few times in the letters to Timothy that he names people. There's a couple that will be from biblical history, from the time of Numbers and Exodus. Timenaeus and Alexander were dividing the churches by teaching that the resurrection had already happened. You can read that elsewhere in Timothy. Paul told them to stop, but undoubtedly, and undoubtedly, Paul worked on their conscience. That's what good preachers do. They work alongside and with your conscience. So undoubtedly Paul did it, and I bet you he worked on their conscience at every level that he knew. But these two men suppressed and they excused themselves in all of the thousand ways that human beings are able to do so. And the result, Paul says, was that they were that they not only became useless, remember the conversations they're having are vain or useless. Not only have they become useless, they have become enemies and have to be removed from the camp. They have become enemies of Jesus Christ. They have shipwrecked. Now that word doesn't mean We've wrecked the ship. Could you come get us? We'll make some drinks while we're waiting. This means the whole the whole ship's gone. It means that you're in the water and you're going to die unless there's a plank that floats by and you can hold on to it. But in this case, there is no plank. They suppressed and they excused themselves, and the result was not only uselessness, but enmity towards God and his church. And I'll correct myself actually. I think the act of excommunication was a plank. In this passage was a plank that they would return to Jesus Christ and his ship. Now the same thing is true of all of us God gave you a conscience informed by the Holy Spirit to direct you as a good soldier. But here is the question. Have you become at enmity with your own conscience? There are a couple different ways to do that. The one is that the conscience could be showing you the truth all along Even enabled by the Holy Spirit, since the Holy Spirit has been given to you, and you love your sins so much that you keep repressing and suppressing and cauterizing your conscience. And that's unhealthy. And I'm here to tell you today that that has got to stop. And it doesn't stop when you're alone. You need to talk to people. You need to be a part of a community who also takes the health of their conscience seriously. Another way that you can have an unhealthy conscience is that you are too hard on yourself. That is called an overworking conscience. You never give yourself a break. Even though God has declared to you that you have been forgiven, you will find a thousand ways to Question whether you have been forgiven. That is an overactive conscience. Now we could talk about that. That's a whole nother sermon, really. It is a kind of suppression of the grace of God. Have you been suppressing your conscience? Have you spun all kinds of stories just to escape the simple and plain truth which the conscience has been showing you? Have you taken the role of the serpent when you don't like what God says and you say, has God really said that? Oh Christian, I encourage you here this morning in the name of Jesus Christ to not resist the voice of Christ who speaks through your conscience. conscience when it is rightly informed by his word. Do not become his enemy. Do not shipwreck yourself or your family or your church or your state. Instead, today is about encouraging you to be a healthy soldier. That there is hope in front of you. There is no hope in darkness, only in light. Would you join us again? A healthy church, brothers and sisters, is made up of healthy soldiers. And healthy soldiers At the very least, are those who maintain their faith and trust in God and what He is doing, that He cannot lose And they maintain a healthy conscience. May it be so among us. Amen. Amen