Lord Christ, it is a privilege to see, to see what is revealed here, to have eyes to see. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would give us such eyes that we would know who you are. We pray, Lord, that that would go down deep into us. That it would change us and that it would change the world. We ask these things in your name, Amen. Last night we acknowledged that Christ gave us his supper, at the very least. To remember that through his death and resurrection, he has purged us of the old leaven of the world. And he has made us a new lump or loaf. This was never meant to just be a confession that was solely personal or individualistic. That profession that we made last night, even in eating of the table together, is apart. It is included. in a universal reformation of the entire world by Jesus Christ the Son of God The Son of God. Did you notice how many times that was repeated within the readings? Did you notice that it was repeated? In this case, and in this gospel, it ends up being largely synonymous with Christ. Or Messiah or King. You saw those words or heard those words, right? If we go back through the accounts, we see that Christ acknowledged this about himself, that he is the Son of God. He did so when he was in the trial of the Sanhedrin. In chapter 26, verse 63, we heard this reading. But Jesus kept silent. And the high priest answered and said to him, I put you under oath by the living God. Tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God. It is as you have said. We see Christ continuing to make the same profession with Pilate in Matthew 27, verse 11. Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, saying, Are you the king of the Jews? Jesus said to him, It is as you say. The crowds, on the other hand, deny that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, or the King. That's what they're making fun of him about. That's where all the mock the mocking is focused. That's the sharp end of the spear But you can see, and you can hear, that even in their denial, the profession of Jesus Christ Is seen as more and more true with each scourge and mocking. They can't help But what God the Father has chosen to unfold, and that is the identity of Jesus as the Son of God. I wonder if you caught the little wordplay that was going on. And the first example of it being proven that Jesus is in fact the Christ through the denials of the people When the crowds chose to release Baraba or Baraba, they denied Jesus as the Christ. This is an interesting example because Bar Abba is Son of God. They had two sons of God before them, so to speak, and they denied Jesus as the one. It becomes even more explicit from here that in their denials Jesus is established as the Son of God. What's happening is an old theme. They're caught in their own traps. That's also the fulfillment of a prophecy. Read Psalm 69. When you get a chance, in fact, look at all of the references, references which Matthew inserts saying This was done that it might be fulfilled. Those references are primarily from messianic prophecies and psalms. Though there are so many present that I find new ones every time I read the account. While our elders were reading tonight, I found five more. Truly, all that was written in the scriptures is about Christ And that is unfolding before our eyes, but this is especially true with Matthew, as he rehearses over and over again Psalm 69 and Psalm 22 So that you would not just have a historical account before you of the cross, but a theological account that was revealed by the Sun throughout all history. In other words, for those who have eyes to see, those who are mocking Jesus have taken the part of those who rise up against the Lord's anointed, to speak of a very ancient prophecy. And Jesus is obviously that king. By the end, Matthew shows that Jesus is the Son of God, even from the mouth of a Gentile centurion. And this is extraordinarily significant because it is just a further unfolding of what it says about the Messiah or the Christ and the Son of God and what he will accomplish. He will pour out his spirit on the Gentiles and He shall rule over them. And here, as Jesus gives up His Spirit, I think there's a double meaning here. Jesus is already accomplishing that. He's already in his death, in the giving up of his spirit, taking over the world There is a kind of mini Pentecost right there amongst those centurions, and they are given eyes to see the significance of the earthquakes and the other events that were going on. That this one on the cross is shaking heaven and earth, because it is the king of both. Now, this ends up being quite a different focus than with which we're familiar. Good Friday is often gory, or people try to make it that way. It's bloody. It's cruel. And all of that is in the accounts that you heard tonight. It was all there. The palm of the hand in his face Prophesy, who struck you? It's all there. But did you notice that it's not really the focus? It was like a collaring page with all of the scenes, but no color. And that's what Matthew is doing here. Matthew is a part of a gospel collection, and with each of them we receive different features on what God the Father is doing through the Son and his death. Here, with Matthew, as one part of the collection, he is focused on a single thing throughout. Jesus goes to his death for Matthew as a means to what he as the great king will accomplish for his God and for his people. That's the focus. It's another way of saying that Matthew is focused on Jesus being the Son of God, even as he goes to his death. And it teaches us. It gives us a focus tonight. When we look upon the cross, or when we meditate upon the crucifixion, then by faith, Matthew wants us to know and to acknowledge this. Your king put his power into service. Your king put his power into service for his God and for his people. We are way too familiar with cases in our life where that is not the case. Where people do not put their power in service of serving God or serving people. But that is not the picture that you have here. Humans from the beginning have used their power to further disconnect with God. They don't need Him any longer. We call it autonomy. It's not a good thing to be said of you. And people use their power not that they would serve people, but that people would serve them. It actually is a sign of status how many are serving you. The leaven that we talked about last night and the lump of the world According to Matthew, guided by the Holy Spirit in this gospel, can be fundamentally characterized as that loaf that uses power for self. Matthew unfolds in those readings that you heard several models. We could be here for weeks investigating them. Learning more and more about what God wants to teach us through this gospel. These several models in our readings illustrate power in the hands of the world, of the old leaven. The Jewish leaders use their money and power to use Judas to capture Jesus and then figure out a way to buy a field, the blood money. They used their power to make Pilate like the puppet. He saw that they were going to cause a riot and tumult. And so he becomes governor only in name. The Jewish leaders are really governing the situation. And we move down the road of the execution of Jesus. Although Pilate announces that he is innocent, and his wife confirmed that he is innocent because of her dreams. The Roman soldiers and the Jews approach Jesus on the cross with their worldly mentality of power And they seek to tempt Jesus to embrace their concepts of power. Did you hear that? They looked on the cross Because they do not have eyes that can see, and they saw weakness. And so they chided him Or teased him or mocked him that he might truly embrace the power which he spoke of in his earthly ministry. Think of some of the words that they said. All those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads and saying, You who destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. You won't come down from the cross because you're weak. That's the subtext, as well as many other things. Or consider this. Likewise, the chief priests also mocking With the scribes and elders said, He saved others. Himself he cannot save. If he is the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe them. Or consider this one. He saved others. Let him deliver him now, if he will have him For he said, I am the Son of God. He trusted in God, excuse me. He trusted in God. Let him deliver him now, if he will have him, for he said, I am the Son of God. Now what's interesting about these things as they mock Christ for not having power. Is that of course all of these mockings are from Satan himself? They're proving themselves to be the children of the devil. Do you not recognize the language Do you not hear the same voice? In the beginning of Matthew, did not the devil begin each temptation with, if you are the Son of God? And it's the same thing here. This is how the world works with the old leaven. This is how the world, full of malice and wickedness, thinks of power. And that is why they believe that Jesus on that cross is not the Son of God, but is weak. They have no concept of power where you would use all of your kingly might for service to God. And service to his people. But this is how Matthew publishes Jesus Christ on the cross. This is his unique theological account. And he is telling us in this over and over and over again That we are not to look at the crucifixion and see weakness. If you see weakness, then you are thinking in terms of the old leaven. You are thinking in terms of the world. Instead, look by faith at Christ on the cross and see power True power. Power put into service for God and His people. His bride. His sheep I want to put this in the form of a question for you to hopefully drive it home a little bit. We're not used to thinking about power this way. Could Jesus have overcome those who tried him? When they sought to grab him in the Garden of Gethsemane Was he at their disposal? Could Jesus come down from the cross? Was it an option Sometimes we read over Matthew's account of the Garden of Gethsemane, and we don't catch what he says in verse 50 through 54 of chapter 26. Listen to this. And how what Christ knew of himself. But Jesus said to him, Friend, why have you come? This is when he's being betrayed into the hands of the enemy by Judas. Then they came and laid hands on Jesus and took him. And suddenly one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand, drew his sword. struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. But Jesus said to him, Put your sword away For all who take the sword will perish by the sword. And now catch this, brothers and sisters. Or do you think that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he will provide me with more than twelve legions of angels? How then could the scriptures be fulfilled that it must happen thus? Do you see his focus Do you see the might, the self-control, the power that he is exerting at every moment, complete and utter loyalty to his God? and the conquest that he will have for his people against the enemies of sin and death When those earthquakes come, when the temple veil is torn in two, when the even the dead are brought up from the grave These are but signs of the kind of power that Jesus Christ has. He shakes heaven and earth And he does so, much in mystery and in a way that we cannot fully explain, no matter how hard we try. He is doing so as he dies on the cross. Could Jesus have overcome those who tried him? Could Jesus have come down from the cross? Well, the answer is yes In a sense. But Jesus would never do that. Because with strength, he is fulfilling the decrees of his father for the good of his bride, the church. This is power. This is power that you do not need to be ashamed of. Do not see Christ by faith placarded on the cross and be ashamed. Do not be ashamed of your Savior See power. The other gospels in the collection, they emphasize the blood They emphasize the torn flesh and the cruelty. They're largely focused on his priestly work. And those same things are present here. But they're not pushed forward by Matthew. Matthew wants us to see that even on the cross, Jesus is our mighty King. This is very important for us to hear. Throughout your days, I wonder If perhaps you have had doubting thoughts about Christ as the Son of God I noticed in conversation that there are a few steps that we take. Step number one. I acknowledge him to be the Son of God and that He has all power, but I am confused at why he does not deliver me from my pain. I acknowledge that he is king, but I am confused and bewildered When it does not seem like he answers my prayers to finally end the waiting. How long, O Lord? And then there is step number two. He must not care for me. And then there is step number three. I will serve someone else I will adopt and run with a different kind of power. But I would just ask you to pause for a moment and to consider the picture here painted by Matthew and how it contradicts all of that. Christ, who has all power in heaven, has a heart for you here on earth. How do you know? Isn't that the question? How can you tell that his heart is for you Because he stayed on the cross. Because he made the one who was with him put his sword away, that all that is written would be fulfilled. Don't forget, Jesus Christ is innocent. And therefore he was not on the cross saving himself He was there to save you from your sin and from your misery Brethren, when you look upon the cross this year or you meditate upon the crucifixion, especially in the face of the struggles that you have. Then by faith know this. Your king puts his power always into service for God, and he does so for his people. Amen