We've already read a good portion of the mark account and so I won't repeat that But I will pick up in chapter fifteen, beginning in verse one. Immediately in the morning, the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole council And they bound Jesus, led him away, and delivered him to Pilate. Then Pilate asked him, Are you the king of the Jews? He answered and said to him, It is as you say. And the chief priests accused him of many things, but he answered nothing. Then Pilate asked him again, saying, Do you answer nothing? See how many things they testify against you? But Jesus still answered nothing, so that Pilate marveled. Now at the feast he was accustomed to releasing one prisoner, whomever they requested, and there was one named Barabas. saying, Do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? For he knew that the chief priests had handed him over because of envy. But the chief priest stirred up the crowd, so that he should rather release Barabbas to them. Pilate answered and said to them again, What then do you want me to do with him, whom you call the king of the Jews? So they cried out again, Crucify Him! Then Pilate said to them, Why? What evil has he done? But they cried out all the more, Crucify Him So Pilate, wanting to gratify the crowd, released Barabbas to them, and he delivered Jesus, after he had scourged him to be crucial. Then the soldiers led him away into the hall, and the case of the city was a very good thing. They twisted a crown of thorns, put it on his head, and began to salute him. Hail, King of the Jews. Then they struck him on the head with a reed and spat on him, and bowing the knee they worshipped him. And when they had mocked him, they took the purple off him, put his own clothes on him, and they led him out to crucify him. Then they compelled a certain man, Simon a Cyrinian, the father of Alexander and Rufus, as he was coming out of the country and passing by to bear his cross. And they brought him to the place, Golgotha which is translated place of a skull. Then they gave him wine mingled with myrrh to drink, but he did not take it. And when they crucified him, they divided his garments. casting lots for them to determine what every man should take. Now it was the third hour, and they crucified him. And the inscription of his accusation was written above, the King of the Jews. With him they also crucified two robbers, one on his right and the other on his left. So the scripture was fulfilled, which says, and he was numbered with the transgressors. And those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads and saying, You who destroyed the temple and built it in three days, save yourself and come down from the cross. Likewise the chief priests also, mocking among themselves or the scribes, said, He saved others. Himself he cannot save. Let the Christ, the King of Israel, descend now from the cross that we may see him believe Even those who were crucified with him reviled him. Now, when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Aloy, alloy, lamas of oxygeny. Which is translated, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Some of those who stood by, when they heard that, said, Look, he's calling for Elijah. Then someone ran and filled a sponge full of sour wine, put it on a reed, and offered it to him to drink, saying, Let him alone. Let us see if Elijah will come to take him down. And Jesus cried out with a loud voice and breathed his last. Then the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom So when the centurion, who stood opposite him, saw that he cried out like this and breathed his last, he said, Truly, This man was the Son of God. Amen. Please pray with me. Lord Jesus Christ, through your Spirit we ask that you would allow us to see you by faith and to give full weight and understanding. To what you have done, what you have been through, why you have done it. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would shower down blessings on us. That we would Know you as the Christ. Amen. Yellowstone National Park becomes a produceress and barren landscape in the wintertime. Beautiful. Yes, of course, it's beautiful. The thick blanket of snow, those calped mountains But this perspective is from the security and well-fed vantage point of humans. What if you're an animal? From an animal's perspective, everything is covered, all sources of food, and the food supply is running low. And in these climates, animals like wolves begin risk assessment How can they, they must ask themselves, expend small amounts of energy and yet gain prey? How can they make it through the winter? And therefore, we know that wolves hunt in packs. Less energy expended, more success. This is the way that they work. If you watch any of the nature stations, they should Surround herds of animals, particularly deer. All of the herd will scatter but one. The wolves will surround this one, dominate it, and eat it Now obviously, and especially if you were here last week, you know I am talking about Yellowstone National Park and Wolves. The Loves are for Monday Thursday. It's the chief priests and the Pharisees. We've been watching them encircle him, even in the literary construction of the text by Mark. Through candlelight. Jesus taught his disciples, as the wolf surrounded him, of his death, particularly the significance of his death, through the Passover. And as we read Mark, we realize that all the way up till his last breath, that dinner, that supper Was the last safe place. After the supper, Jesus moves to a time of prayer, as you've heard in the readings in the Garden of Gethsemane. Like the anointing at Bethany, the disciples still cannot see clearly. They look out, and it's just like a tree. They can't see the full facial features of the Son of Man. So to speak. They think, as you have already heard in the readings, that it's time to sleep. Jesus warns them of the betrayal. They leave. He warns them that they'll all desert him. And they move to this time for him to pray, and he asks them to stay awake, but they can't. Mark wants us to see how blind the disciples were. At the end of chapter 13, Mark ends with these words in the Olivet discourse, with an explanation. point. Stay awake. Stay awake. Speaking of all of the end times And now we see throughout chapter 14, verses 32, and following, there is a repeated question: Are you asleep? Are you really asleep. Jesus stands aghast with his disciples. Don't you know what time this is? Don't you know that this is the hour of my betrayal? I just broke the bread and I told you these things. But it was too late. While Jesus was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, with a great multitude with swords and clubs, came from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders. Mark 14, 43. Now we know why we're talking about the winter in Yellowstone National Park because the wolfpack has arrived. He has surrounded the herd and notice it's Happened, all the disciples left and fled. In fact, a young man who was following Jesus Was so frightened, verse 52, he lost his linen cloth tied around his waist and ran away naked. But it was Jesus who was truly exposed. And now not only betrayed by Judas, but deserted by every single disciple. His closest friends The arresting guards led Jesus to the high priest, verse 53. The chief priests and the elders and the scribes, they came together. He had already embarrassed them in the temple. Interestingly, Mark interweaves the trial of Jesus. He starts the trial of Jesus, and then he interweaves the trial of Peter. Again, a purposeful interruption in the narrative. Just when you think the trial of Jesus will proceed, Mark pans the camera to Peter. The two mini-portraits are meant to clash and contrast like a black dot on a yellow page. Two colors set together to enhance and emphasize. Peter, as we all know, will deny Christ three times before the morning. Jesus, no matter what the questioning is, and That is part of the story. King, but they don't understand what kind of king this is. Why is he being singled out of all the herd? Why is he surrounded? How could he be dominated? What kind of king and what kind of kingdom is overpowered? I'm sure we ask the same questions today. Who has more military strength, America or Jesus? Who has more institutional power, the federal and state government or the church? The same questions we're asking, the same difficulty in being able to see the kingdom. That was Peter, and that was the disciples' struggle, and that's brought out in high relief here right in the middle of a trial. Jesus is being overpowered. The overpowering is particularly seen in the trial. Everything moves very quick here. When you get a chance, look at the Gospel of Mark and just underline, if you don't mind writing in your Bible, the word immediately. It's immediately everywhere. The high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus in verse sixty, and from when he speaks these words we only have a few chapters before he's done. The other gospels are not written so quickly. In verse 60, the high priest says, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus replied, with reference to Daniel 7: I am. And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power and coming with the clouds of heaven. Verse 63, then the high priest tore his clothes and said, What further need do we have of witnesses? You have heard the blasphemy. What do you think? And they all condemned him to be deserving of death. Then some began to spit on him and to blindfold him and to beat him and to say to him, Prophesy! And the officers struck him with the palm of their hands. Now, I warned you in the beginning with the analogy of animals and hunting that this is about desperation. This is about hunger, bloodlust. So don't be surprised by the blood, the palms striking his face. Where there are wools, there is blood on white wool. However, I do want you to be very careful, especially as Americans, that you do not allow the humiliation in these passages. And the outright and exposed mutilation to fool you. This is not a Hollywood movie. And our posture is to think that it is As American movie watchers were attracted to the sensational, the gore, the blood. And this Hollywood attraction is used amongst Christians in relationship to Jesus to incite emotions. That's what blood does. Somebody gets beat up in front of you? Mutilated? How could you not respond emotionally? No matter who you are, Christian, churched, unchurched, doesn't make any difference. Who wouldn't feel? The Hollywood attraction is used in relation to Jesus to incite emotions, feelings of remorse. Feelings of sympathy, feelings of shame, just raw feelings that I can't put my finger on. You have feelings for Jesus. And thus you begin to feel like a true disciple. For Jesus, or more serious about Jesus, or finally you feel authentic about your faith in Jesus because of all the blood. But that's actually not the emphasis. This is the big question for the entire Gospel of Mark. Does Mark include torn flesh and blood for Hollywood reasons? To incite your emotions. Perhaps Mark is inciting emotions, just as any good storyteller does. But my question is: is it the main purpose? Is that which your sights should be on? That's the question. Why does Mark include monsters tearing at the flesh of Jesus? This is the purpose of the trial. Mark includes, and listen to this carefully. Mark includes every embarrassing detail of the mutilation. And humiliation of Jesus the Christ in order to establish Jesus' confession to the high priest as true. It is the only purpose. or main purpose. Now I want you to remember the high priest's question. Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed, or the Blessed One? The Blessed One here is of course God, and thus he's asking, Are you the Christ, the Son of God? And Jesus answers, verse 62, I am Mark sought to prove that Jesus is the Christ from the beginning of the gospel. And I am convinced it is the purpose or the continuing and perpetual melody through the whole Mark and Symphony. Here's some examples. How does Mark begin his gospel? 1-1. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Furthermore, the Gospel of Mark is 16 chapters. In the dead center of the book, chapter 8, the acknowledged turning point of Mark's Gospel, what does Peter confess? Mark 8. 29. Jesus said to them, But who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said to him, You are the Christ. Moreover, Mark interweaves editorial allusions to Old Testament passages. Psalm 118, which applied to Christ, was quoted in the triumphal entry. Psalm 118 is again quoted, showing Jesus to be the Christ and cornerstone, which shall be rejected. And just a moment ago in the readings Jesus quotes Daniel 7, which certainly refers to him being the Messiah and the Son of God. That is the background to the trial. We should already be on the scent that this is what Mark is seeking to do. It is his main purpose. It's not Hollywood. The question, really, though, is that I ask, not what is the background? But how is he proving it in the trial with all the flesh and the blood? How does the vivid and dramatic trial prove Christ's confession? Mark through the drama of Christ's affliction will show that Jesus is fulfilling the two most important messianic passages for the Church, Isaiah 53, and so Psalm twenty two. Two passages that are brimming with blood and humiliation. It is the only reason why the blood and the mutilation and the humiliation are present, is because they were in the Isaiah passages and in the messianic passages, particularly 53 and Psalm 22. But he will show this dramatically I've already quoted scriptures from the past in Mark where he came out explicitly with Old Testament illusions. Now it will be the drama. And it will be up to you to see what is happening to you. Jesus to recognize that that drama is embodying what we have already read within the scriptures. Let me just go through a few with you The silence Isaiah fifty three seven. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. Are you already hearing the mark and account He was like he was led as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before its shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. Mark 15, 4 through 5. Then Pilate asked him again, saying, Do you answer nothing? See how many things they testify against you? But Jesus still answered nothing It's dramatic, so you could miss it. He's not coming out and quoting, putting it and giving you a cross-reference to Psalm 22. But it's there. That's the purpose. What about his physical appearance? Isaiah fifty three, two for he shall grow up before him as a tender plant and as a root out of dry ground. He has no form or beauty, and when we see him there's no beauty that we should desire Mark 15, 15. So Pilate, wanting to gratify the crowd, released Barabbas to them, and he delivered Jesus to what? To scourging. To be crucified, you know what a man looks like after scourging? After being struck in the face with palms and reeds? If it were happening now, you would avert your children's eyes. Because of the mutilation. What about the mockery, Isaiah 53, 3? He is despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we did not esteem him. This is speaking of ridicule. Mark 15, 16 through 20. Then the soldiers led him away into the hall called the Praetorium, and they called together the whole garrison, and they clothed him with purple, and they twisted a crown of thorns, put it on his head, and began to salute him. Hail, king of the Jews Then they struck him on the head with a reed and spat on him, and bowing the knee they worshipped him, and when they had mocked him, they took off the purple, put on his clothes, and led him Mouth to crucify him. What about his powerlessness in Isaiah 53, verses 1 and 7? Who has believed our report, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? The arm stands for strength, and he's saying, Who sees any strength? From God. Tell me. Jesus in this trial has swung around like a ragdoll And what about the innocence, the righteous one? Isaiah 53, 9 and 10, because he has done no violence, nor was any deceit in his mouth. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. Mark 15, 9, and 10, but Pilate answered them, saying, Do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? Why did he say that? Because Pilate knew that the chief priests had handed over him because of envy, not because of any guilt. And what about the entire structure of Isaiah 53 in Psalm 22? Isn't it broken, both of them, into two parts: agony and then triumph? And isn't that exactly what happens in the trial? We begin with the agony of the Messiah, but in the end, victory. The trial is the agony. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Which, by the way, is Psalm 22, quoted directly. But Jesus' final words are, in victory, although not recorded in Mark elsewhere, it is finished. Exactly the note of Isaiah 53. And the end of Psalm 22. Now there is one more proof after we see all of these things. The triumph, the innocence, the powerlessness, the mockery, the physical appearance, the silence. There is one more proof And it's the real emphasis of the entire trial. Notice that after Jesus, or remember that after Jesus breathes his last What happens? I know that the temple curtain is torn But an outsider shows up, someone unexpected, kind of like an anointing at Bethany or a blind Bartimaeus before the triumphal entrance We have another nobody show up in the middle of the narrative at the climax when the breath is gone. The centurion shows up, fifteen thirty-nine, he says, in the most climactic moment in the whole narrative, truly this man Must be the Son of God. This is the exact confession of Jesus to the high priest. Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed One? And Jesus said, I am. And the centurion says, You are. And everything in the Gospel of Mark says he is. And everything in Isaiah 53 and Psalm 22. It is no wonder that in another passage in Matthew The hearts of the disciples would burn within them as they realized that all of the scriptures were speaking about this Jesus from Nazareth: that he was the Son of Man and the Son of God, that he was the Christ, the Messiah, the promised one. The point, can't you see that it's not about Hollywood? Can't you see how you would miss the death? Of being a true disciple of Jesus Christ. The point was not all the blood and the gore that give you feelings. I love feelings. I love to feel. But honestly, tell me that this isn't true. You could watch a man die in front of you, crucified, but within Three years, don't feeling stayed. And when you're not present When you weren't there physically. And you just hear the story. Don't the feelings just fade? You cried your eyes out at the end of the movie Wonder. And in 15 minutes, when you were getting your keys out to get it back in the car, you were thinking about something else, or whatever movie it was Feelings fade. Feelings are individual. We all have different feelings. I don't want some of the feelings that you have Feelings can just be a fantasy. We know all kinds of people that feel stuff they shouldn't feel, and they want to tell us that we should base our lives because they feel something about Jesus. Of course they do, seeing mutilation? It's not enough to feel him and to accept him into your heart Skeptical friends, just ask any of your skeptical friends. Ask them what the problem is with that. Everyone, whether Christian or not Christian can be moved by a crucifixion. But here is the question before you. What must be present in you to call Him the Christ and to truly believe it. To understand what it means to be the Son of God and to say He is the Son of God, and to function as He's the Son of Son of God. The point was not about the feelings, the point was that the first century historic realities of affliction and trial Triumph, prove that Jesus of Nazareth is truly and objectively the Son of God sent to renew the real world, not just your field One day he will stand before you and you will have to confess it if you have not done so already. Because every knee shall bow. He has the right to ask whatever he wishes from you. But his desire Are so good. You can see that the Son of Man has come not to be served, but to serve and to offer his life as a ransom for many. Wolves by nature know how to surround, they know how to isolate, they know how to kill, and they know how to eat But this is a different kind of story. Jerusalem and Rome surrounded him. The whole world was against him. The nations mocked him. But what we find in this crucifixion, when we follow Mark and what he wants to say and not pay attention to attention to a Hollywood movie theme or motif is that the wolves who have encircled Jesus, they have been encircled. Although the world thought that they were showing Jesus to be the fool and the weakling, this was truly not the reality. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men, which is why we preach. Christ crucified. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, it is out of your love that you have sent your only begotten Son To renew this world and to restore communion with you, to gather your people. Lord Jesus Christ, we confess that you are the Christ, the Son of the Blessed One. You do not lie. You have clearly proven yourself. It is clearly shown in the scriptures. It is clearly shown in your life. It is clearly preached by Peter in Pentecost. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that if there is anyone here now that does not know you as the Christ, that you would go to them, that you would surround them, that you would encircle them That you would gather them. You do not surround to eat. You surround that they may partake of you. And that they may serve you and serve the people of God. What are we that you are mindful of us? We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.