Brethren, join in following my example and note those who so walk as you have us for a pattern. For many walk of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ, whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory Is in their shame, who set their mind on earthly things. For our citizenship is in heaven. From which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body that it may be conformed to his glorious body according to the working by which he is able even to subdue all things to himself. Let us pray God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for our Lord, our Savior. And we ask that through him and the presence of his spirit, that you would minister and serve your congregation. I pray that you would give them ears to hear and eyes to see. And I pray that even by way of your preached word, That you would bring deep conviction of faith into their very hearts, that it would become a city on a hill. A separate society that shows forth your glory, and may it attract all those whom you are calling I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I want to begin by just thanking everyone for your patience as I've been out. Thank uh Bradley and his family for the sacrifices they've made and others. I know that there's been a lot of filling in and places I usually am ministering, so thank you so much and thank you to your families. And I'm glad to be this far along. There was a little stretch there where I was not able to eat anything but soft foods. And I want you to know that I officially hold the record in how many mashed potatoes eaten within a couple weeks, I have hit nine pounds. Nine pounds of mashed potatoes. My wife is very good at making those. And strangely enough, I lost like seven pounds. So if you want to go on a mashed potato diet with me, let me know. I came to find out that it's called the Moodit the McDougal diet. I think it's a real thing. So maybe we could start a club. Nevertheless, thank you. When I had left, we had ended. I hope that you remember We had had ended in a section in Philippians where where where we had really hit what I consider to be the center And that is that Paul is saying that at the heart of the Christian life is that we are to imitate, that we are to mimic. That we are an image of something else. And the way that Paul had been getting that across to us was in multiple ways. But largely just through some real practical instruction, which looked like him setting before you different people that you should in fact imitate. And it really stretched out, didn't it? I mean, we went from the Apostle Paul himself and the way that he ministered to the church as someone that we should imitate. We went to Timothy, we went to Epaphroditus. And then as you can read in verse 17 of the pat the paragraph that I read to you here today, he was continuing that imitation language and saying, really, any of those who walk like this. Which then opened us up in saying that there's a whole directory, so to speak, of saints, faithful saints from the past. And that are in the present to which we may look to figure out what a genuine Christian life looks like I hope that you remember furthermore that I mentioned we need more than a human being just kind of shouting a pep rally song down to us from the top. We're all climbing a mountain, and what we need is that there are people who have climbed the mountain before us and they can show us the way and we can imitate them to be able to reach the top. Well, the discourse on imitation hasn't stopped, and nor has the Spirit's heart in seeking to help you live a genuine Christian life. That certainly has not stopped. What you're going to end up seeing here in this particular passage are three further ways for you to be able to grow. Paul lays before you really powerful concepts. One is that you need to consider yourself as a citizen of heaven. The second one you're going to see is you need to consider the authority of Jesus Christ himself because that makes a really big difference. as we live our lives. And then lastly, he wants you to consider the dominion that both Jesus Christ and you as his people are meant to be living within. Living within. That you're citizens, Christ has authority, and together with him you'll exercise dominion And that's how we're going to divide this passage up that we're looking at today. I'm really focused on verses 20 and 21. Those three things are present in those verses. So let's just begin with considering ourselves as citizens. And I want you in the background. to be can asking the continual question, how is this relevant or what difference does this make for me as I seek to live a genuine Christian life? Not just as an individual, but with a whole body. Keep that question in mind. And let's see how he can begin to answer these things. First, in citizenship and considering ourselves as citizens is greatly helpful in this regard. You can see in verse number 20 that he tells you that your citizenship is in heaven. Take a look at that with me. He says, right there, for our citizenship is in heaven. And we'll just stop right there for a moment and reflect on it. It's really interesting, actually, that Paul is using citizenship language here uh within this particular letter. And I think that it was really helpful for the original Philippians and it's meant to be helpful to you also. There were many, if you do a little bit of a historical study, there were many veterans that were moved to this particular A city that had served Rome as soldiers. Philip High was actually considered to be a Roman colony. If you wanted to put a fine point on it, if you walked in To Philippi, they considered it to be Roman or Italian soil. It was just like a little bit of a geographically removed Rome. They didn't really see any difference. And veterans took great pride in Rome, as any veteran would take pride within their country. And so they considered this Philippi being a Roman colony a great point of pride. And Paul is playing on that. By saying, hey, listen, as veterans, you have thought about your citizenship and your loyalty and all of the implications of that. But what about a citizenship that has arrived that is superior to your Roman citizenship? Where he says here that your citizenship is in heaven. It's reasonable to assume that those who lived in Philippi have heard something similar to what Paul is saying, in other words. It would sound something like this if you were to have a watch a conversation between the citizens of Philippi and Paul. who were citizens of Rome, it could sound something like, even though you technically live in Greece, don't forget that your citizenship is in Rome. That's what they would normally hear. And your responsibility is to bring Roman life to Philippi. And then likewise you could see Paul picking up on that and him saying, even though you live in Greece. And you're a citizen of Rome, having been called by Christ, don't forget that your citizenship is in heaven You could even put it this way, these are just restatements of the same truth. If you were to ask somebody who was a Christian in Philippi, what is your capital city? Normally, being Roman citizens, they would say Rome. And now, if I asked you as a Christian, what is your capital city, you would say the heavenly Jerusalem. Because that's the city of which I'm a citizen. Now this verse is telling us something that It helps us to have a more clear vision of what God's sovereign purposes are for all of history through His Son. And it helps us to correct some misconceptions as to what God is up to. This verse is telling us that we don't, please pay attention to this. This verse is not telling us that we don't really belong on earth. And that we will be sucked up into heaven one day. Now that's a that's like a typical message that you will hear Is and the way that the narrative would end up going is that, if it were according to this storyline, which I don't think is true, is that God created all of the earth, humans have fallen. One day they're going to be taken away from this earth to heaven. What happens to the earth? Don't know. would be one answer or it'll eventually just kind of die out. But the narrative that I'm seeing within the scripture is as well as with the rest of the church traditionally is that God had sovereign purposes in making the heavens and the earth, and that those sovereign purposes still stand. Now they were originally to be accomplished within the first Adam. But the first Adam having fallen, we then have a long history to where the time will finally be fulfilled where the second Adam is established to accomplish the original plan that was put in place to begin with, which is that the Adam would exercise dominion over all of the earth onto the glory of God. Not that we would be sucked away into heaven somewhere. Really the vision is that heaven will be coming down to earth. And the two shall be joined. Just like the prayer: Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. It's the same kind of thing. You can see this vision in Revelation 21, 2 through 3, and this vision corrects that misunderstanding that you're just going to be sucked away, you were temporarily an earthling, and then you're going away to heaven and never have anything to do with earth again. That's just not true. Then I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem. And listen to this language. I saw the Holy City, the New Jerusalem, coming down. Doesn't see us going up in this final phase. I'm not talking about the intermediate state. The Holy City, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. Prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, and this is very important, listen to this, behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. Do you see what's happening? Is the tabernacle of God is coming and they're with men. And where do men and women belong, but the earth? Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God. Now, how many times have you heard throughout the scriptures, I'm your God and you're my people? It's the constant refrain in the beautiful orchestral work of God's redemption. And you see here in the consummation in Revelation 21, all the way at the end, that it's matching the beginning. That God's sovereign purposes still stand, and He's not just sucking you away from the earth. He in fact is making you kings and queens of it underneath Jesus Christ. That's very important for you to see that that's what it means. In other words, getting back to our original question or our original title, which is citizenship, what does it mean in verse number 20 when he says For our citizenship is in heaven. Does it mean that you're going away there forever? Or does it mean the same thing that a person in Philippi would see it to mean, I know where my capital city is. But if you lived in Philippi and you said, I'm a Roman citizen, does it mean that you're eventually going to move back to Rome? It does not mean that. It just means that you are a colony of Rome, upholding the life of Rome in another location. And that's really now starting to get to the heart of what why Paul is using this imagery of citizenship with you. So that you would understand, Severn Run, that you are a colony of heaven. Do you see how important that truth is to recognize both that you are a citizen and what it really means? If you had that mistaken view that you're just going to go away from here, then what responsibility do you really have to this place here and now? There's something that happens in the human spirit. If you can begin to see the truth that of what God gives us, that no, you you were definitely a citizen of heaven, and as a citizen of heaven, you're to be Establishing a colony here on earth that in its final phase, when heaven comes down, you can see a resemblance between what we have done here in Millersville and what Jesus Christ has brought in the consummation. Everybody understand that? And you see the difference? Now there's a lot that goes into that thinking, so if you have questions, let's keep talking about it. But I believe that's what Paul is teaching here for us, is that instead of uh that wherever Christ's people dwell, that is meant to be a colony of heaven. Colonies served as outposts of Roman civilization with the expectation That they would embody and enforce Roman law, language, customs, and lifestyle. And that's what Paul is after here by telling us that we're not Roman citizens, but citizens of heaven. So ask yourself a question. Wherever you go as the people of God, knowing now where your capital city resides and what you're supposed to be doing as colonists, Wherever you go as the people of God, are you establishing the presence of your capital city? Are you establishing the presence of the heavenly Jerusalem? If angels were to visit you, would they step into your home and they would say, ha, this is familiar. This is familiar. This is just like the capital city. It's a good question for us to ask. It's a question that Paul wants us to ask with that first point But he doesn't just give us this idea of citizenship. He also gives us the idea of authority because I think he's trying to help us to flesh out, okay, well, what does it look like to be a citizen of the heavenly Jerusalem and to therefore live the genuine Christian life. What does the law, what is it, what law, what language, what customs, what lifestyle should be established? And that's where we get into in the continuation of verse number 20, where he says that Jesus has been given authority as the Lord and as the Savior. So take a look at that with me. We've established that we're citizen, our citizenship is in heaven. The second point is, from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. From which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, how many of you have heard this kind of terminology? How many have heard Jesus called Lord? Okay. Three people. Great. I'm sure the rest of you are just being great middle class Presbyterians and not moving. The What about uh Savior? Have you ever heard Jesus called your Lord and Savior? Yep. You have. These words are ultra familiar to us, which means that's super dangerous. Means you've got certain conceptions attached to these kind of words, and you really do need to raise the question, am I paying attention to the words in such a way as Paul intended them? We have to be super careful with that. These words have been used through a bunch of different Christian movements that we may in fact end up disagreeing with. But these words Lord and Savior, um would have been familiar. Did you know they would have been familiar among the Roman population? And they would have been, we have coins. We have inscriptions, we have memorials where both the word Lord and the word Savior are used for Caesar and that Roman Empire. Now that's super significant when we begin to see that on the first step here within the sermon, we're looking at Paul draw upon the veterans' understanding and pride within citizenship. And now there's a continuation of Roman language having to do with Lord and Savior that was spoken about with the emperor and the empire. Paul is being subversive here. You can see this elsewhere in Paul's preaching when he doesn't just say Jesus is Lord, but he'll say Jesus is Lord of Lords. That's really a way to be subversive. It's saying that Caesar is even under Jesus Christ. And Paul's doing something similar here. The Romans would have used those words for Caesar. He was called Savior. He was called Lord as the Emperor. Some of the reasons that he or some of the ways in which he presented himself with his um uh uh you think about how people want to present themselves to so they could be seen as your Savior, he would present himself as bringing especially peace to all unknown areas, instead of continuing to live in barbarism, you would actually move into what they ended up terming civilization. All that language is from that kind of Roman conquering. And And the emperor being the savior of the world. And that would boil all the way down to if somebody were to ask somebody on the street, why is the emperor your savior, you'd say, well, because I've got plumbing And uh because I have a heated pool if I've got enough money. And he was looked at as quite the beneficiary. and um given ultimate authority and you could see this within archaeological uh remains as I mentioned with parchments and coins And you can look that up on Google if you'd like. But he promised peace to society who came under his rule or his dominion. And so Paul, with full knowledge of that, is subverting the Roman Empire. He is saying here in this next set of verses, well hold on a second. Jesus has been declared to be Lord because he said that he has all authority in heaven and earth. And as I look through the rest of the scriptures, if you look at Psalm number 2 at the very end, who is it that comes and kneels before him? All of the kings of the land. So there's a hierarchy being created, and that Jesus is our Savior certainly from our sins, and Romans had a way in which to wash sins through their cultic religions. They thought about that differently. But Jesus is approaching this and saying, not only do I wash you from your sins, but I really am the Savior of the world. I carry peace with me. And when all things come to their fruition, listen to some of this language that you've always heard. The lion will lay down with the lamb. The child will play at the hole of the cobra. Do you see what he's saying there? He's contradicting, trying to find those kind of things within the emperor. And this therefore sheds lots of light for us seeking to live a genuine Christian life. So let me ask you, for example, to whom is your loyalty in this colony? It's Jesus because he is Lord. What whose ethos or laws do you follow? How do you know what life is supposed to look like? What does it look like to have well-mannered children? Well, you would look to the laws of your king because you're his colony. Jesus is Lord and Savior. How should you raise your children? Well, Paul says that elsewhere in Ephesians. See the meaning that it starts to give to these kind of things? In the nurture and the admonition. He doesn't say in the nurture and admonition of Jesus. Though he could have, he says the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Because he has a certain idea in mind here that Jesus has all of this authority. Jesus has this authority and we are his people, his colony. To whom do we look to overcome our sin and our misery? Jesus, because he's not just Lord, he's Savior. Paul is doing all of that. And so now you can see very clearly from his teaching how you're supposed to be setting yourself up wherever you are. You're under a calling to your king and your homes? As you gather together as a congregation and serve one another, your workplaces And when you're in your neighborhoods, you're a colony wherever you go, because you're always under your Lord and your Savior. So you not only have citizenship that helps you to understand what it looks like to have a genuine Christian life and to really give some great foundations to why we do what we do, right? I mean a re Speaking philosophically, you now officially have an entire theology and metaphysic for all of your actions. Congratulations. I mean, that's pretty awesome. But he gives us this final concept, which is dominion. And you can see this in verse number 21. You'll notice he says that we have the citizenship in 20. We're awaiting eagerly, and he gives very specific name, Savior, and Lord, to Jesus as a type of subversion, and then in 21 He will with the word who, he speaks about the a some of summarizing way to talk about what Jesus is doing. And he says this, who will transform our lowly body I'm sure you've heard this at graveside services, who will transform our lowly body that it may be conformed to his glorious body. See how we are see his body? We're not leaving the earth, folks. Not permanently. Okay? According to his glorious body, according to the working by which he is able even to subdue all things to himself. And it's especially that last part that I'd like to draw attention to, according to the working by which he is able even to subdue all things to himself. Does that remind you of anything? A picture of Jesus Christ on the top, subduing all things to himself, having that authority. Being Lord and Savior. Do you have a does that remind you of any other scriptures? Of course it reminds us of the Great Commission. All authority has been given to me in heaven and earth. But one that should spring to mind that is even pictured like a kind of Christmas tree or triangle is Psalm number eight. And I'd encourage you to take a look at that a little bit later today, but as soon as you register at Psalm No. 8, where it talks about what is man that you are mindful of me, and the authority that God gave to Adam to rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of the air. It's a call back to that creation account. Genesis 1. 28. Like I said before, whether we look at Psalm 8, which then registers over into Genesis 1. 28, and then if we fly back forward over into the New Testament and the Hebrews 2. We see that the author of Hebrews quotes Psalm 8. But he doesn't quote Psalm 8 and places Adam there at the top. He places Jesus Christ there at the top. Because Adam fell. But where Adam brought death, Christ has brought life. Romans chapter 5. God had sovereign purposes from the beginning, as I already pre-announced to you And here we're seeing them fulfilled according to the teaching of Paul, where Christ is subduing all things to himself because he has complete dominion and he's fulfilling the dominion mandate. And he's making it possible to where you can pick up your work and make the world flourish again. If you were left to your own habits, You would make a disaster of this place. I mean, just look around. But under the Lordship of Jesus Christ and as Him as your Savior, under Him and His influence over you by way of His Spirit, He is putting us back in that place where we are able to exercise mastery over our environments for the good of creation and the glory of God. That is what is seen here within his dominion. Like in creation, Christ orders all things so that they are good. And this should be very familiar and exciting to you because we have officially moved back to the imitation theme. What is the purpose of what are some of the purposes of God giving us the creation account? The predominant purpose that the evangelical church has used the creation account for is to establish particular views on the timeline of creation. I'm fine with that. As part of the argument for, for example, a 624 creation. But when we look through the rest of the scriptures on how the other authors of scriptures used the creation account, they also used it. So that you as children could see how your father does things and you could imitate him. Because you, being made in his image, are also meant, in a sense, to be world builders. As he has ultimate capital D dominion over all things, and capital P providence over all things, you as his children in his image have been given a capability beyond any animal on the face of this earth To be able to exercise a lowercase D dominion and a lowercase P providence. And that has been established especially in the God man. Jesus Christ, and under his leadership, he is calling you to imitate him and to participate with him in dominion over every single area of your life. Every area of influence within your life. This ends up being republished and stated in the Great Commission, which is not different than Genesis 128. It's a further iteration. By way of the Great Commission, Jesus calls you to exercise dominion. And in your sphere of influence, you are to bring heaven to earth. I mean, ask yourself that question then. You can begin to see all of these pieces starting to to come together, which I'll mention in just a moment. But just with this point of dominion Let me just restate what I said in a question. In your sphere of influence, are you bringing heaven to earth? I don't mean in any large way where you need a staff. I just mean in all of the small ways that God gives you every single day, are you bringing heaven to earth? Are you exercising dominion? Let's get this straight. The reason why he has put you in a congregation The reason why he has given you your scriptures. The reason why he has given you prayer. The reason why he has given you faith. The reason why he has given you love. The reason why he has given you hope. is so that you may be able to exercise dominion in his image for the sake of his glory. So then go ahead and take a look across of all of the different things that God has given to you. And are you using those things to their proper end? Or are you like someone who has been given all of these beautiful treasures treasures and they're just sitting there corroding and rotting? Those are really important for questions for us to ask as we seek to know what it means to live a genuine Christian life. And I hope you're beginning to get a little bit of a taste here that you have been sucked up into the greatest story that has ever been told. Look at what you are a part of. You are a part of the center and the most relevant thing that's happening in all of the cosmos. It's the recapturing of all things to the glory of God under the leadership of Jesus, who is the Christ. What are some of the ways that you could begin colonizing today? That is a really great model by which to think about what we're doing. What are some ways that you can begin colonizing today? How could you bring divine order to your homes? It's already there. I've been in your homes. There is a degree of divine order present. What are some things that you can see the Lord still wants you to work on? How could you strengthen the bonds of love with your fellow congregants here? And help to fulfill that saying of Jesus when he said, if you want to know who my disciples are, you will know them by their love for one another. In what little ways could you influence your neighborhood? Has God given you in His providence little things that you could be doing? To bring a word from the kingdom into that moment or a gift from the kingdom? And not in your neighborhoods, what about in your workplace culture? What little ways could you be praying about and also acting out to bring Christ's good order into that place? And to rejoice when you see a little bit of an advance of his kingdom in an otherwise paganized environment. Those are the questions that Paul wants you to ask as you're hearing this word preached this morning and as we put all of these different pieces together. Let's remember as Christ's congregation that our capital city and our citizenship is the heavenly Jerusalem. Let us also remember that our King and Savior is the Lord Jesus Christ. And under our Lord, let us with a new sense of meaning and responsibility, enjoy, exercise dominion wherever He has placed us. And I want to end with this final word here. There's a little strain of thought, I'm going to call it a mind virus, where for whatever reason Christians oftentimes think The only time that they're doing God's work is when they are inside of this church building. I'm going to just go ahead and clarify. According to this passage, Wherever God's people are, that is where his kingdom is. And I would make the argument that most of the time it shouldn't be at 1624 Millersville Road. It is in the parking lot when you're picking children up for school. It is in the grocery store. It is when you are at physical therapy. It's when you're at your workplace. It's when we're worshiping here together on Sunday mornings. Wherever, listen to this. This is very important for you to hear so that you can begin to have a meaningful life as a Christian. And hear what your responsibility is. Wherever you are as God's people, so too that is where his kingdom is. Man, that is meaningful. And that is heavy. This is the teaching that Paul gives us this morning, and let me pray that the Lord would seal these things to your heart. Let's pray.