And long for brethren, my joy and crown. So stand fast in the Lord, beloved. I implore you, Odia and Sintsechi, to be of the same mind in the Lord And I urge you also, true companion, help these women who labored with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray in the name of Christ that you would give your congregation ears to hear. I pray that your preached word would go out in your power like seeds on good soil. I pray that you would keep Satan or the cares and worries of this world from taking your seed away But that instead there would be a harvest of righteousness, even that would draw the world. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated Together we've been looking at a very important question, a question that should go on even after this series is over. I imagine there's a few more weeks in Philippians and then we'll go into another part of the scriptures The main question that we've been looking at is what does the real Christian life look like? That's a question we want to keep asking. The way that we have answered that is by way of the letter to the Philippians. And the way that Paul has chosen to write this letter, and the way that the Spirit has chosen to pass the answer to that question down to you, even in your generation. is he's largely given you different pictures of those that he wants you to imitate. We've seen uh Paul give a picture of himself as one who sacrifices or makes himself a living sacrifice for the congregation. We've seen Timothy as an example, we've seen Epaphroditus as an example. We saw Paul in his biography as yet another example. We saw Paul say that all of the faithful saints throughout the scriptures are meant to be an example. of ways in which the real Christian life should look like. And all of these, even going up into nowadays, we're encouraged to look around us And to see faithful saints today and to see what the real Christian life looks like and to copy them. And then all of these are following a basic principle that Paul states elsewhere in a different letter when he says Insofar as I imitate Jesus Christ, imitate me. And then that same principle is supposed to fall on each of us. Now that's been one way that he has answered the question is by way of, let's call it the doctrine of imitation, just to have a label on it this morning. Now last week he gave you a little bit of a different teaching. It was still teaching you about imitation, but he was using a very different image. He was saying, you want to know what the real Christian life looks like? It looks like being citizens of the heavenly Jerusalem. He appealed to you being citizens not of Rome. Not of Greece, not even of the United States of America, but citizens of another land, citizens of what I was calling the heavenly Jerusalem, and that you should be obviously marked by the characteristics of people from that city. Well, that's not really anything different than what he said before, because all the people that you're supposed to imitate are also from that city. Now this week he takes a third step to give you even a little bit more of a lesson on what does it look like to really live the Christian life? He's given you imitation. He told you about your heavenly citizenship. And now he's going to give you a very specific example by way of a case study between two women who I think were in church leadership. founders of the church. If you wanted to summarize what our passage in front of us looks like, or what well what the main point would be, it would be something like this. Because of chapter four, verse one, I want to pick up that language, but then because of the case study with Eodia and Syntachi You could summarize it by saying, Christians, stand fast in the Lord by being of the same mind of the Lord. Or stand fast in the Lord by remaining unified in the Lord. I'd encourage you to write that down and talk about that today. Stand fast in the Lord by remaining unified in the Lord. We're getting down to the concrete. You've heard all these general teachings from Paul, and now he's given you an actual case study. So that you can see what the real Christian life looks like. So I want to begin with the case study and then I have two questions for you. The case study is right there in Verse number two. You can see that he calls us once again in verse one to stand fast in the Lord. This is And the way in which he's calling you to stand fast in the Lord now, in particular is by learning from this case study where he implores verse number two, you odia, and I implore syntiki. Paul gives this case study of two women in the church who are at odds with each other. Now, why do I say that they're at odds with each other? It says in verse number 2, I implore Euodia and I implore Syndechi to be of the same mind in the Lord. So the first observation you could take is that, well, if they're he's calling them to be of the same mind, then they're not in the same mind. And that's a problem. They're at s they're at odds with each other. There's some kind of conflict that is going on, but we he doesn't list out what that conflict is They're not at peace with each other. I'd encourage you at another time to keep reading through chapter 4, just noting peace, joy. There's something going on between these two women where they've lost that A second thing going on with them is that this is not just a conflict that is isolated over in the corner in the shadows. I think part of the reason why Paul brings this up and names them by name, which was probably a little embarrassing. But names them by name is because these two women have some kind of important role within the church. I don't know what that role was. But Paul says here in these verses that they labored together with him in the gospel. He used that same kind of language of Epaphroditus and of Timothy. So these women are sticking out in some way as having some kind of leadership roles or founding role among the congregation. If you recall, the Philippian church began with a woman down by the water, her name was Lydia, and she rose to leadership very quickly. I'm not saying she rose to an office of elder or deacon, but she was still uh among the leaders there offering her own home for the church to gather. If you take a look in Acts chapter 16, and it just makes me wonder if there were other women who were at the forefront of service to Christ's church. For example, take a look at the end of ch of uh Romans chapter sixteen. And look at the roll call and look at all of the women that he lists there that are laboring with him in the gospel. We don't know the details about these two women, but the commendation from the apostle to say that they labored with him in the gospel pushes them out into the front, and if they are bickering with each other, it could cause, or worse than bickering, it could cause a real collapse within the community and beyond. Now, furthermore, in verse number 3, this is my last observation just with what's going on with this case study, is that this conflict seems pretty complicated. And the reason why I say that is because Paul says, hey, we don't know, there's this anonymous person, I don't know exactly who it is. He mentions Clement, but there's someone else also. help these women. So the conflict is complicated enough where there's going to be a third party getting involved in order to help them both to see sides w the each other's sides, figure out where uh the log is in each other's eyes, figure out where confession needs to take place, where do we need to see some kind of r um restoration. There's going to be a third party, and so the conflict is probably a little tougher than most. And this is the case study that it gives here within this letter, and this letter ends up being passed down For you to be able to receive here in your specific generation, highlighting for you that one of the things that you must pay attention to and care about as a Christian community is how you relate to each other. Wow, what a really important message for us to hear after talking about all of the things that we have within Philippians that are primarily individually focused. The examples that have been given to us are basically you seeking to imitate some other individual I want to be like Timothy. I want to be like Epaphroditus. I want to be like Lydia. I want to be like Mary. I want to be like whoever. But here Paul transcends that and he says it's not just about imitation as individuals. It is also about us looking or imitating what real community looks like. And so we must care about and pay attention to the relationships that are among us. And he says that by giving us this particular case study that's then passed down from generation to generation. Now, I think you can begin to sense why that would be important. But in case you can't sense it, or in case you can't put it into your own words or articulate it, I just want to raise a question. And this is our first question of two questions, and then we're done. The first question is, why does Paul bring this up? Why is it so important that the community, or what I was saying, the colony of heaven? Why is it so important that the community or the colony of heaven is not embroiled in conflict? Have you ever thought about that? You know how many times people tell you that you should be at peace or they say back to you, you are your brother's keeper? But have you asked the question, well, but why is this important? Why do I need to focus on these things? Well, we're asking that question of this passage, and I think that the answer that we can gain is something like this. It's important for us to focus on these things, and Paul brought it up because It has everything to do with our reputation before the world. Now there are other reasons why this is important, but one reason is because the community, our community at Severn Run, is meant to be a wit a witness. To God's goodness and wisdom. Now I'm not just pulling that out of a hat. Take a look at the passage. We have in verse number two that they are to be of the same mind. As he continues his teaching, particularly in verse 5, notice that it moves into a bigger perspective. Let your gentleness be known to all men. Now, to be fair, that's a different command, but this is at least on Paul's mind. Not just how we are or what we think of each other. But what does the world think of us? And actually the more important question is, what does the world think about God based on you and how you interact with each other? That's at the forefront here, and so you could put it this way, why is this so important for us to ask in the in our Sunday morning time together? Because God's reputation is important. God's character is important. And the way that the world discovers who he is is in part by you. You are not only in his image as individuals, you are also, and actually more truly, in his image as a corporate body. The Christian community or colony is a colony of heaven and is meant to show the world who the king is and that he is good. Now, have you heard that before? You probably have. When I get into conversations with some folks though, and I uh I'm just trying to hear, well How would they put this in their own words? They're often at a loss of words. And I think that's in part because we kind of get the idea that we're a witness for God's character, like it says in Romans 2. But we don't have an analogy to try to understand that. I think a great analogy to understand what we're saying here this morning is from Acts chapter 14, verse 17. And I'd encourage you to read all of Acts chapter 14 this afternoon. Perhaps some of you remember what's going on here. Paul ends up going into a specific area, I believe it's named Iconium, and then goes to Lystra. Paul is seeking to demonstrate that God alone is worthy of worship. In fact, this group of people have seen Paul perform miracles and they're now seeking to worship Paul. Do you remember? uh th this case. And Paul stops them, he rips his clothes, he stops them, and he says, Heaven forbid, there's only one who's deserving of your worship. And then he starts to give evidence that there's only one that's really good in your life. There's only one that's worthy of your devotion and your sacrifices and your worship. He says in Acts chapter 14, and then he says in Acts chapter 14, he did not leave himself without witness. In that he did good, he gave us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. Do you see what Paul's argument is? Paul is saying, don't worship me. Even the healing that you see that I have done is from another And he has not left himself a secret. He has revealed himself in how your seasons unfold. The fact that you had a rainy season and you had good crops this year that resulted in food in your table and a wine festival is evidence of the kind of goodness and ultimate wisdom, a kind of cosmic wisdom, in having seasons of rain and making the produce flourish. This is the one who's now revealing himself by way of his son. This is the one by whom I heal, and this is the one to whom you should be bringing your living sacrifices. But the point that I'm trying to make here is that that is a witness. The rainy season, the grapes on the table, the grapes that were made in the wine, the bread on the table, the meat on the table, it was all a witness to the goodness of God And the expectation is that those in that town who had harvest festivals and would remember the joy and thankfulness they felt for a good crop. And all of the health that that brought to the city, and that their children had something to eat, that they would see that those were gifts from God, and it would show what he's like. That he's good, that he's wise, that he's refreshing And the message that Paul is giving you here this morning in the Philippians passage is that in the same way That that is a witness, or in a similar way, so too you as a congregation and the fruits that you produce are a witness as to what God is like. Now that puts a lot of responsibility on us, and that's good, because we find our meaning in being responsible, as Victor Frankel has taught us. In a similar way that the world saw God's goodness in his giving of rain and fruitful seasons and festivities, so too will the world see God's goodness and wisdom and the fruit which his congregation produces. And this therefore means that for the sake of God and his reputation, you would be very careful to not have a bunch, you can think of bananas if you want, of rotten relationships among you. When you choose to allow your relationships here to deteriorate or to never really be that meaningful, I just want you to ask yourself a question. What does that tell the communities around you that God is like if you are his people? He has sent you his Holy Spirit and is bringing fruits from you. Does it give a message to the world that they would really want nothing to do with him? Because look at his city. That's a very important question for us to ask, and you could see that that is something we should really care about. It's one of the reasons why we need to pay attention to the case study that's given to us. With how we would imitate a healthy community as opposed to an unhealthy community. Now the second vital question Besides the question of well, why would that why is it so important for us to have healthy relationships around here as a corporate body? The second question is, does Paul give us any hints as to how we may remain healthy? in a community that faces so many different conflicts and that has so many different things not in common. I mean, when you think about the way that we're called by Christ, he's he doesn't usually think, oh yeah, well I'm going to call Jesse because he really likes fly fishing. And so I'm also going to call this other person over here because they love fly fishing. And we're going to get all of these people together that have all of these affinities And they'll all get along perfectly. Instead, we see a picture of God decreeing the people who would never talk to each other in public, putting them together and saying, guess what? You're now brothers and sisters And so it's a serious question for us to ask, okay, if that uh uh being a body of unity and peace is for the sake of the reputation of our God. How is it that we can accomplish that? Well he gives us the answer here in this passage. In a word In a word, it is that we are to imitate Jesus Christ and have his same mind, and it is the mind of sacrificial service. That's how it works. In a word, Jesus Christ sacrificed in order to accomplish God's will, and so too We must be willing to sacrifice according to God's will. That's what the main uh answer is. But if you take a look at verse number two, we can stitch together how I got there. He says, I implore you, Odia, and I implore Sintiche to be of the same mind. This is how he's solving the problem He's saying that you need to be of the same mind, you need to be of the same attitude, you need to be of the same worldview, you need to be having you need to have the same lenses on. And he's been using that this word, the same mind, all throughout his letter. And I think the most important place that he has used it prior to this specific passage is when he used it in Philippians chapter 2. And if you want to, you can flip back a couple different a couple pages and just take a look at Philippians 2. And you can begin at verse number 3 if you would like. To see what's going on. But I'll just begin at verse number one. Therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of his love, if any fellowship with the Spirit, if any affection and mercy, Fulfill my joy by being like-minded. You see it there? Okay, he's going to say it again. Having the same love, being of one accord, being of one mind. There it is. Now this is in the context of conflict, because he goes on and he says, let nothing be done through selfish ambition or vain conceit, but in lowliness of mind, there it is again. Let each esteem others better than himself. Let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. And you could put in parentheses in order for the community to continue representing God well and accomplishing his redemptive mission. Okay, what does it look like to not put your interest above others. What does it look like to be of the same mind? Verse number five. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. And here it is, who being in the form of God did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant and coming in the likeness of men And being found in the appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. So here you see the kind of commitment that it's going to take in order for the community to stay together. It's going to be to have the mind of Christ and the specific mind of Christ that he points out, you really could say has two parts Jesus Christ's mind is completely dedicated to the will of the Father and his kingdom. And number two, he is willing to sacrifice even his own life to accomplish it. And for you to have the same mind, those two things would be a part of you also. And now we're back to the pattern idea. You are to, if you are going to have a healthy community and actually lasts together, you will have to imitate Christ in what he has done, at least in those two parts, to keep his community together. Or even to bring it to be a community, total dedication to God and the establishment of his kingdom, and the willingness to sacrifice one's own life in order to accomplish it Which we see in the example of Timothy. Timothy was a young man, and I forget who told me this, but it's very insightful. It might have been Bradley. Bradley, I think, said that one of the interesting things about Timothy is that he's young and he's going to be serving God his whole life, so in a way he's given up his whole life for God. And then Epaphroditus, I don't know how old he was, but he almost died, and so he almost gave his life up for God. And Paul is giving up his life for God. And so here we see there is this Christ pattern going all the way through Philippians that we must adopt if we are going to establish or continue a community that actually shows the true alluring character of God himself to have the mind of Christ. Now what would that what would that maybe specifically look like? If you had to tell like a third grader, what does it look like to sacrifice like Jesus sacrifices? I wonder what your favorite passage is to point to. Mine is from 2 Corinthians. This one, for whatever reason, there it has entered my brain and won't leave. I think about this passage all the time. It's 2 Corinthians 8 and 9. It says this. It says, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich Yet for your sakes he became poor, that you, through his poverty, might become rich. Now do you want to know what the very first thing I think of when I read something like that? Anybody interested? Yes, sure. Moms. Moms. I see a picture of a mother. Because moms, from the moment that they find out that they're even going to have a child, basically are giving up their life in order for that child to have health. The mother at every moment just more and more keeps putting herself aside so that her children can be successful. Now that's also what we would say about a good dad, but for whatever reason a mom came to my mind. And that's striking to me. That's something we should really care about, something we should give our attention to. That the an ultimate image here of what it means to be as real as you can be as a human being is that we would become poor so that other people could become rich. Now Paul means this actually quite literally because he's taking up a collection. But you can also take it into other domains and do some cross-domain mapping and without much difficulty, see that I could become poor in many different ways in order that the community would remain rich in how they show forth the character of who our God is. So that when the world sees us, they don't see us as a candle that has been put out on a hill, but a light on a hill. Light in the darkness. And what would that look like in a f another in another practical situation? Man, that could look in so look like so many different ways One of my favorite ways is from First Corinthians six, six through seven. This is not applicable to every ethical situation in a human's life But this one catches my attention all the time too. 1 Corinthians 6, 6 through 7 shows us what it would look like to live like or to imitate Christ and His sacrifice in order for community to flourish. It says, but brother goes to law against brother, and that before unbelievers? That's the first part of this passage. Basically, Christians are suing each other, and how embarrassing that is because the community is now looking and they're saying, this is what their God is like. And then in verse 7 it says, Now therefore it is already an utter failure for you that you go to lull against one another. And then Paul's solution is this. This is great. Why do you not rather accept wrong? Why do you not rather let yourselves be cheated? Now if you wanted to put that in like simple terms, I guess you could say take one for the team. Why is it that the the thing that's of the top priority is always your rights? And your comforts and your name. Why can't we put at the top the name of God and his reputation? And when we do, it means that sometimes we've got to take one on the chin. It doesn't mean that you always do. We have to have a lot of different tools in the tool bag. But you're just seeing here what it will take for the community. To be able to shine forth the character of who God really is. So you not only have the case study And you not only have the first question, which has to do why is it so important that we would remain a healthy community? He also gives you in this passage, even just a little breadcrumb, we can expand that doctrine and we can see how we practically would maintain a healthy and peaceful community is by having the mind of Jesus Christ. And that's the whole passage that is before you. Recently, I was listening to a lecture from a famous cognitive scientist. I try to keep up with where the culture is going so that I can help to prepare us as a church on how we're to be ministering to that culture and what dangers we will be facing. And in light of that, I've been listening to a famous cognitive scientist, and he has pointed out something that many authors actually have been pointing out for a while now, and that is there's a whole um there's a whole population among several generations now that have no affiliation with a religion. Have you heard of this? And the name that they have been given, I know this is in a sense old news, but the name that they have been given is the nuns. Not N-U-N-S. And the reason is is that they have no affiliation with specific religions. Now, this cognitive scientist has stepped forward and he has said, and I'm concerned about that population because I am one of them. And he sa and he says, I I actually think his analysis is is interesting to listen to and it and it it's something we should pay attention to. He says Christianity, one of the reasons why the nuns want nothing to do with Christianity Pay careful attention to this, because this guy's bright, is because Christianity has become a legacy religion. Now, have you heard that language before? It's a part of political discourse these days. So what he's doing is he's taking a metaphor where people usually talk about legacy media. like Fox and CNN, and saying they obviously, based on the fruits of what they have produced in this world, are trash, they need to be replaced by things like, sometimes we don't know what that answer is. In the same way that there is legacy media, so too there is legacy religion. In the same way that generations nowadays want nothing to do with CNN or Fox. So too, generations nowadays look at Christians and their community and want nothing to do with them. And so Christianity has become a legacy religion. Now is everything he's saying true? No. Is there overgeneralizations? Yes. But is there some insights on what the population is actually thinking? Yeah, there is some insight. And the reason why he would call Christianity a legacy religion and compare them to destructive communities who just create mayhem is largely what he says in his message is that it's because of how the Christian community acts towards even their own kind. Toward each other. And therefore, this is so interesting. It is because of how they act just on the face of it that what they say can't be true. Isn't that wild? It's as if they're using the principle you judge a tree by its fruit in order to see that the That largely Christianity is not even the real tree. And that it's become because of the witness of the Christian community. Again, I'm not trying to chop out if everything he's saying is true. I'm just trying to let you know that people pay attention to how we treat each other. And they draw conclusions. It's the same thing that Paul is concerned about here. His culture that he was ministering in was worse than our culture. And he was very on edge to make sure that his churches showed forth the beautiful character of his God. There was one telling last statement that I'll give you from this cognitive scientist representing. He's kind of an apostle of the nuns. And he summarizes it this way. He says, we are nuns, and we uh do not find ourselves going to churches because we just can't feel at home in Christianity. What an interesting way to say that. It's like he visited our houses and then it was so inhospitable that they had to go find another house. Part of that is going to be him. But insofar as it is true that we are inhospitable in the incorrect ways, then there's a message for us from him that also connects to what Paul is teaching us here within this passage. What would those in Philippi think when they attended dinner and Euodia and Syntachy were pulling each other's hair? Or stirring up gossip about each other and each other's families. Is that a place where you would find home? So Paul ends up addressing it not only there, but also here today. What are the conflicts and the poor relationships that you're a part of right now? or the relationships that you haven't really built up because you're just too busy to actually love each other, how is that going to affect how the world sees God because of what you are showing the world? And the main question that Paul states for us from 4-1 is, brothers and sisters at 7 run, are you going to stand fast in the Lord? Because if you are, then you'll need to have the same mind as the Lord. And his mind is captured At least in two passages, John 3, 13, I'm sorry, John 13, 35, by this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another. Do you have love for one another? Or do you not really know each other? And what sacrifices would you be willing to make to get to know each other? John fifteen, thirteen There is greater love, greater love no one has than this, than to lay down one's life for his friends. Amen. Let us pray