Philippians 3:17 through 4. 1. Brethren, join in following my example and note those who so walk, as you have us for a pattern. For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ, whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly And whose glory is in their shame, who set their mind on earthly things. For our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ Who will transform our lowly body that it may be conformed to his glorious body, according to the working by which he is able even to subdue all things to himself. Therefore, my beloved, and longed for brethren, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, beloved. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, we are at the heart of your gospel here, and I pray that through the preaching of your word, that you would bring blessing to your people. As a continuation of your promises made in covenant with them and even to myself. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Two weeks ago we asked the question, what does the Christian life look like? That's a little bit of a funny way to put it. And so we changed the question just slightly to say, what does it look like to live your life as a Christian would live their life? And we said, what does it look like specifically because the way that the Apostle Paul wants to frame the answer to that question, what does it look like to live as a Christian. And we saw that in verse 17 of this the paragraph that I just read to you. He says, Brethren, join in following my example and note those who so walk, as you have us for a pattern. Paul answers the question, what is it supposed to look like, by saying, it's supposed to look like certain patterns which you're meant to imitate. Paul gives examples in earlier chapters of Timothy. Paul gave examples of Apaphroditus. Paul gave an example of himself. Paul alludes in this passage in verse 17 that we're to consider all of the saints that are commended throughout the scriptures as a pattern. Lydia, and whoever else that is a pattern. And of course, all of these are flowing from the one pattern that is mentioned in Philippians chapter 2, Christ Himself. That this is the way that we're supposed to know what the Christian life looks like. There are patterns out there. There are, we use the image of a mountain that we are meant to climb. all the way to the pinnacle that we're to get to the top of a celestial city, so to speak. And in order to make it, we need more than someone shouting out rules from the top. We need those who are climbing the mountain themselves, and we can follow in their footsteps. They can show us how to traverse certain sections of the mountain, how to face particular circumstances as Christ's people are meant to face it. So we learn through imitation. Now we're going to continue with that same theme this morning, but in the negative. In order to sharpen our awareness of what Paul is teaching us here, about what the Christian life looks like, he gives us a negative example. He calls attention to the life he requires by contrasting it with the life he rejects. We shall more clearly see what to follow if we know what to avoid. And that's what he lays out for us here in 318. Paul tells us that we have many enemies of the cross. And the implication is that those enemies will hinder you in your growth in the image of Jesus Christ, both individually and And as a corporate body, which we'll get into next week. The image of Christ is really fulfilled in the church, not just in the individual. We'll talk about that next Sunday, though. Paul tells us that we have many enemies that want to hinder our growth in the image of Christ. He says that right there in verse 18. I'm just summarizing that in light of the total context, where he says, For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ. And he's telling you that so you'd have a contrast. Knowing what he wants, you can now see what he doesn't want. And so what I want to do is I just want to walk through this passage looking at each of the parts and their usefulness that Christ intends for his church. You could see that it would be wise for us to begin right there in the beginning where he says that many walk, and this many are the enemies that you can see a little bit later in this verse. So let's just take this one step at a time. We'll look through at each of the parts of this verse and we'll bring it to a close. Paul says that many walk as enemies. Sometimes I have been in conversations where folks don't say it exactly that way. They have, I wonder if you have the same experience. I'll be talking about enemies or something along those lines. And then I think in an effort to maintain unity or peace, or to make sure that energy is not expended towards the wrong things, they'll say, we only have one enemy And that is the devil. But the have you he have you heard that before? Anybody? Yes? Okay, so wow, I'm getting a lot of nods. That's great. I have heard that too, but what do we do now where we see that there are many enemies that are present here within this passage? The both can't stand together. I think the reason why people say that our only enemy is the devil is because they're actually on to something Ephesians chapter 6, verses 11 and 12 says this: put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Verse number 12: For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. So it looks like, if you really were to ask the question, who is our true enemy, Paul is saying in Ephesians that it's the principalities and powers because we don't wrestle with flesh and blood, we wrestle with them. You could see, therefore, that people aren't entirely unreasonable for saying we have one enemy. I think instead of making fun of them or mocking them, what we really need to do is just understand the the reality that they're getting at. Yes, there's a sense in which the devil really is an enemy out there. Even if you find it difficult to believe in the devil, Paul is saying there's a reality His name is the devil, and he's an enemy. And you need armor to be able to deal with him. You're not just wrestling with flesh and blood. There's something above a naturalistic explanation of things. There is a supernatural explanation of things. Now given what we have in Philippians, it seems if we were to take both of the passages together to make sure that Scripture does not contradict itself You could say, for we do not only wrestle with flesh and blood, but we also wrestle with the devil. That would bring both of the thoughts together. It's the same author of Philippians and of Ephesians. And we know that the Holy Spirit is superintending him, so he's not contradicting himself. And in fact, both of these two views, and being able to just understand and grapple with the fact that we have many enemies and not just one. are expressed to us in 2 Timothy 2. 26. There is a vision of reality that is very important for us to be able to grasp in that passage. I'd write that down if I were you and look over that this afternoon. 2 Timothy 2. 26 says this. Listen to the two parts. and how they're ordered so that both still stand. The devil, principalities and powers, and humanity, or flesh and blood. It says this And those who are rebelling, basically, have come that you would pray for them so that they would come to their senses. And now he goes on and he tells you what has happened to a human being that's out of their senses. He says that they need to escape the snare of the devil. And then he goes on and he says, they have become captive to him, doing his will. Do you see that? So now you can see how Paul views the cosmos and how the order works is that you do have an agent of evil which we label as the adversary or Satan or the devil. And he has such an influence upon humanity that he can capture them, put them into his service, and they're no longer doing the will of God, they're doing his will. And so what we seem to see here from Ephesians and Philippians is that both are enemies. One acts as a kind of primary cause or influence of deception and a kind of secondary cause. But it is quite right for Paul to say in Philippians, you have many enemies of the cross of Jesus Christ, not just one. Now that's important for you to be able to recognize. Because in your endeavor to be nice, you may not label human beings the right way. Some can take up and embody the will of the devil himself instead of the will of God. And that's important information for you to have if you're going to navigate life as a human being. I would think it would be important to you He says that there are many. There are many that walk and they are the enemies of the cross of Christ. That's the first observation we have here And Paul has said this elsewhere. He says in Acts chapter 20, verses 29 through 31, this is a famous passage I'm sure all of you have read where Paul warns the Ephesian elders. about what is going to take place within the church. He says, For I know this, that after my departure, savage wolves, not just singular, but wolves, will come in among you, not sparing the flock. Also from among yourselves men will rise up, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after themselves. Therefore, watch And remember that for three years I did not cease to warn everyone night and day. Now that is a passage that tells you that there are many enemies of the cross of Jesus Christ. And not just a spiritualizing of our difficulties and our obstacles. Now what are you supposed to do when these kind of warnings are coming at you from an apostle? What are you supposed to do when he says, hey, there's some threats in life that you need to be aware of if you're going to walk forward in your purposes in the image of Jesus Christ? I would say that at the very least you should be attentive to those things which he warns you about. That you should live your life in such a way to where you pay attention to the things that he brings to your attention. I remember helping um my father, uh he was going to put an addition on a shed and therefore needed me to move some of the cinder blocks that we had been storing there. And he said to me When you're moving the cinder blocks, I saw a couple black widows. You should be careful. So how do you think I treated each one of the cinder blocks? Number one, I didn't want to treat them. I didn't want to be near them. And then I put on wet leather work gloves. And then when I would grab the cinder blocks, I would look in a certain way to see is there something there that and I'm gonna go to the hospital today. That makes sense to us. And actually biologically it seems like we're geared by God's grace. To where if you see that little red hourglass on the belly of that spider, there is something in you that wants to stay away. And he's saying something similar to you. You know you know what it looks like when you're looking at that spider or for Nicholas Clark that snake. But he's telling you there's other things that you need to pay attention to in life also. And there are and they he categorizes as enemies of the cross of Christ. And that really brings us up to this next part of this passage where we really do need to ask the question, what does he mean by the enemies of the cross of Christ? Well there's a lot of different answers when you do research on this, which is a little frustrating always when you you can read thousands of pages on a topic and everyone doesn't exactly know. But if we were to look in the context and We just ask the question, what are the enemies of the cross of Christ? Which you can see there at the end of verse number 18 that they are enemies of the cross of Christ. In context, we've seen enemies already. We saw enemies earlier in the book of Philippians, and he was calling them dogs He called them the mutilation, and we categorize them based on uh the the Presbytery meeting that happened in Acts chapter 15. We categorize them as Judaizers. We've seen a pretty good picture of the kind of enemy that he could be dealing with. But he also Based on some of the language that's in this passage, if you look in verse number 19 very quickly, which we'll get to next week, that their belly is their God. And those kinds of questions, that language is also talking about the pagan world. So in my research in this, when I look at those who handle scripture well, I don't see them making up their mind and saying this has to be. The enemy has to be the Judaizers, or the enemy has to be pagans. They just say, hey, Paul already told you you have many enemies. Why not have both? And I'll take that same position here. I would even say that these are just important examples that you need to pay attention to because they resurface throughout history. But if you were to get into specifics, we could go ahead and Paul could have listed so many more enemies, and he does throughout his letters. Here, if you were to just look at verse number 19, You can see there are certain characteristics or features of these enemies of the cross of Christ. Take a look. It said, their end is destruction. We'll talk about that next week Their God is their belly. Their glory is their shame. They set their minds on earthly things. So here are some uh demarcators or marks of who the Their God is their belly, for example, could be those who believe that in addition to the saving work of Jesus Christ You must still keep the dietary laws, the belly, you must still keep the dietary laws in order to remain in good covenant standing with God. Or if you were a Judaizer or a Gent or not a Judaizer, if you were a Gentile or a Pagan, it would be referring to your God as your belly in the sense of you live your life serving your self-indulgence. You engage in what your decision making is whatever feels good at that particular moment. And that sometimes is categorized as a kind of hedonism. John Piper is famous for calling us to a Christian hedonism. That is finding our enjoyment in God. This is not that. This is a different kind of hedonism played out in pagan mystery religions. If you were to look at verse number 19 at another feature, it'd say, Whose glory is their shame? Paul just talked about in earlier paragraphs that that in which he used to glory, namely being a Pharisee among Pharisees and the keeping of the law in order to maintain covenant standing with God. That those things which he used to glory in, he now considers crap. That's a pretty good translation of the Greek. I'm not just being crass He now considers that to be a shameful way to enter into the kingdom of God and to be reconciled with the Father. That's not the way. But there are those who are Judaizers who are still saying it is the way. Yes, we believe in Christ. Yes, we believe that he was crucified. Yes, we believe that he is the Messiah. But he didn't come to fulfill the ceremonial law. He came to lead us back in to a continuation of those practices. because it is through our own works that we are going to maintain covenant with God. Now you just sang a hymn that said, that's not true. And Paul is saying they're enemies of the cross of Christ. And he'll pick that up in Galatians, and we'll see a very similar pattern in the Roman Catholic Church, which is why I brought that up to you a couple weeks ago. I don't want to keep beating on that drum this morning, though. That's the Judaizers and how they could see their glory is their shame. It also could be referring to the Gentiles and how they glory in their shame. This is exactly what Paul says in Romans chapter 1. He says And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a debased mind to do things which are not fitting. Being filled with all unrighteousness, sexual immorality, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, evil-mindedness They are whisperers, backbiters, haters of God, violent, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient appearance. undiscerning, untrustworthy, unloving, unforgiving, unmerciful. And there's this final phrase that's very important in verse number 32. They know That God is against these things. But they congratulate everyone who will practice them. That's Romans chapter 1. Beginning in verse twenty-eight. But if you want the argument, start in eighteen. And if you want to understand that argument, start in one one. They know that they are deserving of death, but they not only do the same shameful things and glory in them, they glory in them by approving them and trying to get other people to practice them. And that's an enemy of the cross of Christ. That's his point. And the reason why he ends up bringing that up to you, to tie it back to the main point. From the very beginning of the sermon, is he's really just raising a question for you as the church, because these things that he's writing under the superintendence of the Spirit are timeless. And he wants you to consider: are you careful? Do you watch out for false religions? That would be that ceremonial Judaizer side. And are you cautious and watching out for worldliness? Legalism and licentiousness. These seem to be two main patterns, if you will, and I'll talk about that in a minute, that keep going down through history. One author said, throughout history we see enemies of the cross of Christ that want to add to Christ. Jesus plus something I'm doing. We also see teachers that want to say, that want to go Christ minus Because of Christ, I owe him nothing. I can live however I want. He's freed me from any kind of obligations. That goes under the name of, let's say, antinomianism, and this over here would be legalism. And that plays out in all kinds of different There happens to be something, it seems, in the very makeup of humanity that if you're going to try to get through the narrow gate, most often If you did a populational statistic, you're going to go to the left and be a legalist and seek to covenant with God by way of your unrighteousness, or you're going to be a heathen. You're gonna take your trip to Mexico and drink your tequila and whatever That seems to be within the heart of humanity that those roads are easier. And even taking Christianity and twisting it to make it fit into those molds. And he's saying, those are two enemies of the cross of Christ. So if you were to summarize what we have done so far, as we seek to grow in the image of Christ, we need to be attentive that there are many enemies That could hinder our growth because they call us into either a false religion or into a humanistic worldliness. And neither of those are what Christ is calling you to as his people. Now there's one other observation that I want to make with you that I was the most excited about, so I saved it for less. It's what I do. You know, I save things for last. If you ever watch me eat dinner and I finally get some steak, guess what I'm eating last? Steak. And it's the same thing here. This is the real stake for me, and I think it's going to be for you, is that there's one more observation that we need to make in this verse number eight, and he he says, for many walk. Now let me say that again. For many walk. This word walk here is very important. Paul tells us that our enemies walk in a certain way. They have a certain lifestyle. They have a certain pattern. That is very important. We're talking about real mature stuff here in being able to navigate reality as a Christian. Look at verse number 17 and how he uses that same language for good patterns. He says, Brethren, join in following my example and note those who so walk. And then we get to verse 18, and he says, Well, there there are other people and they're walking, but it is a different kind of walk. It is a different kind of pattern, and you need to be aware of those patterns. Why? So that you don't take up the pattern. So that you don't imitate the wrong things, heading down the wrong path, which verse 19 leads to destruction. Do you see what Paul is doing here? So important. These are the patterns. There are patterns out there that you should not follow. There are people out there who will try and get you to follow the wrong patterns. And they're very good at it. And this brings us immediately to the foremost application in my mind. When we see this conversation happening as the Apostle Paul is seeking to bless the church with this kind of teaching, We see him immediately picking up in letters in 1 and 2 Timothy and Titus, where he's saying, well then how do you know what pattern is the right pattern and what pattern is not the right pattern? He and he ends up saying, well what you need is a standard. You need something to hold patterns up against. Now you've seen things you should hold up against. Already, Timothy, Epaphroditus, Paul, Jesus. But overall, if you wouldn't want to just Speak about this in a comprehensive summary, Paul keeps calling you as God's people back to the scriptures. That the scriptures are your standard by which you would know What is real and what is false? And he's doing the same thing here for you. I remember being in the construction industry. Now I've always been a bear of little brains. So I'm gonna, you know, when I think of the construction industry, I'm gonna be the one swinging the hammer And I remember sometimes framing out the first floor would be decked. We'd want to start with uh we're done with the exterior walls. We're now going to start with the interior walls. And we're framing our hearts out. We've got lots of energy from the fajitas, all the workers have fed me. And then the foreman comes by and he says, You guys have done a really nice job framing this, but it's two feet in the wrong place. And then I look at him and I'm saying, no, it's not. Now what is he going to do at that moment in order to end the argument? Well, he could do a lot of things on a construction site. But in this case, let's say that he's a nice guy. It's going to take me over to a set of saw horses that have a piece of plywood up on top of them, and on top of that piece of plywood is a set of blueprints. And he's going to show me what distance this room is supposed to be from the exterior wall. In other words, he's going to have architectural blueprints that act as a standard to know what is the pattern for the interior walls on this floor plan. And I'm saying to you, that's just a silly, if you want, illustration, that the scriptures are our standard. Now don't don't hear me wrong here. I'm not saying they're just the standard so that you could look you could seek to have a moral life like Christ. I never said that. I said that's part of the picture. I also said they're the standard for you to even know how to enter into salvation Justification by faith, active and passive obedience of Jesus Christ. All of these things are a part of the picture. They're a part of an ancient image, a mosaic where all the tiles are put in just right. Scripture is the standard as blueprints are a standard of construction. And when you begin to look at the scriptures, we don't need to be lost in abstract philosophical conversation. I would encourage you to just look at the saints on the pages of Scripture in the stories. Who is commended and who is not commended? Now we talked about that two weeks ago when I said, look at the saints. And then we sang that song at the end of the service talking about looking to the saints who have already made it. And if I want to make it, I in some way need to walk the same path that they did. And you're to do the same, not just with the patterns that are commended, but not commended, to make sure that you are not becoming, for example, Cain. I say this to myself during the week. When somebody crosses me and my first thought is, I bet you I could break their nose. You know, I say this from the pulpit a lot. There's a lot of noses I'd like to break. When I want to take up the pattern of Cain. And that's what I started to say to myself. I said that would that's exactly what Cain would say. Especially if it is my Christian brother or sister. Actually, I never have thoughts like that about my sisters But there are other patterns in there too. I gave you one from the very beginning. And Apostle Paul, the way that he's reasoning here, the way that he thinks about reality, he's trying to help you to have his mind. So that you can have the mind of Christ, is that you need to really be thinking about the different patterns to make sure you don't pick up very dangerous ones. And one is Cain. He repeats throughout the scriptures. Another one that I see repeated through the scriptures are the magicians that kept Pharaoh and others in the dark through their deception. That's a primary description for false prophets. Or what about Achan? Or what about the entire book of Judges? And this some of the similar those characters that are in there. What about Jezebel? What about in the prophets, corrupt priests, and the description that is given of them? What about Herod from our Christmas story? What about Judas? What significance does it play that it's even prophesied beforehand that Judas would betray his Lord for silver? What does that tell you that you need to be aware of as a human being with regard to money? What about Judah what about fallen angels as we see in Jude? They show us the the scriptures show us a pattern of even angels that have fallen into the wrong patterns. What about the Judaizers from our passage? Who have adopted a kind of works righteousness stapled on to the work of Jesus Christ? And what about pagans and all of the myriad ways in which they express their humanism? All of these are present in the scriptures as a kind of blueprint for you to not take up a certain pattern. What a gift. And the call to you this morning is to recognize what those patterns are, not just in the past, but the way they're supposed to look and not look today. I had a really intriguing conversation with Bradley this past week, and he was telling me about a, he introduced me to a book by a guy named William Still. And I think I'm going to get this right. I haven't read it. I haven't read it yet. I just bought it. And he was saying that that uh the if you take up the ministry of the word, like like William still talks about, then you're going to take it up and you're going to embody or incarnate what the scriptures say They will not remain words on a page, but they will be taken up in actual life. And here's an additional thing that Brad pointed out. He said And it's not going to be taking it up in an application as if you lived in 1687. You are going to figure out how to bring the pattern into specifically contemporary life And you're going to be able to recognize the patterns of Cain in contemporary life. And that when you're able to do these two things, you have in one way or another a ministry of the word. That you are starting to take up and be in the image of Jesus Christ. Wow, what insight we have really gained this morning from the apostle and really from the Holy Spirit. Let me just let me just say this too. This is a call from the Apostle Paul for you to begin to recognize who you should imitate, and therefore you need to pick up on patterns. I encourage you to pick up on these patterns in yourself first. I bet you you have some repentance to do. And then pick up on these patterns also in others, that you may not be deceived and be led astray. And I'd encourage you overall to set for yourself this particular goal that when you take up the scriptures which are our standard or rule for faith and life. That you would study them to know Jesus Christ. For that is the image into which you seek to be conformed. And I encourage you to study it so thoroughly that this verse would be fulfilled in its hearing. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. Let me ask you a question. If Jesus were to return disguised, sitting here this morning, would you recognize him? If Jesus were here this morning, would you recognize him or have you so neglected the scriptures that when he would speak or represent his ideas? Or share with you how he feels about something, you wouldn't even notice the pattern. Oh, that's a goal for us. That when we see Christ face to face, Well, have already known him. Have you ever thought about the fact that all of this talk about imitation and looking like Christ, that this church never actually met Christ? Not in person. I mean Paul you know Paul on the road to Damascus. But uh he's saying the same thing to them that he would be saying to you, that you're going to know Christ through his word. And if you don't know Christ, it's really high percentage that you've neglect his word. And it's so important that you have the blueprint. Here's another question for you. It's a little more negative. If wolves disguise themselves as sheep, do you ever notice that the scriptures don't say the wolves come in as wolves? They disguise themselves as sheep. Would you be able to recognize that they are a wolf? Because the teaching here is that you would be so thoroughly able to handle God's word well as a Christian that you would be able to recognize it. Especially if you're an elder or a deacon in this church. But you can even bring that over into implications for being a father and a mother. Or a grandmother or a grandfather or an uncle. We all have this kind of responsibility. Do you recognize those patterns? What Paul is doing here, really what Jesus Christ is doing here by way of his servant Paul, is that he wants to sharpen your awareness. He wants to sharpen your awareness of what he is asking of you, and so he gives you a negative example. He calls attention to the life he requires by contrasting it with the life that he rejects. We shall see more clearly what it means to move into the path and image of Jesus Christ if we know the paths and the patterns that must be avoided. Amen. Amen. Let us pray.