Verses twenty nine through thirty-one. Proverbs 30, 29 through 31. There are three things which are majestic in pace, yes, four which are stately in walk. A lion which is mighty among beasts and does not turn away from any. A greyhound, a male goat, and a king whose troops are with him. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that through your preached word you would grant us wisdom. It would be wisdom that we would walk out. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Recently I've been watching a show called The House of David on Amazon Prime. And it covers the story, basically, without much, without taking many liberties. It covers the story that is told about David and the house of David from 1 and 2 Samuel. One of the things that I'm enjoying about the show is it gives you all of the artifacts and the scene and the situations that would go along with David at that time. For example, what did their clothing look like? What did their military armament look look like? What did their weapons look like? One of the things that took me by surprise, because it was different than what I had pictured inside of my own mind, is when you saw scenes within this show, which are very good by the way, it's a very good show scenes in this show of the royal family. The royal family or the royal house of Saul. Now when you saw his family, whether it was Saul or his wife or his daughters or his son What you ended up seeing were uh a group of people who looked like royalty They were well educated, they were well dressed, and they were competent in the areas of life that they had been assigned. For example, one of the sons is a military commander, and he's a good commander. He's excellent at warfare and planning. etc. And that surprised me just a little bit. Sometimes we I wonder if you would be surprised if you were to watch The House of David I wonder if you sometimes picture the people of the scriptures as uh kind of wearing s uh some kind of like burlap bag and and they're they like straight out of um a bad part of West Virginia. I'm not sure. Uh but that's not the picture that that show gives either. And it's actually not the picture that we see present within the scriptures There's other authors that try to capture what it's really like if you catch the vision of what God's calling you to to be His people. If you were to think, for example, of the lion, the witch, and the wardrobe, when they go through the wardrobe, the sons of Adam and the daughters of Eve are not from the backwoods They're royalty. They're kings and they're queens. And they dress that way and they know how to conduct themselves in the areas of their life. And that might be a vision that we need to start getting used to. That Jesus Christ is actually calling us to be a group of people Who are exceptionally competent in our fields of influence and in our society as a whole And that is an idea actually that we're going to see here within the proverb with the stately marchers. Before we get to there, two weeks ago Just remember that we looked at the verse that was just the verses that were just prior to this. If you were to take a look at the scriptures again with me Today we're looking at 29 through 31. Prior to this, we looked at 24 and following. And that was an opportunity for us to take a look at animals that are vulnerable, but through their wisdom, they were able to become mighty in their own spheres. You can take a look again at the scriptures just to remind you. It says, There are four things which are little on the earth, but they are exceedingly wise. The ants They are a strong people because of their forethought and planning and diligence. The rock badger, even though they have they're feeble folk, they're soft bodied and and uh would be easily killed But they through wisdom hide themselves in hard rocks. And that's how they make it through life. Or the locust who has no king, they're able to ad they're able to exist because they advance with a unity And the spider, we talked about either a spider or a lizard is um though it's easy to grasp is a better translation I was arguing last w two weeks ago. It's though the spider is easy to grasp because of its wisdom It has ended up in kings' palaces. And that's where wisdom takes us. Wisdom takes us into the really the good life is the argument. Wisdom in Jesus Christ. And now today we're going to continue not with those four small things. As you can see, we're going to move into four stately and majestic things. The Spirit is teaching us here tonight that Jesus Christ calls his disciples to walk with fearlessness and confidence in their callings. That's an exciting thing that the Spirit is teaching us, too. That the Spirit is teaching us that Jesus Christ calls his disciples to walk with confidence and fearlessness in their callings I want to take us through this with a couple different points. The first point is just going to be an introduction. So let me introduce this to you. This is point number one. Point number one is I want you to notice here in the passage that it starts off with an introduction in verse number 29. There are three things which are majestic in pace, yes, four which are stately in walk. He hasn't told us what the three know, the four things are. He just told us, he's just orienting us and giving an introduction to what he's going to be focused on. And you can see with the repetit the repetition of the words here that this is a meditation on walking. It's not a meditation on how to Walk fast. It's not a meditation on how to walk slow. It's not a meditation to how to walk so that you don't hurt your lower back. It's nothing like that. It's a meditation on how to walk out your life in a way that is competent and mastering your environment. And he gets at that by talking about by repeating these two words. There are three things which are majestic in pace, yes, four which are stately in walk. So that's the kind of walking that we're focused on here. That's what the meditation is on. Now majestic and stately in verse 29 in this introductory portion literally rendered is just walking well They walk good. They're good in the places where they walk. Or in the areas in which they're working, they're good at that. That's the picture that we're gaining here in the introduction. It's a majestic and stately walking. One commentator says That the meditation here is that God's people will stride in majestic dignity over their spheres of influence. And what a vision to capture our imaginations for what God has called us to. Now that's the introduction, just verse 29. When we move past 29, we're actually now going again to have some fun with uh a parable by way of animal life. This proverbist likes to do that, Agor. He mentions in 29, there are three things which are majestic in pace. Yes. four which are stately and walk and now we get a chance to look at those three. No, those four. And so we now have I'll start with just three examples. So we have an introduction and now three examples in the animal world The first example has the most description, and it matches up with the last example, but I'll talk about that later. The first example is the lion. Now the lion is described in his sphere of influence as mighty among beasts, and that mightiness That majesty and that stately walk of the lion is described further as fearlessness. In 30 B it says that the lion does not turn away from any. Now, I really think what the proverbist wants you to do is to not just think of these words, but to think of lions If you have a lion in a healthy situation, whether you're watching a l I don't know, has anybody here actually been out in a field with a lion? I don't think so. That'd be sorta cool But perhaps you have gone to the zoo, sometimes that's a little pitiful, depending on what's going on with the lion. If you have instead seen some s seen a lion in the wild by in the wild by way of like the Discovery Channel or something like that. Or sometimes it's captured in cartoons like the Lion King. What you end up seeing is an animal that in the way, just in the way that it is walking You know that it owns that area. And if you were to challenge it and say, no, I own this area, it's not going to go well for you. Even the way that God has made the lion to look according to our perception of humanity. Think of the the of the stark um look in the eye of the lion. If it were to look at you. Think of the the way that the mouth is shaped with the if it were to just bear a little bit of its teeth. Or if you were to see how large the paws are and how big the claws. In the house of David, David, of course, even Well, you know, in the scriptures he does fight lion and bear. And in the house of David, David comes back from having having defeated the lion and he has a a lion claw on his chest. And I'm assuming that the movie makers tried to make it realistic and the claw was something like that. That is the beast who's walking. Or it and it's not just a a beast who is kind of looks like that but is kind of skinny. It has this royal mane round its head, communicating to you at every step, even its swagger. communicating to you that this is my domain. It is no wonder that they're called the king of the jungle or whatever it is. W whether it's a jungle or the sands of of whatever place. And that's the first example that we give here is That this proverbist is eventually going to get to you as a human being, but he wants you to see, here's an example of s of one of God's creatures. That is competent and fearless in its walk and calling that God has given it. And this is meant to be a model for you, for what you're where you're headed. But then there's a second one. Now there is a lot of discussion on the translation that's going on here. For this second term, people don't really know Exactly what the term means. Here you'll see that the translation is a greyhound. I have uh even next to mine I think it's a B because the letters are so small and I'm getting older. I have trouble seeing it. But in verse number 31, it says B and If I were to look down here, then it gives me some other translation There are I think s maybe six or seven different things that that I read in comment in different commentators as to what this could be. The one that made sense most to me was actually not the Greyhound. Now you could see why it would be the Greyhound, because of the kind of uh elegance in its walk or in its run. But the one that I became convinced of and that a lot of other translations pick up is actually the rooster Is that what you have? You have the NASB and you have the ESV. Yes, so there we go. I'm I'm on I'm on good ground uh agreeing with these translation societies So that's good. So so actually you have a rooster now. I wonder if that feels a little silly to you I wonder if it feels a little silly to have examples of creatures of God who master their domains. It totally makes sense that we would start with a lion. But then now all of a sudden we have a rooster. And if that sounds silly to you, you know what it means? It means you've never been around a rooster. That's what it means. Just like you, during the time of COVID, you got involved in projects just like me that we never really should have got involved in. And one of the projects that actually I don't regret was we went out and we bought chickens. We did the whole routine. We had the little chicks We made sure that they grew up and they were nice and healthy. We took them out at the right time. And then you know any time that you're going to get chickens I guess unless you're a super expert, you can't really tell what the sex is of the chicken until you know. And we were hoping that we had all females because we're hoping to get eggs from our chickens. That's primarily the reason that I justified getting them. And uh we waited and slowly this one chicken started to separate itself and be very different than the others. And it became real obvious with the markings. that it was a rooster. And I will never forget the day when I was in my house and I went out to just go in my backyard that I own And I stepped down off my stoop of my back porch and there was a rooster waiting right there for me and I thought in my head, oh cute little guy. And then it there was nothing cute about it This little guy decided he looked at he turned his and he had this one eye just looking at me. I don't know if you've had that experience, he's just looking at me. And he the conviction I s I listen, I'm I know this is gonna sound crazy, but the conviction in his eye made me fearful. I thought Maybe I should just give you this backyard. You can have it. I don't really want to mess with you. You look way more serious about this than I do. And it occurred to me, I I I as I was thinking about it walking through my yard, kind of like on an arc, that he would where he would let me go, I got to thinking This is why he's this high. I could kick him across the yard, and yet he believes he's seven foot tall. That's what's in his heart And I thought, there's no wonder that they call that we there obviously we got the name cocky from the from the rooster. uh the bravado and the s the seriousness with which he conducted himself is no joke. So if you thought it was silly, it's not silly. You just have never been around a rooster. And um and I will be glad to tell you that there was no way we were going to keep that rooster around Uh we were we were not going to be able to do that. My children would never again play in the yard. So what we decided to do was we found a friend who owns a a farmette down the street. He has plenty of chickens and we said, hey, would you like another rooster we could swap and you could give us a hen? We gave him our rooster and he called us a week later and he said, your rooster has made every other rooster submit to him So I was dealing with a serious rooster. I mean, that was no joke. And that's what the proverbist has noticed Though that little rooster is small, he's mighty. He is the king of his domain. And he wants us to learn from that. Though he's small, the conviction in his heart, the dedication to his job, and protecting those hens and making sure the generations continue. That was all right there for him. And I'm not going to go on like I did with the rooster. with regard to the the final animal that you can see there with these three ex three examples in the animal world. The final one is the male goat or the he goat If you have experience on a farm, you'll see that this male goat or he goat leads all of the other goats, uh, is constantly uh fighting in order to protect itself. territory and those who are around him. And it's the same story. It's the same story. Though the lion is the most majestic in our storytelling, if you have any experience with either the rooster or the he-goat you'll find that these are creatures that God has made that take your calling seriously and they exercise dominion in their in their areas of influence. And the proverbist wants us to learn from that. Now, those are the three examples. I gave you an introduction showing you what what we're doing here. We then took a look at three examples in the animal world, but there is not just three, as the introduction told us, there are four examples. But on the fourth example, I wanted to call that out and deal with it itself Because it has to do now with the application to the human sphere. It's going to take all of the things that we're supposed to gather up from the animal world and we're going to bring it over into our world. Now it's not a mistake that we have a king as our final example. We have a king as our final example. I say it's not a mistake because You have the king of the lion, and then at the other end of things, the book end, you have the king himself within the human realm. The other thing that I want to point out to you to let you know and to have some confidence that the Proverbist really does want us to apply these lessons from animals to the human sphere is that if you look back again at verse number 30, it says that the lion which is mighty That word mighty is not properly applied to animals. That is a word that is typically given to warriors that are human. It's Gabor. It's the mighty ones, like the mighty ones of David. And that stood for his elite force. It'd be like the Navy SEALs or something along those lines. And so what we end up having here is we have this lion is personified with language that's usually used about humans to signal to us that whatever we see that is good in these animals that the proverbist is pointing out, namely fear fearlessness and competence in their spheres of influence. Whatever that is, we're supposed to bring that over and learn from it because that's what God is calling us to. God is calling us to a kind of royal life, a life as the sons and daughters of God. And we are to learn from the lion, we're to learn from the rooster, we're to learn from the he-goat, and we're to learn especially in how all of those majestic traits of those animals are embodied in the king. And as the people of the king, we are to learn from him. Now that really makes sense of us for us, especially as we profess these to be Christian scriptures. When I say that these are Christian scriptures, what I mean is that everything here in the scriptures, if you want to know actually how to read it and to understand them in their fullness, they are understood in Jesus Christ. That's what Luke says. And so even this passage, when we look at king, we really our minds should immediately take us to the king who is Jesus Christ. And he is called a king many times. One I'd like to bring up to you The king of, actually there's a, he's given the imagery of king by way of giving the imagery of a lion. Jesus Christ is known as the Lion of Judah. Have you heard that before? That Jesus is the Lion of Judah. You could find that if you'd like in Revelation 5, 4 through 5. You can look at that up look that up at another time. I just want to read to you what it says. So I wept much because no one was found worthy to open and read the scroll or to look at it. But one of the elders said to me, Do not weep. Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah The root of David has prevailed to open the scroll and to loose its seven seals. We really do. The Holy Spirit has, in his providence, superintended even this proverbus to put lion and king together. in these proverbs and reading it with the rest of the canon, we see that all of this is fulfilled in Jesus Christ, where he is our lion, he is our king, he is the the one who existed from all eternity who gave these traits to the he-goat and to the rooster that have some resemblance to him in some way for his people to be able to learn from. But the best place for us to learn all of these things is not just the lion or the rooster, but to look at Jesus Christ himself by way of the word. So I'd like to give you an example. I'd like to give you an example for you to see the fearlessness of your lion, who is Jesus Christ. And that's for Matthew 27, 11 through 14. Just imagine yourself dragged before the Roman court and Pontius Pilate with all of the Jewish nation against you also. That's what happened to Christ in 27, 11 through 14 of the Gospel of Matthew, and it describes him this way: it says, Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, saying Are you the King of the Jews? Jesus said to him, It is as you say. And while he was being accused by the chief priests and the elders, he answered nothing Then Pilate said to him, Do you not hear how many things they testify against you? But he answered him not one word, so that the governor marveled greatly. The fearlessness and the focus that Jesus Christ had in that moment, if you were to look in John or look in Luke, you would see that Jesus had no fear before them. He knew that his calling was to glorify the Father and to save his bride, the church. He knew that if he needed to, if he wanted to, he could have called down angels and legions to defend him. But as a king, he kept his walk, and it was stately and it was majestic. Even in the place where they had stripped him and beaten him, he never lost his dignity. We end up seeing that when Christ moves into his ascension, he's going to send his Holy Spirit to where his people are going to start to take on this majesty. This kind of fearlessness and this kind of boldness. I've read this to you many times, but think of the apostles being dragged before court in Acts chapter 4, 18 through 20, subjected to trial. It says here, so they called them and commanded them not to speak at all or to teach in the name of Jesus. But Peter and John answered and said to them, Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you more than to God, you judge. For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. Do you see how they're like the rooster? The Sanhedrin saying we own this territory, and they with their apostolic eye, full of conviction, saying you don't know what you're messing with. And they didn't know what they were messing with. After this, the fellowship of the saints will join together in prayer, asking God for boldness to continue speaking his word, and those who would get in the way would be taken out by God directly. And eaten by worms. And that only helped them in their confidence as like lions and like roosters and like he goats. They went forth like kings in preaching God's word, demonstrating competence and fearlessness in their domains under the rule of Jesus Christ. But you know they didn't start off there. They were just fishermen who were afraid. And you don't start off there either. There is an arc, a story arc that all of us have to go through. But the main message that I'm trying to give you tonight Is that your destiny in the calling of Jesus Christ is to not become some backwoods people who don't know what they're doing? Maybe that has been your impression in the past. But the picture that we give that is given to us here is that your king is working you in you in such a way where you will have a stately march through your life C. S. Lewis reflecting on this, I know I've said this to you many times. C. S. Lewis reflecting on this had said, if people could see you when Jesus Christ is done with you, they would be tempted to worship you. Like a lion. Stately and majestic in March. Now that's good news I know everybody in here wants to be great. I know that you do. Sometimes we're afraid of that because of human sin where we Our greatness can turn into pride and wanting to step on the necks of other human beings. But under the supervision of the Holy Spirit, he's going to protect us from that. He's going to get us through and preserve us to the end. And he wants you to be great. He wants you to be his royal son and daughter, conducting himself, conducting yourself with majesty and stateliness. We saw a little bit of a glimpse of this in the Old Testament. I'll say this by way of final application. We've seen that God has worked to make people ultra competent and quite talented. in their spheres. I wonder if you can remember some of the examples where God sends his spirit to artists to work on the tabernacle. Do you remember any of those passages? Listen to this. It says, I'll try to get all of these names correct. It says in Exodus 31, 1 through 5, then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, See, I have called by name Bezalel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, and I have filled him with the Spirit of God. Listen very carefully to this because I'm going to make a connection. And I have filled him with the Spirit of God in wisdom, in understanding, in knowledge, in all manner of workmanship or craftsmanship. To design artistic works, to work in gold, and to work in silver, to work in bronze, to work in cutting jewels for setting the jewels. and carving wood, and to work in all of a manner of craftsmanship. Now, what God is doing in order to set up his kingdom on earth visibly is that he is giving certain people knowledge, wisdom, and understanding, in this case, for artistic talent, in order to adorn the temple. Now check this out. When we go to the New Testament, we see the same trio, knowledge, wisdom, and understanding that God is giving to you. It says in Colossians 1, 9 through 11, it says this by way of a Paul, a Pauline prayer. It says, for this reason we also Since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. Why would you need all of those things by way of the Holy Spirit? It's not so that you could become an artisan. It's bigger than that now. Continuing on in Colossians 1, verse 10, it says, so that you may walk. worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God, strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, for all patience and long-suffering with joy Christ in his ascension has sent you his spirit, and the spirit is working in you a mighty craftsmanship. In knowledge and wisdom and understanding, not so that you would just be a local artist. Perhaps that could be the case. That could be one application. But the that no matter where you're walking in your various vocations and spheres of influence, you will be excellent in your work. You will be like a lion and a rooster and a he-goat and a king. Our gifts that are given to us by Christ, they vary. Some of us are better at one thing and some of us are better at another thing. One person is better than us in the same thing. And that's all up to the wisdom of Christ. My only point to you here is that Jesus Christ is making you like these animals. He's making you like kings of your domain. I want to leave you with one example. The example is uh from uh the story of Timothy Timothy was warned and charged by the Apostle Paul because Timothy really needed that. Timothy was young. And it says in the letter to Timothy, Paul writes to him and he says, Let no one despise your youth. He was worried about that or concerned about it. Instead, Timothy was called to be an example to believers in word, in conduct, in love, in spirit, in faith, and in purity, and Paul was pushing him to mature, to become the lion that he needed to be for the churches. Now, I want to just ask the question for you. How is it that the Spirit works in us to become these kinds of creatures? With that kind of stately stagger. And it's answered if we continue reading those letters from Timothy. It says this, continuing on with his story. Timothy, continue in the things which you have learned and been assured of, knowing from whom you have learned them, and that from childhood you have known the holy scriptures. Which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith with the j which is in Jesus Christ. And that's where it begins It begins by embracing those scriptures that our mothers and our fathers and our grandmothers and our grandfathers give to us, and we become wise. We be all of a sudden step into a different place. Because we become wise in salvation. We're now on our way to becoming lions. But then after that, it continues in Timothy. where we would continue that for the rest of our lives, growing in wisdom, which is another way of saying growing in stateliness. It says in verse 16 of 2 Timothy, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine. for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work. You can see how the lion would emerge. It's from the Spirit working by way of the Word in your dedication to the Word, in a community of the Word. allowing you to mature to where you become more and more competent as mothers. You become more and more competent and fearless as grandmothers. As teachers, as administrators, as elders, as deacons, as nurses, as doctors, all by the power of the Holy Spirit. And so I'll leave you with this from Proverbs 3, 21 through 26, which is a promise that if you commit yourself to the wisdom of Jesus Christ by way of his spirit, your foot will never stumble. My son, let them not depart from your eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion, so they will be life to your soul and grace to your neck. Then you will walk safely in your way, and your foot will not stumble. When you lie down, you won't be afraid. Yes, you will lie down, and your sleep will be sweet. Do not be afraid of sudden terror, nor of trouble from the wicked when it comes, for the Lord will be your confidence and will keep your foot. from being caught, especially the the subtext here is especially by way of you committing to his wisdom. Committing to his wisdom. Well that's a hopeful message. That's a hopeful message for us to be able to hear that Jesus Christ calls us as his disciples to walk with confidence in our callings. How does it feel that you're called to be a lion? How does it feel that you're called to have the kind of confidence and conviction as that rooster, even if you feel small? Or the leader like a he-goat, or even as a king. I hope it swells your heart with a kind of hope and pride in being a part of the kingdom of God and being his son and his daughter. Let us pray