But you have carefully followed my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, long-suffering, love, perseverance, persecutions. Afflictions which happened to me at Antioch, at Iconium and Lystra, which persecutions I endured, and out of them all the Lord delivered me Yes, and all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. But evil men and impostors will grow worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. But you must continue in the things which you have learned and been assured of, knowing, but you must continue in the things which you have learned and been assured of, knowing from whom you have learned them And that from childhood you have known the holy scriptures, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. Amen. Let's pray. O Christ, we know that you commune with us by your Spirit, and you do so even by way of the preached word. We pray, Lord, that you would be our teacher here this morning, that you would mold and shape us, and that as a result, your kingdom would come and your will would be done on earth as it is in heaven. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Now some of you children might not be into this kind of a question, but I'm going to ask it anyway. I just want to know, and adults you can think of this also, what do you picture when you picture an elite soldier? What are the characteristics of an elite soldier? If you had to draw an elite soldier, what would you draw? Undoubtedly, some of you would draw a person who is perfectly physically fit. Uh they would be uh cut. They'd have uh each muscle defined. They'd have not just a six pack, but an eight pack. They'd uh look something along those lines. They would be fast. They would when they looked at you, they would carry themselves with such gravity that you would kind of melt and want to submit. We picture those kinds of images as typical elite soldiers. And yet if you were to speak with someone who actually works with elite soldiers, those some of those characteristics May be present among them. Sometimes you're very surprised actually at the physique of an elite soldier. The one that rises to the top in training is are they able to motivate and maintain a team of people. It's not just about being the first in the race or being the strongest and showing everybody else up. It's whether or not you can bring the team with you and get them back out. There's a team player going on as as to part of what makes them an elite soldier. And that's what we see here within this letter where the Apostle Paul, though uh Towers above us in every aspect as an apostle. He is not leaving the church behind, but is setting the church up for his departure in death. and handing over the reins and passing the baton to young Timothy that he could set up the church and to main town maintain and maintenance The household of God. That's the way it was put in 1 Timothy. I just returned from the General Assembly, and if you wanted to, General Assembly is a a national meeting of the Presbyterian Church in America where we conduct national uh business or business amongst uh all of the churches within the nation and even internationally that are present there. And you could think of of this, just with that on my mind, you could think of these letters as a kind of book of church order that Paul is handing down those things that are the most important in order for the church to be able to remain healthy and to serve her function as the pillar and the ground And so I'd encourage you that as the days go by, you would go back to these sermon series, rereading these letters, looking at what are the basic principles that need to be a part of a healthy church. Last week we saw a continuation of us knowing that we are meant to be servants of the Lord. And we were seeing that Paul was especially taking the model of Moses to help us understand what it looks like to be a servant of the Lord. And last week specifically, if you'll remember, there are those who will stand up against the servant of the Lord and seek to subvert all of their work. Undoubtedly, Timothy had experience with people subverting his pastoral work. I undoubtedly have the same experience, and so do many other pastors, if not all. Janus and Drambrus were their name, and they sought through deception to deceive the people of God, leading those who were weak and gullible away. But we learned. Through an illustration illustrating the scriptures that Christ at just the right time will stand and shake off all those who are against his kingdom. This week we have further lessons for us as a church from the Apostle Paul, but really we know that these things are from the Holy Spirit, for it is the Holy Spirit who is leading Paul. In the inscripturation of these words. So, what does the Spirit have to teach us this morning from this passage? He teaches us this: that Christians will endure persecutions By taking full confidence in the apostles and us and uh even in all of the Holy Scripture The Spirit teaches us this morning that Christians will endure persecutions by taking full confidence or assurance in the apostles, even all of the Holy Scriptures. I want to look at this under two main parts. And so children, if you're taking sermon notes, I know I'm encouraging you to do that. Please write down the two main parts and then you can keep all your notes under these containers, put all these notes in these containers. Past commitment and continued dedication. Christians will endure persecutions by taking full confidence in the apostles and the holy scriptures. Past commitment and continued dedication. Let's make sure that we have our scriptures out so that you can follow along as I show you all of this being present within the scriptures. The first thing that I want you to notice is under this past commitment, that's how this whole passage starts. Persecution is inevitable for those who are committed to living a godly life. And Timothy is committed. He was committed is the first part of this passage. If you notice in verse ten it says, But you have carefully followed my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, long suffering, love, and perseverance in verse ten You'll see first that there's a contrast going on here in his teaching to Timothy. You'll notice right before the word doctrine, you see that word my. It would be healthy for you to keep repeating that word after each of the lists that he gives. But you have carefully followed my doctrine, my manner of life, my purpose, my faith My long-suffering, my love, and my perseverance. Now, why would he seek to give a contrast like that? And we see the contrast in the beginning of 10 with but my His point in doing this is to separate and to remind Timothy that he's not like those who he just listed in the passage prior to this. He's not going to follow the path, and nor has he ever been on the path of Janice and Jambres. He's not a lover of self, a hater of God, someone who loves money more than anything else. He's not that list He's something else. He's been set aside, even with the laying on of hands, to a different path. And so Paul emphasizes this contrast with my doctrine, my manner of life. And then he shows not just the contrast, but the commitment that Timothy has had from the beginning. You notice that there? He says, not just my doctrine, but you have carefully followed my doctrine. This isn't new for you. You've been with me all along. In fact, uh if you were to meditate later, perhaps conferring with each other over lunch on This passage you may want to look up Philippians chapter 2 verse 22-23 to where you could see Paul explaining how how Timothy has always been on board, has always been a follower of the apostles' teaching and the manner of life. and his purpose within ministry. It says this in Philippians 2, 20 through 23, for I have no one like-minded who will sincerely care for you. For all seek their own, not the things which are of Christ Jesus. But you know his proven character, that as a son with his father, he served with me in the gospel Therefore, I hope to send Timothy to you at once. You see, Timothy is set up there, even within here, being with his commendation to this other congregation, that he is the one who has been following all along the very ministry of Paul, that as Paul had his heart set aside for the glory of God and the good of the church Paul was not able to say that about everybody, but he was able to say that about Timothy because Timothy followed his doctrine, his way of life, etc. The persecution is inevitable, however, for those like Timothy who are committed to living this godly life. This godly life that Paul is living led to persecution for him, and it will arrive, the persecution for Timothy and for all Christians. Take a look at verses 11 and 12. You've followed all of my doctrine, the ways of my ministry, and in verse 11, you're going to be following other things also. Because as a part of my ministry, I've had persecutions, verse eleven. I've had afflictions, which happened to me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra. What persecutions I endured, and out of them all the Lord deliver me. And then he goes to a general principle stating, All who desire to live a godly life in Jesus Christ will suffer persecution. This godly life led to persecution for Paul, and it will lead to persecution for Timothy and all Christians, according to that general principle that we see. We see examples. of the persecution of the Apostle Paul. In fact, you could just go to the book of Acts today and you could look up each one of those cities that Paul mentions here. Timothy lived around those cities. You could take Antioch, for example, from Acts chapter 13, verse 50. Paul is there preaching the gospel. But the Jews stirred up the devout and prominent women and the chief men of the city. They raised up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and they expelled them from their region. Or you could turn to Acts 14, verse 19, and see persecution in Lystra that he mentions here in this passage. Then Jews from Antioch and Iconium came there, and having persuaded the multitudes, they stoned Paul. and dragged him out of the city, supposing him to be dead. This is a picture that Paul paints for Timothy as he enters into the ministry. And then as I've already read to you in verse number twelve, Paul expands it out beyond just the pastorate for Timothy. He says, Yes, and all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. Now guess who is included in that word all? You. You are included. Will you suffer the same persecutions in degree as the Apostle Paul? Maybe not. But here we see a principle that is handed down to us by the Spirit where we must concede again about these perilous times and what comes in these particular seasons. namely persecution. Now this is a bit of a funny thing and it it makes the world seem a little topsy-turvy. Have you ever been on a road trip and you're not paying after you after a couple hundred miles, you're not paying as careful attention to the road as you were when you first started And you start to drift off that road, and I think there's these I think they're called rumble patches. Am I right about that? Or did I just make that up Rumble strips. You you everyone is having a peaceful ride and then you drift and you come back over. And in this particular scenario, you know that if you're hearing the rumble strip, that something has gone wrong and that you need to correct your course. But what the Apostle Paul is telling you here as Christians is that sometimes when things are going wrong, you're actually on the right course. And that can take a little bit of getting used to. That's a bit counterintuitive for you to acknowledge that the rough path may be the right path. Well, if we were to back up a little bit, we could see a little bit of what's going on here within the total kingdom of God as we read in several different places that Jesus Christ in his ascension sends his Holy Spirit to his people, and that Holy Spirit works within us to where we are transformed. And we begin to think and to feel and to do things for the love of God and for the true love of our neighbor. But it is when we become the image of God in that particular way that the world sets their sights on us, and those who are not of God. But who are of the world do not find us becoming beautiful or glorious or a sweet smelling aroma, but they think we stink. They start to develop hatred for what we stand for. But this shouldn't surprise us, because the one who came from God may developed hatred for Him first. And it would be good for us this morning to just remember a promise that is given to us by Jesus Christ. Where he says, if the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you. Yet because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you: a servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will keep yours also. That's from John chapter 15, 18 through 20. And it would do you some good to meditate on that, that you are not better than your master. The height of our change Is a change in that we learn to truly love God and man. But you can see what happens when that happens. When we truly love even our enemy, don't expect smooth sailing seas, but rumble strips. For in Psalm 109. 5, it even says this, which I believe Paul has on his mind: Thus they have rewarded me evil for good, and they have hated my love. The same thing is promised to us in different degrees and different seasons as Christians. We are promised persecution. And that's because Timothy had this past commitment. He had a past commitment to be like Paul, and if he's going to be like Paul, he's going to suffer like Paul. Just like Christ sought to be imitate Christ, and as Christ he would suffer like Christ. It really goes back to that. But there's not just a past commitment That was the first thing we wrote down, children. There's also a present and continuing dedication. And this is our second point. Here we start down, we've moved through verses 10 and 11 and 12. We can see that the persecution will continue in verse 13, where evil men and impostors will grow worse and worse. deceiving and being deceived. It'll be like one wave lapping up against the beach of uh the one wave of persecution lapping up against the beach of your life, one wave after another in certain seasons But when we get to verse 14, we begin to see that the Spirit shows that Christians are obligated, nevertheless, To continue serving Christ in godliness. Despite the persecutions, the Spirit shows that Christians are obligated to continue, but we're not just obligated to continue Kind of dragging ourselves along the way, but we are obligated to continue with full assurance and confidence, with pep in our step. With hope in our hearts. And you can begin to see this in verse 14. He says, But you must continue That's the second time we've seen the but you. The first one was in verse 10, but you have carefully followed me in the past, but you must continue in the present and into the future. Is the logic of this passage. But you must continue in the things which you have learned, those very same things that we just spent time going over. This is an obligation because it is specifically a command, if you'll notice in verse 14, you must continue in the things which you have learned. The obligation is to continue in the godliness which Timothy had been following all along. And then he breezes right by that and moves into the development of why you would have assurance and confidence Even in the face of persecution, in the fulfillment of this particular obligation. And that's the rest of our passage that we're looking at this morning. You'll notice he has the word knowing. You have learned and been assured of, well what have we been assured of? What's the confidence for our obligation? The very first thing that he lists. Is that we would have confidence in our obligation because of from whom we have learned these things and Because we have learned them from the Holy Scriptures in verse 15. Now, before I go into the details of those two passages or those two verses, let me just give you an illustration as to what's going on here and why it is that we need to hear this. When human beings face difficult situations, their default is to drop out if they do not have hope The main point that Paul has been seeking to accomplish with Timothy for some time now is that Timothy would endure even in the most darkest of times. And so he's going to buttress Timothy here, and he does the same thing with us, helping us to have confidence in the midst of this difficult obligation. Now here's an illustration. And I've given something similar to this before. I want you to imagine with me that I I show up at a a pig roast and everybody's there and I'm really excited And I gather everybody around me here in the congregation, and you know how I can get excited about things, and I say, You will never believe it, but I just realized that there is at least a billion dollars of Spanish gold buried in the backfield And you're thinking, well, we're gonna get a new building. And we're gonna do all kinds of stuff around here. We're just gonna buy all of Baldwin's property. Which is that's a secret dream of mine, is to take it all. Billion dollars of Spanish gold. in the backfield and uh and so uh one person steps forward and says, I've got a little extra money, I'm gonna invest in shovels. So they show up with a uh truck full of shovels and we're all out there and we're digging. And uh after the first week you see a few people uh got a little uh blisters on their hands and they're thinking, eh, we've been digging for a while. I've got to go. But then there's those who, I don't know, for whatever reason they stick it out longer than others, and the month goes by and we're 20 feet down in the soil in strategic spots And then they're thinking, oh man, there's no sign of gold, and they drop out. Because they're losing their hope, their endurance stops. Because they've lost their assurance and their confidence in the words that I promised. So the Apostle Paul is seeking here to make sure you know what is the basis, the foundations, the assurance or the confidence that you can have. to make sure that if you get on this path, which involves persecution and suffering, that you could finish to the end. And he tells you what those two things are. He tells you first, your source of confidence in verse 14 is that you need to remember where you're learning these things from. Now Timothy is in an extraordinary situation as an evangelist. We'll talk about what that actually means next week. It means something a little different than the way we use that word. But Timothy is in an extraordinary situation as an evangelist wherein he has the apostle as his mentor. The same apostle who will be characterized by Peter as one who in his teaching is Scripture. Who has that kind of authority granted to him by God, that he is authorized, as other apostles were, he is authorized by God to speak an authoritative word as to the will of God. who God is and what he is accomplishing in this world. So Timothy can look to his time, to the practices and to the teaching, to the manner of life and to the purpose. of the Apostle Paul, and he can have confidence because look at who it is whom God has given to him. And the same confidence can be yours because so too has the apostolic teaching and way of life been passed down to you. As a church, you are one holy Catholic apostolic church. That's the first thing that he mentions is the apostle. But if you you can read between the lines here a little bit, if you look down at your scriptures, and he says, not only from whom you have learned, that from whom is in the plural, actually, uh in the majority of texts. And in verse 15, we can go on and just get a little snapshot from earlier in 2 Timothy, and that from childhood you have known. So we not only have the apostolic teaching and way of life entering into Timothy that he might have confidence and assurance, and so too may we have that But his grandmother and his mother taught him the pure apostolic doctrine and manner of life also. And so he has the confidence in seeing his family members having raised him up in the Word. And boy, what a great thing to be able to say, children, that you have been raised up in the apostolic teaching, and you may rely upon it. And then he moves from verse 14 and from whom you have learned over into verse 15. And he says, from childhood you have known not just anything, but you have known the holy scriptures which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. Now we'll get into the attributes of the scriptures, those that make you wise, faith in Christ Jesus, we'll get into that next week. But this is our second foundation, that we have the Holy Scriptures declaring to us who God is. What is his will for us in Christ as he seeks to bring salvation to this world? You could think of Acts chapter 26, 22 through 23, where the Apostle Paul says the same thing that his ministry is built on this. This, you want to know, how is it that Paul is able uh get stoned and then just shake it off. I understand in one sense Christ is with him, but I mean I'm talking about the will to keep going, to endure even through that. If you and I worked together and we went down the Fells Point to share the gospel, and then for whatever reason we were imprudent and decided to share the gospel at 2 a. m. and everybody busted out of the bars and they didn't like what you were saying and you ended up getting beat to death on the ground And then they clear and I come over and say, hey, are you okay? I would expect you to say, if you're still alive, you would stand up and you'd say, Yeah, but I'm not so sure I want to keep doing this. But the Apostle Paul is give the picture of him is that he rises and he is set with purpose that he's just going to go to the next city. That he's going to even think about that city and figure out how he could continue to make sure that the gospel gets to them. How is it that a man's heart can be so resolute? It's because he believed rightly that he was doing what God obligated him to do. And he believed that because he had the scriptures before him, teaching him that Listen to this from Acts twenty six, twenty-two through twenty-three. Therefore, having obtained help from God to this day I stand witnessing both to small and great, saying no other things than those which the prophets and Moses said would come, that the Christ would suffer, that he would be the first to rise from the dead, and would proclaim light to the Jewish people and to the Gentiles. There he is, stuck in the scriptures, just seeking to stay on that scriptural path, and it is that foundation That gave him the confidence and assurance for him to continue in his mission. It is the foundation that will give Timothy the confidence and assurance to continue in his mission. And it is your foundation. That will give you the confidence and assurance to know that you're on the right mission and that you can continue. We have seen in this passage that Christians will in fact endure persecution. But when they do, they may do so with full confidence, because we have the apostolic teaching passed down to us and all of the Holy Scriptures. That's the main message that the Spirit is seeking to teach us this morning. I wonder how is your confidence these days? How is your confidence in Christ and His teaching and His manner of life and His understanding of the future and the past? His understanding of all things. How is your confidence in him today? You know, we all go through different seasons ourselves. We can go through serious seasons of doubt. And one of the reasons that we do so is because there is a relentless striking at our faith. You know uh that I visited my mother in Florida and we went to a beach called Satellite Beach. in hopes to find shells which we had found there before, these beautiful shells. And I had noticed That they had bulldozed a tremendous amount of sand back up towards the condominiums and the houses. And it occurred to me that the ocean is relentless. It's relentlessly lapping up, and though it looks innocuous, it's pulling sand back out into itself I think the same thing could be said about your faith and about your life. Each day there's some little experience from the world seeking to plant a seed where you'd incrementally begin to lose confidence that you actually know what God says Or that God is good. And if it's not the world from without, it actually could be something that's stirring up from within, because we don't just have the devil and the world to worry about, we have the flesh to worry about. We have a kind of inclination of moving away from God and becoming his enemy. And so I ask again, how is your confidence these days With the world pulling at your faith. Well, wherever it is, this is why we see the continual exhortation in the scriptures. for us to be people that are meditating upon the word and finding it sweeter than honey. How is your meditation on the word? It's the antidote to the ocean pulling away at your faith. The Spirit working through the Word to continually establish you over and over again. strengthened in the faith. Now, does everyone here know that this is a church within the Reformed tradition? Now there are a lot of different reformed names out there these days, but when we say reformed, we're saying that there was corruption that entered into the true church. And we sought, at a particular time in history called the Reformation, we sought to remove the corruption. That corruption took many different forms. Some of it was a corruption which would be characterized as Anabaptism. Some of it is a corruption that would characterize as Roman Catholicism. One of the parts of that corruption that entered in more specifically, which needed reforming, that the church would return to the apostolic witness. Going back to the fountain is that the church was teaching the flock of God, the bishops were teaching the flock of God, that you need but only an implicit faith. What that means is that if I'm a spokesman for the church and I say it, then you believe because I'm of the church. And the Reformation brought out that that stops the whole thing short. That the only reason why the church is authorized to be listened to is because it itself is speaking what God has said by way of the apostles and the prophets, and Jesus Christ is the cornerstone. So that has always been a value of ours, if you will, to speak in modern business terminology, it would be a value of ours as a reformed community, that we would be a people of God. who knew God's word and were convinced in what he said, that we would not have it just an implicit faith relying on the opinions of men or women. But we would look to the scriptures ourselves. And this ends up developing into particular practices. Practices like, brothers and sisters, please look at verse number 10. Brothers and sisters, please look at the second part of verse number eleven. Brothers and sisters, do you see verse 12? That's why we do this in preaching. Because you're not to just believe me, but to believe the word. My authority is derived from it. You know the the great example that is placed before us of a community that is healthy Is the Bereans. Do you remember the Bereans? I know this is old news. Y'all are so well versed in the scriptures, you're like, yeah, I've heard the Bereans. But just hear it one more time. Then the brethren, this is from Acts chapter 17, 10 through 11. Then the brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. When they arrived, they went into the synagogue of the Jews. These were more fair-minded than those in Thessalonica in that they received the word with all readiness and searched the scriptures daily to find out whether these things were so Is what the Apostle Paul is declaring here in his good news actually from the scriptures, because that is the authority upon which I stand. And they said, yes. The apostolic understanding of the scriptures is the right understanding. And that's one of the reasons why Jesus has given us the apostles anyway as authoritative readers of the scriptures. that we might know what all of his scriptures are teaching. And that raises the question. The first question was this, how's your confidence? And the second one is this. How's your study of the scriptures being a Berean? And the two are intimately linked I know this not only from the reading of the scriptures, but my own experiences. Your job in meditation is to become strengthened more and more and the knowledge of our God through Christ by way of the scriptures. Now some of you may be saying, I find these scriptures very difficult. Well, I have good news for you. They are very difficult. It's ancient literature. There are some of you, you just take these scriptures way too casually, and it's a little embarrassing because I've dedicated at least the last ten years just trying to understand this going to formal classes, reading tons and thousands and thousands of pages, trying to understand this. I agree with you, this can be difficult. But the good news is this, is you're not on an island by yourself having to figure out what God says here You will see throughout the scriptures that Paul went from city to city to strengthen the disciples, spending days and weeks and months and years with them that they might understand the gospel by way of the scriptures. And so if you are having trouble with the scriptures, I'd encourage you to not study alone, but study as a community. Who around you knows the word? Let them strengthen you. Do you know the word? Strengthen others. We must be Bereans. In fact, may we be Bereans. and strengthen one another in the truth of the scripture as we not only have a past commitment But a continued dedication to Christ and His kingdom. A dedication that is full of confidence and full of assurance because we are people of His Word. Let us pray, please join me.