I'll be reading verses one through thirty-two. My allergies are in full bloom, so please pardon me in the way that I sound. Judges 6, 1 through 32. Can you bring the mics down, please? Then the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord. So the Lord delivered them into the hand of Midian for seven years, and the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel. Because of the Midianites, the children of Israel made for themselves the dens, the caves, and the strongholds which are in the mountains. So it was. Whenever Israel had sown, Midianites would come up. Also, the Melikites and the people of the east would come up against them. Then they would encamp against them and destroy the produce of the earth as far as Gaza, and leave no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor donkey For they would come up with their livestock and their tents, coming in as numerous as locusts. Both they and their camels were without number, and they would enter the land to destroy it So Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites, and the children of Israel cried out to the Lord. And it came to pass when the children of Israel cried out to the Lord because of the Midianites, That the Lord sent a prophet to the children of Israel, who said to them, Thus says the Lord God of Israel, I brought you up from Egypt and brought you out of the house of bondage. And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all who oppressed you, and drove them out before you and gave you their land. Also I said to you, I am the Lord your God. Do not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell. But you have not obeyed my voice. Now the angel of the Lord came and sat under the terebinth tree, which was in Ophrah, which belonged to Joash Abbeyzreite. While his son Gideon threshed wheat in the wine press in order to hide it from the Midianites. And the angel of the Lord appeared to him and said to him, The Lord is with you, you mighty men of valor. Gideon said to him, Oh my Lord, if the Lord is with us, why then has all this happened to us? And where are all his miracles which our fathers told us about, saying, Did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt? But now the Lord has forsaken us and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites. Then the Lord turned to him and said, Go in this might of yours, and you shall save Israel from the hand of the Midianites. Have I not sent you? So he said to him, O my Lord, how can I save Israel? Indeed, my clan is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am the least of my father's house. And the Lord said to him, Surely I will be with you, and you shall defeat the Midianites as one man. Then he said to him, If now I have found favour in your sight, then show me a sign that it is you who talk with me. Do not depart from here, I pray, until I come to you and bring out my offering, and set it before you. And he said, I will wait until you come back. So Gideon went in and prepared a young goat, an unleavened bread from an ephaf of flour, the meat he put in a basket, and he put the broth in a pot. And he brought them out to him under the Terebith tree and presented them. The angel of God said to him, Take the meat and the unleavened bread, and lay them on this rock, and pour out the broth, and he did so Then the angel of the Lord put out the end of the staff that was in his hand and touched the meat and the unleavened bread. And fire rose out of the rock and consumed the meat and the unleavened bread. And the angel of the Lord departed out of his sight. Now Gideon perceived that he was the angel of the Lord. So Gideon said, Alas, O Lord God, for I have seen the angel of the Lord face to face. Then the Lord said to him, Peace be with you. Do not fear. You shall not die. So Gilead built an altar there to the Lord, and called it, The Lord is Peace To this day it is still an Ophrah of the Abbeyzrites. Now it came to pass the same night That the Lord said to him, Take your father's young bull, the second bull of seven years old, and tear down the altar of Baal that your father has. and cut down the woman of the wooden image that is beside it, and build an altar to the Lord your God on top of this rock in the proper arrangement, and take the second bull, and offer a burnt offering with the wood of the image which you have shall cut down. So Gideon took ten men from among his servants, and did as the Lord had said to him, but because he feared his father's household, and the men of the city too much to do it by the day, he did it by night. And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, there was the altar of Baal torn down, and the wooden image that was beside it was cut down, and the second bull was being offered on the altar which had been built. So they said to one another, Who has done this thing? And when they had inquired and asked, they said, Gideon, the son of Joash, has done this thing. Then the men of the city said to Joash, Bring out your son that he may die, because he has torn down the altar of Baal, and because he has cut down the wooden image that was beside it. But Joash said to all who stood against him, Would you plead for Baal? Would you save him? Let the one who would plead for him be put to death by mourning. If he is a god, let him plead for himself. Because his altar has been torn down. Therefore on that day he called him Jerub Baal, saying, Let Baal fleet against him, because he has torn down his altar. Let us pray. Lord, this account and cycle of Gideon is quite long, spanning several chapters We thank you for this initial episode. We thank you, Lord, that you have given us your stories that we might understand what you require of us. In the Spirit by the salvation of Jesus Christ. I pray, Lord, that you would lead your people into goodness and righteousness and truth And that you would keep them from the canonization of the church. In Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week We heard this statement. As a church, we must be careful not to adopt our culture's disenchanted view of the world. Instead, we must use the same lenses as Deborah in writing her song. As she wrote her song, she acknowledged that God is present and active among his people every day. And when we do that, it is then that we can begin to live up to our calling. Do you remember our calling from last week? Another aspect to it? We are called as the church to recount the righteous acts of the Lord, especially in song. We've already been doing so this morning with the songs that we've sung. Speaking of his righteous acts. Now this morning we go into the Gideon cycle. We're leaving the song of Deborah The Gideon cycle spans several chapters, and so I want to just focus on this episode. We're going to see several sermons come out of just the Gideon cycle. And I'll begin by making a few observations right after I received this cup of water. Thank you. Let's just make a few observations and then I have some application for us this morning. Here's the first thing I want you to notice. Beginning in verse 1, you see the marks of the new cycle beginning, don't you? Did you notice it right away? We're going to move on that spiral a little bit further. Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord. This time, what we see Is that Israel is delivered into the hands of Midian, verse 2, the Amalekites, and the sons of the East in verse 3. In the hands of those three groups, the language that is used here is that Israel is impoverished. Now, it has not been this bad before. The Lord has disciplined them in the past, but they have not gotten to the point of calling themselves impoverished. In fact, in verse 5, the impoverishment is likened to having the land overtaken by locusts. Because that is what these three groups of people are doing. I want you to imagine planning a field, not just for yourself, but for the whole village to be able to eat. And then there are a group of people who are watching the timing of the harvest closely and camping in such a perimeter around you to where when the food is ready, they come in and they take all of it from you. That is the picture here. As harvest season began, these folks would raid the fields of all the food. You saw the list, it included the livestock, also, leaving Israel to retreat. Not only for their own lives, but it seems to me that they're hiding their food in caves and dens You even see this in Gideon, where he has to hide the grain inside of a wine threshing area so they don't see that there's food there. That's the first thing, as we have this new cycle beginning, and it's going across the circle, just like it does with each of the cycles Now, observation number two is that next part of the cycle where we want us where the people will start to groan or cry under the oppression, and you can see that in verse six Like the Lord does with Deborah, a deliverer is not instantly raised. We first have a prophet. He raises up a prophetic forerunner, and this is a very important message from Yahweh in the mouth of this unnamed prophet. The prophet begins by reminding the people of the Lord's sovereign mercy. In verses seven through nine, the prophet announced six things. That the Lord brought them up from Egypt. And this is when you look at the Egyptian account, it's like taking an abused woman out of a abusive relationship and providing her stability. With a secure husband. That's how that Exodus account is talked about. And he did that, and he's reminding them of what he had done. Number two, he brought them out of the slave barracks. It's a pretty good translation, actually. He brought them out of the slave barracks. He rescued them from all of their oppressors. He dispossessed the inhabitants of their land so they wouldn't be insecure. He delivered it into Israel's hands, and he committed himself to being Israel's God. But then as you notice, the prophet ends his pronouncement by saying, But you have not listened. That's the second observation, and you can see why they're under the Midianite attack. And that brings us to our next observation. How did Israel, here's the question, and I wonder if you picked up on it, how did Israel not listen? What was the problem? What did they not listen to? Well, there's a robust answer to that, but you can begin to see the seeds. of how they did not listen by just paying attention to the description of what is going on in Gideon's father's backyard Gideon's father hosts an altar which is no small thing. This is like a temple complex. Gideon's father hosts an altar and an asherah. That's the wood that will be burned later in the fire. It's an asherah pole. It is a monument, and it's on his property, and you can see that in verse 25. Israel had already gotten to this point after having been delivered from Deborah and Barak in jail They've already cycled down into this area. And here we have a very special moment where we receive this message where God in angelic form We can talk about that later. God in angelic form, Malach Yahweh, the angel of the Lord, he brings his commands to Gideon to tear down his father's altar to Baal. and to Asherah. The grievous degree to which the people of God are corrupted are found not just in the description of the altar in the pole, however It is in verse 30. Verse 30 tells you where the heart of the people really are. We've been talking about judges as a downward spiral. And by the end It will be taken out on women and children. That's always the sign of a corrupt society, the mistreatment of women and children. Here we can see the spiral already beginning and moving down. By the time we get to verse 30, look at the judgment. of Israel. They want to sentence Gideon to death for tearing down the altar to Baal. At this moment, you can see that what they have done is they have replaced evil for good and good for evil. Capital punishment is what they want to inflict on Gideon, which was meant for the opposite. It was meant for idolatry. And here the moral world of this group of people has been completely inverted to where up is down, light is dark, bitter is sweet, good is evil. The canonization or the canonization of this people is complete, at least within this cycle Capital punishment is meant, is now being used for those who would lead people to Yahweh for Gideon. And that's really our focus this morning, our first focus through the cycle of getting, and there's so much that we'll be looking at here. But this is our first focus, is just this spiral of where the people have gone in this short amount of time. And it's interesting that this spiral and what we see here in Gideon's backyard is summarized very well by Isaiah chapter 5, verse 20. Now I'm going to read that to you, and I'm actually going to use Isaiah chapter 5 as a model to understand what's going on here with Gideon, a framework. But here it is. This is your doctrine for this morning. When the church calls evil good, and good evil. When the church puts darkness for light and light for darkness, when the church puts bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter, Then you have officially witnessed the canonization of the church. And I wonder if some of that is already resonating with some of you Have you ever in the history of the church seen the church put darkness for light? And how did they do so? Well, to understand that a little bit better, to get a divine perspective of what's going on within the church in Gideon's time for the sake of the church here today. I want to look at Isaiah chapter 5. And I want to do so under the title An Ancient Song. And then we'll get into some applications off of that. We're summarizing the passage, the story this morning in that Isaiah 5. 20, replacing good for evil. That's what we see the people doing there. when Gideon obeys the Lord. And we do so because it captures the situation and judges quite well. And when we turn to Isaiah 5, it actually adds more information so we can see what is on Christ's mind when he gives us a story like this about Gideon. What is Christ's heart in the situation? What is God's heart? Well, when we look at Isaiah 5:20, which I quoted to you, so we won't, preceding that is a song. It is a song about a vineyard and a vineyard owner. And you're welcome to turn there to Isaiah chapter 5 because I'm going to spend a little bit of time there. But it begins with a beautiful song about a man who plants a vineyard. You'll notice in the verses later on your own time. I'm just going to go through the song paraphrasing it The song begins with a man planting a vineyard, and the song is pointing out very carefully that this man is exceptionally prudent. He chose the right soil type, the right location, the right amount of sunlight for his vineyard. He even planted the best vine available He was so sure of the success of his vineyard that he started to build and completed the infrastructure for the whole project. The infrastructure of the tower, the infrastructure of the wine press. But here's the thing. After all of the prudential planning and construction, after looking at all of the details to make sure this would be successful, guess what happened with the vineyard? When it came time to produce grapes, they were of poor quality. The song continues very interestingly as saying this. This is the vineyard owner raising his voice to the whole community and to heaven, asking for a judgment. He says, O Jerusalem, judge between me and my vineyard. What more could I have done? Do you see what he's saying? In other words, was it my fault that there's no good grapes? Am I the one to blame? Did I overlook something in my ignorance? Did I not plan well enough? Were grapes supposed to get seven hours and I only provided them of six hours of sun? Did the owner not consider the soil type Was the vine not right? He didn't choose the right type. You could look and look and look, goes the song. And you would find that the vineyard owner did everything right, but still the vineyard would not produce quality fruit. That's the judgment of the court. It's as if he put the whole thing between heaven and earth for them to judge who did wrong here, who was imprudent. And the judgment rendered is, you've done everything as you should have. And you should have expected quality fruit. The penultimate stanza of the song in verses 5 and 6 of chapter 5 of Isaiah raises a question. And he says, Okay, well if it's not my fault, and yet the grapes are poor, they're like wild grapes. What should I do with this vineyard? And he answers and he says, I will take away its hedge. And it shall be burned. And I'm going to break down its wall. And it shall be trampled down. And then it goes on to talk about hell. It will just turn in to a fallow field full of thorns and thistles. And now we hear the final stanza where we're really starting to come back from the language of the song over to what the song is really about, and we hear this The vineyard owner, when he planted the vine, he looked for justice. Those were the grapes he wanted. But behold The vine produced oppression. He looked for righteousness Those are the kind of grapes he wanted. But instead, he hears cries for help. Now that's not a good thing. It means that whoever was in charge and the community that was a part of it, the way that they conducted themselves Those who were most vulnerable spent most of their time crying for help from under the unrighteousness of the people. That meant the stranger, the widow, the woman, the child, those who were most vulnerable in that culture. Those were the kind of grapes that were on that vine. Now, that's just meant not to preach on Isaiah this morning. That will be another sermon series that will last three years probably. That is meant to frame for us the heart of Jesus Christ in the Gideon disciple and the story, because it is the same Christ communicating throughout all of the scriptures, and he doesn't contradict himself. So we can take what he says from one place to help us understand another place. Think about this image and this song in light of Gideon and the church in his era. This ancient song helps us to gain Christ, the eternal Son of God's perspective on his church, and the vineyard he plants in every generation, including us. For example, did you see the applicability of the song to the church during the time of Gideon before you start to apply it to us? Even during Gideon's era, the church as vineyard was planted. Why? Why did he plant the vineyard Was it not in expectation of good fruit to the glory of God But as you witness in Gideon's backyard, the vine, however, is producing bad fruit in the form of ordering their lives around a religion called Baalism. Which I cannot even tell you here this morning because of mixed company, the horror of the religion. The sexual perversion involved in Baal Ism. It would put our culture and its sexual perversion to shame. Though they both have the same mother. He looked for righteousness, but behold, there was just a cry for help He looked for them to judge rightly when Gideon tore down the altar to Baal and to thank God that they'd finally been delivered from this oppressive spiritual element. And when they chopped down the monument to Asherah, when they saw her smoke going up, And uh becoming an altar for the bull, they should have looked and seen that the Lord was finally pleased because worship was being done right in Jerusalem again. But all the townsfolk judge Gideon and his actions as evil. In other words, from the framework of Isaiah, all we're seeing here is a bunch of bad grapes. That's the fruit. Truly, the vine has borne bad fruit. And this is where our doctrine fits in this morning. One kind of bad fruits. Picture the grapevine. Picture all of the grapes that are on there. I'm sure you've eaten grapes, you've gotten them from the grocery store. I know some of you have owned a vineyard. Picture the grapes. In this picture, they're all bad grapes, and one of the grapes is the sin that we have announced and the canonization that we have announced. In our doctrine. If you go back to Isaiah 5, there are other grapes and sins listed. You're going to want to pay attention to those. For us this morning, because of the way the people have judged here The one kind of bad grape that we have focused on is a grape which leads to the corruption and destruction of the whole covenant community because it begins to call that which is evil good. And it takes that which is really darkness and figures out a way to make you think, no, this is really light And it takes those things that you know in your heart are bitter, but they tell you it's sweet, and you believe them. That is what is happening within the church. If you wanted to put it more philosophically, it would be like this. It is when the church inverts the moral order which Christ has been installed by the Father to uphold across the world. It is to invert the order we see in Psalm eight, the moral order. And this raises for us, now that we have uh I think a pretty clear picture of what's going on with this people. What can happen in every era with the church by way of Gideon and the framework from Isaiah with this song of the vineyard? We can see what will happen, what can happen in every era of the church If you're not watchful and careful. And it raises a really important question, and I'm wondering if you're already asking the question Are you? Are you asking this? Let me tell you what the question is. How does this happen? How can the church spiral this low? How can the church become so inverted to where Evil is good, and darkness is light. That's a 180 by definition. Now there's many answers, and actually the Isaiah chapter 5 question starts to answer those questions by way of the listing of all the different grapes. It has to do with arrogance and self-pride and whole all kinds of things. But what I want to ask is, how can that happen as we look across the church and throughout the eras? How has it happened? And how has it happened not only in the church but across the world And there's a lot of answers to that, but one that I want to give you this morning, just because I think it's relevant for us, is that this spiraling down so low can happen Through euphemism. Now you say, Jesse, I thought you were going to name some big bad warrior that's against us, and you just said some word that's weird. Euphemism. What is euphemism? And how could it lead to such a spiral? How could it contribute? What is euphemism? It means, in a kind of paraphrase, to use a less offensive or a milder term to describe an offensive or a harsh reality And so if I wanted to kill unborn babies, I would never say I am pro-kill unborn babies. I would say I am pro-choice. That's a kind of euphemism in the way that I'm using it. Now, interestingly There have been folks that have yuk noticed the use of euphemism for the accomplishment of making evil good And they have made observations in some of the most horrific acts that human beings have partaken of. And one of those who has done a good job of describing euphemism is Orwell. He says that political language consists largely of euphemism. Have you heard this or read this before? This is for our instruction to help us as a church to not go down the same spiral. Listen to what he says here. It's a famous essay that he's written on euphemism and political language. It's completely applicable to what the scriptures teach us. Political language has to consist largely of euphemism. Why? Listen to what he says. Defenseless villages are bombarded from the air. The inhabitants driven out into the countryside. The cattle are machine-gunned down. The huts are set on fire with incidiary bullets. And you know what we call this? Pacification. Millions of peasants are robbed of their farms and sent trudging along the roads with no more than they can carry. And do you know what we call this? So to avoid having to acknowledge the real evil of it. This is called transfer of population or rectification of frontiers. People are imprisoned for years without trial, or shot in the back of the neck, or sent to die of scurvy in Arctic lumber camps. And this is called elimination of unreliable elements. He continues later in the essay, and he says with a nice imagery. Euphemism falls upon the facts like a soft snow, blurring the outline and covering up all the details If you want to see masters at this, just talk to little children who can't do something but really want to. But he concludes his essay by saying the great enemy of clear language is insincerity. And it is a major sign that you're moving down the spiral in using euphemistic language. You can pick it up in the scriptures themselves where they start to change the names of things. There's one other writer that I want you to make to make known to you who spoke about euphemism and how it covers up evil. And his name is Robert J. Lifton. Has anyone heard of him before, by the way? Robert J. Lifton? Um he wrote a a book on the Nazi doctors. He's a doctor himself. And he wrote a book, Medical Killing and the Psychology of Genocide. And the question that he was raising was: like him, as a doctor, he had to take a Hippocratic oath. For saving life. And he was wondering: how could a doctor who had to take that oath kill hundreds of thousands of people in gas chambers? How could they justify it? And if you read his book, one of the means that they use to be able to accomplish such atrocities and go to sleep at night is they spoke about all of the killings euphemistically So those are two examples of the human race using euphemism to do the kind of spiraling that we see within Israel. And I wonder how they started to change the language To get to the point where in one of their backyards they had a temple to Baal and an Asherah pole. What was the slow incremental change in language for them to canonize? And that's not a question about history. It's a question about us as a church. Because the same may be said of the church. In any era when she is hell-bent on returning to her vomit, or she sees some created good and wants it so badly that she is willing to put it in an inordinate spot. She will change all of the language to not be held guilty. Here are some light examples. If you were to just name the reality of something and say it as it is Then what you would do if you became euphemistic is you would start calling drunkenness fellowship If you wanted to commit sexual immorality and you needed euphemism on your side, you would start to say, I'm having expressions of intimacy. And the one that I have seen used most often is love your neighbor. Or just the word love, because love is love. Love your neighbor has become the clothing used to dress up every evil that people now call good. I think that you can see the point here from the story of Gideon overlaid with the vineyard song of Isaiah. Christ has made us his vineyard. He has made us his vineyard, giving us his spirit for the sake of good fruit. That's not an Old Testament message That is a message for all of the church. Christ has made us his vineyard, giving us his spirit for the sake of good fruit. In what ways, however? Have we started to call good evil, light darkness, and bitter sweet? I guarantee, because I too am a sinner, that if you were to take a little bit of honest time this afternoon The Lord could bring up two or three things that you have been suppressing in unrighteousness for months now. And when you finally can see see the light breaking through again because you're no longer interested in just suppressing the truth, but you want the truth. One of the first things that you're going to notice is for you to remain in corruption as long as you have, you've been using euphemistic language to talk about your sin How, in our homes or our schools, or elsewhere, have we begun to use euphemistic language to hold on to our sin? All I'm saying to you is there's a toolbox. And in that toolbox, there's a lot of tools to be able to hold on to your sin and rebel against the Lord. And euphemism is one of the tools. How is it showing up across the landscape of your life? We are meant to be a people that say what we mean and mean what we say based upon what God has said to us. Euphemism has no real place for us. Now, if you notice that there is euphemistic language amongst your families, amongst your schools, amongst your co-workers, and that you've been intentionally or unintentionally involved in that kind of language Then the message this morning is I just want you, by the grace of Jesus Christ, to take his warning through Gideon seriously. When the church calls evil good and good evil, when the church puts darkness for light and light for darkness When the church puts bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter, it's not a small thing, folks. We're talking about the canonization of the church And if we have become the world, then what hope is there for the world to be removed from this age and into the next world? These are warnings. And we don't oftentimes think of warnings as an act of grace, but by God they are. This is for you to be watchful and to sober up and to watch what you're doing, that we too may not be canonized like we see in the era of the church among Gideon. If we can be watchful now, it is our hope that we will never find corrupt religion in your backyard. Let us pray.