Or his sheep going astray and hide yourself from them, you shall certainly bring them back to your brother Then you shall restore it to him. You shall do the same with his donkey, and so shall you do with his garment, with any lost thing of your brothers, which he has lost, and you have found. You shall do likewise. You must not hide yourself. You shall not see your brother's donkey or his ox fall down along the road and hide yourself from them. You shall surely help him lift them up again. A woman shall not wear anything that pertains to a man, nor shall a man put on a woman's garment, for all who do so are an abomination to the Lord your God. If a bird's nest happens to be before you along the way, in any tree or on the ground, with young ones or eggs, with the mother sitting on the young or on the ch on the eggs You shall not take the mother with the young. You shall surely let the mother go, and take the young for yourself, that it may be well with you, and that you may prolong your days. When you build a new house, then you shall make a parapet for your roof, that you may not bring guilt of bloodshed on your household if anyone falls from it. You shall sow your vineyard with different kinds of seed, lest the yield of the seed which you have sown and the fruit of your vineyard be defiled. You shall not plough with an ox and a donkey together You shall not wear a garment of different sorts, such as wool and linen mixed together. You shall make tassels on the four corners of the clothing with which you cover yourself. Please pray with me. Father, we pray that you would take the general general equity and how this leads into the gospel of Jesus Christ, and you would placard it to us this morning in both the word preached and the word seen in your Supper. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. You've heard the word steward several times already this morning. What is the definition of a steward? A steward is someone to whom you give authority to care for what I call the fine china of your life. Now we give things that are less precious than that, but a real steward, a steward worth their weight, is going to care for things that are precious to you. Think about how much effort, for example, you put into finding a babysitter. Or think about how much effort you put into finding a doctor for yourself or for others We don't want someone stewarding our children or stewarding our bodies or the bodies of our loved ones, people that are careless. We want good stewards like that in our life. And so to be a steward is important. Do you know someone else besides a doctor and a babysitter that is a steward? It's already been picked up in the motif and the theme of this service already. That like babysitters and doctors, you, God's people, are his stewards, and you have been given the responsibility to care for the fine china of God's land. And you can see we showed you this in Psalm this morning with Psalm one hundred four or Psalm eight in readings in Psalm one oh four. And really, what we look see that Jeremiah brought up is that these passages we've been looking at in Deuteronomy, you may look at them under the title of stewardship. And so if you were to do so and just review our past, Moses has been speaking of stewardship under another phrase. Do you remember the phrase, the righteousness only righteousness? It's another way to talk about stewardship. You know one more way to talk about it? Love God, love neighbor. You know ten ways to talk about it? First commandments to the tenth. You know two ways to talk about it. Love God, love neighbor. And now you know righteousness, only righteousness, right? Yeah. So these are all different ways of and now we have this stewardship that has been brought into it. And so you have seen how the steward Education amongst your children in Deuteronomy. How does steward a particular kind of marriage we saw a few weeks ago? And we'll get into marriage in the following weeks. Lots of in-depth discussion on it. Inheritance laws, like your last will and testament, of stewardship of family inheritances we saw, and we were able to take general principles. Not always specific, but general principles on stewardships like that. We saw stewardship of rebellious children. A very specific kind of rebellious children. And this week, we see the stewardship of two main things. I divide this passage into two parts. Stewardship of your neighbor's property. and stewardship of God's plans or designs for all of His property, all of creation So that's two main things we're looking at this morning, the stewardship of our neighbor's property and the stewardship of God's design for all property, for all of his creation. So the first point is brought out in verses 1 through 4 in chapter 22, and you'll notice the various scenarios that are going on here. To get you into the spirit of this Deuteronomic scenario, let me just remind you that winter is coming. And I want to ask you a few questions in light of that. If you see your neighbor slip and fall on the ice and not get up, do you have a responsibility to help them? Did someone say no? This sermon is for you. What about if a tree falls on their house? Can you just film it from your house? And not help? What if you hear a man next door regularly berating with his voice and with his fist his wife? Do you have a responsibility to somehow act? Do you have a responsibility? Those are the kind of questions that are really at the heart of this section, although it's going to feel a little more distant than that because of the specificity that Moses gives here with the Israelites But I want you to stay within that spirit though of what's going on within this passage because it's this passage that informs how you're going to answer those kind of questions. And today it could be a beginning for you in being able to answer ethical questions like that. You have four closely related scenarios in the passage in verses one through four that help you to answer things. The first scenario, take a look at the scriptures with me. You shall not see your brother's ox or his sheep going astray and hide yourself from them. You shall certainly bring them back to your brother. That's the first scenario is that one Israelite sees another Israelite. They are brothers in that sense. If you were to go to Exodus and see the equivalent passages, you'll see this spreads out to a lot of different people, including your enemy actually But the first scenario is that one Israelite sees another Israelite's brother or uh brother's ox or sheep going astray. Very simple. If you want to, you could think of a milk cow going astray or a a dog going astray or something like that to connect it with your culture. But with this culture that fits fine You can see the second scenario continues and builds on this in verse 2. And if your brother is not near you, so now we have a distance thing that we've got to consider, or if you do not even know him So if it's a stranger, then you shall bring it back to your own house, and it shall remain with you until your brother seeks it. Then you shall restore it to him. And that's the the additional information for the second scenario. And then we get into a third scenario that expands even on that that idea in verse 3. Maybe the animals got loose, and maybe it is not an animal at all, actually. Look at how he then expands this out to you shall do the same with his donkey and you shall do with his garment, with any lost thing of your brothers which has lost and you have found. You shall do likewise you must not hide yourself. So much for finders, keepers, losers, weepers. And then you see the fourth scenario that adds to that even, and you now have a pretty full picture of what Moses how Moses wants to instruct. If you see your brother's donkey or your ox not just lost, But if they fall along the road hurt or under too much of a burden, or stuck in a ditch on the Sabbath, for example, then you are to help even in that situation. You shall not see your brother's donkey or his ox fall down along the road and hide yourself from them. You shall surely help him lift them up again. The responsibility is given in each of those verses too. Did you notice that? I was just giving you the scenarios so far. It's just one scenario amongst a million. But there's a repeated phrase that lets you know what your responsibility is. And in the NKJB here it's very literal. It says, you must not hide yourself. Do you have that there? The idea is that you must not ignore the trouble of your neighbor. We're already able to answer some of those beginning questions in this point. Some of you who have been around for a while or who have studied law will recognize that this section, basically, in terms of our culture, is promoting what we would call a duty to rescue. Or have you heard of Good Samaritan laws? Or have you heard of a citizen's arrest? Those kind of things come out of common law, and the common law comes from these biblical bases that we find here. within this passage. The point behind the scenario and the point behind the responsibility as we begin to understand it in this passage And which was developed later in common law and Europe is that we are to maintain a responsibility for the lives and well-being of our neighbors. By God's grace I do see that quite a bit even today. This really shouldn't be a surprise to you since you've been in this Deuteronomy study for a while because you do understand the intent of the commandments. Remember that the sixth commandment says that you shall not murder, and the tenth commandment says you shall not covet. But remember, those shall not always have a positive regard. And so the negatives turn into positives. So you should not only not covet, but you have a responsibility to make sure that your neighbor's property stays safe and it's healthy. You have a responsibility not only to not murder, but to promote their life that they would be able to flourish. We've gone over that before. And this is building on that. About a year ago, this is the strangest example because it's so specific to this context, but about a year ago, uh the family and I have Went to the evening service here. It was in the summer, so after the evening service we went home and it was still light out. And I remember pulling uh down B and A and I looked over into our neighborhood and there were several cop cars And I and you know when cop cars are in your neighborhood, you've got to go see what's happening. So we did. We swung around to check on the problem, and then all of a sudden I stopped because not only were there flashing lights, but cops were running through front yards And then there were my neighbors running through front yards. And you'll never guess what was going on. To my surprise, they were all running after goats that got loose. We have neighbors that keep bees and we have neighbors apparently that had goats, we found out that day. And so actually in this very suit I hopped out of the minivan and I started chasing the goats down into the downtown of Saverna Park and we finally pinned them behind pedal pushers. That's kind of an example here of uh it's odd that it would be so close to the Israelite situation in my own neighborhood, but it is maybe just for this sermon. There are other situations though. Not many of you will run into two little brother goats running through your neighborhood But there are other situations where maybe you should get out of the van and do something. Maybe you should stay in the van and call the police. There's some things you shouldn't get personally involved in, but you still have a responsibility somehow. I I have ridden behind people who have obviously had too much to drink and are getting ready to knock all the jog joggers off the sidewalk and I have called in their license plates Because we have a responsibility to steward our neighbors' property and look for the flourishing of their life. Those are the kind of things that we see here in this first part of the passage. It's really clear and it's really helpful to us as we've lost our ethical bearings. So here's the question before you this morning: at least one: have you hid yourself from your neighbor? How does your conscience speak to you this morning? Have you hid yourself from your neighbor? Let us turn toward righteousness and be good stewards of our neighbor and their property. That's the first point. That's the first part of the passage as we focus on our neighbor. And the second then starts to move into a bunch of other case studies. We're not going to cover every single one. uh thoroughly anyway. But the second one focuses not on the the neighbor and the stewardship of our neighbor's property, but as uh the stewardship of God's designs for all of creation, all of property. That's how I want to summarize this And that's in verses 5 through 12. So let's look at those together. This is now talking about stewardship with the focus of God's plans or his design. By plan or design, I just mean that what is God's intention for the way he has created things? That may sound old-fashioned to you, but it's profound, that there's already a design for things. And by having that pre-understanding, you'll be able to read these verses and gain great light from them. You can see the first example found in verse 5 that is actually quite culturally relevant to us, is it not? When we see in verse 5 of chapter 22, a woman shall not wear anything that pertains to a man, nor shall a man put on a woman's garment, for all who do so are an abomination to the Lord. I don't want you to miss the specific language here. You can just think he says a man shouldn't put on woman's clothes and a woman shouldn't put on man's clothes. That's part of it, but there's actually more specific than that. I'm going to read to you again. A woman, and I'm going to emphasize, a woman shall not wear anything that pertains to a man, nor shall a man put on a woman's garment. For all who do so are an abomination. That's a very specific word also that we've met in Deuteronomy. In this context, wearing anything that pertains to a man includes anything. It would include clothing, men's jewelry, men's tools, and especially weapons of war based on the word used here for the word man. It's like mighty man or soldier. A woman's garment refers to a very specific kind of dress or comfort or or covering that was it couldn't go either way. It was specifically made for the woman and to put it on would be to That's really what's going on here with the language. And then the abomination is a word that is used in worship settings. Do you remember that word in the in the removing all of the altars from the Canaan This is the same word that it's always in those worship contexts with those worship altars, the worship art artifacts. They were considered abominations. And when you take this cluster of words and you work on understanding what Moses is seeking to communicate here, there are, I want to admit to you, there's different models of meaning. You need to understand Then when you become very, very specific with this passage, these are the kind of things that result. Perhaps this passage restricts women from military service and men from hiding from military service by pretending to be a woman so that they can stay home. That's one hypothesis when you get really specific. Perhaps this is about not dressing up like femin feminine goddesses in worship, which was a Canaanite practice. But the thing is, is that when you want to become that specific, which could be helpful, you can tend to lose the overarching point and take no value from the passage at all because who knows if it's about Canaanite goddesses or military service or not. They each have their different arguments for that. What I would like to do is take the general equity or truth From this passage, let's back up a little bit and just ask from the overarching examples that are given in verses 5 through 12: what is God's intent in communicating these kinds of things to us? And so now as we look through verses 9 through 11, I just want to point out a few things to you to help us to orient. In verse 9, take a look. They are forbidden to sow different kinds of seed in their vineyard. You can't have a vineyard and then in between the rows of the grapes, sow a different kind of seed. In verse 10, they may not yoke together these two kinds of animals because one is clean and one is unclean. And you can read about that in the book of Leviticus. In verse 11, they may not wear clothes with mixed fabrics like wool mixed with linen. Do you see the pattern that is emerging if you were to remain general? Each of these examples shows concrete ways in which God retains order and boundaries. Yes, amongst a specific culture and in specific ways, but the general truth transcends all of that, and that is that God keeps order and he keeps his design, even if sometimes it's only symbolic. There was a lesson for them to learn here, and it's obvious the more if you spend time with this passage. Each of these examples show concrete ways in which God retains order and boundaries and a design. In the beginning, do not forget, God created each thing according to its kind. And so you could say that these kind of things would remind them of that creation story. That that their mythos, so to speak, is different than the Canaanite. Mythology, using that in an academic sense. In Leviticus, God kept certain animals separate, did he not And we have learned about some of those purposes. In Genesis chapter 2, God created male and female as different and separate, differentiated beings in terms of gender. That they were not to come together, to become uh the same. And that really ends up being the perfect example to see that he's keeping his designs in place, whether through ritual symbolism, uh arbitrary cultural norms. No matter what, God has a lesson to point out, which is that He's going to keep specific boundaries for His people. And that will be quite valuable to the whole church for all ages to learn that. So just think of the gender situation that we have here with the male and female and the cross dressing. Think about that as an example. Think about gender, in fact, being made male or female as God clothing you with something. He has clothed you as a man, or he has clothed you as a woman. I understand that there are rare exceptions, but the rare exception never makes the rule. He clothes you as male or female. God's design, even in your mother's womb, it's a boy. It's a girl. And it's quite clear on the ultrasound that it is the case. Here we are taught, based on all of those other examples, that the way what we could do is we could take clothes of our own making. To try to subvert the clothes that he has clothed us with in our natural gender. Do you see what is going on here? The law of seeds and linens and ox and donkey were further symbolic ways to uphold that reality and that truth. And you know, verse 12 is quite persuasive for me in terms of this. Look at verse number 12. Perhaps the most culturally arbitrary thing a person could do is to wear tassels on their garments. It is not transcendent at all. And yet if you were to Understand this law from Numbers 15, you would see that it is specifically given so that the Israelites would never forget that they are God's people and they are to be set apart and they are to be holy. There is a boundary that separates them in their sacred space from the rest of the creation. And that is my argument of what's being going on with the rest of it. It's all about boundaries. It's all about God's design. It's all about his plan. And that's how we have to take each one of these things, even the cross-dressing. That we wouldn't through our clothes seek to become something that God has not given to us. Now there's lots to think through with that. People try to take it into odd and absurd places like I'm not allowed to wear pink. That's not what we're talking about here. There's more thought that actually has to be done. But the general principle here is that you shall not go along with cultural practices which go against God's desire. And there's actually this is a very fruitful principle to start to talk about, especially within our culture. I want you to consider further the example of cross-dressing, and I have some questions for you this morning That maybe you've never thought about before. And Deuteronomy, through God the Holy Spirit, is going to lead you to some good considerations. Let me ask you this: both men, women, and children. What is the design and the symbolic meaning of a woman's body? And if you were to look through scriptures, what would you find? What is the meaning, both symbolic and real, of a woman's body? How is she supposed to be viewed in her body, in her femininity, in her differentiation from the male? And based on your answer to that question, how should women dress to support God's design? Are you telling me that God had no design for your femininity and it doesn't mean anything? Because when we study the scriptures, Diligently enough, we find that it in fact does. In fact, if you were to just go through history, you would see the symbolic meaning of woman's body. There's a scholar by the name of Margaret Miles. Have any of you heard of her? She's done a fascinating study where she has done research on the meaning of the feminine body by studying art throughout Western and Eastern history And she shows how the female body, especially in the scriptures, think of the woman in Proverbs 31, think of Song of Songs, think of the Levitical Woman Think of Lydia in the New Testament, that she is depicted as industrious, the mother of the living. She's full of life. She's full of nurture. She's full of strength. Bruce Waltke, an expert Old Testament scholar, titles Proverbs 31, the second half, Woman Warrior. But I want you to think about how the woman's body is viewed today and tell me that it is not primarily promoted as a pornographic tool. Now, I don't want you giggling like middle schoolers. Are you ready for this? She does a specific study on the breast. Think about, and you may not even be aware of this, but it moves from a symbol of that which gives life and is the future of mankind, which nurtures, to just a pornographic tool for men. And how despicable is that? And so I have that question for you again. As a woman, which meaning do you want to support now that you've heard from Deuteronomy? Which is the design, or what is the design and symbolic meaning of a man's body? We find a great deal in Song of Songs, actually. Protection, virility. And based on that meaning, how should men dress? There's lots of discussions that we need to have. We're kind of behind the conversation. We haven't been talking about these things, and everybody else has. We cannot settle, like I mentioned, for shallow answers like men don't wear pink. Because the new black is pink. Just so you know. Those are some things to consider from the point that we have here within Deuteronomy, this second point. When we look at this passage, when we study lost sheep and donkeys and garments or livestock that have fallen over, beasts of burden, or when we study cross-dressing or mixed fabrics, or castles, or Whatever it is, a a mother bird who is over her young and her eggs where you can't kill the to take the eggs and take the mother so that life is sustained within the environment When we get to talking about these things, when you have a sermon on Deuteronomy like this, don't most Christians ask this question, do I still have to obey these things? Do I really need to keep these regulations? Hasn't Christ gotten rid of all this stuff already? Why are you bothering me this morning? And then most people in the church today, it seems in my experience, I can't say that scientifically, are just happy to say no. This has nothing to do with us. But here's the thing. One expert has put it this way. His name is Daniel Bloch. It seems like he's worked on the book of Deuteronomy his entire life. He asks us to consider Matthew 5, verse 17 through 19. And it basically says this. Jesus says, I have not come to abolish the law, but to fulfill it. I will not remove anything from it. Okay? So let's try to take that seriously. Okay, let's also try to take this passage seriously. 2 Timothy 3. 16. All, not some, all scripture is useful. Is Deuteronomy scripture? Then it is useful. And so he says, we're asking as a Christian community the wrong kind of question. The question should be: how should we keep these regulations? And the answer will be very, very difficult sometimes. But if you take the time, do you see the fruit that is given to you already this morning as a woman, discovering your womanhood, and what this culture can do to you and your daughters? And your granddaughters by changing the meaning of the breast? Do you understand what I'm saying to you? It is deadly for you to become a sex object When you are meant to be the mother of the living, that is your name in Eve of nurture and life and of strength. In the Song of Songs, his wife is described as the crown that shows splendor upon his head. And we're missing that kind of stuff if we ask the wrong question. So I'm asking the question, how should we keep these regulations? I mean obviously the specifics have changed, right? But let's just think further. Most of you don't have farmers near you. It was God's providence for the sake of this sermon that I had goats in my neighborhood. Clothing for men and women in their cultures is different, and you have to make different decisions depending on the culture. And we don't wear tassels on our clothing, not in the way that they did. Although that although there are things that transcend, if you can reason about these things rightly Follow the apostles' examples. The Apostle Paul turns to Deuteronomy all the time to prove a transcendent point. Isn't the general point the same? Isn't this passage in 22, isn't verses 1 through 4 about loving your neighbor? Isn't 5 through 12 about loving your God and his design for things? Isn't that the Shema that we saw earlier, and that Jesus repeats as the greatest commandment of them all? That we are to honor God's designs and purposes and his plans But here's the added thing when you get into Deuteronomy that if you don't have it, you'll miss. Do you see how concrete and specific the love gets? Do you know how by not studying and taking the gospel from Deuteronomy, we can become like that couple in James that says, be warm and well fed. We'll think of About what you're going through. We'll pray about what you're going through instead of the concrete specific act of chasing a darn goat around the neighborhood. Because that's what Deuteronomy is looking for. Concrete acts of love. God does not love anybody generally. He has done so specifically in every area of your life, he has poured out his love on you. In concrete and specific ways. This is a part of the gospel. And I say that because Jesus the Christ came And he died and was raised and ascended, and now he lives to establish love among his people, but not in some generality. He wants you to do so, and he works by his spirit for you to specifically stay in step with his spirit and your circumstantiality. Jesus cleansed you from your sin and your guilt, and he is now sanctifying you to love God and neighbor in the way that you dress. In your care of animals. And I didn't get to the bird passage, but we can talk about that another time. How you produce food And how you construct roofs, uh roofs, I didn't get a chance to talk to you about the parapet, but I did that in a past sermon, so I don't feel bad about that one. Railings on roofs. See how concrete this gets? Here's the main question for us. And then I want to go to the Lord's table. The question is, under the Lordship of Jesus Christ, how are you concretely Loving your neighbor and living in line with the designs of your creator. Or how much has this culture created you? To where you have actually forgotten what a woman is and what a man is, and what they symbolize as eschatological beings. In other words, as we go to the table, I want you to consider this. How are you stewarding all things for the glory of God? Please pray with me.