But the Lord sent out a great wind on the sea, and there was a mighty tempest on the sea, so that the ship was about to be broken up. Then the mariners were afraid, and every man cried out to his God and threw the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten the load. But Jonah had gone down until the lowest parts of the ship, had lain down, and was fast asleep. So the captain came to him and said to him, What do you mean, sleeper? Arise, call on your God. Perhaps your God will consider us, so that we may not perish. And they said to one another, Come, let us cast lots, that we may know for whose cause this trouble has come upon us So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah. Then they said to him, Please tell us, for whose cause is this trouble upon us? What is your occupation? And where do you come from? And what is your country? And of what people are you? So he said to them, I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land. Then the men were exceedingly afraid, and said to him, Why have you done this? For the men knew that he fled from the presence of the Lord because he had told them. Then they said to him, What shall we do to you that the sea may be calm for us? For the sea was growing more tempestuous. And he said to them, Pick me up and throw me into the sea. Then the sea will become calm for you. For I know that this great tempest is because of me. Nevertheless, the men rode hard to return to land, but they could not, for the sea continued to grow more tempestuous against them. Therefore, they cried out to the Lord and said, We pray, O Lord, please do not let us perish for this man's life, and do not charge us with innocent blood. For you, O Lord, have done as it pleased you. So they picked up Jonah and threw him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging. Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly, and offered a sacrifice to the Lord, and took vows. Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights Let us pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, I pray that you would make your preached word effective here this morning. I pray, Lord, that you would use it to call your people into the service, especially their service to the world. Ask these things in your name on them. You may be seated. I wonder if you've heard the f phrase release the hounds. Anyone ever heard anybody ever say anything like that? release the hounds. That comes from uh could be different contexts. It could be as simple as fox hunting or it could be uh uh uh regathering a convict who has escaped from prison. Depending on what movie or story you have read, the hounds have been released for different reasons Sometimes you don't see hounds released, you see other things released, but the the main focus, whether it's a movie or a book, uh even within the scriptures themselves, is you will see that there is something that is pursuing something else And the pursuit, the way that it is portrayed, is that pursuit and the capture of that something else is inevitable. Have you ever seen that, for example, on the Discovery Channel, where they uh let you see some national forests or parks, and it has come to the season where wolves are out in packs? And then there's antelope not antelope, but uh caribou or whatever it is, and they they section one of the animals off as a pack and they run the animal until it is out of all energy and overtake it. Well, this has been an image for many different realities within human life, this pursuit and the inevitable happening. It has even been an image of the reality of God with those whom he calls to himself. I wonder if any of you have read the poem, The Hound of Heaven. I wonder if you've, even if you haven't read the poem, The Hound of Heaven, if you know what it's like to live with the Hound of Heaven. That He pursues you and pursues you and pursues you until you reach your sanity by the power of His Spirit, realizing that it is His will that is your greatest pleasure to be done on earth as it is in heaven. That's what we have here in the book of Jonah. We discovered that even last week, that there is the hound of heaven. But what has been highlighted for us is there is an attempt by Jonah to avoid the hounds. We use this as an opportunity to ask ourselves a question, and that is, have you begun or have you been neglecting the things that God has called or hounded you about? Are there areas within the family that you have neglected in his service? Are there areas within the church that you have neglected And the one aspect that I'm especially emphasizing through Jonah because this is a missionary journey to Nineveh, is I'm asking this entire congregation, have we as a body neglected our responsibilities to Anorondo County and even beyond. Those are some of the questions that came up last week and I tried to share with you even during the supper how I have been neglectful myself. But that Christ continues to hound even to this day, that I would step forward and take on my responsibilities. And he hounds you too. He's going to continue with by giving us our message that he does here this morning. This is a second set of verses that we're looking at in Jonah. And I want you to just notice a few things about how God continues to pursue Jonah and that God's will will in fact be done on earth as it is in heaven. Let me just tell you this right now. If God wants something to be done, there is no stopping it. And if God wants that something to be done as an act of his mercy. There is no stopping his mercy. Let's remember that as we we go through these this passage more carefully now. The first thing I just want you to notice, please look at the scriptures with me. As Protestants, one of our core beliefs is that you should believe the Bible. You shouldn't believe people that say that it's a that the Bible says something, but it actually doesn't say something like that. You want to look and and check and test the spirits it mentions in the scriptures to make sure that this is exactly what the scriptures are saying. Your faith rests upon God's word. And I'm trying to bring that to you accurately. So please take a look at the scriptures with me The first thing I want you to notice that we see here is that God decides that he is going to rebuke Jonah for neglecting his commission. Did you see that? And I wonder if that was surprising to you. Have you ever seen within this the sacred history that's given to us in the scriptures, have you ever seen a prophet resist and God rebuke? Really, if once I pose that question to you, you should see just about every prophet, when God gives them their commission, the initial response that they give There are some extraordinary situations where that doesn't happen. But the initial response that the prophet gives is resistance, and then God has to come in and rebuke. And it's the same thing that's going on here, and remember this is a minor prophet, so this is prophetic literature. That shouldn't surprise us too much. One of the most famous examples of resistance and then rebuke by a prophet is Moses. I wonder if you were thinking about that. I'm seeing some nods. Exodus four, ten through fourteen. Then Moses said to the Lord, O my Lord, I am not eloquent, neither before nor since you have spoken to your servant, but I am slow of speech. And of tongue. This is why he can't go and speak to Pharaoh. He just, I haven't had any rhetoric classes. I know they offer them at the community college, but I haven't gotten over there. So the Lord said to him, Who made man's mouth Or who made the mute, the deaf, the seeing, or the blind? Have not I the Lord? Now therefore go, and I will be with your mouth and teach you what you shall say. Now you would think that that is enough. This is reminiscent of God's interaction with Peter, too. It goes through these iterations, and once we hit verse 13 Moses replies, and he says, O my Lord, please send by the hand of whomever else you may send. So the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses, and he said, Is not Aaron the Levite your brother? I know that he can speak well, and look, he is also coming out to meet you. When he sees you, he will be glad in his heart. So what you end up seeing there is there's a resistance by Moses. I didn't read this whole section. You're welcome to go back to it. But God gives him different signs that show that he obviously has the power for Moses to be able to accomplish his commission of speaking to the Pharaoh. But Moses keeps resisting. And then you'll notice there in verse number 14, the anger of the Lord is kindled against Moses. That's repeated different times in Scripture, and it's not a good spot to be in. Let me just say that. This is a specific rebuke in verse number 14. And this is helping us to frame what's going on with Jonah. Now, God does not raise his voice to Jonah. God does not raise his voice to Jonah in our accounts. Not audibly like you would expect, like me raising my voice right now. But God does in another way rebuke Jonah With the wind and the waves, because of his resistance. It says in verse number four, just starting off our passage, but the Lord sent out a great wind on the sea. Notice the repetition of the word great through the book of Jonah, by the way. There is a great city, and now there is a great wind. And there was a mighty tempest on the sea, so that the ship was about to be broken up. Here we see a rebuke. Continuing then in verse number 13. Nevertheless the men rode hard to return to land, but they could not, for the sea continued to grow more tempestuous against them. Here we see that the Lord's anger is aroused, and there is a kind of rebuke for Jonah. For Moses, the rebuke came with a voice. But for Jonah, God uses the wind. God calls the waves. He controls even the boat. If you want to sit down with Brad over here and study the Hebrew text and see that the boat is put in an active voice It is personified as if the boat were a living thing that is under the control and sovereignty of God and is rebelling against what Jonah is trying to accomplish. It is the same thing with the waves and the winds. All of creation obeys God's sovereign will in working against to rebuke Jonah. But the thing is, as we continue on in the story, I wonder if you're even more amazed now at Jonah's response in sleeping down at the bottom and even being asleep himself. Jonah is still hardened, nevertheless. But God ends up using this situation to reveal Himself to the sailors. So I want you to think, for example, in this story, and this is the way the stories are told, think of the camera, since we're of kind of a movie culture. Think of the camera and who it focuses on if you were watching a movie. You're going to see a focus in on Jonah, and then there's going to be a contrast and a focus in on the sailors, all by way of communicating to you something about God. Even in the storm, once we focus the- see that the camera is focused on Jonah, even in the storm, Jonah sleeps below deck in verses 5 and 6. And he tells the sailors to throw him overboard. This tells you the state of his heart. He is slumbering with regard to the commission of God. He is still hardened with regard to the commission of God. I really think you have to make sense here of what's going on with Jonah being thrown over to the side of the ship. There are different things to say about that. The one that's most obvious from the context of this book is that Jonah would rather sink to the bottom of the Kelpie Sea than go do this task in Nineveh. He actually says at the end of the book that he would rather die than for them to receive mercy. He says it in Jonah chapter 4, verse 3, Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live in this act that you are doing. And yet the contrast with the sailors couldn't be more vibrant for us as we see the camera shifting and the hardening of Jonah's heart as he. Heads down into the bottom of the ship. That's still that movement towards Sheol or Hell or Hades. You can read about this in the Proverbs, different paths that people take and where they lead. One described heading to hell, to the dead. And that all that language of down and the dead is present there. But then we see the camera shift over into the sailors that God has doing something else even in the midst of this. He's bringing life out of death. At first, they each call, as Brad had mentioned, thanks so much for that, Bradley. Excellent confession too. It was very helpful to me this morning. They called out each to their, the correct way to talk about this is their patron deities. These are patron deities. There's been a bunch of scholarship in studying this area that each city had a patron god, and they would turn to these gods for various benefits. by w in the covenant that they were with them. So they each cry out to their patron gods And as Brad pointed out, there's nothing that they can do. So they start doing what sailors would do. They take all the weight off of the ship so that they can maybe stay afloat even longer. And then they eventually cast lots, which is interesting because that ends up being a means that we see within the scriptures to know God's will in certain circumstances. So they draw lots in 1-8 and they say, please tell us, for who speaking to God, whose cause is this trouble upon us? I'm sorry, to Jonah, what is your occupation and where do you come from? What is your country and of what people are you? Now this is super interesting because Jonah wants to sleep or he'd like to just die. But God has set this up to where Jonah is now going to have to tell them All about who he is as a prophet, what he's supposed to be doing, and who God is. When God wants to reveal himself, there is no stopping him. We see this in Jonah 9 when notice this is a condensed version of Jonah's, we'll just, if we were to compile this, Jonah's ship sermons. Jonah 1. 9, so he said to them, I'm a Hebrew, and I fear, let me do the translation for you, I fear Yahweh. He is the God of heaven who made the sea and the dry land. So we have a repetition of Genesis 1 and 2 here. Jonah answers and says these things to them, and they hear the word preached. And the sailors, it says in verse number 14, they pray to Yahweh. And then, after uh making sure that they wouldn't be held responsible for any blood guilt or murder, they throw Jonah overboard, and as soon as they do It goes from a a tempestuous sea to as smooth as oil. It ceased from its raging. Now if you were a sailor and you saw that, if you cried out to every God of every other nation And it didn't do squat to the point where you're saying, stop calling out the God, get stuff off the ship. But then you cry out to Yahweh and you do exactly as Yahweh's prophet tells you. And then the sea stops. What would you do? Well, you would certainly want to adopt Yahweh as your patron deity. And that's basically what they did. They stood awestruck at the power and the mercy of Yahweh, and they therefore offered him sacrifices, and they even took vows to him. They made promises to Yahweh. Now what you end up having here in this account that is given to us is a preparation. Jonah is known for its mirror image. You're going to see, for example, by the time we get to just take a look at chapter number three with me for, or chapter three for a second in Jonah. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah a second time. You see that? There's the mirror. Okay, so what you're going to end up seeing are these repetitions. So we have here in this story with Jonah and the sailors is a foreshadowing of what Jonah is going to need to do with the Ninevites. And when you begin to see it that way, you realize that what's being revealed about God here, the lesson that can be taken away, even in the foreshadowing, is that when God wants to be merciful to a group of people that he has determined that he's going to show his mercy, there is no way that you are going to be able to stop him. No way that you're going to be able to stop him. You can see, even just in the way that God orchestrates the waves, the wind, the boat, the sailors, the vows, the prayers, the prophet. All of it ends up coming together in the revelation of God's mercy to them and the storm ceasing. The storm could stand for God's wrath in Nineveh, for example. When God decides that he is going to be merciful to a group of people, there is no stopping God in his mercy. And this is a lesson that Jonah had to realize. It's a lesson that Israel had to realize, especially with the Assyrian Empire. And it is a lesson that we must realize that you, Severn Run, are not able to stop God's mercy. So let's unfold that a little bit. I want to I want to with that lesson that we have in front of us by way of this story, what a beautiful lesson, by the way. His mercy in Christ is unstoppable. I want to begin by just framing the situation a little bit for us as a congregation. Here we sit before God's preached word. I've told you my intent. My intent is for us. to at the very minimum explore as a congregation if we are taking our responsibility to Antoronal County and the Great Commission seriously. I want to begin by just framing the situation here with this lesson. Last week we observed Peter as a case study to try to understand the neglect of a commission. Peter interestingly denies he ends up learning and moving into his commission, but we saw this journey that he had to take in order to be willing to give God's mercy. to unexpected people. Peter begins on a bad foot. He denies Christ three times. He is reinstated. You'll remember I read that to you last week. Feed my sheep, Peter. Feed my sheep, feed my sheep. We know that Peter eventually gets it to enough of a degree to where he gives his sermon to the house of Israel, saying, Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly That God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. He then talks to this group of people about how to repent and believe that they might receive the mercy of God. Peter has gotten to the point to where he is able to deliver to the people of Israel God's mercy Now it is a whole nother story and a whole nother block of evidence that must be given to Peter for him to be willing to give God's mercy to those who are outside of Israel. We saw that last week too. But Christ went to great lengths to make sure that Peter knew that his mercy extended to all nations. He prepared for preaching to the Gentiles, but he still struggled. He had the, I shared with you last week how the sheet came down to where he could begin to understand what is God's will with regard to the world. Well he ends up eventually getting this in Acts chapter 11 verses 17 through 18. I'm going to say that again because I'd love for you to revisit this. These are summarized statements recorded by for us by way of the superintendence of the Holy Spirit so that we could see and understand the gospel. And Acts 11, 17 through 18 is a great summary so that we could understand our purpose as a church. It says If therefore God gave them the gift, speaking of the Holy Spirit and speaking of the Gentiles, as He gave us when we believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I could withstand God? This is Peter speaking to people wondering, why are you offering God's mercy to the Gentiles? It doesn't belong to them. And he's saying, who am I to stop God? And he goes on in verse number 18 of chapter 11. When they heard these things, they became silent, and they glorified God, saying, and here's the summary that the church must never forget through all the halls of history. then God has also granted to the Gentiles repentance unto life. Now that should be remarkably evident given that I would say 99% of you here are Gentiles. Peter's journey in understanding God's redemptive plan ends up being preserved for you here within these comprehensive and summar these summary statements so that we could remember that we not only have a responsibility to proclaim repentance and mercy to our families and to each other, each other's families, but we have a responsibility to re to proclaim repentance and mercy. to the people groups that are around us. In our situation, I don't know what your situation will be, but it would be even the people groups that hurt you. If God decides that he wants them to have his mercy in Christ, there is no stopping him. And you are the vehicle by which he gives his mercy. Peter had to understand that. You know who else had to understand that? Paul. Paul had to understand that too. Again, I'm still just framing the situation so that you can learn from Peter and you can learn from Paul. The main lesson learned from Paul is captured in Ephesians chapter 3, 1 through 7. I actually want you to turn there with me very quickly. When I talk to people about Ephesians chapter 3, they usually read it wrong. They think there's something else going on here in this passage. But now that we're talking about our commission and God's mercy going out to people that we wouldn't expect, we can we really have the opportunity to understand What Paul, how Paul viewed the gospel and part of the mystery that God has revealed in what he is accomplishing in the world. And that'll help us with our mission. Ephesians chapter 3, 1 through 7, this is from the New King James. For this reason I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus, for you Gentiles. If indeed you have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which was given to me for you, how that by revelation he made known to me the mystery, as I have briefly written already, by which When you read, you may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ, which in other ages was not made known to the sons of men, as it has been as it has now been revealed by the Spirit of His holy apostles and prophets. What's the mystery, Paul? That's what you should be saying by this point. I just put up with two long Greek sentences. It took me three hours to parse them. What's the mystery? And here it is. The mystery is that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs. That the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ through the gospel, the Abrahamic promise. of which I became a minister according to the gift of the grace of God given to me by the effective working of his power. Paul needed to recognize also that God has decided to give a group of people that were that used to be called dogs. A group of people that used to take their loved ones' heads and put them on poles and make them parade around with them? A group of people that used to cut unborn babies out of their mothers' stomachs. But God has decided that He was going to be merciful to these lands, to those who repent and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Because that is where God's mercy is located. Paul, Paul had to come to grips with this. And so did Peter. Now, I think sometimes when we read these different case studies, we think, why was Paul and Peter so difficult? Why would they not want to extend God's mercy? Maybe you got a little bit of a flavor of it when I started talking to you about the cruelty that was shown to this group of people. They, you know, their great grandmother would remember that. We asked that question though, but I'm here to tell you this morning that you and I are in the same kind of danger in a different way, analogously, a same kind of danger as Paul and Peter. With an unwillingness to extend God's mercy to people. How does the unwillingness manifest itself? It can manifest itself in different ways, can it? We are meant to proclaim among our county, let's just start there. That seems like a nice next circle, instead of going to country, that seems too big right now for me. We are meant to proclaim repentance, number one. When there is a school system that is telling our children That there is no such thing as just male and female, but that gender is a social construct. What do you think? About them doing that for to children. Is that what God would want for the children of this land? Just thinking about the good of children. Or will it lead them into confusion? In other words, I'm just asking the question, well what did Jonah what is Jonah going to tell the Ninevehes to repent of? And then I'm asking you, Severn Run, what would you tell Antarono County to repent of? Well, some of it would be misleading your children and making them more confused by adopting even the concept of gender. And there could be other ones too. That happens to be a hot topic, so I would just mention it. There's other ones though, but we are meant to pr proclaim repentance. We are meant to proclaim also not just that negative part, it's away from something, but to something, and that is the flourishing that Christ brings to each person's life. We're saying that Christ has a better plan for your children. In the way that He delivers to us exactly how He has created them, that they might really know who they are, so that they can function well within this cosmos. And so there is a faith And that if you repent and you believe God will stay his hand, even in temporary curses and in the ultimate curse of judgment. And you will receive his mercy. But the question is, is do we as a congregation, or there's something there's a seed within us to where we will hold on to that knowledge? of repentance, of faith, and of mercy, and we will primarily only give such knowledge of God and His eternal counsels to our own children and the children that are around us. That may be the way in which We would fall into the same danger as a Peter or as a Paul. They may have had their own motives on why they didn't want to extend God's mercy to Gentiles, and I'm just saying maybe you have your own habits. to where you're unable to extend God's mercy to the people of Andorano County. I'm not even saying that you hate the people around you or you're trying to keep the new good news from them. I'm just wondering what if you've become so busy you have no time to tell people about God's mercy? That would be another way in which it would manifest itself to where we could fall in the same dangers of Peter and Paul and we could learn from them You know, this is especially true when we look at Jonah. He's another case study. It's interesting. When I read to you last week from Jonah in 2 Kings 14, 25, Jonah was commissioned by God to go to his own people and say to them, Listen, I understand that you're being oppressed by other nations, but God is your Savior and He's going to rescue you from that. And Jonah had no problem going to his own people and telling them about God's salvation mercy and their rescue from oppressive nations. But here we see that Jonah does have a problem with going to other people and sharing about God's mercy and salvation. And it starts to broaden out to where you have enough characters in the sacred scriptures where you have got to ask the question, in every single generation, Does the church have a problem with extending God's mercy to other people? And I'm trying to give you an argument to create in your head, well, actually that seems kind of plausible, Jesse. It's possible that we're not doing a great job of extending God's mercy to Andoron County. Now you can think of Peter. He had no problem in sharing with his fellow Israelites. I read this to you last week, but he withdrew from Galatian pagans. Saul turned Paul. He fought tooth and nail against the kingdom of Jesus Christ for different reasons. And the question that I placed before myself and and you and and you because we're friends so we get the same questions Are we as a congregation making sure the message of repentance, faith, and mercy of God is going out to Anorundal County? Because here's the thing. Even if you decide to neglect your responsibility There is no way that you're going to be able to stop God's mercy for Andoron County So that puts you in a position, when I look across the scripture, I see that when God wants to be merciful to a group of people, there's no congregation that's going to get in his way. Even if they want to be neglectful. That ends up putting you in two different positions that I see within scriptures. It means that if you don't want to take up your responsibility and take it seriously, number one, he'll just replace you. Accord from what I look at in the news, this is exactly what's what's happening in some churches. They're just being straight out replaced in his magnificent and wise way. The other thing that he'll do is he'll hound you. He'll show you it's not worth living unless you live for me. And living for me means you're going to extend my mercy to the people of Vantaronal County. The first instance that we see in terms of the replacement, we went through that in the triumphal entry. The sermon right before that, Brad uh preached on the wicked vine dressers. Does everyone remember that? Yes, you do. Great The wicked vine dressers, but sometimes we f we miss a specific uh verse in as that's Jesus' conclusion to that story. We see the parable that Jesus gives. We see that the Pharisees became upset with him because they knew that he was talking about them. But then Jesus concludes it and he says this about that group of leaders. And about that group of people who had become hardened against God's sovereign will. It says in Matthew 21, 43, I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you. And it will be given to a nation that will produce the proper fruit. There it is. And my argument to you is that that happens throughout history. If a church wants to keep being obstinate and stiff-next against their creator, replaced. Because you can't stop God's mercy. The other thing that can happen Is that you can be rebuked. And that's the hounding part that I was mentioning to you. The rebuking that we see within Jonah, that's why I bring that term up, because we have a story in front of us that I'm ex- I'm still expositing and applying. is that you can be rebuked. We as a congregation can be rebuked. Peter was rebuked. Do you love me? Those were rebukes. Peter took it that way. He was torn at the heart when Christ asked him the third time. Paul was rebuked. Do you remember that? It says in Acts 9, 3 through 5, as he journeyed he came near Damascus, Saul, who's going to later turn to Paul, and suddenly a light shone around him from heaven. Then he fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And he said, Who are you, Lord? Then the Lord said, I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. It is hard for you to kick against the goats. Do you remember that phrase? Kick against the goats. You know what the image is? It's like a imagine like a young horse that refuses to be tamed. Imagine a cattle that refuses to go where it's supposed to go. Some translations will say you kick against the pricks. It's an idea of thorns on the end of something. That you're being moved in a particular direction and you keep kicking against the inevitable. And he's saying that to Saul. Now, was it just the light that was the goad? Or had something been going on in Saul that is going to move him to Paul over time? How was Paul's conscience at the time? When they gathered Stephen's clothes before him. Did Stephen's sermon hit Paul in the heart, but he pushed it away And then Jesus Christ shows up on the road to Damascus and says, You know the pricking that's been going on. You know I've been poking you. You know that I'm the hound of heaven. And I'm sending you to the Gentiles. Resistance is futile. You are going to tell my mercy to people that you have always separated yourself from. I imagine it was something similar that I've seen in people when they begin to have problems with their appendix. Is it on this side or this side? I don't know. It's my left side. Thank you so much. Something's wrong with their appendix, they'll say, Oh, even though we ordered buffalo wings, anyone in the right mind doesn't resist buffalo wings. God's gift to humanity. I don't even want any more winks. And then before they go to bed, oh, it's just really burning. I don't know what's going on. Then the middle of the night, they're throwing up. They can barely stand up straight. And that whole idea of going from a mild burn to pain to vomiting to camp walking is like Jesus Christ hounding us saying I have you on earth to do a particular thing. It certainly includes ministering to each other, but it also includes bringing my mercy to Anna Rundle County. We're not going to stop God's mercy. We could be replaced. But I think, even by way of this sermon, if any of it is hitting you, That we are being hounded. What about us as a congregation? I'm not really speaking to you just as individuals because I know that some of you are already sharing God's mercy. Let's just back up. Why did God plant us here in Millersville? Why are we here? We often speak about our responsibilities to each other as a congregation. Are we taking our responsibility to the people groups around us? Recently we saw Christ gather into his kingdom a young man that has joined this congregation. It's a couple weeks ago. I had Jimmy and someone else come up with Ronnie. Sorry to embarrass you there, Ronnie. You can smack me later. And I said to you de at that day that the fact that Noah Donovan shared the mercy of Jesus Christ with Ronnie And that Jesus Christ gathered Ronnie into his kingdom tells me that God is extending mercy to Andoron County. And I just wonder who else? And who's going to tell him about the mercy? If so, is he an example goading us in moving forward on the kind of emphasis that we should place? In sharing God's mercy to this area. The other interesting thing that's happening, although we haven't gotten a chance to talk about the details, is that we have had Brad Swasik here since 2010. And everybody here and people that are with even with the Lord now have invested a great deal within Brad and his family. And now you've received in a congregational letter that Gracepoint EPC is very interested in this family being their church planning family. And at the same time, we receive statistics all the time showing that if you want people who have never heard about Jesus Christ to hear about Jesus Christ, plant a church. Maybe the swastik's very presence is a goad, showing that God's mercy will not be stopped. It looks to me, just from the different examples I've given to you that have happened over the last two months, that God, in his sovereign will, wants us to be merciful in sharing his mercy and salvation. I've showed shared that with you and how a person shared the gospel with his coworker. A family that is our brother and our sister, planting a church. And I fear to even ask this question, what will God do if we do not listen? I've already given you two options. Will he just replace us? Will just the rebukes continue for how long? All of those questions, brothers and sisters, are posed because there is a reality that you cannot wiggle beyond. As you move, it constricts you further, like a boa constrictor on an antelope. Every movement just makes the grip tighter. And this is what has us in our in its grip. That God will give mercy to whom he wants to give mercy. And there is nothing and there is no one that can stop him. And here, by way of this sermon, he invites you into the work of the gospel. Amen. Let us pray.