Acts chapter fourteen and our reading today and preaching will be from verses eight through eighteen. I'm sorry, in verses twenty one through twenty-eight And when they had preached the gospel to that city and made many disciples, they returned to Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch. Strengthening the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith, and saying, we must through many tribulations enter the kingdom of God. So when they had appointed elders in every church and prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed. And after they had passed through Pisidia and came to Penthilia, now when they had preached the word in Perga, they went down to Attilea. From where they sailed to Antioch, where they had been commended to the grace of God for the work which they had completed. Now when they had come and gathered the church together, they reported all that God had done with them And then he opened the door of faith to the Gentiles. So they stayed there a long time with the disciples. Let us pray. Lord, I pray that you would help us to see your great work still among us, that we would know How you are working in this age. And I pray that you would show us our responsibilities to you and to each other. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Last week, we witnessed an evangelistic sermon by the Apostle Paul. And he began by reminding us of the proper telling of history. All men turn to the creature rather than to the creator who is forever blessed. He continued by announcing that God has gifted us with his Son, Jesus Christ, who is gathering all things to himself. And so, what we have before us, even within this age of men and women who are still giving praise to the creature rather than the creator. Is an evangelistic message that can still come from the church that is the same as Paul. That Christ, through through Christ and his Spirit, The world may know what is truly worthy of praise, what is truly righteous and just What is true freedom? What is truly worthy of worship? And that is the living God and His will for us all. It is the same message today as it was that day for Paul in that city. We now move, as you can tell in verses 21 and following, we've moved into a new episode within the missionary journeys of the Apostle Paul. And so I want us to notice a few details together, and then we will gather those details into the doctrine or the teaching of the passage. And we'll get into some application together. Here is detail number one. I'm sure that you've noticed this already, but Paul is not continuing the same pattern that he had in the earlier sections. Notice that there is quite a difference in this section. Usually Paul and Barnabas enter a new town. They preach the gospel or good news of Christ. They gather those whom God has set aside to eternal life, and then they are usually stoned or expelled from the city. But that's not the pattern here. Here Paul and Barnabas are retracing their steps to those churches that accepted the gospel to begin with. So he's going back and returning to them. You can see that in verse 21, if you'd like to lay your own eyes on it. They returned to Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch. They had already been to these cities. There were churches that were already present and gathering based off of Christ's work through them. That's the first detail I want you to see. Very, very important. Detail number two. Notice the direct quote which defines their situation in verse 22. Quote, we must through many tribulations enter the kingdom of God. This is something that Paul and Barnabas would preach as a kind of summary of the situation. to the churches when they re-entered their cities. Paul is repeating the same conclusion that we saw from 2 Timothy 3, verse 12, in the last few sermons, which goes like this. Yes, and all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. And they will be, or deceivers will seek to deceive them. This is more of the same. This means that manifesting or establishing the kingdom of God among us, even, will be difficult. It will come at a cost. In other places, we see Paul giving us a strong image to be able to understand the nature and tenor of the Christian life, and it is the image of childbirth. He says this, for example, in Galatians 4. 19, My little children, for whom I labor in birth again until Christ is formed in you. You can see the kind of labors and pains that he's going through in order to accomplish the kingdom of God amongst them. We all look forward to the birth of a new child, but we know that babies, at least in this particular way of getting babies, arrive after much pain. And so too the kingdom and the order of Christ. That is his main point when he brings up the situation. of saying that we will enter by way of many tribulations or afflictions into the kingdom of God. Then there is detail number three. What happens at different times for different people is that they just want the pain to stop. And this can lead them to veering from the path of righteousness, even the path of righteousness onto salvation in Christ, just to get the pain to stop And I hope that you can think under that title specifically of our brothers and sisters in Afghanistan, and that you would pray for them that they would not deny the faith. You can imagine a woman in difficult labor saying, Epidural, please But in this case, there is not an epidural, so to speak. It happens to all of us as Christ's disciples in one way or another. We have to live while seeking God's kingdom in a world full of sin and misery. You could go to the highest mountaintop to escape it all. But lo and behold, what you would discover is that you sometimes are even your own worst enemy. And therefore, detail three is to notice verse 22 that Paul and Barnabas do bring a kind of epidural if we want to stay with that analogy. I'd like to just leave it behind, really. But Paul and Barnabas are strengthening and they are exhorting the souls of the disciples that they would even, if you look, it gets this serious, that they would continue in the faith That they would continue in the faith. And so you can see that besides the strengthening which is going to be happening through the word and their personal presence and the exhorting which is going to happen through the word and their personal presence. They also, you can see in that same section, they're going to appoint elders. And when you appoint elders, you do so by way of prayer, laying on hands and fasting. It's a pattern you see throughout the scriptures. And so that is detail number three, that they're going to bring some kind of relate relief or seek to bring some kind of relief and aid to those who are afflicted. And so if we were to gather all of those things up, here is the teaching that we have this morning from the passage. From this passage, we learn that as the church faces many kinds of afflictions, we must be ordered under the rule of elders and strengthened and exhorted to continue in the faith. And I'll repeat that for you again. It's a very precious truth, is it not? That as the church faces many kinds of affliction, we must be ordered under the rule of elders. and strengthened to continue, strengthened and exhorted to continue in the faith. Now the way I'd like to unfold that truth into some personal responsibilities and further understanding is by three main points, Christ, elders, and everyone. So you can write those down as kind of memory aids as we seek to unfold the truth of this passage. Christ, elders, and everyone. Let's begin with Christ. We have to begin with Christ. When you read this episode in Acts or any other, you must know that Christ Jesus lies behind it all. It is so important because that is what gives us the connection. The same Christ that is ruling and guiding his church then Pouring out gifts on them is the same Christ who is doing the same things today for you, and you need to have eyes to see so that you can be encouraged. Jesus Christ lies behind it all. Just as he took care of their community, so too is he taking care of us. In an earlier sermon, I pointed out in when we were going over chapter 13 of Acts, specifically verse 47. I pointed out to you that Paul quotes from Isaiah 42, and it says this: For so the Lord has commanded us, I have set you as a light to the Gentiles, that you should be for salvation to the ends of the earth. The funny thing about Isaiah 42 is that it's not first and foremost about Paul and Barnabas and their ministry. They are not first and foremost the servants of the Lord. Jesus Christ is the servant of the Lord. So what gives Paul the right to quote this and say that the Lord has this is a command from the Lord for Paul and Barnabas? Paul says this about himself. How is he responsibly doing so? And it's this Though Christ is ascended in heaven, and it is most purely true of him, that he is the servant to the church. Christ works by way of means in his church today. And one of those means we're through those apostles, Paul and Barnabas. Though Christ is ascended in heaven, he rules on earth in different ways. Christ is gathering the nations to himself, but he is not here in the flesh where you see him literally gathering people. He sends his spirits. And he works through his people on earth what he has decreed in heaven. He works through the word that he has established and enscripturated. He works through well-trained preachers who know how to divide the word. For example, Paul and Barnabas. And as they preach the word, Christ is gathering his flock to himself through these means And it is the same way that he governs his church today. You must look at the episode with Paul and Barnabas in our passage this morning in the same way. Christ sees that his church needs to be strengthened. He walks amongst his churches. He knows they need exhortation to continue in the faith. And so what does Christ do? Well, before his final physical return, he sends his servants. He sends Paul and Barnabas, and Christ establishes those churches under the rule of elders. And he continues to do the same thing today, working through the same means, through the apostolic word, through elders. We have to look at that episode so that we can understand our lives in just the same way. Christ knows exactly what's going on in your lives. Christ knows exactly what's going on in the life of this congregation. Christ knows all and is in control of all. He knows all of your afflictions. He knows all of your secret thoughts and doubts He knows what you're going through. He is pictured in the book of Revelation as walking through the churches with eyes like fire. He can see it all. And Christ, in his timing, according to his wisdom, and there is no one wiser in the accomplishing of his plans and prudence, at just the right time, Christ is the source of sending gifts to us. and making us healthy. That's what's really going on within that passage. I want you to see that behind everything, behind all of the Acts of the Apostle, are the great works of Jesus Christ. And that is true for you today also. If there is anything good in your life, it is because Christ has given it to you. Well that's the first thing I want us to see from here. But the second is I want us to think a little bit about what's going on here with the appointment of elders. This is a glorious moment for Presbyterians to see the appointment of elders here in this passage. It goes to show that we really do have the most pure form of the government of the church. Christ sends gifts to some men, making them qualified to rule as elders in a local congregation. Because his people need it. That's what's going on. They are meant to be a gift. They are actually described as a gift And it is helpful for us to then, therefore, begin to think about how Christ thinks about this governing. A good way to think of this is to think of each congregation. As a little town or city in which Christ has conquered, bringing all those people under his gracious law and order. Think of a righteous king who finally brings life and beauty to your town, the kind that you've always longed for. Well, one of the ways that Christ does this is that he sets up officers in order to maintain law and order over the community at large. And we're familiar with this in our daily lives because there is an analogy in every county and township and state. and even federally of having some kind of government in place for the benefit of the people. At least that's the way that it's supposed to be. I remember a while back that someone robbed a local bank in Severna Park. It's true. The police arrived, they chased him down, and they apprehended him in my neighbor's backyard. And it's the same kind of thing that we're talking about here. In other words, when something afflicted the town of Severna Park, when chaos erupted in our midst. The town had already established a group of people, the police, to maintain that law and that order, to maintain the health of the town. And that is what they did. That's an analogy that we're quite familiar with. Christ calls a certain group of people out of darkness and into light. That's you Christ gathers them as a particular congregation. That's you. Christ places elders over you in order to help the whole community remain a place of love. To remain a place of grace and righteousness and peace and law and order. And when chaos breaks out in our midst, guess who's there? The officers Seeking to bring all of those things under the reign of Christ. You can see as an obvious set that there is an obvious set of responsibilities. That whether you're an officer or not, arise when you see the reality of what Christ is doing through officers, and in this case, elders. You should, knowing that they are going to have chaos brought to them quite often, be praying for them continually, that they would have wisdom You know, one of the most dangerous things, it's like when you go camping and you're sitting around a campfire, it's hard to get away not smelling like the smoke. And when you face chaotic realities day in and day out as an officer, it can cling to you. It can corrupt you. So you must be praying for your officers. You should be encouraging them. Here's a good rule of thumb. When in doubt, assume that they would love to hear a good word of encouragement from you. You should pray and be on the lookout, number three, of who Christ is raising up as new officers in this church. If there is someone who looks like they're moving in that direction, it's because first and foremost Christ is on the move. You as a congregation are supposed to notice that. That's why the election of officers is only by way of your election, your nomination. And that's coming up here soon, where we're striving for that again. And if you look out and you see, well, I don't see any new officers that should be rising up just yet Then you know what to pray for, but you can also do this. You should pray and you should let other officers know of men who maybe in two to three years according to Christ's grace, could be officers, so that we can start working with them right away. I used to think things were difficult when I first became a pastor here, and things have become ten times more difficult in our social and national situation. And uh I'll say one more rule here or responsibility that we have when we hear about Christ placing elders over us. Because I deal with this every year. You should not nominate men to be officers who are not qualified They will cause disorder in your community. It's not about whether you think they have a good personality or they're likable or they say hi to you on Sunday mornings or you notice that they're wearing $300 leather shoes. Whatever those things are, or they're great at business or whatever it is, you have to ask yourself the question: if this person is given power in the community to rule, will they bring order or chaos? And you know what the scriptures tell you to do? They say, look at the fruit of the individual, especially their family life. What do their kids look like? How's it going with the wife? And of course, we as elders, and even considering a person, look at all of those things. And what is their reputation like in the community is another example. But basically, what I want you to see under this heading is that Christ sends gifts to some men, making them qualified to rule as elders in a local congregation. And we, as we seek to be the church, as we seek to be ourselves, who Christ has made us, we have to take this seriously. And you can see some of the ways that I've asked you to do so. Take up your responsibility in this regard. See what Christ is doing in reality and respond. So that's Christ, that's the elders, and now I turn to everyone. Though you don't see it in this episode explicitly, I want to anticipate an upcoming reality in the church. And that is that Christ not only helps the church through officers in their affliction, but through everyone. That you each have a responsibility to each other as God works that out in providence. As God works that out in His providence, you will have a responsibility to each other. I'm thinking, as I'm saying all these points to you, and I'm considering what Luke has recorded of what Paul has said. I'm thinking of actual teaching from Paul from Ephesians chapter 4, verses 11 through 12. He says, and he himself, Christ, gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors, some teachers. We covered that under elders. And Christ. You see those two points? And now listen to the rest of that passage from Ephesians in the teaching of Paul. For the equipping of the saints, why? Why do the saints need to be equipped? Because they are going to do works of ministry. Well, what works of ministry? The edifying of the body of Christ. It is a construction term. It means that you are going to build each other up. Think he's relying on the idea of a temple? That you're going to take care of each other, that we are like a household and we look out for each other, making sure that we are healthy In other words, Christ is doing his work through you to build up his congregation. Christ has ascended, but he has sent his spirit. And that spirit has gone to some men that will be raised up as elders and deacons, and they will serve his bride. Making sure that she is healthy, especially in affliction. But has not Christ also sent the Spirit to you? And is it not a spirit of edification? And so, if you have the Spirit of God, it must motivate you. He must motivate you. He must express himself by way of loving your neighbor. For it is the Spirit of Christ. You have a responsibility to each other to build each other up. Each Christian here has been called by Christ to serve him. That's the effectual calling. You've been called into his service. You are to serve him in how you govern yourself. We call that self-government, for example, that you're well-ordered inside and out You have been called to serve Him, to order your families according to His kingdom. You have been called to love your local church to which you are a member You have been called to lawfully love your neighbor in all of your civic responsibilities and jobs. But this is where the problem ends up arising for us, each one of us as individuals. There are things that happen in our life that make serving Christ Difficult, all the way sometimes over to what seems impossible. That you no longer want to do that. You no longer have the will to do it. And that is what Paul is referring to when he says afflictions will arise. You need your elders and you need each other. You need your deacons. This was our sermon a few weeks ago. You remember the affliction that the church was facing at the time that Paul was preaching in the town? There was a whole other group of people that sought to poison the mind of Christians away from Christ. Is that not happening today? Is there not enough poison going around for you? Well then that lets you know that we have a great responsibility to each other. I have news for you from long ago. You are your brother's keeper. Do people seek to poison our minds and the minds of our children? What other afflictions or even sins could we list that will trouble and discourage us from continuing in the faith? Because it could be anything in your life. Anything can act as an affliction to work against your relationship with God and each other. Anything could do it. What are about your confusion right now on who you can trust? Where can I put my foot down to have solid information? Tell me that doesn't wear on you over time. And tell me that doesn't become a foothold for the devil on how you relate to each other and how you relate to God. What about the fear and exhaustion you feel from current events? It's moved from the frying pan into the fire in some sense. What about the cancer that I know several of you have faced? I have gone to your house and talked to you about these things that you have faced with your health. We have members, at least one that I know of, that is still in the hospital today because of it. What about when your marriage is broken? What about when you are lonely or when you're depressed? And then what about just fill in the blank? Don't those things over time afflict you? And what is it that's the kind of fruit that it brings out in the wrong hands and in the wrong frame of mind, and when you're totally exhausted? What are you supposed to do in the middle of those situations or at the end of those situations or the beginning? What are you supposed to do when life is life? I want to put it this way, because I think all of us are searching in many ways to answer the question that I just raised. We're searching it through all kinds of means. I'm going to put it this way. I want you to pretend with me for a moment that you found out that Christ Left a secret letter on the top of the highest mountain of the world. And in that letter was the answer to the question about life that I just posed to you. And you happen to know a very capable mountain climber who can take you there You therefore climb the mountain. And by the way, this scroll is going to be in an ice cave because that's really cool. You climb the mountain. In the ice cave, you find the scroll of all the secret wisdom that you need for this life, and guess what it says? I'll tell you first what it does not say. It does not say that I will send you miracles of healing so that you can be encouraged through the supernatural activity amongst you as a congregation. It does not say that. Even look at our passage. I understand that supranatural activity happened earlier in Paul's preaching, but look at how ordinary it is when they return to the churches. It does not say, I will encourage you because you're all speaking in tongues of religious fervor, another spirit, supernatural activity. It does not say, I will encourage you, because I'll show you the future and the gift of prophecy. It does not say many things, but this it does say. Christ writes in the letter, I have sent my spirit to the elders and to you as the congregation, so that you can each strengthen and exhort one another daily. There it is. You receive the truth from the mountain. That's it. That is what Christ is doing among his churches and how he is doing it. Can you enter into community life in faith based on that? Christian, are you a contributing member of a local church congregation? I didn't say a member, I didn't say that you, I didn't say uh just a regular attender or whatever it is, I said a contributing member of a local congregation Because that's what this is talking about. It's talking about how each of us are meant to contribute to each other. Like a body has to contribute to itself. Do you know how many problems arise when your left leg just stops working? Or you lose the feeling in your feet? Or you lose the use of your eyes? We need you. We need each other. Are you a contributing member of a local church congregation? Don't you know that you will need other people to help you? I am still learning that lesson, but I am starting to learn it. I cannot do serving Christ on my own. I need you. Do you know that you have a responsibility to other people? That when they are afflicted and you see the reality, and Christ has made you to be the person to give them some kind of cold cup of water, that you are meant to be the one giving it in his name You are his arms and his feet and his hands and his heart And all of this comes from that main teaching, that main doctrine that we gain from our passage this morning Though Christ be ascended in heaven, he cares for us through the ordinary ministry of officers and the ordinary ministry of each other. Amen. Amen, let us pray