Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. Therefore, take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. Stand therefore, having girded your waist with truth, having put on the breastplate of righteousness, and having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace Above all, taking the shield of faith with which you will be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked one. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. being watchful to this end with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints. Please pray with me. O holy God, this is your word. You have given it for your people. You have given it for our strength. Father, we pray that you would remove all the barriers in our minds and in our hearts, that you would break down the walls. That your Spirit would work in us and transform us and make us more like Christ from your word this morning And I pray, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength, and my Redeemer. Amen. Please be seated. Well perhaps you've noticed a phenomenon that's been occurring more and more lately, one that I've noticed, uh a person, maybe a celebrity or whomever. comes out in favor of a political candidate or or a certain position. And as soon as they speak out for that person or for that position All the enemies of that person in that position, they they crop up and they lash out and they attack. That person has taken a side in some conflict and now the other side has found a new target. Well, brothers and sisters, if you are a Christian, a believer in the gospel of Jesus Christ, then you've been called to a side You've been called to Christ's side. And this same phenomenon will happen to you. The enemies of Christ, because they hate him, will hate you, and they will come after you. Now, if these were just earthly enemies, we could make a big fortress. Right? We could build a giant wall around Severn Run. We could invest in training and weapons. We might even stand a chance at winning. But as we'll see in our passage this morning, the enemies of Christ are more than we can handle. We can't fight them on our own. But praise God Almighty, because you don't have to. Our passage this morning, Ephesians 6, verses 10 through 18, teaches us that God gives us his strength. To withstand his enemies. God gives you his strength to withstand his enemies. And we are going to look at this in two sections this morning. We're going to look at verses 10 through 13, and we'll see the need for God's strength, and then we'll look at verses 14 through 18. And we'll see the provision of God's strength. We'll look first at the need for God's strength, and then we'll look at the provision. So let's look at this first section, and we will see our need for God's strength in verses 10 through 13. We need his strength to stand. Look at verse 10. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. This be strong, if you look at it in the Greek, is in the passive voice. So we could understand it as be made strong be made powerful. We need God to give us the strength and the power. This is not something that we can gain on our own. To obey Paul's command to put on the whole armor of God, we must depend wholly on the mercy of our Lord to grant us his power, to give us his strength, to put on us this armor. We need the power of his might, not the power of any other. We don't ask for the power of Peter or Paul I mean just think about that. If we don't want the power of Peter. He had just said, I'll go to death for you, Jesus. And what was it, a day later that he broke under the questioning of a servant girl and denied the Lord Jesus? It is God's strength that is required for us to stand our ground. Look at verse 11. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. He says, able to stand. We need God's armor so that we can stand our ground against the attacks which will come. He doesn't say we'll be able to attack. He doesn't say that we'll be able to be victorious. We know the victory's won. Christ has already conquered. The strength we need from God is not to attack. We are going to be attacked. And we need God's strength to stand up under that attack. We need God's strength to stand our ground. And it must be God's strength, which we are given, because we must stand against God's enemy. God's enemy is not physical or earthly. Look at what it says in verse 12. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. Now that that section right there, that could be five sermons. So I can't go into great detail about each one of those terms there, but what we can understand is that the enemies of Christ are all working for just one real enemy, aren't they? They work for Satan. Now We have to understand, not even Superman is strong enough to beat Satan. Satan It's become a name, that word, but it's become a name because it's simply the Hebrew word for adversary or enemy. He is God's enemy. He is His adversary. And 1 Peter 5:8 tells us, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. No matter how hard he fights against it, the devil cannot stop the Kass of God, the covenantal love and mercy which God has promised to his people. The devil cannot win. But he can try with all his might to damage your life, to try to shake the faith of his people. Now Satan isn't our enemy unless we are united in Christ. If we aren't in union with him, Satan doesn't need to do anything to us. If we don't stand with Christ, then we're already on Satan's side. He hates the Lord's anointed, and to wage war against the Lord Jesus, he attacks that which Jesus loves the most. He attacks you. He attacks his bride. Yet despite his efforts and attacks, despite what it may seem like from our perspective, we can stand up to the enemy if we follow the Holy Spirit's guidance that's given to us through Paul. Therefore Take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand, we need God's strength, we need his armor, and we need every piece of it. The way Paul says this can have a double meaning, and I think he intends for us to understand it in both ways. This is the armor from God. And it is also the armor of God. It's the armor from him because he gives it to us to give us his strength, to make us powerful, to make us strong for the fight that he knows we'll have to endure. But it is also of him because it's his. It's the armor he wore, the armor Jesus wore while he was here walking the earth. And especially when he withstood the wiles of the devil. We need to be ready for the attack, so we need to wear this armor all the time. And though some days might be worse than others, whenever the enemy sends his fighters against us That is surely an evil day. Satan knows us well enough to know when we're vulnerable. He knows when we are weakest. And if we are to have any hope of withstanding that evil day, we need to take up the whole armor of God. Because it is for us the provision of God's strength. So we're going to look now at verses 14 to 18 and see how God uses the armor to provide us his strength. Notice there are two categories in this list from Paul. There's the armor itself, which we should already have on, and then there's some particular actions that Paul commands us to do. So let's look together at the armor. This is verses 14 through 16. To help me remember this, I call these the four Bs. Four B's. Belt, breastplate. Buckler, and I've already forgotten it. So the four Bs don't help anybody. Belt, breastplate, boots, and buckler. Now a buckler, if you know anything about shields, it's not a Roman shield, so forgive me on that one. And I realized that Roman soldiers, the hoplites, they didn't wear boots, they had sandals, but just go with me here. The bees, they had helped me remember it until this morning. I say that these are things which should always be on us, or that we should have already put on, because of the way the Holy Spirit had Paul construct this list, the way he did it grammatically. Most of our English translations are very helpful to us. They give us that word having. You see that there? Having girded your waist. Having put on the breastplate, having shod the feet. And this last one, I don't know why, they translate it differently. It's in the exact same form as the others. Having taken up the shield of faith. All of these pieces of armor illustrate gifts the Christian has already received from God, which provide us with the strength we need to withstand the attacks of Satan. And so we look now at the first piece of this armor, the belt of truth. Stand therefore, verse 14, having girded your waist with truth. Now, for the Roman soldier, their undergarment was a flowing tunic, which needed to be tucked in or girded with a strong leather belt in order for all the other pieces of armor to fit properly. This belt also served as an anchor point to which the other pieces of the armor are attached. It would help distribute the weight of the armor. It would allow the soldier to function while still being protected. Now, for the Christian, this is a life of sincere commitment to the truth of God. The Lord Jesus, He is the truth. You need to gird yourself with Christ. He is the way, the truth, and the life. He is who he claims to be. He's the Son of God, He's the Messiah. John 1:17, for the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. John 8, verses 31 and 32, if you abide in my word, you are my disciples indeed, and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount teaches us that hypocrites are those who claim to love God, who claim to worship and to serve Him, but they live in a way that is contradictory to that claim. No matter how much they believe their own lies, their life is not founded in the truth. Christians must not be hypocritical, which is essentially lying to ourselves Christians must be honest with ourselves and with others. We must be honest about our true condition. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us, 1 John 1. 8. Satan will try to attack us with the truth if we haven't already girded and wrapped our whole lives with it. If we're not honest with ourselves about our sin, Satan can use the truth that we are still sinners against us He'll try to destroy us by having us angry and resentful and hateful towards those who, out of a deep love for us, confront us with our sin. This is part of the evil of our day. So much that is sinful is being explained away as something which just can't be helped. If we don't believe the truth, we can fall for that lie. That a particular sin is just a part of life. It's just a part of who I am. It's just the way God made me. Or Satan may attack us with the lie that we are too much of a sinner to be saved. He may come at us and say, Christ didn't die for someone who sins like you do. Name your sin. And so we must first wrap ourselves in truth. We know who we are. We are sinners deserving death and the pains of hell forever. But We are also filled with the Spirit of truth, the helper Christ sends to us, who declares to our souls that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. The truth of our whole life is that Christ saves us. We do not save ourselves. So Paul then says, having put on the breastplate of righteousness. It's verse 14. And the Roman bless breastplate was made in two pieces, which were fastened together, and they functioned as one protective piece of armor. And the same is true. For the breastplate from and of God. It is the perfect saving righteousness of Christ put on us, and at the same time, it is the ethical righteousness of our own life which Christ enables. The breastplate was the most significant and important piece of armor for a soldier. It was heavy and strong and it protected all of his most vital organs. It provides protection from mortal blows, wounds that could kill. And if we are to stand against the foe, to withstand his attack, then we must be clothed in the perfect righteousness of God. No matter how badly Satan's attacks may wound us, they will not kill us. You cannot lose your salvation. Our righteousness is not of our own effort or ability. It is Christ's perfect righteousness put on us by the grace and mercy of God the Father. Yet we know from James that faith without works is dead. How do you and I know with any assurance that the righteousness of Christ has been put on us? We know by judging the fruit of our lives As Jesus taught us in Matthew chapter 7, a good tree bears good fruit. A bad tree bears bad fruit. To help us understand this, we might say: a righteous tree bears righteous fruit. We need great strength to stand in this fight. And sometimes we can be mistaken, and we can think that having a right understanding of Christ's imputed righteousness will be all the strength which we need. Reality proves otherwise, doesn't it? Despite knowing in our heads, in our minds, the reality of how God saves us, sometimes temptation wins. Sometimes it gets the better of us and we lapse into old behaviors, bad behaviors. Sometimes we return to old ways of thinking about people, bad ways of thinking about people. We don't have the strength we need because we've neglected the other piece of the breastplate, our righteous living. When a Christian lives and strives to honor God not only with their thoughts and their theology, but with their words and their deeds, God blesses that obedience with confidence and strength We must strive to live as God wants us to. Avoiding what He forbids, obeying what He commands. Brothers and sisters, this is not legalism. This is love. This is love for our God whose strength we need and who graciously provides it for us in this set of armor The belt of truth girds our lives and provides an anchor for the other pieces of armor. The breastplate of righteousness strengthens us with impenetrable confidence that God has indeed given us eternal life in Jesus Christ. And next, Paul refers us to what I call the boots of preparation. Verse 15 says, And having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace. A soldier's footwear is vitally important. It's their contact with the ground. It's their point of stability. The best suits of armor did nothing for the French at the Battle of Agincourt. They still slipped and stumbled in the mud and they lost. The gospel of peace is the good news of reconciliation with God the Father. It is the reality that Christ's sacrifice is applied to us, and we are no longer at war with God. But we are at peace. We are his friend. He has adopted us into his household. He has made us his children, co-heirs with Christ. And this prepares us for anything. No matter how hard the enemy pushes, we are prepared because we know that God is with us. He is for us, not against us. He loves us so much that he sent his son to pay the price for our sin and to give us eternal life If you walk around in this world with that truth constantly beaming in your heart, you will find yourself prepared for anything. You can stand firm no matter how fierce the enemy's attack is against you. And so the final B, we have the buckler, the shield of faith And this is the last piece of armor that we should already have. Verse 16 Above all, taking or having taken up, the shield of faith with which you will be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked one. He says, above all, which could be understood as in all circumstances, as some uh versions translate it, and if you know anything about shields, then you're mad at me because you know that my choice of a buckler to stick with bees is nothing close to a Roman shield. Their shield was about four feet tall, about three feet wide. It was big enough for a full-grown man to crouch behind it and have his entire body covered. It was big enough and strong enough to stop arrows and spears. It could be joined together with other shields from other soldiers to create Virtually an impenetrable barrier around a group of soldiers. And Paul is using this specific imagery to help us see how our faith is the front line, the first area of attack. The other pieces of a soldier's armor really only come into play if something gets by the shield. It is our faith with which we must use to block, to quench the attacks, the fiery darts of the evil one. Satan has always been attacking our faith from the very beginning. Has God indeed said, You shall not eat of every tree of the garden? He causes Eve to question what she believes, and then he proceeds to flat out lie to her. You will not surely die. We must believe what is true about God. And like wielding a big shield, this will take effort, it will take training, it will take time and preparation. If we don't know what we should believe, will we have any confidence that our shield of faith is strong enough to block the attack? This armor of God is ours in Christ. It is given to us, it is put on us that we can stand against God's enemies when they come at us in an attempt to harm Him. But this is only a portion of the armor. The whole armor of God includes specific actions. And so look with me now at verses 17 to 18 to see the Paul, the actions that Paul commands. Paul says in 17 And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Take is a command, it applies to the helmet and the sword. And this particular word doesn't mean take by force or take by effort. Paul is not saying you have to save yourself. No, this word means take with the hand. Or take into possession, or take up, or receive. Both the helmet and the sword are given to us that we would be fully armored, that we would have the strength to withstand the attack. We need to receive these from God. We need to accept them. We need to take them up. So let's look first at the helmet of salvation. Where does the helmet go? It goes on your head. It's designed to protect your head. It's designed to protect your brain, to protect your mind Even a relatively minor blow to an unprotected skull, while it may not incapacitate or kill, it can affect the soldier's ability to think, to make wise choices, to follow orders, to work with others. Satan is constantly attacking our minds, trying his hardest to damage how we think about God and his church. It tries to damage how we think about ourselves. It tries to plant doubts in us that we would doubt our salvation. That we would doubt the love of our brothers and sisters. That we would doubt that anyone could help us, or that anything can even be helped, that anything in our lives could be improved or changed. He tries to make us hopeless. Though Satan can't change the army to which Christians belong, he knows that a hopeless Christian is basically a useless soldier. And that's precisely where he'll attack us. We must take up the helmet of salvation because our salvation is our hope. In 1 Thessalonians 5:8, Paul says, we put on as a helmet the hope of salvation. Our minds must be protected against hopelessness, and the fact that God saves sinners like you and like me is our hope and our strength. Our hope is our salvation. We have been saved by that act of God's free grace, wherein He pardons all our sins and accepts us as righteous in His sight, only for the righteousness of Christ imputed to us and received by faith alone. Well, we must also receive or take up the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Our Lord Jesus masterfully demonstrated this when Satan attacked him directly during those forty days and forty nights in the wilderness. Matthew chapter 4 shows us that every temptation Satan offered, every attempt to drive Jesus away from his Father and away from his mission to save his people was met with a counter-attack. And that counterattack was the spoken words of the living God. But Jesus knew more than just the words of Scripture He knew the true purpose and the interpretation of those words. And we also must strive to know our Bibles as well as Jesus did. There's no way around it. Satan uses the scriptures to attack us. He used the scriptures to attack Jesus, twisting the right understanding of God's own words. Yet Jesus was not only able to stand against the enemy in that evil day, but his proper use of the sword cut down Satan's attack. The devil cannot stand against the strength of God's words. And eventually he had to give up. And finally, Paul exhorts us to pray. Look at verse 18. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. being watchful to this end, with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints. This prayer is to be constant. It's always or at all times, in all circumstances, for all situations. Nothing is beyond the need for prayer. There is nothing in your life that you have such a handle on that you can't pray and request God to give you strength to deal with it. It is to be supplication, humble requests. Requests for what? Requests that God would act. Requests that God would supply what his people need. And what is the end of our prayers and our supplications? It's that all the people of God would put on the whole armor of God so they can withstand the attacks in the evil day. All the saints require of us, require this of us. All of you require this of us. We need to be praying for everyone. Praying that we would persevere, praying that we would wear this armor, and that we would trust in the God who gives it to us. All of us need God's strength to withstand the attacks of his enemies. And Christian, this strength is yours. The attack is constant. You're never safe from temptation. Your next plunge into the frigid waters of shame and despair is lurking around every corner. The next time you are facing the attack of God's enemy, the next time Satan Tempts you to rebel against God by giving in to sin. Remember how God provides strength for you to stand. Put on the whole armor of God Wrap yourself up in truth. You are united to Christ. Where you go, he goes. What you see, he sees. He is your constant guide and friend. He never gets weary. He never takes a break. He will never leave you nor forsake you. But even more than that, being united with him means that his spirit is in you. That spirit that supplied him strength. That spirit Which can supply you with an infinite amount of strength is there, ready and willing to give you what you need to stand against that temptation. In your evil day, when you are attacked and tempted, remind yourself that you are protected by Christ's righteousness. When God the Father looks at you, though you have committed terrible sins and will commit more before you die, know this: God sees his beloved Son. God sees one clothed in the perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ. He never looks at you and sees a lost cause. God the Father doesn't look at you and see only your failures. He sees his beloved child clothed in white robes, cleansed and pure, and made ready for eternity with him. You can say no to sin. And if you're honest with yourself, you could probably imagine sometimes where you did. Where there were some temptations and you were able to stand up to it. Remind yourself of them. Remind yourself how Christ has answered your prayers in the past and given you the courage, the strength, the power to stand against that attack. You can stop. It isn't too late. By Christ's sacrifice, you have been made free not to sin, liberated from the bondage to sin. And so also you must prepare yourself with the gospel of peace. Remind yourself that you are not at war with God. But even more wonderful than that, remind yourself that God is not at war with you. If you're being attacked, go to the captain. Go to your king. Request backup. It's not you versus God. It's you and God versus the cosmic powers of darkness. You are not alone. And he has a mighty army at his disposal. Reach out to a fellow soldier. We're all on the same side. If we're honest with each other, we're all fighting the same fights. Most of us are tempted with the same sins. And sometimes just knowing that someone else is aware of your particular struggle, it can be a huge blessing. And can be a huge source of strength. And so, brothers and sisters, pick up your shield of faith. In the moment of your temptation, remind yourself That the fact that God has even given you faith, the fact that you believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, that He died to save you from your sin, that very fact means that you are part of God's family. You are part of his household. He has given you that gift of faith. No matter how strong the temptation, hold your shield up. Hold it up until you're exhausted. Hold it up until your shoulder is burning so hard that you feel like your arm's gonna fall off. And as you're holding it, as you feel like it's about to drop, look to the king. Know that he is pleased by your obedience. Remind yourself of Christ's struggle. Remind yourself that he was tempted as you are. He knows what it's like. Remind yourself that he resisted to the point of death. He suffered. He died because he loves you. And because he wants you on his side. He wanted you in his army fighting with him against his enemies. Protect and strengthen your mind with the hope that comes from your salvation in Christ. You are a new creation, a new man After the image of Christ, not Adam. Your mind and will have been restored and renewed. You are free not to sin Now you may feel like you have to give in. You may feel like it's the only way for you to get what you need. That's what habits are, after all, right? It's not true. All that you need is found in Christ. All that you need is yours in Christ. There is therefore now no condemnation For those who are in Christ Jesus. There's no condemnation for you. Say no to the sin, because of your great love for him who saves you and does not condemn you And take up the sword of the Spirit, go to God's Word, get out of the situation, and go get a Bible. I'm not being Pentecostal or charismatic here. I think it really is helpful. Go pick up a copy of God's Word or on your phone or whatever and go to the Psalms and read a Psalm. Go to the Gospels, read about Jesus' life, meditate on the wonders of his ministry, of who he is. Fill your mind with Scripture and let it expel the wicked thoughts and desires. And lastly, brothers and sisters, never stop praying Never stop praying. Never stop praying for yourself. That God would lead you away from the temptation. That He would give you the strength to withstand that attack from Satan. Never stop praying for everyone else. Never think that there's someone in this church who has finally arrived and is done with the need for prayer, the need for strength, the need for purity and cleansing. All of us, even the officers, even your pastor, needs you to be praying for us. Know that there are people praying for you all the time. For that to be true, church, you have to be praying for each other all the time. But this church is a praying church. We are praying for you. The officers are praying constantly for you. The staff prays for you. And if you've told us of your specific struggle, we pray for it specifically. Don't underestimate how powerful it is to pray for others. Sometimes that can be the quickest way to break you out of a selfish episode Even in the midst of your own temptation, even while you are under attack, realize that there are others who may be struggling even more. Maybe under an attack even greater. Pray for them. Pray for them even as you pray for yourself You are on God's side, and so you will be attacked by his enemies. But with the whole armor of God, through his strength, brothers and sisters, you will be able To withstand it. Please pray with me.