6 through 11 in 1 Timothy 4. You can also find it in the bulletin. If you don't have a Bible with you today, you can find it right in the bulletin, the same passage. If you instruct the brethren in these things, you will be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished in the words of faith and of the good doctrine which you have carefully followed. But reject profane and old wives' fables and exercise yourself toward godliness. For bodily exercise profits a little. But godliness is profitable for all things, having promise of the life that now is and that which is to come. Now, this is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance For to this end we both labor and suffer reproach because we trust in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe. These things command and teach. Let us pray. Oh Lord, we pray that you would give us grace today. Help us to see the great diamonds and rubies of value that are present in your word. Pray, Lord, that everyone here would be convinced that you are wise and that we should listen to you. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we considered the verses right before this. It was verses one through five. And the takeaway that we had that summarized the message was that to be a healthy church, you need to take scriptural warnings seriously. I hope you picked up on the pattern. Every sermon now starts with a healthy church. Dot dot dot. Now, what does it look like to be a healthy church? That's what we're finding throughout all of 1 Timothy. It's what you'll find in 2 Timothy 2. And that's appropriate because this is a letter written by Timothy's mentor, who's the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul is writing to Timothy, who's a young man. He's a young man who's been stuck with this Ephesian church, and this Ephesian church has a bunch of difficulties. And so Paul needs to communicate clearly to Timothy, what does a church even look like? So that Timothy would have a standard or an idea or a goal or target to aim at as he's working with this group of people. And the way we've been characterizing that is we've been putting that in terms of health. What does it look like to be a healthy church? Well last week we said a healthy church takes scriptural warnings seriously. Now let's make a few observations about our passage today, and we'll see that there's another lesson to learn about a healthy church here. The first thing, and you can look at this in your bulletin or in your in your um Your Bible, I just want to point out a few things that are a part of this passage because we read it quickly, and it can be a little confusing with the way the Bible talks about things The first thing I want you to notice is that Paul is really stopping. He's hitting the pause button, and he's focusing on Timothy and his specific pastoral calling. If you were to type this passage into Google, you would find that this passage shows up all the time at ordination services. Or if there is a seminary professor trying to tell young men what their ministry is supposed to look like, you're going to find this passage at the center of it. And that's what that's because Timothy is or uh Paul is switching here, and he's just focused on Timothy and what Timothy is supposed to do. Timothy, you can see in verse 6, must instruct or point out All of the lessons that we have been learning about what it means to be a healthy church. He should be showing his congregation how to handle the law. He should be showing his congregation what is right and what is wrong, not just in what we believe, but in how we act towards one another and towards those that we like our family or or people that are difficult How we're supposed to conduct ourselves. And when he does, he will be a good minister, it says. He will show himself to be in line and fit. With the words of faith and the practice which Paul has passed down to him, and that the apostles at large have passed down to him, and that Jesus himself is even passing down to him. That Timothy is going to be in line with all of these great leaders. If he can do this for them at the very least. And it's going to take a lot of courage. The passage we're going to look at next week, take a look very quickly at verse number 12. In your Bibles. And if you don't have a Bible, this is what it says. Let no one despise your youth. There are people that are going to be difficult people that he has to deal with. And Timothy is going to have to have a lot of courage to pull this off But that's Paul's focus. He's focused on Timothy's ministry right now. That's the first thing I want you to notice. And now here's the second. Timothy's ministry will, in fact, verse 7, face opposition. Timothy will say one thing. Timothy will lead people in a certain direction, and then there are going to be others who come along who are more handsome than him. have better cars than him or whatever it is and they're going to say, no, you should be heading in this direction. And Timothy has to have the courage and the guts and the wisdom and the know-how to be able to face opposition You can see this in verse 7. He talks about it in terms of a different narrative. People will offer different narratives. He characterizes it here as old wives' tales or fables. The word here is myths. That's the idea. And this shows up in the pastoral epistles all the time: that there are going to be these tales that people tell in order to convince them in a certain direction. And Timothy's going to have to face them. There are going to be people that want to drag away the sheep and they want to eat them. And Timothy has to stop the wolves. That's part of the job. And here's the third thing that I want you to notice: that there is a main emphasis of this passage that Christians are oftentimes uncomfortable with. And the main emphasis is that you, as a Christian, have to work your tail off. We can become super uncomfortable with that because we think that we're neglecting the grace of God and His goodness to us by admitting that the Christian life And all the parts of our life is hard work. But I just want you to put that away from me from now on. The Apostle Paul goes to great lengths to tell you that you must work hard with your life. He says, what is it going to take for Timothy to instruct in truth and goodness, to reject the lies and the hypocrisy? Is he going to be able to sit there with some Cheetos on the couch the whole time? It's all up to the grace of God. His answer is that it's going to take hard work and effort. You're going to have to sweat and bleed. Paul calls this exercise toward godliness. In verse 7. You must exercise yourself in godliness, Timothy. And I'm not just talking about you working on your personal character in a special spiritual retreat in the mountains I'm talking about that you if you really believe that the world should be a certain way, that people should be treated a certain way, then you are going to have to work for it. Just like Jesus Christ had to work for it. Godliness is not just our personal character, but it is the good things that we accomplish in the name of Christ and in the power of Christ. I'm not denying His grace We just confessed it from the Westminster Confession of Faith. But part of His grace is that you get to work hard now, that you actually have the equipment to do the work. When Paul says, exercise yourself toward godliness, he is telling Timothy to do what it takes to give life to the church so that they can flourish. Be on the front lines. And then you can see in verse 10 that Paul is already doing this himself. He says that I and the other apostles and Jesus himself are willing to do the same. And if you look at verse 10, look at the language here. He says, this is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance. That was verse 8. For to this end, we both labor and we suffer reproach. I want you to think about the Apostle Paul's life a little bit. Was it just a kind of chill existence? I mean, you could go through all the lists of things that he had to go through. He didn't go through them because he loved pain. He had a goal. He had an aim. Did you also notice the analogy within this passage? He calls up the image of an athlete. Did you see that? And he does that because athletes know that in order for you to win the World Series or any other trophy or title, that in the real world there are not participation trophies But that you in fact have to work your butt off in order to achieve something great. And he says you can achieve great things as an athlete. But they're not as great as this. That's his point. And so we should be able to work hard for it. It is not only a reward that is made certain, verse 10, by promises from the living God and Christ our Savior It is the reward in this life, and it is the reward that continues in the life to come. We'll talk about what that is. In other words, this is the part that can be perhaps the most uncomfortable, is that We are motivated toward hard work. And this is brings us, I've already alluded to it, this brings us to the fourth thing. And that is the motivation. I love that there is motivation here. Paul gives Timothy motivation. We all need that. We all need motivation. I had the opportunity to attend my my um well it's not my first cross-country meet But this one was a little bit different. And I saw how important it was, meaning it was a course where you could see the whole course. So I could run to different parts of the course to cheer people on so they could keep going. And it was so interesting. That when you would watch a person, you could see in their face and in their body that they felt like quitting And then you would see a parent or a brother or a classmate come run up along the line and they'd say, come on, let's go. And then you'd see them lift their whole body up like, yes, I'm at least gonna run while you're near me. But when I get to the woods I'm walking again. Or whatever it is. That was so cool to see. And it points out why Paul would motivate here. You can see in verses 8 and 10 when you have the time that Paul does use the imagery from the world of athletics. He points out that athletes train in order to gain something. Perhaps they gained money or fame or a crown or a trophy. And Paul calls Timothy to a similar kind of striving and hard work and efforts. A race is difficult. But the reward is far greater. In fact, the suffering pales in comparison. It is a reward made certain, it is a reward in this life and the life to come. And this is the motivation. We often ask the question, do we use the rod or do we use the carrot? And I'm telling you in this passage, there's the carrot. He's saying, look at all that is ahead of you for all of your hard work. And this brings us to another important mark of a healthy church. And it's this. A healthy church consists of those who strive. Who work hard to bring about a godly character in themselves so they can be people that are actually likable. And they work hard to make this world a better place. That we work hard to grow in our own character, and we work hard to make this world a better place, a place that Jesus Christ has always intended. That's a healthy church. Working hard in those particular ways and more, but we're just focused on this. So I want to what I want to do is to unfold this a little bit, I want to look at a parable which is of the utmost importance. And then I want to talk, just give a couple personal applications. A healthy church consists of those who strive to bring about godliness in themselves and in this world. So the first thing I want to do is look at a parable, and this parable is sometimes called the parable of the unjust steward. Sometimes this is called the parable of the talents. And you can find these in Matthew 25 and in Luke 19. And perhaps you could look at that or talk about it over lunch. But in order to understand the scriptures well and to not use them against their purpose, you have to make sure that what you're saying is in line with all of the scripture, not just one little part of it. And so what we often do around here is we find other scriptures that help us to understand the scripture we're studying. And I'm telling you this morning, if you want to understand Paul's mindset. If we want to understand what he's saying here in 1 and 2 Timothy, you need to turn to these parables of the steward or the parable of the talents. That is what is on his mind. That's how Paul views himself, and that's how he views the church. In the parable, I wonder if any of you remember it. In the parable, Jesus portrays himself as the king or the owner of a ranch or an estate. And he has to go away for a while, so he leaves the ranch or the estate, or you could think of like a small business, he leaves it in the hands of certain people to take care of it. He gives them instructions. They know what they're supposed to do. And life should flourish in his absence because of the delegation to these responsible people. He delegates property to several stewards. Some of the stewards, this is the parable, the story, some of those stewards work really hard for Jesus They not just work hard, but they work in line with his own heart and his own mind on things. They stay in step. He's the business owner, and they stay in line with the intent of the business owner. When the owner returns, he rewards the faithful stewards with more responsibility, and any profit that he gained from their work, they all share in it together And in the parable, he says this is what they call entering into the joy of your Lord. It means what your Lord is enjoying, you're going to enjoy with him. He rewards his faithful stewards, not only with those rewards, but even more responsible. What's the next project you want to do? I'm going to give you responsibility over ten cities, he says to one of them. I'd encourage you to reread this story. It's profound in getting at the nature of the reality of living with God. Those, however, who did not take their stewardship seriously, but instead spent all their time drunk and beating others up inventions Trying to figure out a way to take the business or the ranch or the estate from the owner, stealing his money, when he returns, we'll kill him. These were all their thoughts. What he does is he strips them of what he gave them. Even though they only had a little, because that's all that maybe they were capable of, even that little bit that he gave to them Because of the way that they acted and the way they worked and the fact that they didn't put any effort into it. He took even that little bit away so that they had nothing Now, I encourage you to read the parable in full, because they are a lens to understand Paul's own ministry mindset and his own teaching to Timothy, and it's a way for you to better understand how God acts in the world, too. Paul viewed us all, or viewed Timothy, and we can see in the scripture that it wouldn't be wrong to apply this to all of us. We are all stewards of things. If you want a main concept, I talk to people all the time and I struggle with myself. What are some of the main things that we need to know to go through our human life with less confusion and less agony? Could we at least hope for that? And one of the things that is very helpful to us as human beings is to know that we are stewards and that we have been given a stewardship. That is a key concept within this literature. Everything we have is lent to us for a time from God. I believe in personal property. I'm not trying to go down that road. I'm just saying that it's lent to you by God. And one of the reasons, or one of the ways we come to understand this, is because when we look at the Bible and then when we look at life When we look at the Bible, it says things like this about us and our property and our family and our good looks and all that. It says, naked I was born, and naked I shall return to the grave. And it's not just about you not having clothes on. It's about all the stuff that you invested in in your life you're not going to take with you. It's all left behind. All the casserole dishes that you love that in order for us to sell when you're gone, we're going to have to call them vintage casserole dishes, because anything labeled vintage cells, I guess. But you can't take it with you. You see that within the scriptures, but you also see that just by witnessing everyday human life. Everyone We know will die, and when they die, they will not take their property, they will not take their looks, they will not take anything else with them, because naked they shall return to the grave. And so the things we have are really ours for a time. And that's why I say they are kind of lent to us. And then they will go to others. The parable helps remind us that it is God who lends. And it is to God we are responsible for what we do with His property to which to us when he entrusts it to us. Don't understand property in the limited sense. It includes all of the talents. So I'm not just talking about that cool Vesta you have. I'm also talking about the mind that he gave you It is so interesting to me to talk to all of you. You all think so differently. I think, man, the talent in this room is just immense. The different ways that you can approach a topic and How quickly you can get to certain great conclusions. God gave you your mind. He's lent it to you. So that you can do good things with it. The same thing with your physical strength while you have it. Same thing with the time that He's given to you, the spaces. that he's given to you, the experiences that he's given to you, your stocks and your bonds Whatever it is, that's what I mean by property. I mean everything that He's given to you. God gives all. He is the great giver of gifts, it says. And he expects all to be used for his honor, and he is always honored when we love him and we love others. That's how he works. And now, this is the framework. I'm just giving you the framework. This is the framework that Paul himself used for the stewardship of his own apostolic calling. If Paul held himself to a standard, if Paul tried to understand what he was supposed to be doing with his life, he used the concept of stewardship to understand himself in his life. And he's giving that concept to Timothy, and he's also giving it to us because it's recorded here in the scriptures. Can you think of any, those of you who are a little familiar with the Bible, can you think of any time where Paul appeals to the idea of stewardship to understand his own self? You'll read that Paul will say things like, My hands are clean of their blood. I ran the race of my calling. Now it's kind of a weird thing to say. But do you know what he was getting at? What he's after underneath of that? What he is referring to is that he was be he was given by Jesus Christ himself a responsibility to take the message about what God is doing in this world through Jesus Christ. He needed to take that message to his own countrymen who were Jews And also to those from other nations, like Greeks and Romans, and whoever else around the Mediterranean Sea. He was given that responsibility. The king said, This is what you're going to do in my absence. I'm not going to do it physically myself, but I will do it through you. You will be a grace to these different cities in which you arrive. Christ therefore gave Paul gifts which were meant to serve that particular mission or vocation And so Paul brought the message of salvation to the Jews. Paul sailed to every major part of the known world, putting his talents to work as a good steward for King Jesus. He even did a little he had a side hustle of making tents In order to make this thing work. And with great courage, he labored among the Gentiles with the same message. So when Paul says, My hands are free of your blood, he means that He did everything within his control to fulfill his responsibilities as a steward before the Lord of their souls and their life. I have spoken to you many times. Some of you have accepted it. Some of you have rejected it. Either way, I wash my hands clean of this situation because I have fulfilled my stewardship. And if you were to go on to read his letters, he's using the concepts all the time. He did everything he could to make sure that the people knew About Jesus as the Messiah and the King. And when Paul meets Christ, we can read in his letters that Paul has confidence even in his life. That by the grace of God and his own hard work, which is also from the grace of God, that he is going to hear Jesus say to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. That is in that parable. And then Paul is going to enter into the joy of his Lord. And Paul is going to have other projects to work on. And he is going to enjoy the fruit with Jesus of all of those things. And this is the framework which Paul uses to address Timothy. Jesus Christ gave Timothy talents. Which were intended to be exercised in order to order various churches around the Mediterranean Sea. Timothy is a steward of the gifts of God. And Paul reminds him of this. Paul motivates him. Also, bringing to mind the great reward which awaits those who faithfully serve the master of the house in his absence. Now, there's a lot more to say, but the main point is that the parable of the talents or of the stewards is the way to understand Paul's mindset and to understand even our own endeavors. I wonder how much you have thought about your life in terms of stewardship. I'm telling you right now, even from my own personal practices, it can give you real insight into the nature of the reality of human life. Think about your life as a stewardship. And now I want to focus not just on that aspect, but also the personal. Not just the parable, but the personal. Now, when we broaden the horizons of our passage this morning into stewardship, we can see that this passage has a lot to say, not just to young ministers or church planners. But to anybody, pretty much. There's a lot of ways that we could go with this. This could become personal for you in many of your different walks, if not all of them. The very first application that we can make for this personally, which is the most obvious that I brought up to you, is that this is certainly meant to preach Those who are in seminary, or those who hope to be in the pastorate, or those who are in the pastorate. This is This has been a great refreshment for me this week, which I desperately needed, was to hear this passage. And it can be a refreshment and also a sobering communication to use some of the For those of you who don't know, we have a number of seminarians here, and those who are interested in ministry. And so I think it's right to just stop for a moment and speak to you. And and um it's not just to them, everybody can learn from this. But any gifts given to you, any any gifts that are given to your family, I want you to remember that they are given For the good of the church. In large part. Now you'll use them for other things, but God gives you those things for the good of the church At first, now listen, I'm not depressed, and I'm not bitter. Let me just give you that as an upfront here, okay? I'm just being real with you. You need to know before you, you know, land on the beach of Normandy, you need to know what's going on. At first, entering into the ministry after that ordination, everybody has their hands on you, and you have a clear purpose of what your call is, your life is going to be so exciting. You've worked so hard and your family has made so many sacrifices in seminary, and it's going to be so exciting to finally get to work. You are going to have a real sense of purpose, and you should You will be filled with honor because it's an honorable position. But I want you to mark my words that once the novelty is gone, your calling to demand of you and your family Hard labor. I'm not complaining. I'm very thankful for my position. I'm trying to speak to you as seminarians. and those who are in the ministry. I'm sure this applies to teachers also, grandmothers, whatever. Make your own application, but I do want to address those who are seeking the ministry. That you and your family are going to have a hard labor. Anybody ever been, let's just talk about childbirth for a second, because that's the word I'm thinking of. Anybody ever seen or been a part of a hard labor? I'm talking 18 hours Thirty six. Thirty-six going once with the right three. It's going to be a hard labor in ways that you don't know about. Ways there's going to be pain that you didn't know existed. There are going to be vulnerabilities that you didn't know you had. Insecurities you didn't know you had. You're not going to know how to fall asleep. It doesn't matter how much you pray, the Lord still won't let you sleep There's a lot in front of you, and I'm not trying to scare you. I just want to make sure you have a realistic picture of what you're heading into, because this is what the passage says. We with much striving and suffering reproach. This is the reality. I remember in 2007 when I was considering the ministry, that another mature pastor, he had a mature in the sense that he had already gone through a lot. He said to me, if you can do anything else besides the ministry, please do it. And then he said, only enter into the ministry if you must be a pastor. Now at the time I was younger, younger, and dumber. And I thought, man, this guy is like washed up. He needs to like, I don't know He was probably in theater in high school or something and just never seeing hard work. You know. But that wasn't the case at all. He wasn't telling me that the ministry wasn't good and that you just shouldn't want to be a part of it. He was just saying That if you're not, if you don't see it as a necessity, if you don't feel it in your bones, if it's something if it's something you could do, but you could do something else, then don't do this Because you're going to need to have a conviction and a commitment and a and a kind of meriness of focus in order to continue. It would be like somebody saying, hey, you want to swim the Chesapeake Bay with me today? Or uh hey you want to swim the English Channel? And then that person's like, well, kinda. It's like, are they gonna make it No. We're gonna need a Boston whaler out there and about thirty yards to drag them up onto uh on board Or a life jacket or something. And that is a picture of what happens to pastors that rush in. You will see a Boston whaler pull up. There'll be some disciplinary committee Because they decided to drink too much or sleep with the secretary and we gotta yank them out and try to rescue the congregation. Or they when they visit you, oh I'll just stop there. When I first heard this, I thought he was burned out and bitter, but that was not what was going on. He was communicating a reality. He was relaying a profound reality That I have started to discover, I'm not as far along as him. But he knew something that all those entering into the ministry need to think about If you are not really called to the ministry, if you think that you could do something else, if you don't know that God Himself is calling you and that this is the only thing that He is permitting you to do, then you should not do it if you don't know that I just read in a book actually that in certain countries they would not let people become pastors straight out of seminary, but they had to test a little bit and just work a regular job to find out if this is really what they want to do. And that's the reality. If your soul and your conscience will let you do some other vocation, I encourage you to go do that. Only enter the ministry if God has given you no other choice. Now I'll say this with the, I'll say this caveat There will be times in your ministry when you feel like you made the wrong choice and maybe there was some other choice. And you're probably wrong. God really did call you. You need brothers and sisters to come alongside of you and encourage you back into the race. You didn't have a fake call. You're just a bit discouraged. And you You need people, you can't do this on your own. You need a company of people to make it to the end. Now that's with seminarians. I've really thank you so much for allowing me that time with some of those who are entering into that, and I hope that you can take some benefit from what I've said to them. Second, without difficulty, you can see that this passage is useful for all of our callings and talents which Jesus Christ has given to us, not just seminarians or the pastorates. You can see how this would apply in the family, I hope, or through some conversation, perhaps you could, how this could apply to you as a member of the society called the church, or society in general. Just how this could apply. All that God has given to us is meant to be used for his purposes and goals, and that will require effort and hard work and labor and striving. I don't want you to think too big about this. Sometimes when people talk about this, they're trying to show you how to go from $100 to $100 million, you know, and to own your own Tesla plant or whatever. I'm not doing that. Start in small ways, because that's what life is full of. It's all like the little details that require some of the most extranuating effort, just the everyday of getting up and and getting breakfast for the toddler when you know they're just gonna squish the bananas and throw them on the floor Or getting up and though you hate numbers, doing multiplication tables again with a child that you know is going to be just like you and it's going to be terrible at math. Or listening and experiencing the frustrations of your spouse. Or here's a picture also, because this is some of our life, sitting alone at a kitchen table because our family is all grown up. Or because our spouses have died. We don't have anybody in the house any longer. That's real human life right there. And even in the midst of those things, of multiplication tables and loneliness, we've got to figure out a way to still look through the lens of seeing all that God has given to us. And what has he called, how has he called us that day to serve him where we can bring him honor and glory and we can do something good for the people around us? Where we can keep growing ourselves. We have to still look at our lives in terms of a stewardship. It is in those situations, the everyday ones, wherein God wants us to look around and ask. God, what talents have you given to me? Sometimes we can get in a spot we don't see any. And that's when you need to talk to somebody. So I encourage you, if you're feeling like you just don't have anything to offer Would you come and talk to me? Let's get encouraged together. Or talk to somebody that you know is encouraging to you. We all go through different depressive moments. Ultimately, we want to get to the point where we're asking, how have I been given the privilege to serve my king today? That is a good steward. And then thirdly Whether you are entering into the ministry or you are serving in motherhood or you are figuring out what it means to be a widow One of the most important details of the parable and our passage in Timothy is for all of us to remember that your hard labor Your striving in pain and your sacrifice is not the point. Let's go back to the woman giving birth Why is she willing, after the first child, if the Lord blesses her, to enter back into the pain to have the second? Some of you who just had children are thinking, I have no idea, and there's no reason they could ever convince me to do that again. The reason is because it's not about, we're not doing it for pain's sake. We're doing it because that even though there's pain, it pales in comparison to the joy that lies before us. in being able to have that child. And you could use, you don't have to use that analogy, you can use many other analogies because there's lots of ways in which the human endeavor is just like that Is that we go through different pain and we go through different suffering, not because we love pain or suffering, but when we measure, we see that it pales in comparison to the kinds of things that it gives to us. Like the world has made a really great observation. In a sense, marriage is horrible The younger person, the younger generations are looking at marriage and they're wondering why in the world would anybody ever get married? Why would anybody ever subject themselves to that level of pain? Because they just see people that get together, are miserable, and then take each other's property and divorce. And that is an honest observation. I'm not scared of that observation. But in the Lord Jesus Christ, I've also seen marriages where it's worth it. I've seen that if you can go through the hard struggle and the effort in working on a human relationship, learning humility yourself and how to give yourself to another person. I have seen that all of that pain and all of that strife ends up being worth it based on the kind of relationship you can have with your spouse. Or use another example. Do you know how difficult it is to raise children? Do you know how difficult it is to actually be close friends to another person? And all of that ends up being worth it somehow for us. And it's the same thing here within this passage. Do not if you're out there thinking that Christians just love to be in pain and they always talk about sacrifice because they love sacrifice, none of us love sacrifice. And none of us love labor. And we're not called to. God just says in order for you to get to a certain place, you have to face dragons and demons. and pain and you have to strive and you have to suffer reproach. But on the other side, on the other side It's all worth it. We must not forget that motivation, even when you're doing the multiplication tables As Christians, we often stop short and we say things like, God wants me to sacrifice and God what does God want for you? He wants me to give up everything in my life. Well, it sounds like a great God. No, it's always something else. He wants us to give up this in order that we might obtain this It is, of course, sometimes true, but it is not an end in itself. That's the distinction that I'm seeking to make. Isn't this how Paul puts it? Paul never says just labor and strive because that's the human life. Myth of Sisyphus, roll the polar up the hill, it's going to roll back down. That's your whole life. That's it. Then you're going to die. Paul labors and strives because he knows that his current suffering pales in comparison to the joy that awaits all those who faithfully serve Jesus Christ. And it's not even that you're just going to meet Christ one day, and then he says to you, great job with what I left with you. If he did that to me, I would say thank you so much. That means everything to me that you would say that. What can we do now? I am not interested in sitting around just thinking about the fact that you just said I was a great servant. I want to do more And he would say, that's exactly right. And the little things that I gave you, and the fact that you were faithful in them, shows me that you can be trusted with more. So here's ten cities. That's what the parable says. I just encourage you to take a look at it. Well done, good and faithful servant. You were faithful over a few things. I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of the Lord. The games have only begun. This is another way of saying that you will share in all of the riches of the king. And that is why we sacrifice now. We don't sacrifice for the sake of sacrifice. The Christian life is not meant to be a glib affair. We sacrifice, we do the hard work because of what awaits at the finish line. It is not just a well-done, it is a well-done, I now give you these other projects. The last thing I'll say is that please remember in terms of this passage that all our work here While the Master is was away, and this applies a ton of motivation for me. I hope it does for you. Remember that all of our work here, while the Master is away, will be used to evaluate what work Jesus will give you when I'm going to say that again because oftentimes we don't hear that these days. All of the work here while the master is away will be used to evaluate what work Jesus will give you when he returns. You, some of you think you're getting away with it. But I promise you you're not. And you're going to be real sad. And you're going to be embarrassed about the choices that you made. To those who do not bury their talents, much honor and important work awaits you. To those who buried your talents and decided that you didn't want to work for the Lord here on earth, Though you may in fact still receive salvation, according to 1 Corinthians, the Lord will entrust you with very little in heaven And that at some level will be embarrassing. So we all have choices lying ahead of us And the grace that has been given to you is not a cheap grace. You don't get to receive the mercy of God and just sit on your butts. You have received the mercy of God. And you get to be thankful. And you get to see what he's doing with the entire world, and you get to be a part of it. Little things at first, but as you show yourself faithful more. And more in this life and the world to come. I'm very excited about that. I have an entrepreneurial spirit, and so does Jesus Christ, and I'm pumped. Brothers and sisters, what are you doing with your stewardship? Is it time to get our courage and our sense of purpose back? All of this, of course, may be summarized in the idea of our stewardship before God. A healthy church consists of stewards. Stewards who don't bury their talents, but instead strive to bring about godliness in themselves and the world for the returning king. In that Amen, let us pray.