Please turn with me to Hebrews chapter 11, and we're going to just be looking at one verse today. It's verse 23. It's eleven twenty-three. Verse 23. By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden three months by his parents because they saw he was a beautiful child, and they were not afraid of the king's command. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for all these examples that you're giving to us that we would know what it will take to not look back, to keep moving forward with you. We thank you for your preserving grace. We thank you for this encouragement that you give us here through Moses' parents. And we pray that your word would go out in power this morning. In the name of Christ. Amen. We would open the little book and we would point to our children, that's your that's your meme. Or that's your granddad. Or that's your brother Nick. We would have a we had a little photo album. that had pictures of family that weren't living in town at the time, so that their faces were always fresh for our children, and they never felt like strangers with them. That's really what you have here. You can look around this world as you're walking through Walmart, like we mentioned last week, or wherever you walk, and you can begin to feel like everyone seems like a stranger. Especially as a Christian, as you begin to feel more and more outside of the current of this culture. But here within this book in chapter 11, you get to look on friendly faces Faces of family, faces that are striving after the same thing that you're striving after, to make it to the promised land, to the celestial city, to your heavenly country. And the benefit of that is that, and I we didn't see this in my photo album, but in this photo album, they are revealing to you how they made it. Last week we talked about that as a as a mountaineering axe. That allowed them to make it to the top of the mountain through the ice and the mist. And we saw particularly that you must have faith in the resurrection. This week, there is a new aspect of faith that we get to learn from our family here. We are caught up in these clouds of witnesses. in order for us to have the character to be able to finish the race. How did they use their faith? What were they called to in their vocations that we might learn for them? Well here's the here's the big idea this morning. Don't go looking for trouble, but faith is subversive. Your faith is subversive, but don't use as an excuse to go looking for trouble. I'll put it that way too. Your faith will subvert. And I want to look at this under three parts in this one sentence here. The promise, the threat, and then subversion. So let's go ahead and get started with the promise. You see the verse there before you with Moses and his parents In verse 23, God awakened the hope and the promise and the faith of Moses' parents. In verse 23, take a look at it. You can keep your eyes just in this one spot, and I just want to highlight one aspect of the verse at this point. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hidden three months by his parents, and this is the part here, because they saw he was a beautiful child. Now I'll get back to that in a second. Let me just remind you of some of the background Going all the way to the book before where this story is pulled out of Exodus, and we need to jump back into Genesis just for a minute, where God gave Joseph. the one with the colored coat, gave him great fame and possessions in Egypt. You remember the story, I assume, of Joseph Joseph ended up using his influence to provide for his people. All of the households, the book ends with all of the households coming over to Egypt. And the king at that time had assigned a special place for them to be able to bring all of their herds and for them to make a life for themselves. And yet the Israelites knew that that was not their final destination. The closing sentences of the book of Genesis Is Joseph reminding them that this is not their land? God will fulfill the promise that he gave to Abraham and give them their own promised land. That's the background here. Before Joseph died, he reminded them of that. He reminded them of God's faithfulness and that he would give them land for which they had hoped. The hope and the faith for that promise, even while in Egypt, is awakened within this older couple. Much later, a sign appears, in other words, showing that God was still faithful to his promise. They had been in Egypt for a long time. Wondering, is God still faithful? Is God do we still have this hope and this promise? And then lo and behold, here we see within this child the sign that they were looking for That in particular, in order for the promise to be fulfilled, they'd have to be released from slavery. If you read in the beginning parts of Exodus, you'll see that the king there had enslaved them. Their hope and their faith is awakened in this beautiful child, which sure is a strange way to put it. By faith, the parents, by the way, the father's name is Amram, and the mother's name is Jacobed. That's Moses' parents. Their faith and their hope is awakened when they see this child, and so therefore they hid him. That's the rest of the verse. They hid him because they knew that he was the chosen lowercase S savior of the Israelites from slavery. They knew this because Moses was beautiful. Isn't that odd? I mean it really rails against everything we stand for, right? That beautiful people should get everything that you know, I don't The reading doesn't really change throughout the history of the church. It's not like we have a bad translation here But there is more information to add, so we're not just seeing the beauty. If you were, for example, to look through our long tradition of how folks have taken this passage. There's a gentleman named Philo and a gentleman named Josephus, and they both continued this, saying that they saw the child's beauty and therefore knew, and set him aside because they were following the promise. But more importantly for us, and you can look at this maybe over lunch, in Acts chapter 7, verse 20, speaking about the same moment within history with the Moses, with Moses' parents seeing Moses This is what they say. This is what Stephen says and how he chooses the voice, the same concept. At this time, Moses was born and was well pleasing to God. And he was brought up in his father's house for three months. See, same account, but it doesn't focus on beauty as we would see it It's more of a remarkable s remark something remarkable about the young man that would let them know that God's favor was on him. Now you can see throughout the scriptures different characters where they knew that God's favor was upon him. There's different marks at different times. It wasn't that he had rosy cheeks or sweetish blonde hair. Yes. That wasn't it. There was something else going on here, something broader than just the way that we would think of beauty. God had given some mark or characteristics showing the child to be the one that would deliver them. You know, honestly, we have no idea what it was. At least I don't. I'm not sure what made them think that this was it, but they knew it when they saw it. There was some mark, mentions uh s one commentator, in fact this is John Calvin. Listen, he he derives the same conclusion here. He says, There was some mark, as it were, of future excellency imprinted on the child. Which gave promise of something extraordinary. There is then no doubt but that by his very appearance they were inspired with the hope of an approaching deliverance For they considered that the child was destined for the performance of great things. So whatever that was What we see is the promise is being reinvigorated right before their very eyes, and faith and hope are springing back up Maybe it was the um the echoes of the the faith and the hope going on within them that made them use the word beauty. Maybe that's the only way they could capture What was going on in all of the moment for them? The child Moses became a great sign or symbol which awakened their faith and their hope in the promise. They had hoped for the promise. That's what hope is. It's for a promise. You don't hope in things that you already have, but only those things which are promised. And they had faith that God would give it to them. And the child renewed both of those. And that's important as we it's really not the main point, but that's a really important distinction for you to have as you're in a whole section that starts off in chapter 11 talking about faith and hope. In fact, the two really kind of being defined by one another. It's a useful distinction for your own life, hope and faith. Hope is this, it's the substance of things hoped for. Hope is is the thing that you long for. Hope of a future paradise, for example. Although you could hope in a lot of different things. But here we're talking about those things for which you would hope that you know God will be faithful to deliver to you. So not just anything. Faith is different. Faith is not in the thing that you hope for. Faith is the person in whom you trust for the hope. Faith is trust in the character of God that He will do in fact what He had promised. Everyone in this list was the person, by the grace of the Holy Spirit, who trusted in God that He was going to do what He said He was going to do, even in the most difficult of circumstances. And they are also the group of people that all hoped for the same thing The same paradise, the same vision for reality and for this and for this creation. Hope, in fact If you do not have God undergirding or underwriting it in his faithfulness, it's just a naive dream. So don't call hope that doesn't have God as the underwriter. Don't call that real hope. Call that blind optimism if you want. And write on the side of a Baltimore building, believe. Because that's all they're really talking about there. Now this ends up being really useful as a distinction for us. I I remember speaking with a woman who was really struggling in pretty much every area of her life, but particularly with her husband and her children, had been going on for some time This was many, many years ago. And she was just at her wits' end. Have you ever been at your end? And then all of a sudden, when she turned the corner going on the beltway, do you know what she saw? A rainbow. Now you don't maybe you don't think about rainbows this any way anymore, and maybe you could you could misapply it, but she saw it and she knew that in the past, and even still to this day, that it was a sign that God has given of his faithfulness. And his divine purposes for human life. And the Holy Spirit used it. And that's all that she needed to know to catch her second wind as she was working on her problems with her husband and on her family. Her hope and her faith were renewed by seeing a sign of the Noaiic covenant, the rainbow. It renewed her in her the hope for future peace. And it helped her to remember that she can trust God to be there in her life. Now that brings us to the threat here. It really doesn't last very long in the sentence where you have a promise, and the promise immediately comes under threat, which we are all very aware of. These promises that God makes to us and his faithfulness we know are threatened every day. The reason Amram and Jacobed, Moses' parents The reason is because the Egyptian king wanted the child dead. So they are seeking for the promise, and they see that this is the child that God had delivered to them in order to do something extraordinary in order to make the promise happen. And now they have the threat of a king saying that he should be killed Because all children of Hebrews should be killed at the time. Now see, in the story, Joseph did use his influence to provide for his people. However, after Joseph died, Joseph was friends and very close to the first king, but when you read the book of Exodus, you see in the beginning That the new king did not know who Joseph was, nor did he respect him. He just looked on the Hebrew people as filling up his city and becoming a threat. And so he put in certain decrees and edicts The new king set out a decree that any male child born from a Hebrew was to be killed His reasons, you have to pull some out by implication, but most are just stated there explicitly, would be like this. The king justified his actions under the heading of national security. That's pretty much what he was doing there. It's a matter of national security that we kill these children. If their population is too high, then they could turn on them or join another country and take the nation from the Egyptians So it was a matter of national security. Thus the age-old pattern emerges that we see throughout all of the scriptures here in this particular story, and that is that whenever the the promise and faith and hope in the promise arises Within a group of people, there is always a threat against it. You can count on it in your own life. If you ever have encouragement, enter in one door, discouragement is waiting for you at the back. Your Bible is filled with the promise of God, accompanied with threats from this world. The promise is given from to Adam and Eve And they are expecting to see it pass down through posterity, they don't know who the deliverer will be, but then all of a sudden one of their children kills the others They know that the one who killed is still hell-bumped, literally, and the other one's dead. So now what? There's a threat to the promise. And God encourages them by giving them Seth. Cain threatens the promise by killing Abel. God keeps the promise through Seth. And this repeats throughout history, especially at the birth of Jesus. Can you think of those stories? At the birth of Jesus, what happens? News of the Messiah being born is heard amongst Herod. And so Herod wants to find out where he would be born. And then he sends his soldiers there to that town, and he kills all of the infants that are present. Same thing that we see throughout all of the scriptures. When the promise is at hand, the threat enters. It's really the story of the Christian life. The Hebrew house church, in fact, the people to whom this letter was written were under the same opposition. The promise had come to them in being able to see the crucifixion, the forgiveness of sins, the taking away and the promise of all evil being absorbed by Christ. Taken away from this world, and his resurrection, and seeing that promise that the new heavens and the new earth have dawned, that the star is now shining in the sky and bringing light As soon as they're able to see it, as soon as they give their lives over to it, the Sanhedrin, the leaders of that Jewish nation, they pass a decree that anyone that professes the name of Christ is to be arrested. Kicked out of their homes, their goods plundered, and sometimes killed. I was just talking about this in a small group this past week. But if this movement had happened here, let's say that you lived within the city of Baltimore and it was run by those Jewish leaders, if you became a Christian, you would be out of your townhouse You would be out of your home. You would have to leave the city. And where are you going to go? In fact, if you want to, look, just scan up Chapter 10, verses 35 and following, and look at the kinds of things that happened to the people. It's the closest we get to seeing the kind of strain that they were under. It says that their possessions were plundered They were under reproaches. There was a great, great deal of difficulty, a great threat on them, as soon as they had received the promise. Wherever you find God establishing his kingdom and promises, you will find threats to that kingdom in the same promises. That is just the way that the world is right now. It's the way that it has always been ever since the fall. Sometimes these threats are violent and physical. Sometimes they are prolonged, unspoken cultural pressures. But remember this. God reveals his plans for this world, and just as quickly some person or some culture will contradict and threaten those plans. plans. That's the truth that I'm seeking to have established here. You can see that it's it's it's point one and two come together at that final statement there. There is a promise, but as soon as the promise enters and people realize it, threat also. God reveals his plans for this world, and just as quickly Some person or culture will contradict and threaten those plans. We have got to agree on that, or we can't keep walking together. That's a main truth present here within this passage, and it brings us to the third point, which means it will be, it will necessarily happen. That you, as a Christian, in exercising your faith in the kingdom of God and His promises and the hope that He establishes for you and will establish, that your faith will be subversive. You will cut the legs out from those around you who have other contradictory plans. And you will feel that tension. For your whole life or until Christ returns. So that's our third point. It's subversion. It's really the main principle of this passage. Faith is subversive, it's inescapable. To subvert is to undermine power and authority. It is to cut the legs out from under your competition. Now you can see why I said don't go looking for trouble because everyone at Severn Run wants to go anarchy anyway You got uh got the seven-run militia up in here. We're not looking for trouble, but it it it's inevitable that we are going to be subversive Moses' parents, when you look back at what they were doing, they were not looking for trouble, but they were subversive to national security. What if everybody else got the same boldness as them? The king's got a real problem on his hands. The king had his reasons. I'm sure he counseled with those around him and the government as a whole had made a particular decision that this is what we're going to do and that this is good for our country. They wanted national security. Who's going to argue with that rhetoric? They tweeted thumbs up for everybody liked national security. First first get thirteen thousand likes, you get a free kitten. I don't know. I don't know what it was. Did they have kittens in Egypt. Yes, they did. Moses' parents subverted the king's plans for his kingdom, because the two kingdoms couldn't stand together. The plans for the one kingdom were by definition contradictory to the plans of God's kingdom. So there was either going to be loyalty or disloyalty on any choice that you ended up making in this situation. And so they had to be subversive. They weren't looking for trouble, but they had to be subversive. It's inescapable and inevitable. If God gives you His plan and some person or culture always rises with contrary plans, which is what I said in the last point, then how will you not subvert that person or the culture and their plans? And thus exercise God's exercising God's plans Exercising faith will include subversion to anyone who is in opposition to God. Now that really frames your life and your expectations. If you feel tension, then you might want to realize that's normal. Because you are a subverter. You cut people's legs out from under them, although not looking for trouble. Jesus put it in terms of love and loyalty. Mark, mark this one down, because here's the word loyalty. You ready? Mark six or Matthew, not Mark. Matthew six twenty-four. No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and man. Now, Mammon during that time was a local deity, and people tended to send up local deities as rulers over them and their families, and that which would bring them blessing. So he's saying you must choose this God and not that God. Although that God had embodied itself within a particular culture, so you could say you must choose God over your culture and become counter-cultural. James put it in terms of friends and enemies in James 4-4. Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whoever therefore wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. The opposition is present within the writings. Everyone has seen it, that our faith is subversive. And then Peter in Acts 4, 17 through 19. But so that it spreads no further among the people, this is the Sanhedrin speaking. Let them let us severely threaten them that from now on they speak to no man in Jesus' name. So they called them and commanded them not to speak at all and teach in the name of Jesus. But Peter and John answered and said to them, Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you more than God, you judge. The exact same situation That Moses' parents were in. And now they are subverting the entire religious leadership of a city named Jerusalem. Quite the subversion. Now, if you grew up in my family, you would know that your family are meant to be carpenters and builders. I don't know how I got up here. Carpenters and builders is pretty much what all of us uh grow up with. The skill is passed down through generations. If you're not going to some ended up being software engineers, etc. different crutchleys are doing different things But they all still knew how to take care of their home and to do carpentry. You would learn, for example, how to stay in business because the construction industry fluctuates All over the place. It's very, very difficult. You need to know how to survive with many different people on a crew doing jobs. And then you also need to survive when no one shows up Or when you can't afford to have anybody on the payroll. But most often it's when someone doesn't show up because you get interesting characters in the construction industry. And so you end up having to learn how to put a door on by yourself. Did you know you put the top hinge in first, put the pin in, and then it's easier to put the other hinges on? Don't start with the bottom one. You're just going to bend everything Or you use your flat bar to your advantage. You have a flat bar and you use your foot to where it's able to lift trim or your door to where you can have a third hand, which is your foot. Or carrying wood. If no one's going to show up, all the wood still has to get behind the house in order to be able to build the deck. So how can you carry all of this wood not making a thousand trips? So you learn how to carry wood, you learn how to carry ladders, and you'll you learn tricks with storm doors and glazing on windows. That's what you end up learning and and I'll bet you your family, even if you didn't all end up doing the same trade, passed along different things within your generation. And because you were a insert your last name, you know how to do insert the insert the task or the duty. Likewise, what we end up seeing here in this whole passage is that the apostle sets before you your Christian family that is seeking to pass down to you the traits in order for you to be successful. As defined here. And what I'm saying plugs into that. They are sharing their secrets with you. It's not a flat bar, it's not glazing on the window It's not putting the top hinge in first. It has to do with what you're going to run up against and how you are going to have to exercise your faith. It may be possible that you will not exercise your faith in some of the ways that you see within the list. But there is an overwhelming majority of examples to where pretty much whatever you run into, you will have seen before how you are to be exercising your faith. And here, here we're seeing that you must exercise your faith. Sometimes it will feel more grand than others in subversion. They're sharing your secrets. This is how they made it. This is how you can make it. Every example involves faith, but faith is exercised differently in different circumstances. Looking back on the family photo, in other words, we learn that faith is subversive and that you will be in conflict all your days with the aspirations and hopes of other cultures who are against God. We are not to look for trouble, but we are subversive. However, here's the thing that Jesus said: in this life, you will meet much trouble. And if you look at that context again, folks, he's talking about you being subversive. Now here are some of the areas where Christians will feel conflict. I want to just go through a couple things. I'd be very interested to see. Where are you going to have to exercise your faith in your subversions? Because you all have a different life than I do. Some of us have some some commonalities. Can I just list a few things? Of course I can. Let me just list a few things. That we need to be subversive in as Christians. You may have thought of some of these and you may have not have. And I hope that you can use them as launching points to come up with other stuff. The most obvious from the passage, and you being subversive, comes from Moses' parents. As Moses' parents, we will not tolerate or participate in the killing of children. Unborn children are children, which means we as Christians do not tolerate for a second abortion. Let me just drop on you a number that in the year so far, 748,000 abortions have happened in the United States. How are you subverting that Just because you can't take over the world doesn't mean you can't do something little. And let me give you a suggestion. One way I think to do this practically is to encourage caring mothers. to go for adoption and not abortion. Let's support adoption. Here's another one. The American economy operates off of you buying things so that you d that you don't need and can't afford in order to keep the appearance of the equipment. of financial health. It's called Keynesian economics. And you just accumulate enormous debt and you leave it to your children. I'm not speaking you personally, I'm just talking about America. You, as a Christian, are called to subvert such thinking about money and finances. You are to think differently about possessions and money and debt differently. I'd be interested to see how this develops amongst us. Marriage. So we have abortion, the American economy, and marriage. Here's another one. Marriage in America is for financial benefit and personal gratification. That's the way that it has been redefined. But we as Christians believe that marriage in God's kingdom is for the sake of other people. God set man in the garden and he said, You've got a lot of work to do. And the man looked around, and God looked around and he said, For once, actually, this isn't good. You're going to need a helper. So he made woman. And now the two are to become one flesh that work might be done for God's kingdom. And God defines all the work that is to be done in his kingdom under two main heads: love of God and love of neighbor. And therefore By that logic, marriage is for the sake of others. Marriage is so that you can enlarge your sphere of influence, whatever that looks like, in order to be able to help other people. It can begin with your family. But it must grow out. It's a societal institution. That's always the way that it had been defined until recently. Marriage in God's kingdom is for the sake of others, two working together to increase the sphere of influence for the public good How about jobs or vocations? A job in America is for the American dream, which means that you are getting your motorcycle and your boat and your family vacations. But in terms of Christianity, Christ would say that you would give up your own interests for the sake of others That you wouldn't have an American dream, but that you would have a kingdom dream. And and those societies that have been influenced by a Christian sense of vocation end up using their jobs and choosing their career paths and their degrees, figuring out how they could help their neighbor with their career. So I don't become a writer so that I can have a million hits. On my social media and be popular and pull down all kinds of rewards from advertisers. I'm a writer because it helps other people to live their life. That's what the sense of vocation was always meant to be. An aid to society, another societal institution where Christianity has had its influence And then this was a part of my prayer, but in America, the church is becoming a place for the hip and the theologically educated. I see all these pictures of people going to church and they're all beautiful and really well dressed and they have 13 master's degrees. And I don't get it because when I read the New Testament, I don't see that group of people. And it's driving me crazy when they have professional musicians doing this and that and 13 projectors. I just don't understand how you could go in sick and maybe struggling with heroin or whatever and ever feel comfortable around somebody like that because you would walk in and be the only one that has the problem Everyone else's life is just going great. They all have brand new cars in the parking lot and SUVs at that. That cannot be what we're supposed to be standing up for. I think that we can have fashion. That's fine. Don't look like a bum. That's great. You can have education also. But don't forget, like our passage in the prayer, that Jesus had dinner regularly with the poor and prostitutes Here's uh here's a saying. I have came up with a my first proverb. I'd rather have Bermuda shorts and flip-flops at church. Somebody looking for rest above anybody in a three-piece three-piece suit with arrogance. I gotta work on the proverb. It needs to be more concise. It needs to be more proverbial. But you get the picture. You get the picture Some of the ways that you could see this here is is when we when we let out of service sometimes or before service. If I were a visitor, I would walk in and all I would see are little circles of people that all know each other, and they're not opening the circle and saying hi to me. I know that you're not all guilty of that. I'm just bringing up some generalities. And this goes for you students also. Those of you in high school and college, you've got your little circles, and I don't see you open it up. You're just filling in the stereotype of teenagers But you're Christian teenagers, which means you're going to subvert the understanding of what teenagehood is to this world. You are teenagers that are self-sacrificial, and you open your circle to those. To wear who wear three-piece suits, it's the opposite for you. The point, in conclusion, the point is that since Christians have hope, And faith in God's plans for this world, and those plans conflict with the plans of this world, then like Moses' parents, our faith will have to subvert. And those are some examples Those are some examples on that you might want to think through. I don't know if those are the particular ways you should subvert or not. I mean some of them are obvious. Or how you will do it, I'm not sure exactly. But you have to think through this as a Christian because you have to exercise your faith. We haven't gotten to the part of this passage yet, but he's going to say, you're involved, you're, we could put you on the list. Chapter 11. Could just keep going and going and going because of all the Christians throughout history that have exercised their faith. And this is your story. By faith. Joe did such and such. By faith, Stephen did such and such. That's how it's supposed to go. And so I'm interested in what story you're going to write. By faith you will subvert what? Not looking for trouble. Don't go looking for trouble. But remember you can't have two masters, for either you will hate the one Or you will love the other, or you will be loyal to the one, or you will despise the other. Please pray with me. Father, these are difficult words that you give to us. It actually, I'm thinking, Lord, out loud here, that you are subverting us. Insofar as our plans are not aligned with yours, you are subverting our plans. I think, Lord, that's the pain that we feel. Father, we ask that we would consider you in all of our ways. And that your plans would be our plans, that we would be of one heart. And we understand, Father, that This is progressive. But we ask that you'd help us more and more. And we ask that you would help us to have our expectations set correctly for conflict in this world and the sense of tession tension that we feel in an ungodly age. We pray, Father, that you would guide us, that we wouldn't look for trouble, but that we would be loyal to you. We ask these things in your name. Amen.