That's that if you that's not right. It's not seventeen through twenty-four, it is seventeen through thirty-four. Okay, I thought so. So we will be reading from that today. Of Matthew, the Word of God, starting in chapter 20, verse 17. And Jesus going up to Jerusalem took the twelve disciples aside on the road and said to them, Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man. Men will be betrayed to the chief priests and to the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and deliver him to the Gentiles to mock and discourage and to crucify. Then the mother of Zebedee's sons came to him with her sons, kneeling down and asking something from him, and he said to her, What do you wish? She said to him, Grant that these two sons of mine may sit Jesus answered and said, You don't know what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup that I'm about to drink? Be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? They said So he said to them, You will indeed drink my cup, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with. For whom it is it is prepared by my Father. And when the ten heard it, they were greatly displeased with the two brothers, but Jesus called them to himself and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and those who are great exercise. And whoever desires to be first among you, let him be your slave. Just as the Son of man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. Now as they went out of Jericho, a great multitude followed him, and behold, two And the multitude warned them that they should be quiet, but they cried out all the more, saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord. Son of David. So Jesus stood still and called to them and said, What do you want to do me to do for you? They said to him, Lord, that our eyes may be opened. So Jesus said, Command Compassion and uh touch their eyes, and immediately their eyes received sight, and they followed him. May the Lord add the His blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Jesse's already alluded to this, but I would like to just remind you that we Americans tend to be preoccupied with success. It's kind of different now in the way that people are preoccupied with success from when I was younger. Most of the folks that are in the The sphere in which success is still something that they look forward to rather than us, for if we have a shot at success, it's probably behind us by now. Yeah. But for those that are looking forward to being a success, uh they're content to think of success more on social terms, more of a personal way of doing things in their personal lives. It seems to be more a lifestyle, achieving a lifestyle that that they enjoy, rather than objective things that they accomplish. Doing things going places, having to ten thousand friends on Facebook, that type stuff. But still I think to some extent that this idea for success still is just almost in drained in our American character. The issue comes is that without thinking about it, without even kind of realizing What does that mean? Well well being a success means uh effectively that we're kind of thinking in terms of being patted on the back. It means having someone say, Good job. When it comes to Christianity Good job. You're a good Christian. This is how it tends to sneak into the way That we think when we come to Christ. We measure success in terms of accomplishments, the same way that we do that on the outside. Oh, okay, uh, what's a successful disciple of Christ? Well Well he's one who can quote scripture to you. Or perhaps, you know, those guys that can even quote the Westminster Confession of Faith. Or perhaps they're the teacher, the one everybody looks up to, or the good counselor that everybody goes to in order to say, okay There, this is a godly man, a godly woman. That she that he she they are a success in their Christian walk. Now why do we do that? Because we can get a handle on it. We can we can get our hands around Objective things to measure. And that's how we want to be gauged. We want to have something in which we can gauge our success. Success means that we are doing Christian things Well, and people recognize it. All too often we think that way, and it is nothing more than bringing the way the world thinks Things into our Christianity. So I think the way we measure success in our Christian walk is most likely to be determined by the way We measure success in the world around us than anything else. And Jesus in this passage is clearly calling us to re-evaluate. How do you eat that? The subject of success is part of this passage, and it comes up after Jesus is telling his disciples again what lies ahead of them. Now I believe the disciples he said that Several times, I think they're having a hard time getting their head around it. But verse 17 through 19, Jesus speaks of it again. He says, Look, guys, we're going to Jerusalem. That's where we're headed. I've got my face set towards Jerusalem and we're on our way. And there I am going to be betrayed to the bad guys. And they are going to condemn me to death. And then they're going to give me over to the Romans, and those Romans are going to to mock me, they're going to spit on me, they're going to whip me with these horrible uh whips that they had in those days, and then they're going to crucify me And on the third day, by the way, I'm going to raise again from the dead. That's all he says. He doesn't say there, hey guys, it's going to be okay He he doesn't do that. He doesn't say, look, I'm going to take care of you. Don't sweat it. No. Because they're being tested also He doesn't say, I'm going to set up my kingdom after all of this is over with, and you guys are going to prosper. gonna be a success. I mean to tell you, boy, we're gonna have a great time ruling in this kingdom after I raised from the dead. Now he tells them Something that's very sobering. When we look at what Jesus tells them, we're not mindful of coaches in uh the locker room at halftime, you know, exhorting his guys, look, guys, you're great. You're gonna whoop these guys, go get 'em. No. He says, according to the way the world thinks about success, brothers, what's happening for us in Jerusalem just don't rank high on the list. They want some reassurance. They want some some more definition to this. And I think that probably James and John were probably talking about this, and they were talking about it in the hearing of their mother. She's a good Jewish mom. She wants her kids to prosper. And so she goes and talks to Jesus. Now obviously they are with her. Because the way Jesus answered Answers her, it's not really answering her, it answers them. And we pick up on that. Well what does she want? She wants them to come out on top, she wants them to be a success. She wants them to be granted the positions of honor at his left and right hand. Now when Jesus hears this, he says You don't have a clue what you're asking about. You just don't have a clue. And he turns in and he talks, or either he even at that point talks to the dude two disciples directly. And he says, Do you really think you're ready to be baptized with my baptism? Are you really ready? to drink the cup from which I have to drink. And they say, with all of the arrogance of human disciples who don't know what they're talking about Sure. Yeah, we can do that. Piece of cake, Jesus. And he says Well, in fact, you will be baptized with my baptism. Remember that. You will be baptized with my baptism. He tells them that. You will drink from the cup that I drank from. Remember that. And as far as being recognized as disciples, as successful disciples, disciples as successful people in my kingdom as coming out on top. It's a very interesting statement he makes. That's not mine to give. Curious statement from the Lord of the universe. who is the Lord of the kingdom. But even here, subordinate to his father in heaven. Now what happens here is that the other disciples hear about James and John hiding behind their mother's coattails, I suppose, or skirts, whatever it is, and asking this and they get about peeved about it. They get it a little I mean who in who in the world does James and John think they're doing they are that they should ask for this privilege? Why why should they be here? Peter's probably over there going, huh, drum drum So Jesus takes this opportunity to teach them about success in his kingdom. He tells them that success in his kingdom is different than the way success is measured in the world about us Success in my kingdom, he says, is not about getting elevated in prestige. It's not about getting power over other people. It's not about being given and special treatment that is denied to other people. That's the way the world measures success, and that ain't the way it works in my kingdom. Rather, the most successful guys in my kingdom is not the guy is the guy who would come in dead last when measuring success in the world's kingdom. The world does not look at a slave and say, boy, there is a successful guy. They just don't do that. No, it's the guy with the big office, the fancy car, the crowd of groupies following him along. That's the guy that's a success. It's not the guy who puts others first. It's not the guy Who is a servant of all. Jesus says, success in my kingdom is going to be measured by how closely a person follows Folllows my example. Because I'm the one who came into this world to give his life on behalf of others, to serve others. Success My kingdom is going to be measured by how a person strives and succeeds in following in my footsteps. I have not come to Serve he's to be served, he says. I have come to serve. Now you guys need to think about that, Jesus says. Well, let's tell Back for a moment and let's think about it in terms of the big picture. Let's take a look at Jesus Himself and how He measured success. in his own life and thus try to take that and then apply that idea to our own. We begin with where Jesus begins in his baptism. Because he says here, are you willing to be baptized with my baptism? And by the way, you will be measured, you will be baptized with my baptism. So we're not talking about something here that is beyond the capability of human beings. We're not talking about something that is unique to Jesus himself, that only he is baptized in this way. So, we begin with his baptism in the cup that he had to drink. And so we go back to the Jordan River with John the Baptist standing there, with Jesus standing there. And and John the Baptist has taken water and he is dunking it on Jesus' head. The dove, the Holy Spirit, descends Upon Jesus. A voice from heaven says, This is my son, in whom I am well pleased. Jesus' success started He is embarking upon a ministry. Because in this baptism he is dedicating himself to the task of achieving This was Jesus now The divine man. This is Jesus in his human nature. This is the Christ who has come to earth but has assumed a human form, and he is undertaking his ministry And he is undertaking it to achieve a certain goal which the divine Christ had agreed to pursue before the creation of the world. Jesus was the man who was Christ incarnate. He was born in a manger. That's what we're celebrating this year. This week. But he came into this world to do specific things. And I'm talking about this at the highest level now. I'm not going to talk about the specifics of his ministry. And it was to that end that he was baptized. Now, no one but Jesus Himself could do the particular Particulars of his own ministry. There is no one in this room who could undertake his level of obedience nor go to the cross on behalf of others. Let's get that out of the way. We're not talking about the specifics of his particular ministry. However, from the framework of the higher level, of what we view his ministry, all who follow Jesus are able to measure their lives in the same way by the manner and the degree to which they adhere to these higher principles that governed his baptism. Okay? What is the ministry? What is this higher quality that we're to look for. We see that Jesus was baptized into a ministry of obedience. A ministry of obedience. In Hebrews 7, we see Jesus pictured as standing before God the Father, and he paraphrases Psalm 40, and he says, Here am I. I have come to do your will. That's why he came. That's why he was born in a manger That's why he entered into this world of space and time. I have come. The reason why I am here, O God my Father, is to do your will, no matter what it is No matter what it requires of me. No matter where it takes me, my life is yours to command. I am bound to you. I am bound to be your obedient servant. Now Paul tells us the same thing about Jesus. In Philippians 2, that he left his place in heaven and he came into this world and took on the humanity, the form of a slave, so that he may become Obedient. Obedient even unto death. Even death on a cross. This teaches us that when Jesus was baptized, it was to undertake the ministry of obedience. And therefore, Obedience in accordance with the baptism of Christ is how the success in the kingdom of God is measured. It is by being given over totally to God and available to his command. To live each day as a servant of God. Seeing the events and the circumstances that impact our life, that come into our life, as they they grow up in front of us in our life, as they occur in whatever way God brings them, to see See those as opportunities for serving Christ. For serving God. Now Jesus Himself says this in another passage. It's an amazing passage. I I always am startled when I read it. He says, In and of myself I can do nothing. This is the Lord Christ And he's saying, in and of myself I can do nothing. The only thing I do, he says, is that which I see my father doing. Those are the things I do. So Jesus lived every day, he lived every minute, with each breath but what God has put before him as the opportunity, if you will, in which obedience and service is to be rendered. It is that type of obedience that is the total idea of servanthood. That is what the Father commends. He commends Considers it a success, and that's what the Father rewards. It was that perfect obedience which none of us are capable of, but which was absolutely here at in our Lord Christ, that perfect obedience which gained Jesus his promised reward. Why are you going to heaven? Yeah, going to heaven because you're because of Jesus. And specifically how? Because he was perfectly obedient. The whole hope of heaven which lies before you you is because our Christ came and in his perfect obedience he was obedient even under the cross. He was actively obedient in going to the cross. Yes, he suffered his passive obedience there, and yes, your sins were punished in him there. But what put him on that cross? He said, No man does this, I do it myself I am going to that cross because I am being obedient to my Father, and my Father wants me to go to that cross to pay for the sins of my people. So that. They will be with me forever. His reward for obedience is you and me. Wonder often if he got the worst part of that deal done. But the bottom line of it is that's the gospel. It is this obedience that the gospel or that the book of Revelation teaches Teaches us that he was the lamb that was as of having been slain, a glorious lamb, not an object of pity whatsoever. But a lamb that is glorious in his appearance, even though he is slain. Coming forward, and he and he alone is able to open the seals on the book of life. Why? Because he was obedient. It was his obedience that elevated him in his human nature to the status that every knee on earth shall bow, and every tongue confess that he and he alone shall bow As Lord. Everything Jesus has gained, including the right to give eternal life to you and me, to cleanse us from our sins. To make us fellow sharers with him and his inheritance, everything Jesus has gained comes from the reward of his being totally obedient. Obedient in all things. Doing this, he established beyond a shadow of a doubt that total obedience to God the Father Almighty is the criterion by which success In his kingdom is measured. To follow Jesus, brothers and sisters, to follow Jesus is to follow him in obedience. As a side note, I don't have this in my notes, but there's another statement in Revelation I don't Remember where where the hundred and forty four thousand are characterized as those who confessed, who kept a good confession and obeyed the commands of God Those who are saved are pictured as being faithful and obedient. In doing this He has set for us what we should understand as success in following Jesus as being different than how the world sees us. Our lives, brothers and sisters. Our families, our jobs, the ordinary circumstances of our life, we must begin to see them as the sphere in which we are to be obedient. Okay? It's a mind shift. It's a mind shift away from objective measurement of doing Christian things as the measure of success. To the idea of comprehensive obedience in every sphere of our lives. And most certain With our brothers and sisters in the church. This is what we are to pursue. We are to pursue obedience in our personal walk We are to pursue obedience in our families. We are to pursue obedience in our jobs. We're to pursue obedience in our neighborhoods. We're to pursue obedien Square emphasis God puts us. And to have that pursuit as our first objective is how to measure success. Everything else we achieve on top of being obedience, any other objective things that come out of that are icons on the cake. God may put that icing there, he may not. If God decides to bless our obedience by increasing our blessings, if if he gives us lots of good fruit from it, if he blesses us us with godly children because we're obedient. If he gives us loving, godly friends because we're obedient, if we get a degree of respect, because we have been obedient if we are actually blessed with the fruit of disciples and people who are converted because of our proclamation. Then praise God. But brothers and sisters, that is not the measure of your success. It isn't If obedience means losing our job, that can be success. It's not failure. If our success is being measured by the physical things that come from our obedience, then we've lost our perspective. Success is not measured by the degree of our obedience, it is measured by the pursuit of it. Now, obviously, this requires wisdom, it requires Discernment, it requires a desire to obey, and if I had the opportunity and the time, it would love to give a sixth sermon series on it. But when it comes right down to it, it's It's not how circumstances turn out that proves our success. It is whether we were obedient in them. Remember that the next time you're in a tough relational issue. Your goal is to be obedient, not to determine how the issue turns out. The first and foremost Our most important measure of success in the kingdom of Christ is obedience. The obedience of faith, the obedience which comes from trusting God, loving God, and obeying his commandments. And that's what it means to be a disciple. That's what Matthew 28 tells us to do, to make disciples by baptizing them and teaching them to To obey. That's what the baptism of Christ signifies. The second measure of success that comes out of this is the standard of service. It flows directly from being obedient, but it frames how we're To understand being obedient. We are obedient to God by adopting the attitude of being a servant. Now that's what Jesus says, as he explicitly teaches here. That's what the Son of Man came to do, is to serve, not to be served. And when we undertake to be obedient to God, we say, What do you want me to do? Here are my life circumstances. Imagine this in your prayer closet or however you come before God. What is it, O God, my Father, that you want me to do and then just start listing the events of your life. And God's going to answer that prayer. And He's going to say, okay, and then This circumstance, I want you to be a servant. And then people's names or places or things are going to come to your mind. I want you to be a servant I want you to serve others. I want you to put the needs, the best interests, the blessings of others. I want you to put them ahead of your own desires, your own comments. And how you would like this to turn out. I want you to learn what the reward of service is, and learn that The reward of service, selfless service, is far greater than anything that you might have to give up. But the way I want you to learn that lesson of the rewards of trusting service Services by trusting me and giving yourself up to the service that I have given you opportunities to display. Now take the story of the two blind men that we see right here Jesus is walking along, and these two guys just happened to be there. The road that Jesus is walking. Jesus is going to Jerusalem. He's not thinking about healing a whole bunch of people. The time for feeding 5,000 people out in the out in the fields, those are past. He's focused. So, in a sense, these blind men are a distraction. But then they hear his Jesus and they start hollering out, and they will They cannot be shut up. They yell out, Jesus, have mercy on us. And Jesus stops in his tracks. And he goes and talks to them. Now notice the pattern here. Jesus goes and talks to them. And he says, What do you want? that's all we have recorded. But the paradigm here is that he went and figured out and had revealed to him what that person knew. Needed in order to be served. It's not sitting in the back of your academic office reading a counseling book saying, Okay You know old Joe Blow over there that he is obviously in need of this penetrating analysis that I have just gotten from this psychotherapist. Figuring out how to serve someone means getting into their life, knowing what is driving them, and then seeking to serve them from within their own framework of receiving help. That's not an easy task. But Jesus goes to them and he illustrates to us how we do that. Even though he was tired, even though though he was focused on going to Jerusalem. Jesus saw that some that that God the Father wanted him to be a blessing to these two men. And that becomes the We are to see our lives as being directed by God. We make our plans God determined. Our steps. And success in the kingdom of God is measured by how we accept that and embrace it. How we seriously undertake consciously to be a ministry of blessing to those whom God places in our life in all of its very Various facets. Perhaps it's to do good things, as Jesus does, good things here to these men. But that doesn't complete the list. Perhaps it is to proclaim. God's word to those who desperately need to hear it because they're not living by it. To announce to them that they are accountable to a holy God for how they're acting. And how they're believing. See, doing good is more than just being nice to people. Doing good is being God's agent. In our immediate circumstances, to do those things in those circumstances which God declares to be right and proper, whether the individual we are serving recognizes it or not. Jesus spoke and did many unpopular things, yet he was a total success in doing them. He was not successful just when people applauded him. It was not just when many turned and were saved. It was Not just when he healed. His success was in the way that he served people in those instances, seeking their good, and adapting his words and his actions to that which would be best for them. And he left the fruit to be determined from that work in the hands of God himself. Here he heals two blind men. It was obvious that God had intended to bless them. Just previously in another passage, however, it was right and proper for Jesus to speak to a rich young ruler And tell him stuff he didn't want to hear, and to have that young man go away sorrowing. In both of those instances, brothers, Jesus was entirely successful. The best interest of some men to be healed and to profit from us. It's the best interest of other men to be left in their misery That they may learn from God for it, that they need to repent. Being obedient to God is seeking to be a servant to others by doing it with With that person and giving to that person, no matter what, our attempts, our sincere desire to be a servant to them. It requires an ever-growing spiritual maturity. It requires a conscious submission to God and a serious desire to learn from God's Word what we need to know in order to serve others. But at its root, it is the desire to serve others in obedience to God. that constitutes the witness and constitutes the success that is measured in the kingdom of God. The question I leave for you today is this is how you think about your life? When you think about your life, we all want to be a success in it. Are we really willing and is our heart ready to undertake to be a success the way God measures success? Let's pray