Second Timothy eight through ten one eight through ten. Therefore, do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner. But share with me in the sufferings for the gospel according to the power of God, who saved us and called us with a holy calling Not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before time began. But it has now been revealed by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ Who has abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel? Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, you are our great shepherd. We pray that you would give us ears to hear this morning. Please. Do not allow us to neglect this word that you have prepared. Please give us hearts that are receptive and diligence in attendance upon the sermon. We pray, Lord, also, that we would not just be hearers of this, but that we would be doers. We pray, Lord, that you would uh re-vivify us here on the spot. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. We only have a few more chapters in Second Timothy, and at that time you probably will not hear me say a healthy church. Dot dot dot. It's been going on some for some time now, uh and uh it sounds appropriate to me because the church could always use some words about their health. Last week we learned that a healthy church stirs up the gifts which God has poured out on her And I wonder if you took that to heart this week. I wonder if you landed yourself in a couple of situations where you thought, oh, I really need to fan the flame of this person that's standing next to me or from whom I received an email. I wonder if you said that about yourselves. Oh. I'm feeling a little weak here. I need to fan the flame in your various circumstances. And that's what a healthy church does. A healthy church does not quench the spirit. We fan the flame Well this week we continue in this same letter that gave us those truths last week, but we've got some new truths this week, some new doctrine. So to begin, let's just notice a few things together Here's the first thing that I want you to notice in verse 8 is that Paul continues his instructions to Timothy, and there are two paths that are in front of Timothy. The first path you can see there is that uh Timothy could become ashamed. The first path could be for Timothy to look at all of the trouble that the gospel stirs up. That Timothy could look at the imprisonment of Paul. And he could choose a path to feel embarrassed and ashamed and to begin to distance himself from this group of people and this kind of preaching and these doctrines that they're teaching that they believe are coming from God. He could start to distance himself and he could go down that road. Paul does not want him to do that, obviously. And so Paul says not to be ashamed of him, but instead to take a different path. Timothy is encouraged to join Paul. In his sufferings for the gospel by the power of God. It is by the power that he would be able to endure those sufferings And that instead of moving further away or taking a step away from the commission that has been granted to him, especially in his church's emphasis, that even in the midst of imprisonment and suffering, Timothy would keep walking forward. Right into the flames. That's what Paul is encouraging him to do in terms of his steps. That's the first thing I want you to notice. And then this will be by what God supplies in power Second thing I want you to notice is that it would be reasonable at this point for Timothy to say, why would I want to do that? What is it about this gospel that is worth so much? Why is Paul, you, Paul, you could hear them having a conversation, why are you willing to be imprisoned? What is worth all of this pain? Well, Paul answers these kinds of questions. By describing what the gospel of salvation is, and that if you understand what the gospel is, you realize that it's worth dying for I want you to take note that when he goes to explain here in these passages what the gospel is, he begins, he's really talking, he puts in terms of the gospel of salvation. Take a look at eight real quick. Don't go down this path, go down the other path. It's going to be for the gospel, according to the power of God. Then verse 9. Now he's going to go into a discussion on what this gospel is, and he characterizes it first and foremost by the actions of God. And the first action is he saved us. And this is a word that it's just a derivative of the word salvation. So the way that Paul is going to describe what's all what's all this why is all this worth it The answer is salvation. But he begins with the actions of God, and he said, God saved us. God decided to save instead of leaving humanity in sin and misery. God therefore called people out of darkness and he calls them into light. He goes on to continue talking about the actions of God. He brings up the fact, for example, if you look at verse 9 there that the you could ask the question, well why would God take these actions? Well guess what? It's not because of your works. That's one of the things he says. We did not do something that moves God to salvation. God wasn't sitting down and then he saw us do something and decided to stand up and do something Because we it would be the proper due that we would receive. Instead, if you keep reading in verse 9, salvation is from God's own purposes. And it is from his own grace. Now, here's where we can get real profound real quick. We're going to do this a little bit later. But this grace and these purposes were even from before time. And that should really help you realize it didn't have to do with your works because you weren't around. God decreed that he would save by the means of Jesus Christ. There it is, salvation. The Savior, he says here in this verse. That's another way of talking about salvation. It's the one by whom salvation is accomplished, and he has now arrived. To unfold this plan and to accomplish it. Jesus Christ has brought all of these plans of God to light. And immortality through the gospel. You see him unfolding here in summary form and yet comprehensive the entire salvation plan of God. beginning before time, all the way to the end of time, as we know it. And you therefore could ask the rhetorical question, what could be more worth our sacrifice? That's Paul's point in listing this here, is for Timothy to answer the question and say, well, obviously that's worth it. What could be more worth our sacrifices than participation in the accomplishment of God's vindication of His creation through the work of Jesus Christ? Is prison worth that? Yeah. Is my death worth that? Yeah. What about all the other sufferings? Yeah. That's what he's expecting here Now, if you go back there to those verses and he in um in verse 10, for example. He says in verse 9, who saved us, and he called us with a holy calling, not according to our own works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before time began. But has now been revealed by the appearing of our uh appearing of our Savior, Jesus Christ, who has abolished death and brought life and immortality. And this is the part for this next observation I want to for you to focus on. He has brought this to light through the gospel. All that stuff, the whole thing called salvation, is being brought to light By the gospel. Now, what does he mean by that? What he means, this little phrase through the gospel brings us back to that original context with Timothy. Take a look at verse eleven and see how he expands this. We'll get into this next week. But if you look at verse eleven, you can he says, To which I was appointed, this gospel thing, I was appointed to it. Okay, well what is it that you do with this thing? Well, I'm a preacher. And I'm a teacher. You see what he's talking about here in terms of what the gospel is and how it would be relevant to Timothy. You can see from verse 11 that the word gospel here is focused on the salvation of God as it has been enscripturated or passed down, and it is preachable, and it is teachable. And this deposit has been handed to Timothy, and he is to carry the baton forward. We're still a part of that same conversation. In other words, Paul is answering the question from earlier: why join in suffering for the preaching and the teaching of the gospel? This is specific to Timothy. And the answer is this, because preaching is the divinely chosen means by which God's salvation crafted in and through Christ may be available to the world. That would be the specific counsel that he's giving to Timothy and the specific motivation. Hey listen You don't want to sacrifice and you don't want to suffer because or you don't want to preach because you suffer when you do so, you get locked up when you do so. Well I'm going to tell you what happens if there's no preachers on the earth You remove from the earth the divinely appointed means by which those whom Christ has called come to eternal salvation. The very fact that he has enlisted you as a preacher means that you must go all the way to the flames if that's what it takes. But keep prophesying, keep speaking the full counsels of God. And when we realize their place within the the total salvation, we would again say, is preaching worth it? Well, it depends on what the nature of preaching is. If it's a vital means for the salvation of this world, well then you'd say, yeah, it is worth it. And that's what he wants Timothy to say. Yeah, it is worth it. I'll get locked up Just let me keep preaching. And that brings us to our doctrine this morning. We can take the counsel that is being given to Timothy specifically and we can broaden it out. And we can speak about the church as a whole. And take our, take each of us take our lesson from it. And this is what our lesson would be. A healthy church is willing to suffer for the sake of the gospel of salvation. A healthy church is willing to suffer for the sake of the gospel of salvation, each in our own ways. We're willing to suffer for the sake of the gospel of salvation. Now I'd like to answer a couple questions in regards to this. The first question that I want to answer, and so children, you can write this down. What is the gospel? And then the second question is, how is what you just said useful? If you wanted to be nasty, you could write. The second question would be, are you wasting my time? And I'm going to try to prove to you I'm not. So, what is the gospel and how is this useful? The word gospel, the reason why I end up having to bring this up. Is anybody surprised that I'm going to answer the question, what is the gospel? Some are nodding secretly, not wanting you to see that they're suppressed. Well it's an important word to talk about because it has gained some strange meanings these days, and it does in every era. So it's good to remember what we mean by the word and and really when we say that, how do the apostles understand it? The problem today for us in our specific context, if you were an Anglican communion, uh I'd give you a different sermon than the one I'm getting ready to give you. But within our evangelicalism, our branch of it, the word gospel has become trendy. Has you have you noticed that? Anyone? The word gospel has become trendy. If you go to a bookshop or if you listen to certain podcasts, you will see and hear Many people using the word gospel. It drives me crazy. Fifty times in like a sentence. And the reason why they're doing that is because what they've done is they've taken the word gospel, they've turned it into an adjective, and then they stick it on the front of every word. And it's a way uh you can do that with other words too, and it makes people listen to you in certain uh when there's certain trends and fads going on. Like um if I really wanted you to get excited about uh I don't I don't even know. Um arranging chairs. We could talk, you know how to get you excited? I wouldn't say, hey, let's arrange some chairs. I'd say, would you like to learn the craft of chair arrangement And you'd say, yeah, craft sin. I want to be crafty. Well here it's the same thing is happening with the word gospel. It's taken and it's put in uh as an adjective and then put on all kinds of stuff. So if you look on books, you'll find gospel leadership. Gospel motherhood, gospel conversations, gospel education, gospel whatever. I'm just waiting for gospel boating and that kind of stuff. You just turned the gospel into an adjective and let it modify a word. And if you read these books, you will largely find some good things in them, to be fair. You will read these books, you will largely find some good things in them, and the good thing that is in them is that they will all say, God forgives you through Jesus Christ, not by your righteousness or works. but by his alone. And that will be a good message for many to hear. We all need to hear that. But the problem is that the same book and what they're doing with the same in each of the books, whether it's on leadership or motherhood or conversation or education. that puts me on edge is that they then take this teaching about Christ's righteousness and yours, and they make it the center point of all of Christian life. And it sounds, when you say Christ's righteousness and my righteousness and that kind of discussion, it sounds like it could be weighty enough to be the center point of all of life. But it's actually never meant to be in the center. And who gets to determine that? God We can be fooled by this because all of our teaching and our preaching is meant to be Christ-centered, popularly speaking. I actually disagree with that. And so does Jesus Christ. When I hear Christ speaking and when he's teaching, I do notice that he puts himself at the center, but I also know that he puts the Father at the center, and I also know he puts the Spirit at the center. And that good preachers are Trinitarian Because they understand the economy of God. The same kind of thing is happening here. We're taking one thing that is a part of the kingdom of God and we're placing it at the center and situating it there, and it's not meant to be there So, this is the way it would play out. If you're struggling as a mother, for example, all you need to do as a mother who's struggling. with all the kids and the oatmeal on your brand new jeans. All you need to do, the only thing that you need to do, is to realize that Christ's righteousness is your own. Now that does leave the question of how you're going to get the oatmeal off the jeans. But that's part of my point, is that they're trying to take this truth and make it do the kind of work and the heavy lifting that God never intended it to do. If you're struggling as a mother, for example, they would say all you need to do is realize that Christ's righteousness is your own. If I were a pastor in this ilk You would come into my office and you'd share all of the different struggles you would have as a mother, and I would say, All you need to realize is that Christ's righteousness is your own And then because you give me the benefit of the doubt, you think that solved your problem, but it never addressed it. Except maybe in part, because sometimes you're not thinking about your righteousness correctly Or you're working from a plot place of pride or fear. This teaching about Christ's righteousness as your own, as I said, I'm being fair-minded, it is vital teaching. If it were to be removed, it would be deadly It has to be there. But it is not ever meant to be the center. To speak about the gospel, to speak about this gospel this way. Remember, I'm defining what the gospel is. At first, I'm just telling you what it's not To speak about this gospel this way is a distortion of the actual gospel The actual gospel of salvation, and I have seen it over and over and over again morally injure you. Leave you clueless on how to live your life, for example Now, I'm wondering if some of you are thinking inside of your own minds, how could I say such a thing about such a teaching about Christ? And uh what I want you to do is I just want you to look back at the passage, because I'm not saying all these things in addition to the passage this morning. I'm saying them because the passage is my foundation for saying so. I want you to look at the passage asking the question, what is the gospel? And I just want you to know: does Paul situate the work of Jesus Christ as important as it is? Does he situate the work of Jesus Christ at the center? Does everything orbit around the work of Jesus Christ? The way that you would have to answer that is that you'd have to notice that the passage says that God's grace was given to us in Christ Jesus. Now, if you study the language like you would have to in seminary, you would know that the word in shows us many different kinds of relationships. One that would be relevant here is it shows us the agent of salvation or the instrument of salvation. The word we've been using this morning is the means of the accomplishment of salvation. And I just want you to notice what I just did there And put it frankly before you, the work of Jesus Christ is not the center, it is a means to a further end even by the grammar of the passage. The grammar of the passage is not arbitrary English language. It's originally written in the Greek and it's not arbitrary Greek language. It is under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit showing you The relationship between the elements of God's kingdom. And God Himself, by this grammar, shows to us That the work of Jesus Christ and his righteousness being credited to you and your unrighteousness being credited to him is of vital importance. But it is a means to a further end. And then if you take that and you make it the center and everything's supposed to orbit around it, it will collapse on itself because it was never meant to be put into that position. You're defying the very purposes of God in it. The work of Jesus Christ is a means to an end. It is an important means of vital importance, and it inspires our awe and our wonder and our worship, but it is a means. And this means that if you want to not distort the picture and to understand God, the world, and your life, Then you must put the work of Jesus Christ as one puzzle piece in a puzzle with a much larger picture. Do you notice in our passage that that is exactly what Paul is doing? Do me a favor, just look at the passage, pretend it's a puzzle, and tell me, is the total puzzle filled up with just a picture of Jesus Christ on the cross? Is it filled up with any one of his works? Is that the total passage? Or is there a picture that is given to us here in this passage that if you had a puzzle large enough, it would fill the whole world Because of all that is included in salvation. What we find is the latter. Well, what is the larger picture What's right there in the passage? What is the larger picture that this is but a means to further ends? The larger picture is the picture of God before all time. The Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit decreeing to glorify Himself by whatever comes to pass in time, especially as concerns electing some angels to glory and some humans to eternal life. That is the larger picture. The way that Paul summarizes this same discussion that we're having, and the reason why he would have the problem with gospel voting and gospel motherhood and all these other kinds of things, he would affirm some things about it, but he would say, What we need For human life. What can bear the weight of our life is not just this little narrow thing, but the entire council of God. And the entire council of God does not start at the epiphany of the Christ in time, it starts before time in their divine councils as they work everything out That's the way we would we would view it. They don't work things out. But that's a human way of speaking about it. That is the larger puzzle. The larger puzzle is a picture of God before all time, decreeing glory to Himself by whatever comes to pass in time, especially as concerns electing some angels to glory and some humans to eternal life. And guess what will accomplish those ends? Jesus Christ and his righteousness. You see how it fits? Once you see that bigger picture, you go, oh, that's where the puzzle piece goes. I do not need to bang on the puzzle piece, like remaking the actual shape of the puzzle piece. You ever do that? You ever seen a kid get frustrated with a puzzle? He just tries to smash it in, even though it's like a corner piece and doesn't go in the center? I was that kid. I want to go on a little bit about this. Everything that ever was. Everything that ever is, everything that ever could be will be situated within this framework. I want you to try this out. Why did God create the world? I'm only going to speak in terms of the especial revelation in terms of elect angels and men. meaning humans. I'm not going to talk about stuff that God's doing I have no idea about. He's doing a lot and I don't know what he's doing because he hasn't revealed it to me. But just let me ask you, why did according to this framework, let's see if you got it, why did God create the world? So that you have a place for humans? Yes. Yes, so that he we're just going to take it step by step. Every if you want to answer to his own glory, yes, that's going to be the answer to every question. Why did he create the world? So that he'd have a place for humans. Why did he create hermans humans? So that they would undergo a fall by his permission. Why did he permit them to fall? So that he could reveal the glory of his grace to angels and humans. Again, this is just one focus on the salvation of two rational beings. And what form did this take, the salvation of humans that angels are watching? What form did that take? Salvation. Here's the next question. What does salvation look like? Well, can I tell you the story? Can I tell you all about Israel? Can I tell you the story of the incarnation? Can I tell you the story of the life and the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ? Can I tell you about Pentecost and the sending of the Holy Spirit to all the nations that are all over the world, and it's happening even to this day? Can I tell you about the return of Christ and his entrance to be with us again and our entrance into glory? How long would the story take? How many threads are there? How many subplots? That is the gospel. The gospel begins in the very counsels of God, and it is the unfolding and the execution of his various decrees that he has made. For angels and men, which we especially know about because of what he's revealed to us. That is the gospel. All of salvation. And every single piece of history, whether it be the incarnation of Jesus Christ or any other piece, is all placed in the perfect spot that God's story would unfold and he would accomplish in the end his great will The full counsel of God, the full counsel of salvation is the gospel. What that would mean, mother, I hate to be picking on you today. I hope you don't feel like you're being neglected. I'm just choosing an example. Is that if you came into my office to talk about oatmeal on your genes, we could turn to the entire council of God Maybe we do need to talk about your righteousness and the righteousness of Christ. But maybe we need to talk about a thousand other things that would be helpful to you that God has given to you in His whole word and not just in a single event. I could remind you that because of Christ's work, the only reason that these things are going to come together for you is because he's active with you. We could look at the law because the law would have a place. Well, what do we do with kids that throw oatmeal randomly? See, the picture becomes much bigger, and now all the things that happen in human life have something that can actually bear the weight of it We don't want to oversimplify and we don't want to narrow the word gospel. We must keep it as the full counsel of God, which is exactly what's happening here in this passage. I didn't just make that up. If you relook at the the page here. Paul's the one who goes back before time and takes you to the end. Now, how is this useful? That's the second question. Well, the first thing I want to say is not that not everything has to be useful, so stop it. Let's just end in prayer. Not everything has to be useful, to be worth your time, but there actually is great use to this teaching concerning the gospel of salvation, and I want to give you some examples. I actually just want to give you one example. And it goes right along with what's going on in this passage. If we can broaden out the picture, if we can see the whole council of God. Then we stand a chance of actually making it through suffering. That's when I talk to you about the weight The weight of life. I think the the greatest weight of them all is the suffering. It'll be the pain. It'll be confusion as a form of suffering, ignorance as a form of suffering, loss as a form of suffering. And that's one of the reasons why this is so useful, is because it can bear the weight of our suffering. Christ said that we will all bear our own crosses. Paul applies this to Timothy, telling him that we must share in his suffering. And the truth is, is that just based off of these two that you too, as soldiers of Christ, will be called to much sacrifice and pain for the sake of the gospel, for the sake of salvation. Now here's the main question that comes up in all of this. The main question is, how will you stay in the race? How will you not quit when times are tough? This is a major question. More and more, as the days go on in this like new era that we're living in. More and more do I see the necessity of raising the question as a pastor for you, how can I get these people to the end of the race? It will be by the power of God. But it is a work. And you have to ask yourself the same question. How are you going to make it to the end? You turn to the parallel of the soils. And you could get choked out. The sun can burn you up. And then he tells you the significance of all of those various things. But that's the question that is before you. And the answer is always the same for human beings Within the sphere of the grace of God, human beings are willing to endure just about anything if the goal is worth it. And so let me ask you, is the narrow version of the gospel worth the goal? Now, here are some honest answers in how I've seen the narrow gospel work out in terms of goals. What is one of the goals in that narrow version of the gospel? This is me seeking to be as fair-minded and represent authors as as well as I can. One main goal is I want to be released from my sense of guilt. Good goal. Can it withstand human suffering? If that's your goal. Another goal would be: I want to do my work from a place of thankfulness and not a place of fear or pride. Good goal. Is that the goal that Jesus Christ has given to you to withstand human suffering? They are good goals for sure, but are they goals that can sustain pain, suffering, sacrifice, hatred, imprisonment? Can you imagine Paul sitting in prison and saying, somebody saying, Paul, why is this so worth it to you? Well, because I, you know, I get rid of my sense of guilt. That will be a motivation for Paul. But it has to be something much larger than that. The answer ends up being no, that those goals end up being sub-goals and are too narrow. So then we get to ask the question when we look at this total council of God that begins before time and closes time Then what is the goal? What is a goal that is big enough and worth enough to endure any suffering? What explains Christians from every era and different countries who are willing to keep their faith, hold on to the deposit, even though they will be killed for it. If you think of just our tradition with the Reformation, what allowed a man or a woman To have their hands tied to the post and set on fire. What goal was large enough for that? Well, the answer is two things, according to the counsel of God. It is the glory of a God that we love. And that love has been placed in our hearts by the Spirit. Oh, you'll die for somebody you love. And number two. It is worth the renewal of the world. Especially when we get into the particulars of that. And that's what the whole council, that's what the whole council of salvation gives to us. It's not navel gazing, only working on our conscience. It is about the whole cosmos. And that's why we're motivated. I want you to remember that Chesterton quote that I said a few weeks ago The good soldier does not primarily fight out of hatred from what is in front of them, but love for what is behind them. I'll say it again. The good soldier does not primarily fight out of hatred for what is in front of them, but for love of what is behind them. There's a way in which both of those things happen, but the primary thing is the love for that which is behind us. And I just want you to ask yourself the question, what's behind you? What's worth all the sacrifice and all the pain? It has got to be more Then you getting rid of your sense of guilt or wanting to act out of thankfulness instead of acting out of pride. Those are important goals, but it must be bigger than that. What is behind you? I would say some of the answers for me, and I wonder where they are for you. I wonder what immediately wells up in your hearts, and you say, looking behind you, that's worth fighting for, that's worth the sacrifice. That's worth going through all of this for salvation. For me, it would be it would start at the lowest level my love for this creation. Quite honestly, I just I just love what God has done here. If I could ever get off of my lazy butt and go mountain biking again, I would enjoy the woods around here. That's one of the reasons why I like to go. I hear people tell me that I really have got to get to the Shenandoah Valley in the fall when the leaves change, that it's amazing. One thing I really love, just kind of switching ecosystems, is tropical fish. When I'm snorkeling with them. I just think it's so cool. I've got like, I'm trying to figure out all this stuff up here. With you all figuring out how to relate to you, and then there's this whole other world underneath the water, and they relate differently to me. So cool And then on my social media feed I keep seeing these cute little prairie dog things. I don't know what they are. They're not prairie dogs, they're huge. You know what I'm talking? What are they They're not mere cats, no. Let's not waste time on this. They're like little prairie dog things. I'll tr I'll try to find out what they are. No. I don't know. Okay. This is the lowest. This is the this is the lowest level. Let's move on. But I do love all those things. I've always been kind of an outdoorsy person. And it is uh when I connect with my surroundings like that I immediately go to thinking about who God is and what kind of person creates these things. And it lets me enjoy them. We could take a step up, and we could ask, well, what else is behind us besides just the beauty of this world that he's created? And man, you know what is right back there are the people that I love. My friends and my family and you all. And I just want the best for you. And part of my growth is to become a man that would be willing to make more and more sacrifices for you. In the name of salvation, that you would be saved. I'm not interested in making sacrifices for you so that you you can have a new like you can get a suspension kit on your truck. I don't need to do that. But I am willing, it is worth it to me to make sacrifices and my family is making sacrifices for you. And they think it's worth it. We love the people that are around us. We love just looking at them, all the creative possibilities. Ever step like step back and just look at your friends and your family and how amazing they are, all the different things they can do. Technologies that they create, the kind of cooking that they can like good food and drink, and what can humans not accomplish? These feats of strength and musical pieces that they m that they s what is it score? I'm not a musician, I don't know. They make them. Or art. And I think the human I think the human race is worth saving. I think my friends and family are worth sacrifices for their salvation. Even if I get locked up for preaching, I'd still want to deliver the gospel to my friends and my family You can go ahead and you can take another step, and that is the highest step, and it's by the very fact that we love God. And that has been put in our hearts from him. We want to please him, even if it's just as small as a mustard seed. He's spanning it, it's getting larger. I've seen it get larger in all of you, by the way. We want to see the world enjoy him. We have a bit of a contrast now. We can we can see what we used to think was enjoyable when we were younger, and now we've been walking with God long enough, and He's really been walking with us, and we see actually real enjoyment is with Him. And we want that for other people. And it's worth the sacrifice. It's worth the pain and it's worth the suffering. It would be worth tell tell me, if you were put to death by flames And then you're resurrected by Christ and given a new body. And then you could stand on the pinnacle of someplace and look out on a valley and see all of the nations and the tribes of this whole world worshiping and enjoying God. from their heart and not just going through the motions. Would you ever regret having gone to the flames? You would say this is totally worth it. You can see this whole council of God and this big vision for salvation is what we really need to bear the weight of the kind of suffering that you, my friends, are going to be called to. And are already called to. What suffering, let me just ask you, would you endure to have all that? Wouldn't you just do about anything? What pain would you undergo to be a part of bringing that world into being? Wouldn't you do just about anything? Those goals, the goals of the full gospel of salvation as presented here by the Apostle Paul, are the goals that are worth it all. They are the goals we see in the movies actually that inspire us. They are the goals that we s that that are the reason why music, certain music is created and why we used to have great art I haven't seen any of that in a while. But we used to have it because we had this vision. Can you think of any movies that bring the same kind of inspiration because they have such a large picture of what they're seeking to accomplish? Those movies are tapping into and imitating one who is the great storyteller What about Narnia? It's always a favorite among people. I keep hearing it. In each generation, it keeps hitting. Like Narnia Basically, we're saying that we are willing to sacrifice in order to bring winter to an end, just like them But it had to be that big. Winter needed to come to an end. It had to be that big. In the Lord of the Rings, all are willing to die. Because of what is at stake? It's a whole world. It's all of the various species of the creation in that story, in that world. And interestingly, those stories are not really about the individual characters that we tend to focus on. It's not about the is it the Pevensey family? Is that right, brothers and sisters? Did I say that right? It's not about hobbits, though they're cool. The stories that you love begin before time. You ever notice that? Silmarillion When Aslan speaks, he speaks about things that happened before time over the Great Sea Someone had decreed that all things were to come to pass and that there would be a strange providence over the land. When the children arrive in Narnia, do you ever think about this? That in terms of like God electing and calling and these stories imitating that? When the children arrived in Narnia, prophecies from divine counsels had already been revealed to the beaver and his wife. They were waiting for the daughters and sons of Adam. Did you notice that before those children knew about their destiny and their calling, that thrones had already been built for them to sit in? If that's not for ordination, I don't know what is the problem. And I love this one in terms of getting things straight in the order of causation. The children say in one of the stories, and we called upon you. And Aslan replies, knowing the bigger picture, that this picture, this story is imitating God's story. He says, you would not have called to me unless I had been calling to you. And there it is. The stories that inspire us have that bigger inspiration. It is not a narrow view of the goals that we would have as human beings. It is the full counsel of God as expressed in all of salvation before time and to the end. In the end, God will pull together, this is the beautiful thing, one of them, God will pull together all the little tiny subplots. of all of human history, and angelic history for that matter. And you and I will have been a part of the most amazing story that has ever happened. It is a story for which anyone in their right mind would be willing to suffer. Who would not be ashamed, but can consider a great honor to die for this king Are you willing, brothers and sisters, to share in the suffering of the saints? Would you like to keep in step with the Spirit and participate in this story? Well, that's what we're learning this morning. A healthy church is a church that is willing to suffer for the sake of the gospel of salvation. Amen. Let us pray