Hold fast the pattern of sound words which you have heard from me in faith and love, which are in Christ Jesus That good thing which was committed to you, keep by the Holy Spirit who dwells in us. Amen. Let us pray. O Christ, you alone are our teacher, but you do use secondary means, such as your unscripturated word, preach. We pray that you would make the preaching of this word effectual today, that your people would not just hear, but that they would do. That they would be transformed on the spot, that they would actually come face to face with you. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we learned that as Christians you are called to suffer for God in your callings. And that when you do, you must imitate Paul in two ways. The first ways And number two, besides being not ashamed, we trust God We would truly believe heartily that God never leaves us. God never forsakes us. While we move on in our preaching series in the second epistle of Paul to Timothy here, with these verses 13 and 14, let's notice a few things about them. and then draw our doctrine and our application. The first thing that I want you to notice here, and I imagine you picked up on it already, is that Paul gives two commands. In verse 13, if you take a look down at your Bibles, he tells Timothy first to hold fast. And then in verse thirteen, he tells Timothy to keep. These are the two commands, Timothy. Hold fast, keep. Now let's ask ourselves the question, what is Timothy supposed to hold? What's he supposed to keep? Verse 13 says that he must hold the pattern or the example of the sound words which Paul passed on to him. This is another way of saying the same gospel that Paul preached and the way that he preached it, Timothy's supposed to hold on to the same thing. Verse 14 says that Timothy must keep the same message and the way of life which Paul committed, that Paul taught, that Paul showed in his example before all of the churches. It wasn't just the preaching, it was also the life. He was to do so in faith and in love. I want you to imagine with me for a moment that a chemist, after a lifetime of work, developed a cure for death. Good news, right? He writes down the chemical composition and the ingredients of how to give the cure He writes down how the medicine must be prepared. It has to be prepared in a very specific way in order for this to work. It must be applied in a very specific way in order for it to work. If any of the main ingredients are wrong, or if it's applied or mixed in the wrong way, it will not actually save a life. It will not keep them from death. It'll actually kill them. Well, that scientist is about to die, but he had worked with a lab partner for some time, who was much younger. So he called in his lab apprentice, and he said to the lab apprentice, I'm passing down to you the medicine that will save the human race. You must not let someone try to change the chemical composition. This is exactly where the molecules go, and if you rearrange it, it will just kill them. You're not allowed to play around with the ingredients. You're not allowed to play around even with how it's supposed to be applied. It has to be applied in just this way. If you do, if you mess with any of these things, if you add anything or you take anything away, we will just be doomed to die. Well, the same thing here is happening in our passage. Similarly, Paul passes on the saving ingredients of the medicine for all of human misery and sin, and it is called the gospel. And Timothy, receiving this, as we talked about before, like a baton, must protect it. He must make sure that the ingredients remain the same and in the same chemical composition and order, and that it is applied in a way That a master doctor would apply it. And he needs to know that there are some out there who have evil plans that want to rearrange and destroy the whole thing. So he's got to hold it. He's got to keep it. That's the first thing I want you to notice with those two commands and what he's supposed to hold and what he's supposed to keep. The second thing I want you to observe is how will Timothy ever accomplish such a task? Wow, what a task! If you were to reread the letter of all of the things that are against him, pretty soon we're coming up on a whole paragraph. It's just one item after another. of things that are against him in the church, in him being able to hold and to keep this thing. How in the world would he ever, as such a young, timid man by nature, How would he ever do so? Well, Paul answers that question. He said, Timothy, God will never leave you nor forsake you. But he doesn't say it in those words. He says it differently when he reminds Timothy that God, the incarnate Son, Jesus Christ, verse 14. Has sent his Holy Spirit and indwells them. And it is by the power of the Spirit that Timothy will fulfill his ministry. Now, what we take from this, as Christians sitting here today, several generations away from Timothy, is this. It is the duty of every Christian to preserve and protect the faith passed down from the apostles It is the duty of every Christian to preserve and protect the faith passed down from the apostles. What I'd like to do this morning in relationship to that teaching here in this passage is I want to look at one reminder I want to look at one question, and I want to look at one concern. One reminder, one question, one concern. Now here's the reminder, and I want to start off this way. The case that is presented, think of this as a case study in our scriptures, this case that is presented in our verses this morning is really not complicated. I think we can just see very clearly The original intent of what Paul is writing. Timothy was a kind of pastor, right? And he was therefore to have a ministry of the word. He would preach the word. He would teach the word. And he would not just teach the word in a classroom. He would go into people's homes and he would teach them there. He would teach them when they were in the hospital. He would pray with them He had a ministry of the word. I want you to imagine if Timothy gave himself over to false teaching and to false living. As a shepherd, he would lead, therefore, being in that position, he would lead the sheep astray in every way imaginable if he was given full reign and his powers were not stopped And that's why Paul is writing to Timothy in particular. The case here is clear with Timothy. The doctrine this morning, however, moves beyond Timothy and it says that it doesn't just say this is Timothy's duty. It is Timothy's duty to preserve and protect the faith that has been passed down from the apostles. The doctrine says it's not just Timothy's duty, it is also your duty To preserve and to protect the apostolic faith that has been passed down to you. Even though you may not be a pastor As Christians, you have been entrusted with the apostolic faith in your regular vocations. As members of a family, as members of a church, as members of this country, Christ intends for you to preserve and protect. the apostolic faith and the life that has been passed down to you. Let me give you an example of what this looked like in at least one instance, and I hope that you can then connect to that yourself and your own personal experience. This is a passage from Acts chapter 16. I think the total passage would be something like verses 26 through 34, but I'm going to shorten this. And this is the story about when Paul and Silas were arrested And they were placed in jail and they were singing hymns, but then there was an earthquake that then released their chains and opened the prison doors. They were then able to escape. The jailer that was watching over them was very concerned about the escape. If you're a jailer and your prisoner's escape, you might as well just Call it quits because you're going to be executed for not fulfilling your duty. So you'll notice in the story in Acts chapter 16 that the jailer drew his sword to kill himself In shame, and also knowing his impending death, but then Paul calls to him and says, Stop! We haven't left. So you'll not be held accountable to that. So, in speaking with them, eventually the jailer comes back and he says to Paul, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? So they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household. Then they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house. And he took them the same hour of night and washed their stripes, and immediately he and his family were baptized. Now, when he had brought them into his house, he set food before them, and he rejoiced, having believed in God with all of his household. The jailer is in a unique position. He is actually accepting the apostolic faith and protecting and preserving it But he's not just receiving a letter, he's literally having an apostle in his house. That would be cool. I would enjoy that I think, until he unless he started pointing a lot out about me that I needed to change. Which what would probably happen As a father and a husband, he literally brought the apostolic faith to his family by bringing an apostle home with him and having them preach and baptize his family. And yet here is the main question. Once Paul and Silas continued on their travels, what was the responsibility of the father and of the mother and of the children? You can broaden out the question too. You could say, is there any responsibility that the father now has as a corrections officer in the local jail? And the answer is yes. Well, what's his responsibility? Well, it's a little bit different than Timothy, right? Because Timothy has a little bit of a different vocation But they still had responsibility in all of their vocations to protect and preserve that which had been handed to them in the jail and in their home. And that thing that they received was the faith passed down by the apostles. Both the teaching and the practices and the way of life. Didn't the jailer and the wife now have some responsibility to preserve and protect? And wouldn't that show up in how they raised their children and lived life alongside of their co-workers? You, my friends, are just like the jailer and his wife. You must bring the apostles home with you And you must make sure their message and their ministry stays pure. That when you bring them home, they have a lasting influence and effect on you and your families. Even though you are not ordained pastors, you have still been given the responsibility to preserve and protect the apostolic faith and the life that has been passed down to you. Well, that is one reminder. I think that you knew that. But I thought it would be good to rehearse it and to remember our responsibility here today. Well, besides this one reminder, I also have a one question that I'd like to raise here this morning, and it's this. Now this question, even though it's one, could have so many different answers, and I would love to I actually had many more answers listed, and I thought, well, this is getting out of hand. This is going to be another two-hour sermon I had someone last week tell me that um since I was away I made up for all my absence in last week's sermon. I really I actually like that kind of talk. So we have one question here, and we could have many more answers, but we're just going to have one answer this morning. And here's the question. How can I grow in my duty? To preserve and protect the apostolic faith in life. Aren't we all wanting to know that? Well, how can I grow in my duty? Well, here's the first answer that I'd like to give you: that you must first become increasingly familiar with the apostolic faith. In order to be able to preserve and to protect the apostolic faith in life, you must first become increasingly familiar with the apostolic faith. I'm going to tell you a story. I remember growing up, and I was living with my grandmother, and she had her own separate art studio. And uh, you know, uh her having her own separate art studio, she had a a table in the center of a room and on the outer walls were just windows for all the nice light to come in while she's doing her artwork. And then on her table she had all of these really cool paint brushes that I never knew existed. I always got the the kind of clunky paintbrush that's included in the plastic watercolor kit that you flip open and then there's just the one paintbrush that's made out of like I don't know, Wilburbeest hair or something doesn't work very well. Well she had all these really cool paint brushes, ones that fanned out like this, and many other things. And then she had all these cool paints, different kinds, and canvases and easels. And here was the rule in the house, Jesse. You may think my room is magical, but you may never go in there and mess with my stuff. This was how she made her living, so she took it very seriously and she imagined envisioned me taking the fan brush and just kinda smashing it and doing this with her paints. Well, I remember her leaving one day to go yeah, here it goes, right? I remember her leaving one day and Uh, I thought, well she's gonna be gone at least for a little while. She'll never know. So when I went in there I just messed around with the little books that showed you how to do things and I messed around with the little paintbrushes and I messed around with all the little paints. But then I said, Jesse, you're over now. You can do this better. You can make it look like you were never in here. So I thought, okay, this is exactly where that went. Now when she came home and I was sitting out in the living room, she came in, she walked down the hall, she opened the door to go into her paint studio, and she immediately yelled my name. Now here's a question for you. Obviously she knew I was in there, right? How did she know? She was so familiar with every single object and its placement within that room that she knew if anybody was in there messing around with it. And that's part of the exhortation that we have right here in front of us today, is that if you want to make sure that you are protecting and preserving the apostolic faith, you must be at least as familiar with it as my grandmother was with her art studio. So that if anybody were to mess around or move any of the pieces that had been handed to us by the apostles in the way that they handed it to us, we would know that somebody was messing around. We would be able to detect error immediately. Maybe you wouldn't be able to articulate it at first, but you would say something just doesn't look right. The same way in which she because she was familiar, she was able to see what had been misplaced And who was fooling around. Now, how is it that one would begin to do that? Well, there's so many different ways that we could do that, but one of the one of the ways that we have seen throughout the church to become familiar so that you can detect error and stay In a place that is protected and preserved is that you must begin to learn the reformed creeds and the confessions. This is something that has been passed down from age to age. The creeds are what the churches and the confessions are what the churches have agreed as a robust summary, an accurate summary of what the Bible teaches that is vital. Now I recommend to you that you would memorize the Apostles' Creed. I think that's a great start. This is a great way for you to become familiar with all the placements of the paintbrushes, in other words. That you would memorize the Apostles' Creed. And then the Apostles' Creed is blown up a little bit larger into the Westminster Schwarter Catechism, and you could graduate into that And that if you don't understand the archaic language, you could get a modernized version. And if you still don't understand the concepts that are going on there, that you would work with someone to explain it to you, but that you would at least begin now memorizing it Again, starting with the Apostles' Creed. And then when someone walks in the room and messes with stuff, you'd say, wait a second, that's not what the Apostles' Creed says. Throughout history, the church subscribed to those creeds so that we would all know the way that the paintbrushes were supposed to be arranged. The Bible's a big book. And the Lord has sent gifts to the church to make sure that we understood exactly what that book is saying, in accordance with the interpretation of the apostles. And the churches got together to put together creeds and confessions to make sure that we would all publicly have that knowledge. Now, I want you to imagine with me three giant oak trees. Can you see them? They're so big that they have to be separated from each other by about 75 feet. That's how big these oak trees are. And if you walk up to the first oak tree, carved into the trunk of that tree is the word father. Now I want you to leave the first tree and go over to the second tree, and you'll notice carved in the trunk of that tree is the word sun. And if you were to go 75 more feet to the right, you would see in the tree carved again. the word Holy Spirit. Now, the interesting thing is that if you went further and you s you started looking at the oak tree, if you went to the back to the one that has father carved on it and you started looking out at the the long, the big branches. You would start to notice that there were other things carved on those branches. And that if you followed it to a limb, you would see there's things carved on the limb. And if you follow the limb to the end to a twig, you'd see there's even something carved on the twig. And then on top of the twig is, I'll call it a twig limb. And even on the twig you want to say it with me? Twiglet? No. It's fun to say. And even on that twiglet, there's something carved there In each one of the choke trees, not just the Father, not just the Son, but also the Holy Spirit, all the way out into the twiglets, there are things that are carved. The creeds and the confessions are a record of what is written on those trees. They are actually organized exactly like the trees, where we would let our eyes go from the trunk. To the branch, to the limb, to the twig, to the twiglet. The Apostles' Creed is largely the trunk and the branch The shorter catechism is the trunk and the branch and the limb. And then if you were to study those things, perhaps going to the larger catechism, you would add to the limb the twig. And then if you want to do a PhD, then you get the twiglet. But those creeds and those confessions at one level or another, at one part of the tree or another, are a record of what is written on those trees. And what I'm encouraging you to do is to start with the trunk and work your way to the main branches. As you grow, see if the Lord gives you the ability to speak with your brothers and your sisters that you might understand some of the limbs. And over time, maybe you would wait make your way all the way to a twig, or like I mentioned, even a twiglet. Now I want you to think about those trees again. They're all right there in front of you, right? Father, Son, Holy Spirit, all of the branches. One of the branches going off with the one with the Holy Spirit, we'll talk about in a minute. But you have all of those. I want you to ask, and I'm saying that these trees, these trees sitting here in this garden, these large oak trees, that's the apostolic faith. And I'm asking you, what do you know of the apostolic faith? What trunks, branches, limbs, twigs, and twiglets are you familiar with? If someone took away one of the branches, would you notice? If someone snapped off the twig. Would you see its significance? If someone had cut down the entire oak tree, would it have caught your eye? If someone twisted the faith, would you recognize the error? Are you passing on the faith in pure form to your children and your grandchildren and to the children of the church? Will they inherit the same oak trees that everyone in the church has ever had from the beginning? This is one answer to that one question. How is it that we can grow in our familiarity? With the apostolic faith, and my answer to you is get to know the three trees. Work your way to the branches and at least the limbs, and do so together. Now, we have one reminder, we had one question, and there's so many more answers to that question, by the way. But we also have one concern At this point, some of you may share a concern that I share or that I have And that is that if we only memorize and know the creeds and the confessions, then what we will gain primarily is just a big head. Now I have the same concern. I don't want anybody walking around here with a head so big that it's just kind of bumping into other people and hurting them. Or that you become kept uncounterbalanced and you keep falling over yourself because your head is so big. In fact, we could even put it this way. One apostolic truth that has been passed down to us that must be preserved and protected Is that to have faith in God is not just having knowledge about Him. And you can immediately ask yourselves right now whether in your own heart Or in the private home of your families, or in your workplaces, have you preserved and protected The true apostolic faith by rejecting just knowing about God That the faith is different than that. Now I want to read to you a catechism question from our catechism comes from England. And the and the and the uh English divines, they study they had masters in divinity or bachelor's in divinity, and they formed this thing over in England. But if you were to go over into the continent, especially Those who were Dutch, you would find that they were using a different catechism called the Heidelberg. Anybody heard of that before? Okay. I'd encourage you to read that one too. It's quite lovely. Question 21 in the Heidelberg gets at what I'm saying to you: that one apostolic truth that must be preserved is that to have faith in God is not just to have knowledge about God. Listen to their definition. Question twenty-one in the Heidelberg Catechism, what is true faith? It is not only a certain knowledge whereby I hold for truth all that God has revealed to us in His Word. I'm going to say it to you again. It is not only a certain knowledge whereby I hold for truth all that God has revealed to us in His Word. But it is also it is it is a hearty trust Which the Holy Ghost, now pay attention to this. It is a hearty trust which the Holy Ghost works in me. By the gospel, that not only other people, but me also I have been forgiven my sins. I have everlasting righteousness and salvation. And all of these things have been freely given to me by God, merely of his grace, for the sake of the merits of Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, that's question number twenty-one. What is true faith? Can you see the difference? Can you see the difference in the apostolic faith versus the false faith? The faith of just mental ascent. It is not only a certain knowledge whereby I hold for truth all that God has revealed to us in His Word, but it is a hearty trust which the Holy Ghost works in me by the gospel. That not only to others, but to me also, these things are actually true, experientially true of me. And so I share the same concern. I believe that our faith first goes to our intellect because it is a word heard from a preacher. But I believe that it is a violation of the apostolic faith for it to only for us to be stuck in intellectualism And that we must not just have a certain knowledge and hold for truth all that God has revealed to us in His Word, but a hearty trust which the Holy Spirit has worked in us that says He's not just God, He is my God. And I am his son. Now let's ask a follow-up question. What will happen in a person who has a hearty trust? And not just a certain knowledge. What would happen in a person who has a hearty trust that not only to others but to me also? Dot dot dot. Not only to others, but to me also. What would happen in a person if they had that hearty trust Just think of the pages of Scripture, of what happens to the people who have a hearty trust, who are able to say that He is their God, that they in fact are forgiven, that they have received the inheritance of eternal hope. That they are the ones who have received the Holy Spirit. It's not just words on a page. I've received the Spirit. He indwells me. What does the Scripture say about those people, but that they rejoice? That their lives, even in the face of suffering, are full of joy and hope. That they have confidence, even though entire governments could be against them. Thinking of Paul and Silas singing hymns in jail, where does that come from? Does it not come from a hearty faith, a hearty belief and trust? Do they not demonstrate peace and joy in the Holy Spirit? Do we not see a patience in them in worship? And do we not see a gratitude that's overflowing to where they love to serve the Lord? Wow. This is where it really changes, doesn't it? Because you thought I was going to give you perhaps a sermon today. Where you could get away with things if you just started doing your catechism work. But here, now we're starting to learn based off this one concern That we not only need the catechism, we need people who are actually alive and are embodying it And this is what Paul means when he says, Timothy, keep the faith in faith and love. And you too are to not just memorize and know all the pieces of the oak trees But you are to become the living embodiment and living letter, the living words that are engraved on those oak trees. As Paul says, the real Israel is not those who are circumcised outwardly, but those who are circumcised in their hearts and love God and love their neighbor. In other words, brothers and sisters, part of protecting and perverting the real faith. is to show forth the real faith, which is not dead, but alive, and it is full of song, and it is full of hope, and it's full of cheer. Now we didn't make this uh observation earlier on, I just mentioned it to you, but I would encourage you to continue to look at the fact that Paul said the same to Timothy in verse thirteen, hold fast the pattern of sound words which you have heard from me, and do so in the manner of faith. As the Heidelberg describes it, and in love. Which are in Christ Jesus. Real faith, real love, all from Christ, in sending his spirit and indwelling you and giving you that real faith and that real love. Now, some of you may be saying, my faith does not look like that. I memorized the creeds. I'm 75 now, and I memorized the creeds when I was 12. I know the creeds still, because I've got a great memory. I took theology classes at my Christian school, but I'm telling you right now, what you just described about faith being a hearty trust, I do not have that. Now you would never say that out loud, but if perhaps your conscience just said to you, you don't have that Well, I would encourage you not to fret, but to look at this as a gift that's being given to you today. I want you to hear, I want you to remember those words that were preached. I want you to remember the words that we read. And I want you to know that God intends for these words to be a mirror to you You are supposed to look into the mirror of the word, and then the word, which is a mirror, will show back to you what you really look like. Some of you may be seeing in the mirror for the first time that you grew up in the church, but you do not actually have Christian faith. That you have essentially, and I'm not trying to be rude, but you have essentially been a hypocrite. You have pretended. You've carried the status quo and flown under the radar. The question is for you, because I can't take this responsibility away from you as much as I would like to. As Paul says, he would have died for all of his countrymen if they would receive salvation. But he knows that's not how it works. And I can't do this either for you. You've got to take responsibility here. What do you want to do about the image that you see in the mirror? That you have a face, a fake faith Do you need to repent of your coldness towards Christ? Do you need to repent of your indifference toward Him? That up to this point you never really thought he mattered? Do you want to step forward really believing that he is your only salvation? That there's something more going on here. Finally, I'm beginning to see who he really is. And I think I want him not just to be a savior I learned about, but I want him to be my savior Maybe you do want some of these things, but you're confused on how to move forward. I would encourage you to speak with a Christian that you respect. Speak with me right away Let's talk through this together and see what the Lord is doing in your life. Please do not wait. Now others of you may look in the mirror. And may see that you have been studying theology and but you never noticed this before. But you're there's no room in the mirror for anything except for your head. Because you have become so prideful in what you know about God. And that and now maybe now that you're seeing the correct porch proportions Of what's actually going on with you in this mirror, maybe now you're realizing that it's time to repent and to actually begin entering into the true apostolic faith. And that you would actually have a hearty trust and a love in Jesus Christ That does not puff you up, but it builds up you and all of the people that are around you Maybe that's what the mirror is showing to you. And I'd encourage you again to please come speak with me. Some of you may be looking in the mirror and you see a hearty trust. You know it's been there for a long time because the Lord gave it to you, but you also see some bags under your eyes, and you're feeling tired. You feel like not enough butter over too much bread. And I I'll let you know you need to talk with somebody also. There are different things that can happen in our lives where we can get pretty exhausted. You're not supposed to be doing this trip alone. This is supposed to be a family journey to the end. So make sure you reach out and get some help. I'll be happy to speak with you myself. Now the mirror's still there. I wonder what you see Whatever you see in the mirror, the point is that we would get to the place where we have the real apostolic faith. And I'm telling you, brothers and sisters, when you get the real thing, It will become so lovely to you that you will want automatically and spontaneously to want to treat it like a treasure You will want to protect and preserve it because this is the best thing that has ever happened to you. And you want it for other people. In order to move in that direction, it must be a faith in which we are familiar. To move in that direction, it must be a faith which is not just knowledge, but is alive and leads to love. And when we have those things, we may fulfill the doctrine and fulfill our duties, knowing that the apostolic faith is our responsibility to protect and to preserve. Let us pray.