Verse eleven starts in the middle of the thoughts, so I'm going to back up just a a little bit and start at verse eight Therefore, do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share with me in the sufferings for the gospel according to the power of God. who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before time began But has now been revealed by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who has abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. To which I was appointed a preacher, an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles. For this reason I also suffered these things Nevertheless, I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep what I have committed to him until that day. Let us pray. O Christ, we thank you for your word, and we ask, Lord, that you would be our teacher through the means of preaching. We ask, Lord, that by your Spirit you would work in our minds and in our hearts. And Lord, that we wouldn't just be hearers, therefore, but doers of your word. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I heard some of you respond to just the reading of the scriptures. Uh and that was right for you to do. There are things that we're hearing here. uh that are uh we would describe them as good news, wouldn't we? Well the last one last time we were together there was uh good news of the grandest sort. We heard about what God was doing even before time began and what he uh the fulfilling of that or the bringing of it up to to be in the epiphany or the arrival of Jesus Christ the Messiah and how that's playing out in Paul's life and in the in the preaching. And we made an analogy by comparing it to the Narnia stories in the Lord of the Ring trilogy And we said that in the end, God will pull together all of the subplots, and we will have been a part of the most amazing story that the world has ever seen. A story for which anyone in their right mind would be willing to die. The reason why we brought it to that, the reason why we didn't just uh remain as literary majors uh uh relishing in the beauties of story but went to suffering and death is because that's really where we are right now in this letter. The whole letter thematically Once you, the Spirit wants you to reflect on the suffering that you'll have to do as a Christian I raised the question a few weeks ago, are you willing to share in the sufferings of the saints? It's a question you're going to need to ask. You uh you open your eyes in the morning and you swing your legs over and you put your feet down on the floor, you should be asking, Am I willing to suffer as a follower of Jesus Christ today? A healthy church, in fact, is willing to suffer for the sake of the gospel of salvation. Now, that theme continues here. I'm sure you picked up on some of the vocabulary of suffering in our two verses we're looking at this morning, but before I get ahead of myself, let's make a few observations together. Let's have our scriptures open and take a look at these verses piece by piece and then draw a teaching that the Spirit would have us take this morning. So the first thing I want you to notice is in be we're just going to begin at the beginning. That makes sense, right? We're going to begin at verse 11. And I've already mentioned to you that Paul is starting in verse eleven in the middle of a thought, and he says, To which I was appointed a preacher, an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles Well, what does that two witch refer to? What's he saying here? The two witch refers back to verse 10. I'm just seeking to make sense of this with you grammatically. So the to which that the he was appo to which I was appointed, he's referring to the gospel Now, we didn't, when we talked about the gospel, we didn't just talk about a thin meaning of the gospel. We understand the gospel as the eternal decrees of God. That are executed especially by way of the Son and the Spirit across every nation. That's what we mean largely by the gospel, and that's what Paul is referring to when he says, to which? To which I was appointed. He was appointed to that plan, that eternal plan of salvation. The eternal plan of salvation which God is executing through the life, the death, the resurrection, the ascension, and the return Of Jesus Christ. God appointed, this is his point. God appointed me Paul as a preacher. God appointed me Paul as an apostle God appointed me, Paul, as a teacher to the Gentiles. He enlisted me in service, in serving in these various ways to this eternal plan. That's the first point that he's making there in verse 11. Now, let's go to verse number 12. In verse 12, Paul says that that calling That he has received, that appointment that he has received, that is why he is suffering. That's his whole point there in 12. He says in verse 11 to which I was appointed a preacher, an apostle, a teacher of the Gentiles, and it's for this reason, it's for this reason, and that role. That I also suffer these things. Well, what things is he talking about? He's specifically talking about here his imprisonment He suffers for these good things. He's not ashamed, he says. And then he goes on, and this is where you all started to get excited and to rejoice. He says, I suffered for these things I'm not ashamed. It's not a shameful thing that I'm suffering for these things because they're good things that I'm trying to accomplish in being a part of the eternal plan of God. And then he gives us his ground for assurance as he tries to stay in this race and work for God in his vocation. He says he knows in whom he believes And he knows to whom he has committed his life. And this should remind you, especially that last part that you already started to rejoice in. This should remind you of 1 Peter 4, verse 19. That would be a scripture reference you'd want to write down. It's deserving. of you to r to memorize that, uh to have that on your refrigerators or your dashboards. And it says this. Therefore, let those who suffer according to the will of God commit their souls to Him in doing good as to a faithful Creator. See how Peter's saying you're committing your whole soul to him, you're committing your whole life and your way of being, everything that you're doing, you're committing and entrusting to him that he's going to hold you in the palm of his hand And he's going to make sure that his will for you is accomplished in the calling that he has given to you. And Paul is convinced of that, and that's what allows Paul to write doxologies and rejoice. And to encourage other people while he's sitting in a prison. That's what explains that kind of human action. Now I want you to try to think of this pr uh practically. Because these are boots on the ground Letters here with Paul writing to those who are serving a Christ like soldiers serving a chief commander Think of this practically. Why do you think, we just went through the two verses together, why is Paul saying all this stuff to Timothy? Why would you write a letter like this in the same kind of situation if you were to put yourself in Paul's shoes? Why does Paul bring up his suffering? Is it because Paul needs Timothy to have sympathy for him and needs affirmation? Would that explain what's going on here? Why does he talk about his suffering and why does he talk about his hope and God's preserving care? What's the place or the purpose of all these sayings? The answer is that Paul is doing all of this in order to act as a model Or an example to young Timothy. It's like a father showing a son how to behave and how to think in a particular situation. He wants Timothy to follow him in how he does his ministry and how he thinks of his ministry. Is not Timothy going to have to teach and to preach? That lar there's so many times in the first letter to Timothy and the second letter of Timothy that Paul says, Teach, preach Preach in season and out of season. And what's that going to look like? Well it's in the always going to be in the context of suffering, so he needs to make sure that Timothy knows this Timothy, he would be saying, you are likewise appointed by God to preach and to teach. Timothy, you likewise are going to suffer, brother, son? Yet don't be embarrassed about your suffering. Be embarrassed if you suffered because you're wicked. But don't be embarrassed when you suffer for Jesus Christ and that which is good. Even if your family becomes embarrassed about you, don't you be embarrassed because you know in whom you believed and in whom you have been trusted your whole life That's the kind of message that's coming across here when we just consider it practically. Timothy, you're going to suffer. Don't be embarrassed about your suffering. You're not suffering because you're evil. You're suffering because you're doing good And God knows this, and God is with you. He's faithful. He's watching over you, and he is going to shepherd you in your calling right to the end. You know how I know that? Because he did it for me That's really that's what's going on there. That's how he's acting as a model and example for Timothy. So Timothy can, with courage, step forward and say, Lord, what you have done for Paul, please do for me. That I might serve you with the appointment that you have given to me. Now, this is another glorious thing, just with a practical way to look at this, is it did the Spirit preserve this letter? So that we just had historical information about the relationship between Paul and Timothy. The answer, brothers and sisters, is no. The Spirit is in charge of all of history, but he always has more than history in mind. He wants you to be able to see Paul as an example also. We know that these lessons are not just for Timothy. The Spirit intends for us today to benefit from Paul's examples and words. There's some ways in which this isn't applicable to you. None of you here are called to be an apostle, I promise you. If you think you are, come talk to me afterward. You're not You're not here. There are many of you here that are not called to a preaching ministry. There are more of you here that are called to a teaching ministry, but still in a different way. Than Timothy. But what we can say is that God has called you, just like He has called Timothy. And He's called you to all different kinds of things. And in those things, you can expect to suffer. And if you're going to make it in your calling, you better have the same kind of b uh knowledge of in whom you believe and in whom you trust. That's the way in which we can apply that this morning. And in fact, that's our doctrine. Christians, as you suffer for God and your callings, You must imitate Paul in two ways. Now, if you're taking sermon notes, especially the children, you could just write down these two ways. Christians, as you suffer for God and your callings, you must imitate Paul in two ways. Do not be ashamed. Do not be ashamed. And number two, trust God. As you suffer for God in your callings, you can imitate Paul in two ways. Don't be afraid, don't be ashamed, don't be embarrassed. And trust God. Well, just that doctrine alone, you really could work on this the rest of your life. This is amazing stuff that Christ is giving to us this morning. Let's go ahead and unfold it a bit And just look at each of those pieces. What I'd like to do is just look, let's look at suffering, and then let's go ahead and look at shame, and then let's go ahead and look at trust. Suffering, shame, trust. It'll just cover the whole thing that I just said in the doctrine. So we're really focused this morning. Let's start with suffering, everyone's favorite topic. You can see in our passage that there is a centrality of calling. I wonder if any of you were surprised to see Paul said, God appointed me. It's in the divine passive. We can talk about that, but what that means is that God has appointed Paul. And at the center of this passage is calling. At the center of this letter is receiving God's calling. Paul is appointed or called or enlisted by God to serve Christ. He will serve as an apostle, as a preacher, and a teacher It is in those very activities of his vocation that will make him a public figure, and it will invite various forms of ridicule, anger, imprisonment, and even execution. Now, since Paul gives us this as an example, we must begin to realize as Christians that in each of our callings some kind of suffering should be expected. It may not be the same as Paul, and it may not be the same as Timothy, but I guarantee that there will be suffering. At the very least, and there is always much more, your own remaining sin will afflict you. And uh you better believe that Satan, too, is looking to devour you And then we got the world, the flesh, the world, and the devil. So there's at least those three things where you're going to suffer. But those manifest in very practical ways. But this is a truth that we need to accept. The first thing you need to accept From the model of Paul is that in your various callings, in your family, in your church, and as you seek to be a citizen, you are called to suffer for the sake of the gospel. Just living for Christ in our families and in our church and our life in this world, if we do that with purity of heart and for the glory of God, you will invite ridicule? You will invite anger and you will invite more in some situations. Now here's the big question for you as Christians this morning: is do you think that that is true? Do you actually think that living out your calling for the sake of Christ and His gospel, that you will be called in God's providence to suffer ridicule, anger, and maybe more? Those who are most aware of our culture, those who are studying and seeing where are we as a church and what's headed our way, cultural critics whom I tend to trust. They say, we have already crossed the line and you can expect more suffering than you have in the past, especially if you live faithfully for Jesus Christ Now, there are always ways to avoid suffering, but it would mean that you're also avoiding being loyal to Jesus. If you deny Christ like Peter did, then you will not suffer But if you, as Peter would have to do later in his life, stand up for Christ, then you will experience different levels of suffering. I hope that you're all convinced of that. If you're not, then you're going to be blindsided, or you will be shown to not be a Christian at all. I want to share with you just a simple observation to get my point across. Do any of you here know who Rosaria Butterfield is? Uh she says some good things. Sometimes I'm I think she could say things better. That's who I that's how I am with all human authors that aren't inspired. But it it's interesting because she tends to have a pretty good bead on where we are as a culture and what's going on. So listen to this. This is an interesting observation. In March of 2018, Rosaria published a book entitled, The Gospel Comes with a House Key. Has anybody ever heard of that book? The Gospel Comes with a House Key? I'm starting to see some nods and actually we got hands raised. That's good Yeah, the Gospel comes with a house key. Now here's a harder question. What was the subtitle? The Gospel comes with a house key. The subtitle was Practicing radically ordinary hospitality in our post-Christian world. Cool title, huh? Cool title. Practicing hospitality practicing radically ordinary hospitality in our post-Christian world. Now She published that in 2018. Sh that's uh old news. She has a new book out that's published in 2023, and Holly and I are thinking about doing a summer study for the church this this coming summer, holding a book club Her book in twenty twenty three, does anybody know her new t newest title? I'm hearing five lies. Almost like five guys, but different. No. It's that's right. You got it basically. It's five lies of our anti-Christian age. Now, this is the observation. Do you hear the difference? What does she think has happened? She's moved from, oh well I'm going to write this book for you to know how to do hospitality in a post-Christian age, oh wait a second, this is 2023 now, I'm going to write to you a book that tells you you're no longer in a post-Christian age, you're in an anti-Christian age. Now that's an interesting observation from her. And there are many who are going along with her, and she's not the only one who's saying this. That that would be a better way to describe the age in which we Live in an anti-Christian age. And the question for you is: what do you think that will look like for you and for your children? Your grandchildren. What will it look like for you as you seek to remain faithful in your calling You're not called as an apostle, we covered that, but you are called as moms and dads and grandmoms and granddads and husbands and wives and members of churches and you've got some of you have uh jobs outside of the home and you're doing different things that are secret you can't tell me about and saving us from cyber attacks from whoever You're doing all of those different things. What does it look like for you to live in an anti-Christian age and to remain faithful in all of those different situations? What's interesting in her book, Five Lives of Our Christian Age, she wrote that book Now this is not a uh uh advertisement for her book, but she has some good things in there. She wrote that book for moms and grandmoms. That's the audience of the book. Moms and grandmoms who are having trouble just trying to remain faithful to Jesus Christ when they go to Costco. Because of the barrage of things that can happen once you enter there with your little cart and get yourself through the aisles, all the various things that could be facing you and your children, and then you finally arrive to check out, and there's somebody there that y you're you're misgendering them or whatever and the grandmom's like, I'm mis who what are you talking about? You're misgendering me She's writing to those contexts to where you could live faithfully in the midst of that kind of anti Christian age. And that's the largest question for you here in this first one with the suffering is how is it that you will live out Christ's calling in an anti-Christian age? And one of the answers that I'm giving to you, which might feel a little depressing to you, is You are going to suffer. And you're going to have to be willing to undergo suffering if you're truly going to be loyal to him. He's not going to magically come down and uh uh allow you to escape every single situation where you never have to make a stand for him and his created order Paul tells us that we should expect suffering of some kind, and cultural critics confirm that in our age, our suffering may be more pronounced than in previous ages. In direct relation to living out our callings, we should expect suffering in various forms. This is the first thing that Paul tells us. Now the second thing besides the suffering is the shame. We have to add this to our consideration. That's a part of this passage also. You can see if you wanted to rehearse what we've already been over, establishing, is that we see Paul talk about shame in verse 12. And Paul already commanded not to be ashamed in verse 8. And we reread that this morning, so I'm not going to go over that again. But it's a command for Timothy to not be ashamed. Now, when we talked about this the first time in verse 8, I said that Timothy has a path. He's come to a crossroads. And when he is in various situations, he can go down the path that is on the left, which would be the path of I feel ashamed and embarrassed of Jesus Christ and therefore I'm going to make a certain set of decisions. Or I don't feel ashamed and I'm going to stand up for what Christ has told me. Those are the two options. If you want to, if it's helpful to you, you could think of those two options as perhaps two buses at a bus stop. This is a bad illustration because I don't even know if bus stops exist anymore But when I was growing up, kids, there was these things called buses. And you would go to a bus stop and you could get on different ones. And I want you to picture Two buses. You go to a place where you're supposed to get on a bus and you're going to get on a trip. And one of the but the buses over here is um I don't know, this is a kid's story. Let's say it's strawberry red. And over here, this bus is blueberry blue. And on the side of the bus it says ashamed. And over on here on this bus it says, um it says not ashamed. And what Paul is telling us here in this passage is that there are many situations that are coming towards you that you're even in right now where you are making a decision to get on one bus or the other. And it is happening all the time. And there is continual culture pressure, cultural pressure that is anti-Christian, that is wants you to get on the I am ashamed of Jesus Christ bus You will not say that at first. You will not say, I'm ashamed of Jesus Christ, and I'm getting on the I'm ashamed of Jesus Christ bus. What you'll do is you'll begin incrementally, step by step, to move towards that bus by changing who Jesus Christ is. You will no longer confess the things that Jesus Himself confesses. You'll change all that in order for you to feel like I can be on the I'm ashamed of Jesus Christ bus, but not deny Christ. Which is a contradiction, obviously. If you're on that bus, you just denied Christ But you can make things up in your head and you can twist and you can turn things to where you still think you're following Jesus Christ, but you are literally on a bus that everybody knows you are saying With the words that you've chosen and your lifestyle, everybody knows that you're saying, I'm ashamed of Jesus Christ and what he has taught. Everybody does that. So you could perhaps that'll be helpful if you think about those buses and every decision that you are facing throughout your life. Now, my proposal to you is that when you were called to live out your calling for Christ in the normal activities of your day You will stand at that those crossroads and you will have to board one of those buses or the other. I'm asking you to think of your life like that. Now, recently, let me give you an example of how this could show up. I can't go through every single example that will be applicable to your life. I'm going to give you one, and then I hope you can use it for different things that are showing up in your lives. Recently, I heard that one Christian college student was assigned an English paper, and in the paper, she was required to write as if she was a lesbian And the paper must be sympathetic to that viewpoint. What do you think? Well, if you're shocked by this, then you're like late to the game. Because this has been happening for a long time. I've had students here at this church who have been dealing with this for a long time. That's happening every day. When you decide to pay your $65,000 for your kid to go to college, that's the paper they get to write. So congratulations. Well worth the investment. The student decided That to complete the project would violate her calling to Jesus Christ, and she refused to complete the assignment. She received a failing grade for the paper. And here's the question that sits before you. Should this student be ashamed of her grade? Which bus did she get on? And this is where start it can start to get tricky depending on the mindset. What bus do you think her professor thinks she got on? She's on the shame bus. But it doesn't matter what her professor thinks if the professor disagrees with Jesus Christ. Because Christ is omnipotent and he knows what's true. He is the way, the truth, and the life. Insofar as the professor disagrees with him, she or he is wrong. That's our standard That's the living standard. So she is on the I'm not ashamed of Jesus Christ bus, and you can take that grain and well, we'll just stop there Paul's message to you this morning is that as you work out your calling You will be faced with this analogous scenario over and over again, choosing which bus to board. And there are some times when you will get on the I am ashamed of Jesus Christ bus, but you will not know that you're on there, and your brothers and sisters are going to need to confront you and let you know you have. While compromise on important things over and over again, and you're tricking yourself and thinking that you remain faithful and loyal You have twisted things so badly that you actually think you're standing up for Christ and you're becoming one of his enemies. You need to repent and you need to return There's one further word that I'd like to say about this shame point, and this is one of the reasons why I chose buses. Buses don't remain at the station. Buses have destinations. And I just want you to know that if you're on the bus that says, I'm ashamed of Jesus Christ, and you don't get off that bus before it arrives at its destination, I just want you to know that you may expect eternal condemnation in hell. Forever. It is really clear. If you look in the scriptures, there are lists of people that are on that bus And you do not want to be a part of the lists. You do not want to be on the bus. So maybe some of you are on that bus right now. And you've been justifying stuff in your own mind and your heart to remain on that bus and to to somehow still have a clean conscience. But I'm telling you right now Your conscience is suppressing the truth and unrighteousness. You need to acknowledge what God has been communicating to you, perhaps from this pulpit, and perhaps from your loyal Christian friends and family, and you need to get off the bus. If you need some help doing that, please let me know. Or please talk to a friend that you trust and that you respect that is a strong Christian. Go to them and say, I need help. I'm on this bus. I know the destination. I need you to help me get off You you anytime I was on that bus and I needed to get off, I had to ask friends to help me. So please ask for Christian friends and their help. Well, that's suffering. And then I hope that you can see the kind of shame that they'll seek to inflict on us, but that we always got to choose that one bus. That's suffering. And then you can see how the suffering would take place and the choices that have to be made depending on which bus you would get on. And the last thing I want to talk about is trust. Suffering, shame, and now trust This is where trust has to enter. Because staying on the bus that says, I'm not ashamed of Jesus Christ will require something that is very, very difficult in human beings, especially in this generation. And that is courage for Christ. It'll be very difficult. The answer will not be I have read a book or I have a a degree or I have a this or that. It will be, am I virtuous That'll be very difficult. And the virtue that will need to grow up and be strong will be the virtue of courage. And the question is, is how is it that I can be courageous and not foolish in the face of suffering. And the answer is that you know in whom you believe And you know to whom you've entrusted your life. If you have that as your foundation, then you could go through anything. If you really believe that Then you could have everybody in the world making fun of you. As long as God is pleased with you, then you're okay And we've seen this over and over again in so many different examples that this is how the saints make it. They know that God is on their side, and therefore there's nothing that can stand against them. Think of Romans chapter 8, for example, the list of things that Paul says, Hey, could uh principalities or angels take us away from the love of Christ? No And then he just goes through list after point after point. None of these things can keep us away from Christ. Nothing can keep us away from the good life when God is on our side. Well you could go into outside of sacred history and look at how war generals have accepted this truth and are willing to rush out into battle and take and and they and soldiers would say, Aren't you worried about getting a bullet in the head? And they'd say, Well God is on my side. And God is providentially in charge of all bullets. And if he decides that he wants one to strike me, that's up to him. Meanwhile, I know my vocation and my duty. And I'm not getting on the I'm ashamed bus. Paul says that he knows whom he believes, and he knows to whom he has entrusted his life. And this is an invitation for us to remember who gives you the scriptures. This Bible that you have on your lap that has been preserved for you in your various translations, who is it that speaks there, and what is their character and attributes? And what are the implications of believing that? Who gives us the scriptures is one, and then who watches over you in your callings? Do you really think your commanding officer doesn't know what's going on with you in every mundane activity of your life? Now we believe what we believe primarily because of the authority of the one who gave it to us. I'm not sure if you realize that, but you don't believe this primarily because you think it's literarily fascinating and has lots of neat figures of speech. You have been convinced by the Holy Spirit that these words are authoritative and bind you because they are from God. Every word which proceeds from the mouth of God is true and reliable. You have become convinced of that as a Christian The prophets and the apostles, through eyewitness accounts and miraculous signs, were authenticated as official messengers of God and the right understanding of these scriptures, both new and old Now that's the I know in whom I have believed part. What about the other part? And that's the part I really want to focus on, because it gets at a different level of trust or a different kind of trust. God, even Jesus Christ, I'm going to translate Paul's words in a way that may be a little bit more familiar to you, and they and they just feel a little sweeter to me. God, even Jesus Christ, has promised that He would never leave you and He would never forsake you as you live out your calling for Him. And if you look back in sacred history, it's the problem what we always run into is we doubt That statement, it has been repeated over and over and over again throughout all of the scriptures. I will never leave you. I'm never going to forsake you as I have enlisted you into my service. Christ promised to never leave you nor forsake you in your calling. Now, Paul places that in the context of how it is that we stay in the race. How do we keep resisting temptation? How do we live joyful Christian lives, even under intense social pressure? to feel ashamed. I'm not saying we just get through our lives. We live joyful Christian lives The question is: what does it really look like to believe that Jesus Christ will never leave you nor forsake you? And here is where I want to give you some examples that may surprise you. How do you know that Jesus Christ will never leave you nor forsake you? I bet you there's different answers to that in your mind. But I bet you there's an answer that you haven't thought of that might surprise you. How do you know that Jesus Christ will never leave you in all this stuff that's going on, whether you're writing term papers or whatever you're facing? How do you know, capital YOU, that Jesus Christ will never leave you and he will never forsake you? I want to give you some examples, then we're going to analyze it a little bit. Here's the first example. This is from our same book. This is 2 Timothy 4, 17 through 18. You're welcome to turn there. It should just be a few pages away. The letter is not that long. With me it was one flip. This is Paul speaking again. He's speaking to Timothy. Timothy can needs to have a model and a role model in front of him. And this is what he says. But the Lord stood with me. And he strengthened me, so that the message might be preached fully through me, and that all the Gentiles might hear. Also, I was delivered out of the mouth of a lion. And the Lord will deliver me from every evil work and preserve me for his heavenly kingdom. To him be glory forever and ever. Amen. Now here's the question for you. Let's just start at the very bottom and then work our way up. Why is it that Paul ends that section like that? To him be glory forever and ever. Amen. And then I I want to know, when he ended that way, how did he sound? Well to him be glory forever and ever. Amen. Is not Paul breaking into song at this point? What is it going on in Paul's life to where Paul can't help but to when he starts rehearsing The promise that Jesus Christ will never leave him nor forsake him. When that starts to get down into the his actual life and what that actually looks like on the pages of history, why is it that Paul has to end with an exclamation point of song? And doxology. It is because there is a level of knowledge A level of conviction and a level of experience of that promise in Paul's own life that goes well beyond Paul thinking of Christianity as just a theory Or a series of propositional truths that are on a page. Paul did not just take a theology course at a local Christian school Paul is experiencing the promises in his actual life. Now, some of you are very resistant to what I'm saying, and you're saying, well, Jesse, you went away on vacation. Did you attend some charismatic churches while you were gone? And now you're going to bring to us a word from the Lord? Well, you're the one that's wrong on this. But the Lord stood with me and he strengthened me. Now, brothers and sisters, how is it that you understand that? We obviously know that Christ did not return in his physical person But was it incorrect to say that Paul that the Lord stood with Paul and that the Lord strengthened him Christ in his spiritual ways, nevertheless not having a physical presence, is not as if he has no presence among us For he said he would never leave us nor forsake us. Now, maybe it is mysterious in the way in which he is currently present with you, but you cannot say that he is not present Paul is experiencing his presence for him to be able to say, he stood with me. He strengthened me. He's the one that delivered me out of the mouth of a lion, and the Lord will deliver me from every evil work Now, what may be surprising to you is that Paul is not just being poetic in his descriptions. Paul really experienced the Lord standing with him. delivering him out of the mouth of the lion, and delivering Paul from countless other evil plots and schemes and shipwrecks and all the other lists that are a part of Scripture And we know that Christ is not present with him in his body, standing there with Paul, but Paul by faith Learned to interpret all of his experience in light of what he knows about Christ and how Christ works through all kinds of people and events in order to accomplish his divine will in actual History. This is, by the way, what sets us apart from every other thing that is out there. You Christian have not just devoted yourself as a true believer to another ideology. You're not just you don't have just philosophical commitments. This is what you believe is real and is actually present in history. Christ is operating in your life right now. And here's what I'm here to tell you this morning. If you really come to believe that, do you know what will happen to you? You will break forth in song. You will break forth in joy. And do you know how your joy will begin to express itself? You will start telling other people about Jesus Christ. But as long as it just remains a dead letter on an old page, You don't want to talk to anybody about this. And you don't really love God yourself. You hardly even know Him There's another example I want to give you. I feel like today I'd like to just say, hey, let this be a Puritan sermon, and I've got another hour, so just buckle in. But I'm not going to do that. I want to give you another down-to-earth example. Now, a certain woman named Lydia hurt us. I want you to picture this. This is happening on planet Earth. This is not just uh a philosophy, a certain woman named Lydia heard us. She was a seller of purple from the city of Thyatira. She worshiped God. Now listen to this. How is it that Paul and those, Luke who's writing this, how is it that they interpret the event by faith? The Lord opened her heart. There he is again, showing up in our actual history. The Lord opened her heart. To heed the things spoken by Paul. Now if you were standing there, is that what you would have said? If you went on a mission trip with with the apostles and you went to this place and you you know you pull up in your mission trip bus or whatever and you get off and you ha talk to these ladies or a small businesswoman and and one of you steps forward and starts preaching the gospel and one of them has an open heart and becomes a Christian right there in front of your face, what would you say? Oh, so interesting. What I'm tell all I'm telling you here this morning is nothing mystical, nothing outside of the the reformed faith. I'm just telling you that Jesus Christ is alive and he's working in your life right now. And if you understood the very events and your very life in front of you by way of your faith And the things that he has promised. If you were on that mission strip, you would have said, I stood there and I saw Jesus Christ open her heart by way of his spirit. And she heeded the words of Paul. And Jesus Christ is taking over all the nations. And now if you started to live like that, do you have an idea what your how your grandchildren will start to look at you? They'd either say, You're crazy, or I need some of that. I wonder if you have been conditioned by our culture to a kind of practical atheism wherein you have lost your ability to see the continual activity of Christ around you? Some philosophers are saying that you have become disenchanted, and that what we need is enchantment back in our lives, supernatural activity. I wonder if you've been condition conditioned that way. I wonder if you're afraid to speak like this There are ways to irresponsibly do this, by the way. I can't get into that this morning. But I'm talking about the responsible way. I'm just saying, what's wrong with interpreting the events and experiences in your life through the words of Scripture? That's all I'm saying. And Scripture says that Jesus Christ would never leave you nor forsake you. And then when we see what that actually looks like on the pages of history, it looks like Jesus Christ, by way of his spirit, his providence and secondary means, is continually active. in your life that you might be able to feel your service to him in your calling, especially when you're suffering. He is right there with you. Now I know that there are some people in this congregation that have these experiences, and you need to search them out. If I were you, I would start with the older folks. They tend to know God more than you Because they have these experiences of Jesus Christ showing up and helping them care or fulfill their vocations, for example, and helping their husband as he has Alzheimer's. Jesus, they have stories of Christ showing up to help them in their calling. You need to talk to them. Just like you could talk to Paul and get some stories from him. There are people in this congregation. You, Ethan. Have these stories. Take the same mindset that we see here in the scriptures of saying Christ opened her heart Take that same mindset and bring it into your life. If you have food on your table, brothers and sisters, where did that come from? These are these are just easy ones. This is kindergarten level stuff right here. Some of you as families have greatly struggled financially, but do you know what? You made it. You're actually doing better. Why? Where'd that come from? Is it possible that Christ heard your prayers and the prayers of your family and is actually acting in your life? Why do you have right now what you need? I cannot go on running through all of your life. But my hope is that you get the point that I'm making, and this is what we're doing. We're answering this question for this final point. What does it really look like to believe that Christ will never leave you nor forsake you? It means in part that you are experiencing in your actual life the preserving care of Jesus Christ. You don't just read about him. You actually experience him. Not in some weird way, but through the interpretive lens of his word, especially his promises. Some of you may be thinking, I don't have experiences of Christ working in my life. I wonder if there's any of you out there saying that. I don't have what you're talking about. Well, there's two main reasons why that could be the case. One is you don't really know what I'm saying. You're just confused. You're missing what I'm saying. And we could just get rid of the confusion if you talk with me. The other reason is that you have a very deep spiritual sickness and we need to talk. It is possible that you're dead. And we need to talk about what it takes to be born again and come to life. Some of you might be alive but barely hanging on, might be on a breathing tube or something And we have got to do a spiritual rescue of what's going on with that spiritual sickness in you. So I urge you to please come and to talk with me in either of those cases. Now, for the rest of you, why would I say that they need to come and speak with me right away? Why did I treat it as an emergency? It's because of this passage. You must become healthy so that you can stand strong in your callings and not be ashamed. The way to accomplish this is to know deeply all the way down in whom you have believed. And to whom you have entrusted your life. And I'm not just talking about propositional knowledge but also the experience of the ascended Christ and the sending of his Spirit This is all one big way of saying that Christians, as you suffer for God in your callings, you must imitate Paul in at least two ways. Do not be ashamed, brothers and sisters. Let us stand with the student and get the failing grade in the world's eyes. And number two, may we trust God, especially as we recount his actual activity in our lives. Amen. Amen. Let us pray.