All right, you have two handouts this morning from different chapters of a book uh that I that I own. Um The first one we're going to go through is the larger one. It starts with Romans chapter 1. The second one we'll go through is uh if we get to it in Roman chapter five. These are two chapters uh making a single argument for our purposes as we develop the idea we saw within the catechism that we are in a state of sin and misery. That's what's to be established here, and it is leading us into that great question. Uh question twenty, I believe it is, that God has not left us to perish in that estate, but has given us a redeemer. So As you can see on the first handout from Romans 1, it's a reading first of Romans 1, 18 through 32, so we'll read that. And then it really is just commentary on each of the sentences. And uh I actually wrote out a lesson. And then I looked at this, and I thought, well, I like this better. So let's just look at this. That has happened to me a few times. So I'm going to begin by reading one Romans 1 18 through 32. So let's look at that together. If you can open your scriptures. Yeah, it's right there also. I'm not sure if he has the same translation as you would in your Bible. I might it might be his personal translation. So I'll read from the NKJB. Alrighty. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. To suppress the truth and unrighteousness, because what may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has shown it to them For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power. and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because although they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, nor wolf nor were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened Professing to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man, and birds and four-footed animals and creeping things. Therefore, God also gave them up to uncleanness from the lust of their hearts, to dishonor their bodies among themselves, to exchange the truth of God for the lie. And worship and serve the creature rather than creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. For this reason God gave them up to vile passions, for even their women exchanged the natural use for what is against nature Likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust for one another, men with men, committing what is shameful, and receiving in themselves the penalty of their error, which was due. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a debased mind to do things which are not fitting. Being filled with all unrighteousness, sexual immorality, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, evil-mindedness They are whisperers, backbiters, haters of God, violent, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents, undiscerning, untrustworthy, unloving, unforgiving, unmerciful. Who, knowing the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things are deserving of death, not only do the same, but also approve of those who practice them. What a jolly passage. Wow. Okay. So first question before we Yes. Yes, ma'am. Uh this is Tom Holland. He's a uh professor Um Yeah. Mm-hmm. Spider Man wrote this. Tom Holland is a professor of at Union Theological uh Seminary in the UK. Yeah. Well he he may be British. I don't know. He might just be there. No, it's fine. I thought it was funny. That's good. So what we'll do is we'll look at his commentary and we'll read each of those paragraphs. But but first uh right away Just getting right to the point, let me just ask you a question. When you read Romans 1, 18 through 32, or you hear it read, Is this speaking about something that happened to a particular people group of people in the past? Is this a declaration, a universal declaration about the plight of humankind? Both? What would you say just in a initial reading of it? Say that one more time? Sorry. If it's the second, then it's also the first. Very good. Yeah, that's g uh the yeah, that's good. Sorry, I was working through logical rules in my head. I had there and they worked. I just had I just had a little square of opposition. Yeah, that was good. Yeah, very good. If all then some Alright. Any other so sh if she gave us the hypothetical. If the second, then the first. If it is written down the script for that. Okay. Okay. Any other thoughts? I think you have that guy with you. Yes, Carol. I'll I'll just add something else. Um that's just like him and I'll put a call to church in Rome. to be distributed among all the churches, but also there's a divine offer in the Holy Spirit that then makes it applicable to all churches. Yeah, right. Very good. Yeah. Okay, so that's another dimension of it. Carol said that um if you were to focus on let's just say we asked two different questions. What is the Paul's intent for this? Well, in one sense, it's to write to the church at Rome and for that letter to then be distributed among other churches so they can benefit from that teaching. But then there's another question here because there's another author, and that is what's the intent of the spirit? And Carol said the intent of the spirit is for all of the churches in all the ages to benefit from this teaching. So that speaks to a kind of universality. Any other any other thoughts? Okay. The church has used this passage to show forth the plight of all of humankind, not just the plight. of a group of people at only one particular point of time. That human humanity struggles with this. They elevate the creature above the creator in every era. There's something in our hearts that does so. By nature. Yeah. So I think you've probably should be pretty familiar with that line of thought, especially if you've been around here for a little while. Okay, so let's take a look at each of the I just want to read through some of these paragraphs and I'll get your thoughts on them. And we'll just move through just like that. Okay, so the first um sentence is the wrath of God is being revealed from heaven against all the godlessness and wickedness of men who suppress the truth by their wickedness. And I'll go ahead and read a few paragraphs. Paul says that man is under the sentence of the wrath of God. He is not saying that God is angry in some uncontrollable way. but rather that he cannot be indifferent to those who break his laws. In the same way it would be utterly shameful if a judge excused a murderer, or if a society was indifferent to its pedophiles God cannot be both holy and at the same time indifferent to humanity's sin. I'm going to go paragraph by paragraph, so I'll stop What do you think? Any thoughts on that one? Just like a little grad class. I'm gonna read this and then you give some comments so that we can process it together and then we move on. Okay, moving on. Uh no? Oh, okay. You're ready. Okay, say it. So um uh the fact that guy cannot be both fully in the same Yeah, relief and terrifying, yeah. Make sure you speak up so everyone can hear you. May even want to face your audience. Okay. So um it's uh it's obviously terrifying because you know when God is waiting for God um judge then it's done. Yeah. It's done. There's no there's no he's the perfect judge. There's no excuses we can make. Our mouths are going to be shut. Boom, it's done But the same thing the fact that he's not indifferent means you know he has taken so much action to help those of us whose heart scene has changed. So like if I go to a doctor and he's says uh you have a cancerous tumor, we're just gonna leave it alone. That's not really encouraging. Uh really terrifying the prospect of having a doctor cut in and cut it out and all that's gonna follow that. If that's the only way to be cured, that's that's a good thing. Yeah. Terrifying even the static. So I'm glad it got is not indifferent to to manage starting with myself. Um and that he's not going to, you know, have long awards. You know, he's not going to just let Yeah. Um, great. Yeah, good. Thanks for thanks for saying all that. That's good. That's good. stuff. Yeah. Very good. So that's a great example of what we're doing. So feel free to to share what you're thinking also. Okay, I'll go ahead and move on to the second paragraph Paul is about to argue that sin destroys humankind's ability to think in a way that reflects his position as a creature obligated to his creator. If you need to, you can look at the words yourself too. Sometimes they That helps me when I look at the words, and so as opposed to just hearing people say them. Sin causes man to seek to usurp the authority of God and to excuse his actions and attitudes as Sin and rebellion, no matter how culturally acceptable and reasonable it may appear to be. I'm sorry, sin is rebellion, no matter how culturally acceptable and reasonable it may appear appear to be. God can have only one attitude towards it, one of hostility. Any other attitude would mean that he had surrendered to Satan He would be helpless and unable to deal with the tyranny of man. For God to be just and holy, he has to judge sin. In doing that, he must judge humankind Any thoughts on that one? That one was pretty thick. A lot of stuff going on under the surface there. Uh you can also ask questions. Yes, Christina. Um in saying that sin destroys humankind's ability to think in a way that reflect the position of the creature obligated to the creator. Um it's interesting I think a lot of times the first approaching was first I think think of the point being and look at how horrible sin is and God's so angry and then for some reason I go and then I need to be like God and wrathful in the same way throughout the sin. And it's not that and I it's just the focus is like God's God has to have the only attitude possible is an attitude of possibility. We cannot, we are destroyed in our thinking And so the work is his to work that out, sort of like what um uh Natalie was saying. Um but that it is God's work to work that out in us. And I mean, it's odd but there's a certain sense of like rest that is coming to me as I'm reading this in the realization that God's work is to do this and He promises to do it. Not that I shouldn't be watching and fearful of him, that's part of the point too. But also that I can rest, since I am already a Christian, I can trust that he is working these things. Yeah, uh and then you could also add to that, right? What are some other ways you could you could see promises, for example, of him working it out, the famous phrase repeated so many times, vengeance is mine? We're talking about the same thing. But then in what ways are you involved though? And when I say you, I mean humanity, uh particularly the redeemed. But you do bring God's justice to this world as the redeemed? Well, in Second Corinthians, there's so much talk about the words that we do those being uh want to build with gemstone things that are eternal versus things that fall away in the building of his church and obedience to him and um following his command The ways that that builds the church also builds a society community seems to be what you preach logical. Oh yeah, that's true. Uh yeah, and what if you were what if your husband left his current company because America needed him as a senator? Well it's just another way that Christians certainly may hold uh civil office And in that way can exercise the sword in the punishing of evil and the supporting of good. And it is not wrong to do so. I mean I think there a variety of Christian ideas that this is sort of getting off track. It is but Christians shouldn't act Yeah. Yeah. It is a little off track in terms of Paul's initial argument, but the ideas immediately branch into that. Because you start to ask, okay, well, does God only exercise justice at the end of all days? Well he does exercise justice, perfect justice. at the end of the days, but that's not the only time in which he will uh exercise justice. Well then you ask the question, well then how does he do so if he has not returned? And then we And we start to talk about his two arms in a different sense than Irenaeus did, and it will be civil and church as the way in which that is done. Yes. We spend a lot of time um reading out injustice to the world when we are parents and when we are teachers. Um I spend a lot of time trying to train it away. Um Not not my own idea to do that more, but I spend a lot of time speaking children. Yeah, thank God that you do. And I think you're speaking for for all mothers in some Yeah, that's beautiful. Yeah. Yes, Bill. Yeah, he's picking up on an earlier argument that he thinks Paul is making where the problem with humanity is not just that there has been a corruption in themselves, but that they have been enslaved to a principality and power that is directing them towards certain ends. They have a nature now to where they take his arguments and persuasions and want to do his will rather than God's. And that this author sees in Romans particularly a great Exodus theme that Jesus Christ is leading his people away from Satan as the great Pharaoh through the rebirth canal, so to speak, instead of Yeah. And it's about God calling his people out from the marriage. Yeah, it does, right? Yeah. Yeah, that's a major theme. That's a major theme for him. So All right, very oh, Marilyn, hi. Um I I kind of like to interact a little bit with the phrase suppressed the truth. Yes, please. Because that seems to indicate some contact with the truth. Um, and um the best happy connotation of just like pressing down on something and sitting on it like you know to get rid of it. I was impressed with the way this author um described it as um the person who is doing that, believing that he is mature liberal and enlightened. Oh yeah. Uh the argument comes across, our culture's argument comes across. Yes. Um yeah, I And it just, you know, you're just kind of going, well, okay, I can I can understand. I mean when you think they put they push within that that sort of opposition, you know, it's kind of like you can You can have your life and see that you can see it on your prepositions when you were going to Yeah. Yeah. Uh yes. the um mature liberal and enlightened. But it also sometimes makes it hard for me to understand how people can actually swallow a lot. Yeah. It's a good question to be asking. I'd like to offer a distinction. So you're raising a very important question for every Christian of this era to raise. How could a person even think uh in line with that the gender philosophy that's currently present. That is a question that would lead you to a hypothetical answer. Church has made a distinction between in-these statements and then let's call them actual statements. And the actual statement would be get to know your name neighbors, the ones who are actually accepting them, ask them, what commends this to you? And that's a really, I think that's a really important distinction. You know. It's like asking, should man get married? Vers should Joe get married? Those are very different answers. Not this Joe. We know he's already married. Yeah, too late for Joe. But I think that's an important distinction. For a long time I think the church has been asking a hypothetical. And I have found as I have been practicing that my neighbor has very different answers. Than than Fox News or CNN. And half the time they're not even doing what those news things say. Yeah. I was just at a several Park Christoph Christmas Festival. Our town now celebrates, has a Fourth of July parade and a Christmas tree lighting. I mean it it feels like well, Holly describes it as a I've never watched it. But uh something girls. Gilmore girls. It was a Gilmore girls Christmas. I don't know. Anybody know that? So I'm watching all the parents with their children. Children are running around doing children's stuff, having hot chocolate that's for free, all that. No parent is letting their child look at their cell phone. The children are to play with each other and and And the children that addressed me said, Thank you, sir. Okay, that is not what you hear in the news. Now is that every child? No. saying it's like there's a difference between the hypothetical and the actual. It wasn't actually for you to know what reality is, you know That's a training device for doctors. So anyway, okay. Very good. Great. Great great conversation on that. Here we go. Next now we're going to get into the suppression even more. Paul says the wrath of God is being revealed from heaven against all the godlessness and wickedness of men who suppress the truth. The wrath of God is a present reality, for it is being revealed. It will come to its climax on the day of judgment, when he will sentence those who have rejected his rightful authority. Paul is again faithful to Old Testament. The great act of judgment on Israel for her sin was giving the nation over to her enemies, the Babylonians, taking her into exile. Paul says that God has given rebellious man over to sin, and the sentence brought upon him is imprisonment in the kingdom of darkness, exiled from the God who created and loved him. Bill, you see the theme continuing? Yeah. Yeah. And then he references a few passages that I'd like to look up together actually before we comment on the paragraph. So let's uh this is these are going to be passages with reference to this idea of the kingdom of darkness as making sense of our reality. Um Acts 26, 18 So let's do some volunteers. Who would like to read 2618 from Acts? Okay, Carol's got that one. Who would like to do Galatians 1. 4? Elizabeth has that one. Colossians 1, 13 through 14. Marilyn's got that one. And then I wanted to do one other one. Tate, where is it, is it in 1 or 2 Timothy where he says to not to be patient uh praying that the person would be released from the captivity of the devil. Do you remember? I asked you because you seem to have all the scripture Well I wanna read that passage, whichever one it is, is if you all can find it. Yeah, who Gary, you got that one for us. Oh, were you gonna read it in the French? Okay, so we'll start with that uh yeah, I think he did he said two twenty twenty-two through twenty-six. So we'll have Gary read that one for us. As long as he's willing. Yeah, he said he he said he Okay, so we'll start with the axe one. Please project. Okay, I'm gonna start with uh verse seven. Please, thank you. I will deliver you You from the Jewish people as well as from the Gentiles to whom I now send you to open their eyes in order to turn them from darkness to light and from The power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sin and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by faith in Jesus. Lovely. And you really should have, if you were a reader of that day, you should have in your head the picture. of being in that train of people in the Exodus, being taken from that kingdom to a new one, a new inheritance, even the promised land, sitting out in front of you. Pretty, beautiful. Yeah. Okay. Next was Elizabeth. Um raised to you in peace from God, the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself for our sins. That he might deliver us from the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father. Uh and this a yeah, okay, and then um Colossians one thirteen through fourteen was Marilyn. He has delivered us from the power of darkness and translated us into Okay, very good. See again the two kingdoms and then Gary with uh 2 Timothy this is a pastoral application Paul is telling Timothy how he should wrestle with troublemakers So flee youthful passions and pursuit of righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along with those who call on the Lord from pure heart, have nothing to do with foolish, ignorant controversies. You know that they breathe world And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome, but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness. Grant them repentance, leading to a knowledge of the truth. And they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil after being captured by him to do his will. Satan to do their will, his will. Isn't that interesting? Yeah, that word uh gentle there is a really hot word among theologians of the Reformation. It is trans Translated by them most often as equity, which is interesting, which would be to treat each person as is wise in those particular circumstances which you can see repeated in 2 Thessalonians where it's comfort the weak, rebuke the hard-hearted, that kind of is that saying that's the equitable that's the equitable response. That's needed for them to be released from the captivity of the devil. And notice that the whole thing is bathed in prayer and patience. Yeah, really. As soon as he mentions that, it takes you, it takes it outside of pastoral power. Even for Timothy, he's not going to be able to just overcome Satan. Alright, so those are those are some examples. Any comments on the paragraph itself? There's not a yeah. Okay, let's go on to the next then. The wrath of God is seen by many as an outmoded way of speaking of God's reaction to sin. It has been argued that this expression suggests that he is angry and not in control of his emotions. A description inconsistent with the God of love of the New Testament. However, such an argument does not do justice to the biblical evidence, not least because the New Testament regularly proclaims the wrath of God. see those different verses there. The New Testament speaks of the same God as is found in the Old Testament, a God who never ceases to be angry at sin. To remove God's wrath from the description of his character would be to create a God in our own image. He would be an idol. How shocking is the thought that Christian worship can so easily become idolatry. Any thoughts on this one? Yes. I think it's interesting to see. Make sure you speak up. I think it's interesting his his choice of the tense of verbs in this last three sentences to remove glass wrath from the description of his character would be to create a guide in our image. It should, I think when when we remove God's wrath from the description of his character, we create to do it. Yeah but he he's he's British. They don't they're never direct. They would always just say, wouldn't it be nice Right. Right. This is not hypothetical. We all, everybody in this room does that every single day. That's what I think British people are saying to Americans. Twenty four seven. Well, you're a bit direct, aren't you? That's my experience anyway Any other thoughts on this paragraph of the wrath of God? Okay. The wrath of God is being revealed against all godlessness and wickedness. Of men, our sin will find us out. And its consequence is not temporal separation from God as in the Old Testament, but eternal exile. This exile is based on the Old Testament model. In the garden, Adam preferred the voice of the serpent to the voice of God and was consequently exiled. Israel, a nation created for God to be his people, rejected his rightful claims and was eventually exiled also. And you can see how the Promised Land was a kind of garden, by the way. While the language of hell in the Gospels is vivid and awful, we must not lose sight of the fact that this language was used in the Old Testament to speak of God's judgment on faithless Israel. Expressions about the soul being cast into the lake of fire, and the sinner being cut off, must be kept in the Old Testament framework of judgment. The imagery is not literal, but powerfully symbolic of separation from God in exile. A symbol is always a faint reflection of the reality. It is used to convey. If the lake of fire is only a symbol, what is the reality? No wonder the writer of the letter to Hebrews said, It is a dreadful thing to fall in the hands of the living God. Okay, well we keep going. Are you finding this useful? It's hard to think of it fast enough to have the question. Yeah. Well I'll let you go comment on earlier paragraphs, even on later ones. Is that fair? Okay. Paul says that God's wrath is coming on those who suppress the truth. This is a frightening statement and conflicts with modern opinion. We live in an age when truth is seen as nothing more than private opinion. It is claimed that what is true for one person may not be true for another. Truth, it is claimed, is not absolute. Each person has their own version of truth, which is as valid as any other version. This understanding, which is the fruit of postmodernism, is promoted within universities and through media. It permeates society, determining private and public morality Gary. That's one of those statements I'd like to to w does it work for itself, like you know when someone says, Well that's true for you, what Does it work that I can say that things aren't true just for you? If they're gonna make a moral statement like that or a truth statement like that, they have to be able to can it justify that Yeah, they uh they slit their own throat. Yeah, that's right. And in my experience, that'll work for ages 50 and over. So, but if you were to speak to someone who is currently in college, they would say, yeah, sure, that's right. If that's how you want to look at it, fine. a communication or an idea. They're owned for exception. So they see it through their eyes. So that's how it can become What do you mean? Help me understand where you're coming from here. That there is there is a variation within the perception of of the people who are hearing say the declaration of the it looks it looks different, it resonates differently But to my mind, that's why we need all the spirit. So that those individual perceptions come into alignment Okay. Yeah, it is important to in a context like this that we just read to talk about the work of the spirit. Yeah, absolutely. Very good. Yeah. And uh you could talk uh in terms of language, you could say, okay, well, let's look at a any given university with actual real experience that would be needed. They'd need to be your people. You'd need to know them. And then you could ask two questions. Okay. Well you could ask one question. What is the spirit of this place? And then you can could see if it is the spirit of God or if it's not, and the church is called to test the spirits. And and uh one of the spirits he's calling out here is the spirit of postmodernism Maybe there's a better way to talk about it than that ism word, but it gets at it. Uh Doug and then Ryan. I was reminded of the term moral relativism. Yeah. And that to me was what that was describing. And uh sin sort of begets sin and use life Further off the mountain as society when that happens. And that's what we're living. Yeah. Yeah, that's true. Uh uh for for most things. I would say there are some things that are very dear. to our hearts, even when our hearts are godless. Um choice seems to be really dear to us, for example. Right. Uh rights. Yeah, those kinds of things. And then R uh Ryan. So the couple of paragraphs of this made me think. personally as a Christian, how a lot of this is infecting the church um and our own hearts. So on the previous page We're talking about trying to say check man seeking to serve the authority of God and excuse his actions and attitudes of mature, liberal, and enlightened Um I think uh as Christians we could fall into the trap of saying that our sin is actually us just exercising Christian liberty and wisdom and that um uh and then this paragraph we just made me think of that again. So we're saying that you know what's True for you, maybe true for you, but but what's true for me? We don't use those that because that raises all the red flags and we go like aha. So we mask it with like, well, um we have the priesthood of all believers and uh my conscience is not quite as weak as yours So you need to like not break the speed limit. But for me, I speed that's not actual word. Or like Um and for you you need to not go into those places or uh but for me that's okay for me to frequent those kinds of places or to speak that way about my spouse or my parents um or my governor or county executive Because my I I they'll struggle with the same thing you struggle with. And so um like we can just kind of we find ways to surreptitiously allow sin to blossom in our own Christian lives. Essentially moral relativism. That's just hiding the Christian language. And I'm just saying I think that'll sort of absorb it in my own partner. Okay, that's very good. Um There's uh since you referred to earlier paragraphs, I'll do so also. What do you think then? Uh earlier I made on a comment on one of the earlier paragraphs that we must um speak to each other with equity. And that meant knowing uh the differences in people and addressing them relative to Or relative to those particular circumstances, how is that different than the relativity that you're depreciating in your speech. So for example, you want to get on my case about the stop sign no matter what. What if I told you, you know, it it was 4 a. m. I sat there for 75 minutes waiting. for I'm sorry, I'll say a red light. I sat there for 75 minutes waiting for it to change. It was obviously broken. I needed to go home. I ran the red light. That has happened to me before, Ryan. This is really personal. But at any rate, both of those both of those are judgments with a kind of uh relativity to that. And I'm wondering if you can sort it out. Well, I think uh the problem that comes to my mind is that we can take some something that is objectively good, like equity. Okay. Proper sense of dealing with things relative to who we're dealing with dealing within the circumstances they are in and then we have used that. Yeah. Like why can be wonderful, but we can Yeah. And I think that this is another all of these doctrines of scripture that in themselves are good and right. But then we because of our fallen nature want to abuse them for our own self-chance. And I think that's so it takes the whole period probably in the word to Separate those things out because the hard man and the quick is that you can know it. Yeah, that's right. And it and Hebrews it mentions that through uh great use we grow in our knowledge of the taste for good and evil, or the distinction between the two. And that's got to be by the ministry of the Spirit also. Otherwise, you're right. Uh yeah, that's great. Um and Paul talks about that as a cloak. Have you seen him speak about things? Like that, as a cloak. There's a a cloak that is placed over things to make them to hide what their actual substance is. So we cloak the we cloak the our live With oh whatever. Pretty interesting. Yeah, very good. Thanks, Ryan. That's helpful. Yes. It seems like the death of Jesus Christ is relativism um new point because no matter what what we think is true for us and what we consider sin for ourselves versus what somebody else considers sin for themselves, it didn't hurt Jesus any less. Okay. Yeah, that's nice. It's like the cross makes us come to the realization of what reality is. Hmm. Like if I were a murderer, did I hurt Jesus more than if I'm alive? Okay. Yeah, that's a good question. I like it. Okay. Alright, are we ready? Okay, very good. Good conversation. Okay, moral confusion. Am I on the right one? Yeah. Okay. Moral confusion is the inevitable result of denying the existence of God. If there is no God, then right or wrong are mere reflections of the preferences of humans and societies. Any claim for a moral principle being true is nothing more than saying, in my opinion, it is true The powerful argument the powerful argument that there are no absolute truths has profoundly shaped modern society. However, when this product of postmodernism is subjected to its own definition, Gary It emerges as one opinion in over six billion opinions and is worth no more than any other. In other words, there is no more truth in the belief that there are no absolutes than in the belief that there are no that there are. Man, that could really make somebody upset. If someone was really passionate about this way of viewing reality, and then we said, well Thanks for your opinion. I don't take your words very seriously. In other words, there are no okay Thus postmodernism, like all other isms, contains the seed of its self-destruction within its own argument. Likewise, the claim that there is no God is itself only an opinion. It is of no more value, I'm sorry, I read this. Oh no, no, I didn't. Value than the other 6 billion opinions which are in the marketplace of ideas. To get to this position, the evidence has been carefully selected and atheism's unassailable claims constructed. The fact that even the most ardent atheists instinctively ponders the reason for his existence and he can only make sense of his being once he acknowledges the existence of God. That's true with C. S. Lewis's story. I'm going to keep going. If we argue that Paul's opinions are worth no more than any others, we must remember from whom his message came. It was not the result of his imagination or reflection, but of an unmistakable encounter with the Son of God, who had been crucified and raised from the dead. Paul's message was not speculation. It was based on revelation. The Christian gospel is not a record of man searching after God, but a record of God's saving initiative to save humankind from a desperate situation. Let me ask you a quick question. What is the title of the major in university that goes under this phrase, a record of man's searching? after God. No. There is no there is no theology in university any longer. Yeah, it's gonna be it it's gonna be It's the anthropology of religion. So we just look at ancient cultures and how they express themselves religiously. That's what it's boiled down to. And I can't say if that's every university. I actually I know it's not because there's uh for example University of Toronto has a pretty good theology department if I'm not mistaken. And uh How did that happen? And um well they all left Yale and went up there. But I don't know I don't know what to tell you. I don't know what to tell you. Any other thoughts on this paragraph? Adrian, please. Probably. Yeah, probably. But it's still not going to be studying what God has said. It's going to be more of trying to look at what are the experiences of what people Well go think God said or something. Uh R. C. Sroll made this observation a long time ago. He was really concerned when he went in, he tells a story in I forget what series it is, but he told a story It really struck me that he went, he was called in, I think, as a consultant on a new college. And he brought up to the board his first observation was that they had changed the theology department to the religion department And he said that's significant and you're moving down the wrong trail or you have already done so. You remember that story? It couldn't anybody remember what it was called. But it you have it always been the Department of Religion and then we don't know. It was a theology department. Yeah. So as I guess we change it so that we can line up with other uh universities, yeah. That's that's significant. Yes. Marilyn. Um this may be okay. I am actually seeing this whole discussion not as a theoretical discussion. Great. But through my the eyes, the frame of my discussions of my little sun. Okay. Um this Uh speak up please. I I know this is a serious moment for you, but I want everyone to hear you. You know, just a lot of possible user work no more than any others. Um and And as and in the frame of um everyone brings their own perceptions, um, and in the frame of my having a conversation or having conversations with them, basically he would take this paragraph and say to me, well, you're accepting the claims that Paul received this message to revelation. Basically that's the way he'd say it. The way I would say it is I'm looking at this through the eyes of Tate. Okay. Okay. So we're both saying the same thing, but we're still not touching each other. True. And we're still we're still at this place where you know kind of what I said before before is that every person brings their own perception to the discussion and I don't know. You know, basically sometimes I get to the point where it's just like you're right. I'm accepting if I could. Yeah. to what I believe. You know, I have certain evidences where they're seeing, you know, that I can point to, which you don't believe. Things I've seen on life which are different than things you've experienced in your life. Um I'm gonna go to the break with it and happy I'm I'm content but I'm not content for you to go to the break with it where you might Yeah. But I don't know how to bridge or and only later. Yeah, I think what you just summarized is the conversation that needs to be needs to happen across the entire culture. There's a basic observation that, like you mentioned, there are different ways to view this That can be a valuable observation that actually has some truth in it. I've read the scriptures with people and then corrected them because they viewed it wrongly. Right? And they have done the same with me There's a way in which we can read something wrong. There's other parts to your conversation which have to do with faith. So let me ask you a quick question. Are you embarrassed? Uh huh, okay. But it's true that that's what I do. Right. It's true that the scriptures like it. Yeah, you do. I'm I'm willing to like all of that You accept the scriptures by faith. So let's think just for a moment, what in the world does that mean? In terms of the scriptures. So what is it that the scriptures say to you? Close your eyes. Do they say close your eyes and just believe? Okay, so then what is presented to you in every gospel? And in every letter, what is it that we actually say that we do? We submit ourselves to apostolic witness and testimony. So then we look at Paul and we We see he had a Damascus road experience. We see that he did miracles. We see all of these things that are meant to attest as to who he is. Who he is draws us back into the Old Testament. And who those people were, prophets, and the signs that they were able to do. And we, and this is where the faith comes in, correctly located, by the grace of the the Holy Spirit are able to accept the testimony of the apostles and the prophets. I think that's what we're doing. And other people do not accept their testimony and they have a bunch of arguments for why they shouldn't. And we don't agree. What do you think about putting framing it that way? Do you find that helpful at all or more I'm not saying your son would agree with that. I'm just I'm also very handy in terms of the open question they would So a question I think that's a valuable question these days is, are you willing to accept any testimony from anybody from the past? So we have all kinds of history books and people said that they went to the moon. Are you able to accept that? Why? What's the cra criteria that you're using to accept that and not Paul's testimony. That kind of stuff. I think that's an interesting question to have. But we'll see what other people think about what I've said. I might have dug myself a hole here. Gary? Just building building on that and what the author here said is that you know emerges as one a billion one a million over six billion Well it's been estimated a hundred million people live have lived on Earth. Each one has their own distinct opinions. So how do we know which one is true? Well this is where it goes back to we have We're basing ours on the opinion of the man from above. We have an arbiter. Everybody else, you're just one of all these many. Who's who's the arbiter? Well, we have an arbiter. He came from above. Yeah Yeah, right. The closest you could maybe get today is to have a totalitarian state or something. Yeah. Uh was there any someone Else that wanted to jump in on this one? Even if this seems like a bit of a technical conversation, this is the problem right now. This is what university students are wrestling through. Yes, Christina. It doesn't mean that I mean I know like this is the reality appearances Can you speak up a little bit first? Thanks. That there are arguments and our sinfulness as we read the very first paragraph prevents us from being able to see truth clearly and accept truth. Yeah. And so it does seem like being well appeared is part of the problem, but we also need to be sometimes we just need to be bolstered and perseverance in the face of constant opposition And um like I the question about whether you feel in merit, I felt like the just such a difficult question even for me in thinking about that because they is part of the equation all right just our ability We believe that the Holy Spirit works in us to open our eyes to scripture. And so that Part of what faith is is the Holy Spirit opening the eyes and Yeah, we call that the illumination of the Holy Spirit. And taking away our you know, working working to take away the destroyed ability we have to think in a way that reflects rightful position. And so Um it seems like there's both. There's you know needing to think clearly and have things to say and write answers, but there's also Like sometimes that is what we're clinging desperately to and it feels like the whole world is sneering and mocking. But that's what scripture says. that it was the work of the Holy Spirit and it isn't. Yeah. Struggling to be articulate. No, no that's I mean and uh you could make it a bit simpler too. You could say um well let's just look at Christ. What testimony did he accept as authoritative for an understanding of reality. Well that's what um in other words I'm just I'm putting it in different terms. I'm just saying, well what is the faith of Christ. Alright, so then we would see that he verifies all of the Old Testament as authoritative. Well the message of the Christ and what he He's doing in the world is all there in the Old Testament. The New Testament is largely showing that the Christ has come and then explaining what all that means by way of the Old Testament. Testament. So maybe I hope that's not m adding confusion to it. Anyway, sorry. That didn't help. B T, please. If we buy ourselves from the scriptures, then we have the confidence that we have an Almighty God because the words tell us what his thoughts are. Yeah. But we have a question of someone who wants to fight that we have we have ordered to back us up, which is the greatest problem. That's where I if you know if I had a civil conflict would come to me and say I don't read your perception of something, I say, well, let's see what the Bible says on the matter, because that's where the authority comes from. And then they come to bring it up, you can remote something Yeah. Use the authority that you've been given by m by means of the work that we have to come from a higher source. Yeah. Yep, and I think that's the same argument that Gary is making. And tons of other people uh and christ himself chr uh testifies to the authority of the scriptures yeah elizabeth do you find that uh do reject the are also ones who have no sense of historical the uh who reject history basically who say because those people were applauded history is no longer trustworthy. Therefore the now is what matters and what counts. And so my my thought is I I just I feel like we've teased out the now from the historical because we rejected white men in the past. And now only now it matters. And so we've lost the ability to to speak logically and helpfully because having previous experience of accounting. I've heard that that's a uh like a pattern. I haven't had that personal experience with folks I'll have to s pay attention to that. I have this individually. I just meant so s as a society it feels like you rejected the past. I believe in Alexander Greek because Yeah. Right. I don't know why. One of the reasons I noticed in the actual conversations is that the well the the the uh admitting the uh um admitting the claims with regard to Jesus leads to more serious things than if I admit the claims of Julius Caesar. More is at stake, and I'm unwilling to admit the second one. I I've seen that in an actual conversation. But that's a that's a that's a tough one. I know, I know, I know. That's how we think about that. But those kind of things are not acknowledged uh exactly. So, um well I really hope that you all get into conversations with your neighbors about important things and uh where you work and all that kind of stuff. And let me know uh how the conversation goes. I wonder what people actually uh think and how you are helped in your conversation by way of this first sentence in Romans about the suppression of truth. and what's going on in the human heart and all that. We'll meet again next Sunday and go to the next sentence. Isn't that great? Yeah. Good stuff. Okay, let's pray. Oh Lord, we thank you that you have in fact given us a faith to accept the apostolic and um well your divine testimony here in your scriptures that we are able to accept the collection. And Lord, we pray that you'd uh secure us in that faith. Ask these things in your name.