Nick, it's good to have you back. I know your family's thrilled. How how long are you with us? Four hours. Four hours. Okay. I'm glad you're here. Uh so this is lecture number four of the Sunday School, and I want to begin with uh reviewing uh what we've been talking about for the first three lectures, and then we're gonna go Bef before we start, well I'll tell you all this later. Let's start with uh a a review. Uh the what we've been doing is we've been asking about the shorter catechism questions from a larger framework. And one of my goals is to help you to see how significant these questions are really for anybody who's a human. So when we were talking about the first lecture, for example, the overarching question that I was really seeing uh this catechism dealing with is what are the ordered relations? of things. Now that's a pretty philosophical way of putting it and it's very general. But when you have that on your mind, you can begin to look around at the human race and see that everyone's concerned about that. They're all trying to figure out how things go together. How are men supposed to relate to men? How should women relate to women? What about men and women? What about adults to children? And what we see is that the scriptures address those kinds of questions. We may not be used to how the scriptures address them, but the scriptures do. And one of the primary places in which that's addressed is the creation account. Well we learn in the creation account not only how creatures relate to creatures, but how the creatures are meant to relate to their creator. And that's the part of that larger question that the catechism focuses in on. But it's a part of a a a bigger conversation than that. And that was our that's our first lecture. The second lecture asked a question in light of a universal phenomenon of chaos or disorder. In other words, people disorder things. We've been using the word of twisting or disorganizing the mosaic. And so what we see being addressed within the second question is the is the idea of, well, what is the measure or the rule? that we can use to make sure that we have the real order of things. That we're doing things well, that we're doing them truthfully and that we're doing them good. I think that's the right way to say that. Um how can we make sure that we're not twat's that? Well. Well, yeah, thanks. I wasn't going to say the cow thing. Oh I'm glad you did. It just felt wrong. It felt wrong. I got really uncomfortable. Um so we can ha you threw me there. Uh in other words, people twist, how can we make sure we're not twisting? And the answer was That we have been given the word of God. And that's a very accurate statement. And Kate, you led us there in the answer on that second week. We don't say the scriptures, we say the word of God. Because the inscripturation of the Word of God happens after there's already the Word of God present And so we want to say the word of God so that the rule has been present even before the inscripturation of it. Now that's a bit technical, but that's the right way to say it And then the third lecture dealt with the proper distribution of that rule. Okay, so we have the rule, it is the word of God. We expect an orderly God to have patterns to things. And therefore there should be a distribution or a division of that revelation. And we discovered that it is divided into two. What is man to believe concerning God, and what duties does God require of man? Those are the when you look at the principal things that Scriptures teach. That's how it is divided. We see that even in the scriptures themselves. Does anybody remember any of the verses that show us that division of theology? Bearful in mind that we're still in the middle Micah six? Yeah, that was a good one. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Another one? No, that was a little that's uh second Timothy three sixteen. Se uh yeah, second Timothy three sixteen and then s uh first Timothy one thirteen, I think it is. Uh the where it talks about faith and love as the division of that word which had been handed down to us. of faith and a good conscience. And then Tate, are you here this morning? No. Tate mentioned the preface to the Ten Commandments. And then the Ten Commandments themselves shows the division. And you could go on and on. I think someone mentioned, was it you, Jeff, the very structure of the epistles where we have who God is and what he's doing and then what is required of us in light of that. So we start to see that pattern throughout all the scriptures. All right, so that's a that's a review. Are there any questions before I move on out of the first three questions? Okay. All right, very good. Well we're not actually going to start question number four today. Now that we have uh those three questions and we realize what our rule is and how it's divided. I want to go back and I want to use the rule to clarify the meaning of two words from the first question, which is glorify and enjoy. And I want to do so by also introducing you to the tradition that in which people have thought about, glorify, and enjoy Uh those who wrote the catechism would have been thinking about it in light of this tradition. So I'm going to introduce that to you. It's going to be become a little unclear at certain points, but that's okay. I'll try to reground it by the end. But I do want to make sure you're aware of uh how we've how the church has thought about these things. Okay. So before we move on to question number four, And so we're getting ready to ask the question next week, well what is God? Before we do that, I want us to use the rule which God has handed down to consider the meaning of the terms glorify and enjoy. And I want to start with the word enjoy. If we look at the breadcrumbs, remember the church has historically not used proof texts to just put the final nail in the coffin in an argument. It's a breadcrumb to leave lead you into how God views things. So the breadcrumb that is given to us in the catechism for the word enjoy is from Psalm 73. So let's turn Turn there is Psalm seventy three, twenty-five through twenty eight. And again, this is just a breadcrumb to introduce you to the heart and mind of God. And what you would want to do if you have more time on your own is you're going to want to then look at the commentaries of the Reformation, the Middle Ages. And you're going to want to see just stick with the reformers, which is the 14th to 15th century, and then you can you can uh also look at post-reformation, which is going to be 16th to 17th century or um hundreds. And you could look at their commentaries on how do they look at Psalm 73, and that'd help you to see how the folks who are writing the confession view it. But listen to this and listen for the idea of enjoyment to try to see what he's getting at. Whom have I in heaven but you And there is none upon earth that I desire besides you. Let's just stop there for a second. Can you imagine honestly saying that? We're already getting to the mode of enjoyment here. My flesh and my heart fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. For indeed, those who are far from you shall perish. You have destroyed all those who desert you for harlotry. But it is good for me to draw near to God. So you can see the breadcrumbs that are being scattered here for us to pick up and to follow along. If you look at that psalm overall, it's really interesting the movement of the psalm. It begins actually with the psalmist envying the godless and the unrighteous for all of the good things that they have. They have a kind of plentitude, plenitude, and a life of happiness. And he would like to possess those same things. But then there's this shift in the psalm, and I encourage you to study it later. There's the shift in the psalm and it says, But then I go into the sanctuary. And what he's getting at there is that there's this time between him and the Lord where there's a reordering of his thoughts with reference to God. And he realizes, after that reordering, that even if you have all things, but you do not have God, you have nothing. Now that's a bit of a mystery to the human race to say those kinds of words. Those are the I don't know more profound words than this psalm to tell you. the truth. I think you spend all your days trying to get to this point by the power of the Holy Spirit. And then he he ends up stating this by way of a poetic device called a merism. Has anyone heard of that before? A merism? I'm pronouncing that correctly. I'm one of those guys that has read a number of things but hasn't heard it spoken. So I tend to say words strangely. Uh-huh. Anyone know what a mirrorism is? Merismus, yeah. Thank you. Any cabin and errismus. Everything everything in between and I'm conceptual entity. Yeah. Exactly. It's a poetic device that shows you two ends of something or two extremes in order to let you know that it's everything. And you can see that within Psalm 73. And the the verses that I gave to you where he says, Heaven, there's no one in heaven. And he looks upon the whole earth and upon all the heavens, and he realizes that his thirst, so to speak, is only quenched. His satisfaction is only found in Now I use the language of thirsting and being quenched and satisfaction to immediately start tapping you into um or to to to s sow some more breadcrumbs on uh we're we're eventually going to get into the works of Augustine. But let before we do that, let me just point out a couple other psalms that relate to God in this way. There's too many to list, but let me just list two. Psalm 36, 7 through 9. How precious is your loving kindness, O God Therefore, the children of men put their trust under the shadow of your wings. They are abundantly satisfied with the fullness of your health. house. And you give them drink from the river of your pleasures. For with you is the fountain of light, life. And then listen to this last phrase. Some of you will recognize this from a quote from C. S. Lewis, but it's from the Psalms. Listen to this. In your light we see light. It lets you know who he is. Right? And how human beings are meant to relate to him. And this relationship has been characterized in our catechism of enjoyment. We're getting that enjoyment here. Psalm 65, verse 4. Blessed is the man you choose and cause to approach you, that he may dwell in your courts. Now what he's getting at with the goodness of your house, it has to do with his presence. It has to do with with his order. It has to do with his end goals for the world and how he brings blessing to all the earth. They're finding complete satisfaction in him So th what we um and so we use the word enjoyment for this. Now what were what the church has has done for a long time, particularly particularly within the Reformation, is they have benefited gr greatly upon the meditations of Augustine on these psalms. He was very fond of the Psalms more than than perhaps other parts of Scripture. And so I want to introduce you to the way that Augustine has spoken about these same kinds of things and the divisions that he's used, and then we'll return to the Psalms again. Basically what we could say, just as a a a definition that will need some more conversation, but we could just say that enjoying God means to find our full satisfaction in Him. Now I'm not just talking about your physical satisfaction. I'm not just talking about your psychological satisfaction. I'm not just talking about your emotional satisfaction. Those are going to be subsets of a larger conversation that's happening here. It's caught in phrases like, in you we live and move and have So when we see Saint Augustine uh speaking about these kinds of things things and when we when we read his meditations on the scriptures, which our catechism writers are benefiting from, we find that he talks about this uh quite clearly in a book that he's written uh called On Christian Doctrine. Has anyone re read that? De Dei Doctrina Christiana? No? Okay, well uh you should read it. It's about how to understand and interpret the word. and then how to communicate the word. That's his focus. And in that book, he divides, catch this, all of reality. whether uncreated or created, into two categories, use and enjoy. And that's where they're picking up this enjoy language. I'm sorry, Pastor. What's the name of that book again? On Christian Doctrine. By Saint Augustine. You can get it on Amazon. You can get it like everything else. You can get it on Amazon. Yeah. Okay. So th this is really interesting when you see divisions like this. uh or categorizations of all I mean imagine being you're trying to categorize all categorize all of reality. Well Augustine's doing that by his meditation on the Psalms. And he thinks that it should be divided into use and enjoy. I also think this is connected to a conversation about some things that are said in Leviticus and the divisions that are given. In fact, it's one of the roles of the priests to make sure that things are divided and distinguished correctly. Holy, unholy, and profane. and those kinds of categories. I think it's in Leviticus 16. He's trying to do something similar and capture the divisions that he sees in the Psalms and the Scriptures with the words use and enjoy. He makes this division because he sees it in the Word of God, and he observes when he views all of the Word, especially the Psalms, that there is only one object to be enjoyed, namely God. He notices that all else beside the Trinity is to be used. Enjoy is summarized by Augustine in many ways, but you're going to remember this famous quote. This famous quote is a part of the conversation that we're having this morning, and it's this. My heart is restless. until it finds its rest in thee. You see that? That's the conversation that that belongs to, by the way. So that's enjoyment. Now I want to talk about use for a second because we use the word use in different ways in our culture than the way Augustine is used. using that word. In our culture we use the word use usually to mean abuse. So if you came to me and you said you used me You don't mean that in an Augustinian sense. You're angry. If you do use it in an Augustinian sense, you should be honored that I used you. But that's not how we mean it. And so I I want to uh let's just clarify. That's not what he's talking about here. When things are used in the biblical sense, the way that Augustine talks about it It means that they are not desired for their own sake, but as a means to accomplish other ends, namely to enjoy God. So this all assumes that each thing is given by the Creator for a certain use. You see how the word's being used? The Creator intends for us to use things toward certain ends which he has determined. Now we're back to the order discussion. You see that? Instead of going against the grain of his design, we go with the grain, and we use all things for the sake of that which God has determined them to be so used. That's what we mean. So in other words, we use these things properly. We use them in the order that he has determined. That's what he means by the word use used. So what this does though is it ends up bringing us to the first word of the catechism which is glorify. And it starts to answer the question for us, what does it mean for us to glorify God? And to answer that, we ask the question, to what end should all things be used? And it is towards his glory. Why? Why do we use all things towards his glory? And the answer is to encourage ourselves and others to continually find our happiness. in the Supreme Good who is God and to find our satisfaction within him alone. It's a kind of circle that orbits back and forth. So as you picked up from the Psalms, and you could also look at Jeremiah on this, the first question is located within the conversation of idolatry. When you misuse something, which is another way to talk about an abuse, in an Augustinian conversation, and the conversation the church has had with him, We're talking about idolatry. We're talking about using things in a way that God never intended, elevating them into a level where we're working for their sake as opposed to using them. for the sake of God's glory. He'll also talk about this in terms of inordinate desires. I'm sure you've heard that kind of conversation. That just means desires that are out of order. It's all about order, this question. And this question is located within the conversation of idolatry. What alone should be enjoyed forever? The triune God. What are the fruits of a heart who are satisfied in God? A community which does not enjoy the creation, but uses the creation as the creator intended, leading themselves and others to glorify the only one that they may. Enjoy. That's the proper relationship between all things. Like Augustine was saying, use and enjoy. Now, what I want to do is try to bring this conversation back down to earth. And let's look at Psalm one o four. Psalm 104, and really all the psalms are really interesting if you think about them in relationship to the creation account. The creation account is written the way that it is, to where God is seen as a farmer. If you were to look, for example, in the Proverbs. You would see references to God and his handiwork or master craftsmanship in the making of all things. And it talks about him as Someone who enters into a situation where there's a barren field, it's it's so dry and disordered that nothing could live on it. And that's supposed to be analogous to the creation account where we look at God and what is before him is the it's without form and void. And the spirit hovers over the face of the deep. But nothing is habitable yet. Nobody could occupy that. And so then what we see is God, like a farmer, in the space of six days, makes habitable space. for the blessing of his creatures. This is supposed to inform us in all the work that we're supposed to do in the space of six days. So um then you can picture Adam as and Eve as farmers who are supposed to care for and tend and to bring out the order that God intends for things. Well, interestingly, when you take that analogy and then you bring it over into the Psalms, I think one way to talk about what the psalmist is doing is the psalmist is acting like a farmer. But he's he's using words to try to sh create the correct order for us all to see So that there would be a kind of flourishing within human life. So take a look at how the in Psalm 104, how he sets this whole thing up. If you were to read through, let me open my scriptures too, Psalm 104, verse 10. Look at how this poetic or this farmer of poetry or farmer of words or arranger of words is trying to help us to see how all of reality is ordered. And um let me just point out a couple of things for you. So number one, if you were to look at 10, we've already covered a lot of ground in the Psalm by the time we get to verse 10, and it's all a picture of God in the heights. Verse 10 really brings out what he wants to do because it then talks about God sending things from the heights down into the earth. or the valley. You see that? He sends the springs into the valleys. They flow among the hills. You see that? Well then look at verse 11 and following, and you can see now how every other thing stands in relationship to him. He is the satisfaction and the source of all blessedness, the one on high. sending down the springs and rains to the valley. Now look at how everything benefits from him. He is the benefactor of all things. They give drink to every beast of the field. The wild donkeys quench their thirsts. See that kind of language? By them the birds of the heavens have their home. They sing among the branches. The waters, uh he waters the hills from his upper chambers. The earth is satisfied. See that language with the fruit of your works. Now look, he's going to go even further and you're going to start to see the interconnectivity between all things With reference to God. He causes the grass to grow for the cattle and vegetation for the service of man, you could say for the use of man in the Augustinian sense, for the use of man, that he may bring forth food from the earth. Listen to uh this is not just about bare necessities. Listen to what he gets it into. We have food from the earth, wine that makes the heart of man glad, oil to make his face shine. And bread which strengthens his hearts his heart, the trees of the Lord are full of sap, the cedars of Lebanon which he planted, where the birds make their nests The stork has her home in the fir trees. The high hills are for the wild goats. The cliffs are a refuge for the rock badgers. You want to ask why are there why are there cliffs? One answer is for the sake of taking care of rock badgers. He appointed the moon for the seasons. The sun knows it's going down. Now we you we're obviously in a creation account. I mean we're referencing back to the creation. The sun knows it's going down, you make darkness, and it is night, in which all the beasts of the forest creep about. Now we're going to move into nocturnal animals and how he takes care of them The young lions roar after their prey, and they seek their food from God. When the sun rises, they gather together and lie down in their dens. Now we've moved out of the nocturnal times. Man goes out to his work and to his labor until the evening. O Lord, how manifold are your works. In wisdom you have made them The earth is full of your possessions, the great and wise seed sea in which are innumerable teeming things. Now we moved over into the sea. It's another habitable place with reference to to the creation account. The Great and Wide Sea. I'm going to skip down. The ship sail about moving to 27. These now this is a this is the beginning by the way. of a a prayer that has been um said many times by people in their homes. They all wait for you that you may give them their food and due season. You can ask, for example, talk to Deborah Clark and ask her to say grace for you. Give her some food and then say, let's give thanks. And let her give thanks and you'll hear her quote this song. These all wait for you that you may give them their food in due season. What you give them, they gather in. You open your hand, they are filled with good. You hide your face, they are troubled. You take away their breath, they die and return to their dust. You send forth your spirit, they are created, and you renew the face of the earth. Do you see who he is? What the Psalmist is doing is he's showing the relationship, number one, between all of creation and the Creator. And this is called enjoyment. Everything finds its satisfaction and life in him. He is like the rains that come down to the earth and quench all living things. But there's also the relationship of things being used. The psalmist shows that God has given things many uses For example, the grass is used to feed the cattle, and then the cattle are in the service of man or to be used by for us to eat, for example But you'll notice that even when he is arranging all of those things, it doesn't take him long to lead you back up to the glory of God. All of those proper uses lead us to glorify him, and this is how the Psalm ends. In Psalm 104, 33 through thirty-four. I will sing to the Lord as long as I live. I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. May my meditation be sweet to him. And then I love this phrase. I will be glad in the Lord. So it gets right back to enjoyment. He starts in the heavens, he goes down into the valleys in his poetry. And And he comes back up giving glory to the Lord. And what we see are the two distinctions that Augustine is after. Whether you use his language or not, I I don't really care, but there really is a use and enjoy across all reality. We are to enjoy God alone because it is in him that we find our satisfaction. Our hearts are restless until we find our rest in Him. And we use all other things. Things have many uses, but all are to be used with reference to So, like it says in 1 Corinthians 10, 31, therefore, whether whatever you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. So I think another way to talk about this same thing is that we are to be living when we are um the chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. It is another way of just saying that all things should be done with reference to God. That's another way of saying the same thing. We enjoy him, we use him, or not use him, we use his creation, and all things should be done with reference to God. Now I have a couple questions for you all and you probably have some questions for me, but I I wanted to try to get down even mo get our feet even more onto the ground from this conversation. And I want to uh I can have somebody pass these out. If you could share, that would be great. Here's an example. Here's a, this is a, they give me permission to hand this out. Here's an example of looking at even diaper changing with reference to God. So we can share with each other. And I'll uh So there's five stanzas. Could I get five volunteers to read each one? And then we can talk about it a little bit. Tell me what you think. I really like this. The most interesting thing that has happened to me with changing a diaper of my children is to find a little Lego man in the diaper. But this is uh far better. Where'd she go? She wants to make copies. Oh, well let's take a let's just start. I I hand it out, you all are gonna share, and you'll hear it. And And then I guess you'll get a copy later. So I have five stanza. Who are the five volunteers each have a stanza? Okay. Thank you. You get number one. Who wants number two? Austin two? Three? Four? Five Carol. Okay, take us away. You got it. Heavenly Father, in such menial moments as this, the changing of a diaper, I would Remember this truth. My unseen labors are not lost, for it is these repeated acts of small sacrifice that, like bright ragged patches, are slowly being sewn into a quilt of loving kindness that swaddles this child. I am not just changing a diaper. By loving service, I am Tending a budding heart that rooted early in such grace-filled devotion might one day be more readily inclined to bow to your compassionate Conviction, knowing itself then as both a receptacle uh and a reservoir of heavenly grid. So this little act of diaper Though in form sometimes felt as base drudgery, might be better described as one of ten thousand acts by which I am actively creating a culture of compassionate service and selfless love to shape the life of this family and this beloved child. So take this undermark And in your economy, let it be multiplied into that greater outworking of worship and of faith, a true investment Open my eyes that I might see this act for what it is from the fixed bandage of each Eternity, O Lord, how the changing of a diaper might sit upstream of the changing of a heart. How the changing of a heart might sit upstream. The changing of the world. Amen. That's changing a diaper with reference to the Lord. Okay. So what do you think Where there's some words in the uh this liturgy here of changing a diaper part one. The second part I'll have to give to you, it's it's a reflection on your own It's pretty good. Uh do you see any uh enjoy and use distinctions in Do you see things in how how do you see with re how do you better understand with reference to God by way of this liturgy? Let's just talk about it freely. It's almost Okay. And and the plan for things to go. In other words, change the changing of a diaper is such a little thing, but how intimate something like that can be to formulate or or to develop a life or relationship or or um guidance uh uh as a mentor or father. Okay. Yeah so it's already taking the diaper and relating it to another set of things things. That's very good. I like that. What what else would you say? Let's just speak freely. Yes. Goes into the dominion and in the creation. of of subduing but but not just for its own sake but for being in the right order and and working to the glory of God and everything we do should be in that perspective. All day every day. Yeah, everything we do should be in that perspective. That's great. I like that. Yeah. It is in no way an enjoyable. Can you speak up a little bit? Me? Yeah, please. It's usually not what I hear. Um it it is It it is not a task that is in any that is in and of itself anyway enjoyable. Yeah, right. It does not fully satisfy. It is oftentimes gross. Yeah. But but we turn it we but but looking at it this way it's it changes all those negatives into something positive. Yeah. For the glory of God. Yeah. It's pretty cool. Yeah. Trish. It kind of back to you you're Stewart, you're there. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. And it's the start of something. Then you build into that. And then you have routine. Um routine may not be the best thing, but the the repetition of the small things building into other things and then the use of the economy is then the spreading of that and then the spreading that just that Yeah, that's great. Yeah, very good. And you and you said something profound there. You uh you said many things. actually but the w another another another distinction that we didn't get into is the question well does God use or enjoy us and And uh he uses us in this sense. But you brought that out. That's great. Thanks, Trish. Anything else? Yes, go ahead. I just I was just touched listening to this about um How God gives us a taste of what it is when you're taking care of your child, how their utter dependence is on us. And it reminds me of of how our dependence is utterly on him. Yes. And through the weeks I've been thinking about how God made the creation and ordered it. There's not anything that he can could have pulled out of it that would allow us to be far. Yeah. Yeah, very good. Yeah, that's enjoyment language. You're you're enjoying God right now. That's great to see. Yes. Um And just to tag on to that, um, I was kinda thinking along the same lines, but um the the relationship there when a parent is diapering a child It's a face to face interaction. Yeah. And um and in a way it takes something that's menial and makes it enjoyable. Yeah. Uh yes. Watch that word. Yeah, that's good. Yeah, that's right. And I think that that and it it ends up making even those I think this is partly what you're saying is those mundane activities become e um uh exceptional and significant because we're now looking at it with reference to a much bigger picture. Uh Yeah, that's great. Yeah. Oh sorry, wait a second one second. Michelle first and then you. Um what stood out to me the most is the in the second stance that were Yeah. Because it's a it takes an act of love to change a paper, a love of a child or a love of a person. And it's a service. So Um and I I enjoy God the most when I'm loving and being in service. Yes. Yeah, that's good. Very nice. Marilyn. I agree with what she just said. Um also it's the way that we reflect the image of God by bringing returning order to Caps. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, uh yep. We we are the secondary means and maintainers of order. Uh in fact if you look at the creation account closely, there are two different words for vegetation in the creation account in the Hebrew. One means those things which are just going to grow whether you help them or not. not. And then there's another one which are the only kind that are going to grow if you cultivate it. And it just lets you know your place. He he is um working through you to to providentially maintain his creation. Uh Tracy first and then what she just said. You're also giving your life away. It's a picture of him. Yeah. It is. Yeah, uh in fact, I'm glad that you said that. Uh Tracy said it's a picture of him. The guys who are writing the catechism and Augustine would have talked about this in terms of vestiges, that there are vestiges within him. That if when the creation is looked at well one can't help but to see the hand of its creator. And don't we read that also from Romans chapter 1, 18? through twenty, that we should see his invisible attributes and the handiwork of his creation. But instead of only enjoying him, we use God for the s and this is the great tragedy is we use him for the sake of other things. The creature takes the place of the creator. Trish. a smaller circle where in our reflection of his purposes we are again being used being used for coming back and seeing him How the joy we have of being used. Yes, that's right. That's right. We even enjoy God and His use of us. Yeah, it elevates our hearts to that. So let me ask you a quick question about this um liturgy here on the fourth stanza. Did you notice the word economy? What does that mean? It's from the Greek oikonomos. House rule. Pardon? House rule. Yeah, house rule or household. Yeah, that's I just trying to give you some etymology here. What does he mean in this liturgy, Stephen Maccus? What does he mean in this liturgy by economy? Fourth stanza, second line. Is she talking about capitalism? Free markets? I think in a the language we're using in might be in your order. Yeah. The order of all things with respect to each other. And yeah, and the reason why economy is used that way is that the whole uh cosmos is pictured as a household, which is the root of the The word economy and Christ is the head of the household and he keeps the whole household ordered. Yeah, that's right. So when it talks about Christ and his economy, uh, yes. Yeah, Christina. Also helpful to think of think God's value because we don't place the same value one thing that God does. So there's order which I I think of as like where they are in mind. Okay, there's also value that it's also in that the things that he values we do not actually value and so be patient to see and what he is doing and what he's valuing. Yeah exactly. So there has been I don't know how pervasive this This is any longer, you could probably tell me. But there was a a movement within society to make women who are working out of the home more valuable than those who were in the home. And that could be represented by way of the dress that they wore, uh unless you're at home and you look like Joan Cleaver. Uh right. June. Yeah, sorry. Actually I don't care if I know her name or not. But June June Cle her last name's Cleaver, right? Yeah, okay. Got it. But you get the picture. Yeah, but then when we when we look at uh household work which includes the whole house is what I mean by that, in light of now for example, I think this is what you're saying also. Notice the fifth stands the second line that Carol read. Open my eyes that I might see this act from what it is from the fixed vantage of eternity. What is a vantage? Yeah, the viewpoint. Yeah. And that's what I'm talking about with reference to God. All things are seen uh in his light, we have light. You see? Hold on one second. Was there somebody before Marilyn? Was someone raising their hand? No, Marilyn, you're up. Go for it. on top of value would be the idea of production, which is reflected in the next line here that says let it be multiplied. Yeah. And that brings us um to a constant prayer of mine in in child raising and and everything because we we put our our work of our callings to use God's service for Him to use us. But what it produces is not in our hands. Yeah. It's always we're always dependent on Him to bring um to multiply. For his glory. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, that's right. Very good. Okay. Well there's there's uh you can go to this website down the bottom, every moment, holy, and they have other ones. Oh, okay. I was thinking that there was some else in there that struck me is that the idea of humbling the humbling act of changing a diaper for for the person changing it. Yeah. But since I I've been dealing with old people. The humbling act of having your diaper change. Yeah. That inter inner submission kind of to each other and bringing love. I don't think that you Turn to God rightly unless you're low. And so these things that we do to love each other in a in a humbling way, I think, enable us to enjoy God. uh both relationally with each other and and um rightly placed towards God. Yeah, that's good. Yeah, that's good Right. And so what we have within our culture is we have a culture that wants to look at everything from a different vantage point. That's what people mean when they say post-Christian. They're not interested in looking at things with reference to God. They're trying to make sense of everything without reference to Him. And in fact, they don't see any need to reference Him whatsoever. But as Christians, what we are called to do is to look at everything in reference to him, and then the world becomes infused with significance. And I think one of the results of that, uh, quite honestly, is just a good attitude. Uh being joyful when you start to see things not as dead facts, but uh in in the Economy of God, everything becomes significant and leads you to your Heavenly Father. Now I have a couple other questions for you, but I want to just give you one reference. There have been uh some remarkable people who have uh This this um bo the uh This thing on the diaper liturgy that I gave you is from Every Moment Holy. You can buy a book that has a bunch of liturgies. They have liturgies for breakfast. Uh all of these daily tasks. Um there's a n probably one for mowing the lawn. And then there's a second one with death and grief. Yeah. And the d different things we would go through there and that could be worth your time. And let me just also mention an artist. Uh uh her name is Lilith Trotter. Has anyone heard of her? What what she had has done is in her paintings She she would paint uh a scene on a landscape and then try to relate it to an eternal vantage point. So she'd see uh flowers opening and she would talk about how their faces how the creation itself, its face, is turned toward God and worshiping Him. And it can really help you to start having that uh looking at everything by way of that economy. Are you familiar with Lilith Trotter? Yeah she she has some nice books and has paintings and then her writings. And uh I was glad someone introduced her to me. Okay, real quick. Uh here are a couple other questions for you. as we think about some of the things we've talked about in the catechism. If we accept Augustine's distinction that he said sees in the Psalms of all reality being to use and to enjoy. Let me ask you this. Should we use or enjoy Scripture? Why or why not? Yeah. That means that you think we should use and enjoy it? At the same time. You you think that we should use and enjoy the inscripturated word. Yeah, and usually it brings what the joy that you're looking for. Do you worship your Bible? No. I hope not. Because that's the expression of enjoyment. I'm pushing you. No, I would see my Bible. My Bible helps me see my one Yes, but that's different than saying that you enjoy the Bible. You say that you enjoy the one to whom the word points you. Right. Nat Natalie, have I converted you yet? Natalie, where are you on this question? Do you use or enjoy the Bible? Well, I mean you know I um I don't worship it. Yeah, I don't worship it. I just love it. I I I enjoy It it yeah, it points me to God. And I enjoy that. I enjoy being pointed to him. Um And there are people that I enjoy because they point me to him and there are people that I don't enjoy because they don't point me to him. Right, yeah. And the and then And in the language we used this morning, we would replace all those uses of the word enjoy with use. I'm just trying to be clear on the language, which is why I'm asking this question. So I don't enjoy it. No, you do not. Not in the Augustinian sense. Not in the Augustinian sense. Mr. Lee. Yeah, I'm starting to question the value in dividing things so clearly who's going to use and enjoy and you know when you talk about the chief end of man there's a chief end that's kind of an umbrella. Yeah. And there you know some one that ends underneath it. And I just wonder Like why I'm glad to the heart of the man and enjoy things that he made and it points us to him. I just wonder if he's using the word differently. Well uh That's fair. What happens to you, Mr. Lee, if you find your full satisfaction in wine? Right, you're you're you're you're a mess. Yeah. Anyway, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt you. Go ahead. I did mean to interrupt you, but I'm sorry for it. Go ahead. Say, um, this only teaches me about God and this only teaches me about the duty of man. Uh-huh. You when you learn about God, you know something about duty. And then when you learn about the duty of man, you learn something about God. Okay. So sometimes when you divide things it it it becomes less helpful or more scientific rather than you know looking at like the whole screen Yeah. Okay. Yeah, very good. Okay. Sarah. scripture at some level because the Bible is pretty clear in Psalm 1. Blessed man's commandment delights in the law of God. He meditates upon it day and night. Okay, that's that's pretty that's a plainly spoken thing that seems in conflict with what you're saying, maybe, I don't know. My challenge to that would be why don't we see the Torah up on the mountain? I'm just saying that that's to where we're going to be able to do that. And if you do, there's going to be someone that's above that. scripture, right? It's almost like it's like I delight in the law of God. Okay, I I I so I don't think it's somehow I it can't be wrong for me to say Uh unless I'm I I I feel like I might have to go get scripture if it's wrong for me to say that I'm not to delight in God's word. Yeah, I didn't say the word delight. I said in the Augustinian sense you shouldn't enjoy it. Sounds like in joy. Yeah, it does. Um, delight yourself more, but delight, joy, I mean those all those all kind of blend together in a way that I guess is uh Brian's saying this this distinction Maybe they do. I mean you have to work really hard, I guess, to keep those distinctions in your head as you're having as you're reading that text, but you don't you want to be able to read that text and not have to do a bunch of whatever you want to go, oh yeah sure, you know the man who's left Yeah, so I w I wonder if um I didn't imagine I saw one to sleep. That's what makes me that's what I'm going to wait Yeah. Well I if I were you, I I wouldn't dismiss Augustine too quickly. And um but I think whether we want to choose different terminology to where we don't see overlaps or other things that are important breaking down in terms of categorization and taxonomy. His his it seems like we should take his main point well, which is there's one in which we find our satisfaction. satisfaction. Our heart is restless till we find our rest in thee. That's what he's after. And then I I'm not an Augustinian scholar. I just want to introduce the conversation. And I hear what you're saying. What do we do? Let me put in the form of a question. What do we do with all the language that sounds like enjoyment but it's connected to not God. It's connected to things like his law, for example. Is that a figure of speech? where the th where the the law which is so closely related to the will of God is gaining the characteristics of him? Um I don't know, that's a really interesting question actually. That's good. Wait. There are too many things in this life that we as Christians and also especially non-Christians take joy or pleasure in that we should. So where scripture tells us to delight in the Word of God and to meditate on it day and night, I don't think even know August Augustine even here said this uh that we should feel guilt for enjoying or taking pleasure in the Word of God. There is um I take pleasure in God's word when it convicts me of my need. And I certainly take pleasure in God's word when I'm in. The word doesn't convict you. The words are not a good thing. The spirit does. Who is God? But um yeah I I I delight in the law and the word of God and I enjoy it and He's using the word enjoy in a different sense than that. I'm gonna keep pushing back. That's fine. I'm from the Eastern Shore. Yes, Mr. Reard, straighten us. So I think the Psalmist would be disappointed if you thought we were saying in delight in the law of the Lord, absent or separate from God. Right. So I think it's consistent in that You're delighting in something in the way God intended it would be because it's in reference to Him. Okay. And so it just bars us from from looking at something that's good, the law of the Lord, without reference to God. Like in John Jesus said, you know, you search the scriptures, um, thinking in them you will find life, but they're pointing to me. So they always are connected, right? Okay, I love that. You brought us back to home to the to home base. The conversation we're having is about idolatry. And that's what Augustine is concerned about, that we don't Make we don't allow the creation to take the place of the creator. Thanks so much. And you see how I'm connecting that to what you're saying? We've even taken his law or the scriptures. and have put it in a place that doesn't belong without reference to him. Sadducees, Pharisees, law was meant to bring life and it they just used it to hurt people. Right, great. Thank you so much. That's good. I saw a lot of hands pop up and um we're out of time. I'm off the hook. So anyway you can see that you want to get into some conversations about this. You've been introduced to the tradition anyway So now we understand hopefully glorify a little bit better and enjoy a little bit better has a lot to do with order still. And uh and then uh next week we'll jump into number four, what is God? So let's pray. Father, whether uh we're benefiting from a church father or not, he was just trying to benefit from what you have said. Taking us back to the fountain. And Lord, I pray that you would do that for us. Help us as a church to view things from your eternal vantage point. Even acts of changing diapers. Help us to see everything with reference to you. And may therefore your creation lead us into worshiping you, our Creator. May we do all things for your glory. And as the a physical visitation of Christ. May we be changed, may we be glorified, and may we enjoy you forever. In the name of Christ, Amen. Amen.