Right. Okay, so um we looked at questions thirteen through nineteen all together Uh because the obvious thread that runs through the unit is the different estates that we see going Well that uh humanity humanity enters into or as Jeff was bringing out last week, possesses. Jeff brought out particularly the legal aspect of it, which is important. And we'll see the importance of that later. But essentially what you're to do with that, for the first couple pages there, we work through pages one and two. We work through, okay It looks like the community of the faith are looking at the scriptures and they are noticing That humanity was created by God in a particular estate that could be described as Love for God, positive desire to do his will. They're not arguing with each other. One brother is not killing the other. There's something going on there. But then after Adam and Eve eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, the community of the faithful, namely the church, notice it looks like humanity has gone into a different condition. There's something going on here. Something tragic and drastic has happened. Well they keep making this observation, and they see that after death there's yet another condition for a state, and that even after Christ returns and there is a resurrection from the dead, there's yet an even another one And we see this reflected within the catechism or the confession. What you need to do is you need to look at the scriptures yourself. Continue to think about what the catechism is saying to you and see, do you really believe that they are giving insight into the nature of God's reality? Is this how life really is? That's what you need to look at. I believe that it is, which is why I'm teaching it to you. And I make vows that this is my belief. So please continue to look through the scriptures. And and see is this a good reflection of what God has revealed to us? And then the second step would be, okay, well what does he want me to do with that? Is that how is that useful for me loving him and loving those people around me? Okay, so once we saw this basic teaching, and that's all we really did last week, was we looked at this basic teaching that there are different estates into which mankind enters. This is going to set us up. Let's look at our confession really quickly. You see how important this is. This is a hinge upon which the door of salvation swings Yeah, by the way, how difficult it is to get an hinge curve, you know. to do it in well. It really takes a real hard work. Do you get all your own worst work? You know what I mean? All right. Yeah. I remember growing up with my dad and we had to do the all the morse work with the chisel. And we had that flat to where you anyway. Yeah. Okay. So oh yeah. Thanks Austin. Austin, you can do it. Alright. So when we get to the simple the He says, uh into what estate, verse uh question 17, into what estate did the fall bring mankind, into an estate of sin and misery. So we launched off of there and said, hey, guess what? There's a bunch of estates But then this is the hinge that it swings on because we we see question number 20 is key. That's the turning point. Did God leave all mankind to perish? in the estate of sin and misery. And that's why we're going to go ahead and move into it. That's why there is a different estate. That's why there's not just two. Or three, like in a state of hell. Um here we see that we'll he'll move us into a state of salvation by a redeemer. And that's going to lead us into the work of Christ and the Spirit, which takes us all the way back to the two hands of the Father in their economic work. like we talked about theologically earlier. Okay, so that's that was it the first thing I wanted to point out to you was just this teaching of the different estates and that can help us to structure Our own faith. But these estates can be detailed. And so now on page two of your notes, you should see a state of sin and misery detailed. We can look in, we can ask the question, well what do we mean by a state of sin? What's included in that? Well traditionally speaking There are at least two things included. When you are in a state of sin, there is guilt. And what comes along with that, I'd like you to see, is punishment And then the second thing is just a a change a change in nature. We're not the humans we were And so I want to look at those two things. I'm going to start off with guilt, and I'm just going to show you a couple passages that show a universality to the guilt. And what I mean by that is that there is a declaration that all humanity is guilty before God. We're going to see that stated quite plainly. But then I want to look and just try to get our heads around a little bit of what guilt is. And we're going to do so by watching different biblical characters interact with the idea of guilt. And then or moments of guilt. And then we'll get into the changed condition or nature. of humanity. I want to look at that by a couple stories, and then I want to look especially at what Paul says in Ephesians and how he talks about these two different estates. We'll go ahead and close there. Okay, so let's start with guilt. We have just a couple verses here I want you to see about the that all of humanity is guilty. Is everybody with me on page two down the bottom? Okay, so the first reference is to Romans 3. 9. And one of the ways that Paul talks about humanity being guilty is that they are under sin. What then? Are we better than they? Not at all. For we have previously charged both Jews and Greeks that they are all under sin. The next verse is from Romans 7. 14, where we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold under sin. Next one is 1 Corinthians 15, 17, and he talks about to be in our sins. And if Christ is not risen, your faith is futile, you are still in your sins. So that tells you there's something going on with whatever Jesus Christ has done, especially in his cross work and his resurrection, that takes us out of our sins. So we would want to start locating and connecting those dots. Romans three is another one. This one is the most explicit and it's And it's just literally spoken about all of humanity, true and gentile, being guilty. Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. It is also implied within Matthew 6, 12 And forgive us our debts. This is a part of guilt. If you look through the rest of the scriptures, it is sometimes spoken of as a transgression or a debt. And here we see Him forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Okay. So Well there's certainly a lot more to talk about with explicit verses especially from Romans. But what I'd like to do is look at a few stories to try to get our head around heads are around this idea of being guilty So who would love to well I said I'm going to read the story so that everybody can hear online. Okay. So let's begin then with Genesis 3, 7 through 10. I'm going to read it and then I'm going to open it up for comments and and whatever. The whole idea is do these stories uh help you to interact with the uh the idea of guilt. For the real split the reality of guilt. Okay. Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves coverings And they heard the sound of the Lord, God, walking in the garden in the pool of the day. And Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. Then the Lord God called to Adam and said to him, Where are you? So he said, I heard your voice in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. Yeah, I'm sorry. Yeah, we have Natalie and then Sherlock. Thanks. Okay. They do they do something wrong but they try to cover it with the right side. Okay, very good. I was just wondering if those were in the last line. Um I was afraid. I was just wondering um there should really come. like a fear of the word when we are disobedience. But I'm just wondering is that like a is that a phrase an appropriate appraise Or is it even become a fallen shear of the word? Question makes sense? Yes. I I just Yeah, it's a good question. I was afraid because I was naked. Yeah. I don't think we're there. Unless unless yeah, the problem is here. And I don't think I don't even afraid what we're supposed to be afraid. I know. Yeah, and what we want to do here, the reason why I'm giving you these stories, I think it's in advance on the Sunday school. That's why it's here the stories. I think the stories you're supposed to you'll notice that God did not deliver to us sixty-six books of a systematic theology gave us primarily I would I could make an argument that they're all stories. Even the following letters, even though they're in a different form, you know underneath it right there is particular historical realities. What I want us to do here this morning is I want to to look at these people God has given us these people and not just ideas. So how are they interacting in a context of guilt? And what can we take away from that? You know. I think that's a good question, Cheryl. I think that's a good comment, Natalie. One of the first things we see Adam doing, who ends up being a kind of character by which we should understand something Is that for Natalie you're pointing out that Adam and Eve, they tried to cover themselves with something that we know is going to be removed and a different covering is going to be So what's going on there? Why what is it about humans? Why why did it what's going on? Why did they do that? And then I think it's right to also raise the question like you did, Sherolla, saying, okay Are they only afraid here because they're guilty? Or is there also something out of whack already with fear relative to God? Should they have, yeah. I don't know, those are great questions. What are any other observations just on what's going on with Adam and Eve? Yeah. Well there seems to be a connected sense of change. Yeah. Because they were named before and they didn't feel they had the same thing. Yeah, there's something going on where they need to cover themselves, and the way the translation puts it is uses the word shame Yeah. And what comes along with that besides just the covering and the hiding, uh it doesn't really detail where the big leaves are. Yeah. I think we have pictures in our head from Western art. I have to think about that. But they besides just the covering of the fifty, they're hiding general to where the Lord has to call out and say, and where where are you guys? Which is pretty and pretty interesting and they would hide. That's interesting. Yes, Lloyd, please. Um could they have really seen the holiness of God before this thing? Because this is the holiness of God. Isaiah saw the holy s holiness of God and he did something. Yeah, the one of the first things that needed to happen was the Lord needed to deal with Isaiah's and not just some other people. And I think you're raising the question of What are human how should human beings be in the presence of the holiness of God? Do you think that's the question that you're raising? Except those angels that were in in there they had a set of wings that were covering their eyes. So even the sinless angels couldn't really view the holiness Yes, uh I think so too. Okay. Yes, uh one of the things I I find um interesting interesting is their first response is to um it's to not consider that there's they're they're in the presence of God and they're they're actually ignoring uh his holdies by their response. Their the response of diverse nature now is to lie about it. Yeah, okay. Definitely really I think it's interesting and sort of like a comment that is at all like this, but it says that there the eyes of both of them were open Yeah. So they could not do something before it it seems the implication of the wording is that there's an external situation opening their eyes. Uh and spirit is how I also know from my personal experience sometimes when you're unworked something and then wind or smile. You see so much that it's hard to pinpoint what God is pinpointing in that moment and it takes Time for him and you to rattle through all of that together to get to the point where he is like, is this interesting I'm trying to tell you. And I see that in his mirror where he they see so much, they're trying to fix it, to cover themselves up, trying to get rid of the form of feeling it Shame. And God is patiently along the way, right there, step by step, leading them through the process to get to the point where He gives them the covering. Oh yeah, that's a that's very interesting. Yeah. Good stuff. Very nice. What occurred to me when you were saying that was it does seem a bit like a triage moment. It's historic and explain. Yeah, that's pretty good. Makes me wonder, uh well that that that would make sense why people would look at this specifically what's going on with Adam Eve as more than just a historical moment but perhaps a model for how humanity relates to God and what God would need to do throughout all of history. Something like that. Right? So I've had uh something balanced that are out of my head for a few years that I was the acceptance But uh I was having a conversation with an unbelieving co-worker. three or four years ago and we were talking about I forget how it was a specific self-topic, but we were talking about Adam E And knowing nothing of sin that they that they like didn't know what it was a sin, perhaps, or they didn't under there's something about the tree of knowledge it didn't mean don't understand their eyes have not been opened to good versus evil so much before they had eaten this fruit. And he was like hell I mean that's like we call people who don't know the difference between good and evil in stain. There's actually like a diagnosis for that, right? Like those actually know the difference between good and needle is considered like actual dimensions the same. I thought that was I didn't think it went any credence in his argument, but I thought it was interesting that like there I don't know like what is the connection between now that we have fallen now not under And what does that mean? Like I don't know how do you relate that to too. Uh Eve not knowing that. And well that yeah, and maybe that's not exactly what's going on. I think some of those thoughts seem pretty clear. Uh makes me wonder about a couple of them though. Like it does seem like there's an expectation, for example, that Eve was able to discern uh the structure of reality to where this one animal is not supposed to be present. And they shouldn't have been discerning good and evil. If anything, it's after eating of the tree of good and knowledge of good and evil that they can't discern between To do in some sense. Like they become morally blind as opposed to being able to truly see. I mean that's the condition So that's interesting is their eyes are open, but then Jesus says they're blind. So that's an interesting thing. What do we do with that? I got floating. Yeah, and it's so far when I look at their eyes are open and then I see what follows and don't see good things This isn't a we haven't moved into an enlightened state. Right. But but uh but uh uh but even looking through the whole canon I have trouble finding a place to better understand what's going on here. That's a pretty that's pretty mysterious moment for me. But I see the effects. Wait. So the tree that that I wanted not eat of was the tree of The knowledge of good and evil. And that if they ate of it, surely they would die. Prior to them eating of that tree, there was not sin. They didn't not know sin because it didn't exist prior to that. So as they sin, now their eyes were open, they could see what they had done and they were ashamed. So unlike, you know, when we when we try to compare things of God to things of the world, to definitions of man to things of God, maybe analogies. The person that is insane doesn't know the difference between good and evil, but they are drawn to evil, and that's why they're called insane because they don't know the difference between the two. Adam and Eve didn't know that didn't know evil. It didn't exist. Sin didn't exist prior to the evil. So as They ate of that tree and the eyes were open. And they met. They didn't know the difference prior to that. They didn't have it. They were so Yeah. Um do you think that you're saying that they wouldn't recognize Eagle if they saw it prior to the ball? Yeah. Obviously not. So thanks for that. Ryan and Natalie and now we'll go on to the next part. Okay. Sorry. Some flat features that remind me of uh you're talking about the length. Yeah yeah because you're he's he's you're he's pointing at you and you don't see him. Okay. That reminds me of um like the there's multiple types of knowledge Yeah, so each Spanish. So like there's the two different verbs, one is sub ed and one is uned. Sub-ed is like intellectually farmware. Right, but honestly, I know you. Right. I have knowledge of you. Or like um add a new light of a very different meaning than just And so uh it makes me wonder about knowledge of good and evil. Or what it is, what it's acknowledging. Another hypothesis is that the tree of the knowledge of good and evil ends up being a provisionary tree, and it will be the moment to see what this test will be. shows what they really are, they will either be good or people. So if they were to have resisted the temptation and entered through, then they would have been granted eternal life. They did not have at that point s so that's some theologians. And um but that's not what takes place. Remember, so the so part of the argument At least among many of the faithful is that this is a state of integrity that they're in, and it's not the ultimate state. It's characterized as the possibility of sin and the possibility of dying. And at the highest state, there is no longer any possibility of sin or any possibility of dying. So the way it so then they in that kind of context they'll then say, well, this tree is a knowledge of good and evil was meant to based on a covenant of words that move into the highest estate. That's that's not how the pulse At any rate that's that's a we're not really talking about that, but I actually would correct the thought that I spoke out loud because of the senior things I But evil did exist before Adam Eva improved. I was going to meet already fall. Yeah. Thus the circuit in the So yeah. Yeah, it seemed like the angels had fallen by that. Otherwise, how do you explain a malicious intent You have a question? Go ahead and then I want to move on to some other stories. So I'm actually simply comment for that And um, you know, looking at the reverse in the NCD is now the service of more timing and anything specific implies um things But in the ESC is not a circumference more than any other use of the field, which kind of implies either one of them I think we were we we were comparing him to light and and English just coming. So I mean how do we how do we get our head around the the differences in the translation I I think that's a pretty big difference because or or maybe we're in the New King James we don't have a comparison. It's a comparison but it's uh We what you said he did the comparison of non-life. He didn't belong here, he wasn't used to the view. But then the ESC says any other piece of the ESC. I'm saying he doesn't belong here because he is a piece of I don't even need to narrow it down like that. I can just say he doesn't belong there because he's at least of a different realm. Oh, okay. So the use of the field is a problem. And remember I gave you the example of we don't want uh box in our fingers. We don't want a fox in our city. Okay. Or then have we don't want a cow in our corn. See what I'm saying? There are certain animals that when they get into certain spaces, they're destroying it. That's why we end up building edges around the vineyard. Got it. And it's actually a sign of chaos and imprudence and a lack of wisdom for someone to make a vineyard And here you see a kind of central. We can use the word sanctuary if you want a holy of holies because the tabernacle is going to be formed after the mouth of the people And then certain things are gonna see those concentric rings even in the tabernacle structure, and you talk about going outside of the camp. So beats of the field do not belong to us here. Yeah, do you remember where um when I said it's not just the concentric range, but you want to pull up the center To where it's a mountain where we are with the Lord, but then immediate descent. Do you see what I'm saying? Yeah, yeah that's good. Um yeah that's that's that's true. Um you see what I'm saying though where I'm keeping those different realms but I'm making it vertical That's what we see with the Mountain of Eden. You have in the Mountain of Eden cultivation that's taking place, but the rest of the world still lies in a kind of not merit exactly But there's a lot of work that needs to be done, which is why Adam is going to need to have children. But the problem is that those children are going to kill each other And instead of a descent and a dominion raising it up to God, it's just going to be a straight descent into a shield with the whole human race thinking about it. And that theme were you in the Sunday school in the studio? That theme will continue where we start at the apex and move down into the lower regions over and over again throughout the scriptures. Yeah. That's fine. Can I can can you just hold on to it? I want to move on to these other stories again. Okay, so here's the next one. This is a bibile act and this is just using the word guilt. Remember, uh that was a great conversation, I really appreciate it. What's I want to uh the the point of our conversation Make sure you're trying to get something out of it with relative to guilt. So here's the second one from Genesis 26. Then Abimelech called Isaac and said, quite obviously she is your wife So how could you say, she is my sister? Isaac said to him, Because I said, lest I die on account of her. And Abimelech said, What is this you have done to us? One of the people might soon have lay with your wife, and you would have brought guilt on us. So Bimelech charged all his people, saying, He who touches this man or his wife shall surely be put to death Are there any think ways you can you can pull out of this one relative to the idea of of Ebolax sense of guilt But even there is built that you can have even things Even if you are unaware of what you are doing, there are certain things that simply might be acting doing them, regardless of the intention. Oh that's interesting. Yeah, it's uh even if people were didn't know something tragic would have happened in their midst and then they would have seen all kinds of things and real started asking well what in the world happened in center. Yes, sir. Um if we like it's like a this like an echo of Adam where Adam is like, but it was this woman you gave to me. Like what about the tune of her change? And people like, well, because they said let's I die on a counter, but then um where uh Uh and and then there's a um the people would have brought all of the files upon themselves and they made the person to do life to the and the same way that light I like that we use the word echo. Okay, we want to watch out for those things. If you looked at the larger context, the most obvious echo is the exodus, though it would be an effort back You'll see these incidents are an exact almost an exact replica of God uh calling his wife out love. Any other thoughts on guilt here? I think the obvious one I'll just point out and then we'll move to the next story is that it is a presumption of a bimelech that if there is guilt then there will be punishment That the two go together. Okay. Uh I find it also kind of interesting that they agree that um adultery. This is a really interesting one Then Joseph said to them the third day, Do this and live, for I fear God. If you are honest men, let one of your brothers be to define To your prison house, but you go and carry grain the famine of your houses, and bring your youngest brother to me, so your words will be verified and you shall not die. And they did so. Then they said to one another, We are truly guilty concerning our brother, for we saw the anguish of his soul when he pleaded with us, and we would not hear. Therefore this distress has come upon us And Reuben answered them, saying, Did I not speak to you, saying, Do not sin against the boy? And you would not listen. Therefore, behold, his blood is now required of us Man, there's a lot of that. But relative to you. Here we are. However, the stories are for the sake of us being able to get to the real reality of things. So what is it that how does this help us to under better understand guilt? Yes, Elaine. Thanks for your comment the other day. Oh no problem. Elaine uh saved someone on the school thing. Thankfully it didn't turn out that. Um, I was just gonna comment that in this case it's One one takeaway is how guilt seems to just keep growing. It builds on itself. And and then it also is I mean I I think part of this obvious how it causes what it Like now you're adding in other things and other problems. That's what it looks like as you read into that. It's just like it's it's layer Yeah, that's great. Uh what's interesting um when you say that, I don't recognize that anybody ever watches Breaking Bad or some of the other Netflix series. But they do have this they have like a genre now. as a part of our contemporary movie scene where it's watching a person make a sinful decision and then they have to keep layering sins on top of that sin to try to stay alive. And then it it ends up um you know just being absolute. disaster killing every themselves and everybody around. So um Uh another thing. She said maybe he would have maybe she said, but um their sin again So now it's impacting Benjamin. He wasn't around. I mean he was born but he wasn't anywhere in the local house. So now now Benjamin's going to have to take this a dangerous journey Um, so when we say that, you know, I send that back to anybody else, but maybe people are sending it um shirt out. That's good. We see the the communal effects of sin and guilt and punishment. Very good Any other thoughts? I thought one of the one of the things you definitely would want to take away is that uh that final phrase that uh his blood is now required of us That's a pretty interesting idea, uh, especially when you start to look at what do certain what is it that certain sins deserve. We're starting to get to a notion of justice present in the universe here. And the fact that blood comes up is pretty interesting as to what is required of people when they do certain things. Yeah, yep, yep, and yeah, right. Yeah. Well that word blood comes up too with pain and able. Um to the Lord. And then the establishment of their guilt it seems in that verse where it says, For we saw the anguish of his soul and he pleaded with us and we would not hear So it was it was it wasn't it wasn't funny. They didn't throw them as older brothers into the pit and then just the the younger brother look how funny this is. No, they they saw the kid. Left. One thing that came to me by hearing how they're speaking is did he ever repent of this thing I'm not sure if they did at this point. You have to go ahead and review the story, and that's part of the beauty of this, right? Is now you get to go back and look at Exodus and look at the brothers. What is going on in their souls relative to guilt Uh this has had to become their conscience and now it's being brought to the floor and everything's coming to a point. And how are they going to handle it? What can they do? Look at what this is better than their asking. You know what is do you know what their sin in their mind, if you continue with the story, you know what their sin is getting getting ready to require of them that they are going to take the father's most precious son away from the father who had already lost a son and they're gonna have to give it to this guy and they have no idea what they're gonna he's what they're gonna do with their And that's uh that's a bit of an echo. The father having to give the son relative to the guilt or some stuff Yes. It's also the connection of women, you know, or the Lord says, you know, to provide a way out there, you know, And here it talks about, hey look what's on page display on phone. And also how often That little clock will pop in right before we're thinking about doing something. Stay at that second. And you either choose to act on it or ignore it. Yeah. And what it group is. He went alone. And that ends up being really the major part of the story. The way that this story is divided. I encourage you to go back and read the story of Joseph And and see if the story should be called Ruby. Yeah, well I think it's pretty Rubens it's you know basically I told you, you know, but but Rubin says you're telling me what you think. No, so we can just say, hey, let's not do it, let's not encode this stupid idea. Throw them into the pit. So what you'll want to do is look in the story and see who changes And what you're going to find is that there's going to be a change in Brudin. Brudin is actually going to repent. Yeah, I think that's a good thing. Um yeah, so please review that Exodus account and look at all of these brothers interacting with guilt. I guess The story of Limelak versus this one where here it's like they have a skeleton that as soon as bad things start happening, they're right but home What do you think of Mary and Steel, you know, a spinning that are so long now we're you know we're paying the price for the school Whereas historic thing like it was kind of like, this would happen to us in ignorance, you know, we're just kind of doing what we do and all of a sudden just you know, you didn't tell us And it that also reminds me of the story of German where I'm just trying to think through like what the what do folks get within us Where we're on the ship and you know they go to somebody to something somebody's guilty, you know. It's like, all right guys, this means we'll Um but just the idea of not only the build but what invokes it in our heart and these two kind of contrast Seems like the brothers had that same school for years and they came to that where the other situations like this when it came out of blue and resonating about it Yeah, I and I like the assumptions there there's a couple I'll rip off of what you just said, a couple of assumptions there is that if you have tragedy in your life you should look and see if somebody's guilty. That's kinda interesting. Now Christ corrects that and says you can do Take that too far. He says not all this isn't always an indication that somebody is guilty. Jove. Um and uh the other thing I was thinking when you said they buried their milk is another form of hiding. That's interesting. Whereas an influence was like uh I only want to touch this with a 10 foot ball like you were connected. Um just in the connection everything Yeah. And it reminds me of the prophets. And the Lord saying that Israel is prophets You know, I I would probably went way from sort of things to sort of and it's you know on the people So there's there's something about that connection between the two and systems. So just when you're saying we don't uh In our single state, we don't make that connection. I mean it's it's possible to not make the connection and to just say, well no, this is this is just random numbers. What do the scriptures say that we do with our sin and the consequences of our sin? A specific word to use it to be kind of suppressing that truth in all of these various ways in which it's evident that this is in fact the case. We end up suppressing it in various ways, which has got to be another way of talking about hiding or covering Um sometimes uh you know with Pharaoh uh he really didn't get the point. But he's still terrible. Alright. Well very good. Let's go ahead and to the next one. There's a lot to be said about guilt. Okay. Um This one is from Ezra 9, 5 through 7. At the evening sacrifice I arose from my fasting. Elaine, this is going to be gone to your point, by the way. I arose from my fasting, and having torn my garment and my robe, I fell on my knees and spread out my hands to the Lord my God. And I said, Oh my God, I am too ashamed and humiliated to lift up my face to you, my God, for our iniquities have risen higher than our heads, and our guilt has grown up to the heavens. Since the days of our fathers to this day, we have been very guilty. And for our iniquities we, our kings and our priests, have been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands. To the sword, to captivity, to blunder, to plunder, and to humiliation, as it is this day. Yes, later. First I was kind of confused as you turn about the issue. But what struck me in this case is how often all of our examples we were looking for immediate examples of something like we did. Whether we were whether the person in the story was a Christian by God or not. They were looking for like I as something or used as something. But what it seems like in this is people in change generation, generational things and the layering of that. And I think of myself of how often when I'm praying or asking for forgiveness or repentance, or I mean I was maybe there's generational Yeah. Do you think that this do you My understanding of you would be saying that he's calling attention not just to personal sin but like uh sin of his and his people throughout generations? I think so. It's just been stacking up Yeah, that's how I tell you. That's what I'm supposed to take it. I think so. Okay. And I was fine with the way you first put it too. I don't really know. I was fine with the way you first put it. I just want to make sure I yeah. Um Can you think of any other examples where even God Himself talks about guilt and sin this way as they piling up Sorry. I was just studying this the other day, but it's isn't it uh Romans one where it talks about like the transition of the sin? Ultimately becoming a big mind. Okay, that's the layer of the thing. Yeah, he definitely does that. And then he shows the the corresponding Yeah, it takes you all to these changes throughout all society as this continues. Other other ones? I don't know that that's an equivalent to you can send something like that. I don't know. We'd have to talk about what does it mean that he holds on that. Some people interpret that as uh telling them the time is But I don't know, that's a that's that's what I still wrestle. Uh this was this was what the Lord said um as uh Joshua was leading the Israelites into the promised land is that the the nations that were already present in that land, who were essentially Canaanites, that their sins were getting to the full measure They had been heaping up over time and that the Lord was being patient and waiting for them to get to the full measure, and then he was going to bring judgment upon them Um I think he spoke the same way when the when the church was canonized, he spoke these the prophets speak to the church in the same way as sins that have heaped up upon sins. And that God, one of the primary modes in which judgment takes is first an announcement of God's patience. And then you'll see that in Romans. Let's just take a look at that really quickly. That's something worth looking at. The church has spent a lot of time. Dwelling on this. But the notion of patience assumes a heaping up. So so let's take a look at Romans. I think it's two three. Yeah, which verse is that? That's that's verse four. Yeah, so I'll go ahead and read that. Let me go ahead and start at the top of two Therefore you are inexcusable a man, whoever you are who judge, or in whatever you judge, uh in whatever you judge another you condemn yourself, or you who judge practice the same things But we know that the judgment of God is according to truth, according to those who practice such things. And here's where we're really starting to get into it. And do you think this a man, you who judge those practicing such things and doing the same, that you will escape the judgment of God? For do you despise the riches of his goodness, forbearance, and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance? That's what his patience is supposed to do. It's supposed to lead you to repentance. But we misinterpret it and we think, well, you know, you know, apparently And here's the heaping part treasuring up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of the of God who will render to each one according to his deeds. Eternal life to those who by patient continuance and do a good seeker For glory, honor, and immortality, but to those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey of righteousness, indignation and wrath, tribulation and anguish. on every soul of man who does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek. That's definitely a heating So guilt accumulates and then people receive wrath as well as individuals. Yes, Doug. Would you also use uh names for pre-transfractions and for share up the full market? Yeah, that's good. I like that. Alright, so those are some you could you know, you would want to keep studying these scriptures and um and See what the Lord teaches you about guilt. What would you say are some of the takeaways before we switch gears here? I'll just name one. That each sin or iniquity or wherein you're guilty, there is a corresponding punishment. No such thing as there not being punishment Any other observations you want to take out of it in terms of guilt Guilt can come upon an individual or uh an individual or a people can be guilty and therefore individuals or people can receive punishment and wrath Okay, there's definitely a universality to the guilt where we we we survey the whole world and we find that everyone's guilty. And therefore everyone is deserving of punishment. Okay. Uh in our culture we would tend to explain our experiences and feelings of shame only within a psychological realm. Here the scriptures go outside of that and they talk about your relationship with shame. To God, that the shame that we feel is an indication or can be an indication of our relationship with God. That there is true guilt, not just since Existential feelings. That would be a revelation to our culture. Another observation could be sometimes when we think see things going wrong, somebody's guilty. Do you think that's still true today? Okay, there's one I well see I can I've seen certain instances in my life where I I I I'm not sure whether what I'm doing is not and then all of a sudden something happens And I'm like and it's kind of related to what I'm not been sure about but makes really clear. Yeah. So yes. Okay. Any other any other thoughts? And then a thought going along with that. Have some people ascribed guilt because of a tragedy when they should not have. Like Job. Okay, Job and his plus friends. Especially. I saw Pascal was trying to do that immediately with nine eleven. This is constantly that happens with facts. Yeah. Yeah, consequences. You know, um back consequences language I find interesting because in our culture we would understand that as a kind of natural cause and effect. You know what's an interesting translation that you'll often see in the scriptures relative to that that makes it more relative to a person is accountability They'll say God holds sinners accountable. And you could you could probably look and see cause and effect stuff, but if you go back far enough in the reality, it's God who's doing it. as a moment of accountability. That's really that's really interesting that he takes such a personal interest in each action of people and of persons and people. Well you heard about that way So I mean in a in an act of common grace so that we don't just destroy everything. Um even people that don't believe. You know, it's not like you go to the science is white using surgery. Yeah. But that doesn't mean that there is a use for an unity because that's the light is fine. You don't there's an opportunity to things But it does seem like there is impunity. So how would you explain that? Well, but there's not Because you know I don't know, we we had a lot of things. I like that explanation. That's good. I heard what you're saying, but you're wrong. Oh sorry. Where there was a woman sitting with those three times. And just children or I would say maybe maybe six third to up And she was customer now and and Yona and What part was this? Um but anyway it really made a thing about what the common life of a lot of some people is like and and for me I'm doing other Yeah. Going home and that's that's their safe their quote safe place. There's no safe place um for those kids and she's yelling on her single school and everything and And you're gonna try and go on what do you think? Why do you think that's happening? What do you think it's gonna happen next? You know, because this is the atmosphere that we're gonna Um but there's all and you talk about generational concept, you can talk about that situation that there's there's a lot of sin. going around and it's but it's it's not their family, their those boys sitting in class next to Just that they're here to go to our church or something. You know, it's not equal. There's nothing unleashed for it as far as Yeah, that's true. Very good. All righty. Well why don't we go ahead and close there and then we'll get into The um stories of the belly round. There is no guilt this warm for that. Yeah. So uh next week just hold on to these so we don't have to be killing the trees. And next week go ahead and go through stories of the changed condition. You're you're welcome to read ahead especially in the fundamental reorientation of mankind away from God. In the Ephesians verses that I give you right here at the end. And um Really, your takeaway at this point as we follow through with the confession is look at the guilt, look at the change of condition, later we'll look at the misery of what hope does mankind have And that's going to lead us to question number 20, which is, does God leave us in this place? And the answer is no. And that's the good news. There you have the gospel as he started to work that out. But you can see, once we've laid this groundwork, you can see what needs to be worked out. There's a lot of things that have gone wrong, and all of those things need to be worked out by someone who can work them out. Right? Okay. Let's pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have given us the full collection of your scriptures and that you have given them to us in such a way where we can reflect on But even universality is built by way of these particular biblical characters and their interactions. with guilt, their presumptions about it, how it changes their relationship with you and other people and the world around them and with themselves, the consequences of it, how that can take place over generations or throughout an entire nation. Ah Lord, you have through these stories revealed to us really your entire economy. It is no wonder that all theology is derived from the inscripturation of stories like this. We thank you, Lord, and we we must stop and in this prayer give you thanks That you have taken away our guilt and our punishment by laying it upon the head of our Christ. We thank you, Lord Jesus. We thank you, Son, that you took upon yourself human nature To correct these things. We thank you that you have sent us your spirit, that we might go to you, acknowledge our sins, and Um finally be able to admit to you that we are ashamed that we need you to do something about it. And you did. I pray that in this this uh this spirit of gratitude