All right, good morning, everybody. My name is Joe Macus. I think most of you guys know me. Anyway, Pastor Jesse is out this weekend, so I'm uh filling in for him. So I did uh just put the handouts out there a couple minutes ago. I had to make copies. So if you don't have one, there are handouts in the back. So I am going to attempt to uh do this the way Jesse does it. At least we're only gonna discuss one uh One shorter catechism question for the day, so I don't know if I need to talk slowly or engage more. Anyway, it's gonna take I don't know how many questions there are, but it's gonna take a couple years at this pace, which I guess that's okay. Anyway, let's uh let's start in prayer. Father, we uh thank you, Lord, for this day. We thank you for the day that you've set aside, this special day, the Lord's Day. Father, I pray that you will uh open all of our minds to your word May we be uh sanctified by your word, which is the truth. In Christ's name. Amen. Okay, so today, uh Nick just if you don't have a handout, raise your hand or you can get one in the back. We're on shorter catechism question number twelve. Just for a very brief review, last week was question number 11 about uh how God preserves, what's the word that was used, how he preserves and governs. What's the gra Providence? I thought that was a I actually read that after after the class and that was excellent, uh some excellent references. But we're just going to get right to question twelve. Question twelve has is is based on a specific covenant that you may or may not be familiar with because it's not super It's not super well known, I will say. So I'll just read it. Question 12. What special act of providence did God exercise toward man? in the estate wherein he was created. Answer When God had created man, he entered into a covenant of life with him upon perfect obedience forbidding him to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil upon the pain of death. So the shorter Catholicism calls it a covenant of life It's most it's better known as the covenant of works. It's also known as the covenant of creation, but if you've come across it before, you've probably come across it as the covenant of works. That's what I don't know why the shorter catechism says life and the and the confession says works, but they do use those different terms. But it's typically uh expresses the covenant of works. So I'll just go ahead and read the two places. in the uh Westminster Confession that actually that calls it the Covenant of Works. Chapter seven, which is of God's covenants with man Paragraph two says, The first covenant made with man was a covenant of works, wherein life was promised to Adam, and in him to his posterity. Upon condition of perfect and personal obedience. And then in in the in paragraph nineteen, or sorry, section nineteen of the law of God, paragraph one It says, God gave to Adam a law as a covenant of works, by which he bound him in all his posterity to personal, entire, exactly and perpetual obedience. Promise life upon the fulfilling and threaten death upon the breach of it and endued him with power and ability to keep it. Alright, so that is a mouthful there. So this is the first time I think the word covenant has been introduced in the catechism, so I wanted to spend a few minutes and just talk about some basics on what a covenant is. And talk generally about what covenant theology is, and then we'll actually get into the specific covenants, i. e. mostly the covenant of works today. So uh what's a covenant Uh dictionary says it's an agreement between two peop persons or or two parties, a compact, a contract. Testament in Latin, testamentum is actually the word for covenant, so you could say there's the old covenant and the new covenant in terms of the two testaments. Interestingly, when I came to faith about twenty well when I came to Reform Faith about twenty years ago, the very first book I read on the Reformed faith was called Christ of the Covenants by O. Palmer Robertson. Have you ever heard of that one? A friend of mine from work gave me that book and I so I had a that was my really first before I even knew the tulip and that kind of thing, I knew I knew the covenants. So uh they go hand in hand with reform theology. So a covenant so it it's good well In terms of a covenant, there's two kinds of covenants in the Bible. There's a covenant between God and man, and there's a covenant between man and man. Today we're only going to talk well, we're going to talk mostly about the covenant between God and man. There's several of them. But uh I'm only going to mention the covenant of grace in passing because I don't want to steal Jesse's thunder when he gets to the covenant of grace, which is question number twenty. So I just wanted to just curious, uh how many of you have have n are not familiar with the Covenant of Works. It is somewhat of a not real well known covenant So, yeah. So I actually you know I I had I had to study up on it this week and prepare for this lesson. It's not something that we talk about a lot, but uh I wanted to read you this definition to covenant theology. And this was from an article from Legan Duncan. I just came across it. And of course, we just heard from him about a month ago. He was the guest speaker at the Reformation Day. This is what he says covenant theology is, and this is just a general layman's uh Discussion of it. An approach to biblical interpretation or a hermeneutic that appreciates the importance of the covenants for understanding the divine human relationship and the unfolding of redemptive history in Scripture So that's really big picture stuff about God's plan to redeem his people. So in terms of big picture looking at the covenants, theologians have three overarching covenants. The first one, I'm only going to mention, just going to define them real generally. The first one is called the covenant of redemption. And these are things like the Trinity. They're not ex- They're These words themselves, the covenant of redemption, the covenant of works, those specific words are not in Scripture, but by good and necessary consequences we can deduce that that the the the meaning is there. So the covenant of redemption is a big picture covenant. It's between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit before creation. The the Godhead basically planning the redemption of humanity. That's it in a nutshell. That's kind of all I want to say on that. Uh that's just big picture covenant. And then the then there's two covenants, two major covenants with man. The first one is this covenant of works, which we're going to get to uh today. And I'll get that'll be the rest of the lesson today. So no I'll skip that for now. The last covenant is the covenant you're probably more familiar with, the covenant of grace. And that covenant is Uh sp so that covenant is consisting of starting with Adam post fall, going all the way through the different specific covenants in the Bible, the Noah covenant, they Abrahamic covenant, covenant, uh the Mosaic Covenant, the Davidic covenant, and the new covenant. So that all encapsulates the covenant of grace. And that's kind of all I want to say on that, because that's a major part of the catechism later. So I'm going to just skip to page two, which really is the heart of the lesson, which is uh the covenant of works. So, in terms of the divine covenant, so this is how Legan Duncan defines the divine covenant. It's God initiated, it's binding. It's a living it's living, it's ongoing. It's not like a it's not like a last will and testament that is only in effective upon a death. It's it's a living covenant and it and ha and it comes with blessings and obligations. And this is distinguished between covenants that are made between people. There's one I would like to talk about. Can somebody read go to Genesis 21? And from 27 to 31 is a covenant between Abraham and Ab Abimelech. And that just gives you an idea for what a covenant is between two people. So any volunteers to read that one. I guess there are some reasons. So uh Abraham took sheep and oxen and gave them to Abimelech. And the two of them made a covenant. And Abraham set seven ew lambs of the flock by themselves. Then Abimelech asked Abraham, What is the meaning of these seven U lands which you have set by themselves? And he said, You will take these seven U lands. from my hand, that they may be my witness, and I have dug this well. Therefore he called that place Beershiva, because two of them swore So that's uh that's a covenant specifically between two men. So I just wanted to point that out that that is not It's in the scripture. It is a true covenant, but it's not initiated by God like the covenant of works is and like the covenant of grace is. So thinking about the covenant of works, we have Adam and Eve created. This is before the fall. Why do you think what what is the biblical evidence for saying that God has pro what is what did God promise in the covenant of works? Just from those definitions I read earlier. Life. Yeah, he he pr he promised eternal life. And what did he Some some some uh folks that use the word threaten, or what was the obligation? Obedience. Yeah, perfect obedience So did did Adam have the capability to perfectly obey God? Why? Do we have the that same ability? No, no. Yep. So uh so basically um I think I well So the word covenant is not in Genesis 1-2, but the idea is. And so one key scripture is Genesis 2. 17. So I'd like a volunteer to read that one. It's in the it's in the actual notes if you want to. Just read it there. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you shall eat of it, you shall surely die. Yep. So you can read that in a narrow view, or you can read it in a broader view, and the broader view definitely is applicable here, that there were there were two tr what was the other tree in the garden that that the the Genesis, early Genesis highlights. Really. And what does that symbolize? Eternal life. So what would have happened if if Adam had not sinned Yeah, you would have he would have eaten of the tree of life and lived forever. Of course death is a res is a result of the fall. So that's uh that's a key verse in terms of understanding understanding what God has promised. And of course it says there, you shall the day you read of it, you shall surely die. There's another interesting verse. There's not a whole lot of direct uh biblical references, but this is definitely one from Hosea 6. 7 to this covenant with Adam and it just says here uh In Hosea 6. 7, like Adam, they transgressed the covenant. There they dealt faithlessly with me. So it's explicitly saying there was a covenant with Adam. And uh and like Adam, he did not he transgress the covenant. So why do you think why do you think it's called a covenant of works? Because life was based on works. They needed they needed to obey. Perfectly. Was there any grace in that cov in this covenant? What do you think the grace was in this covenant? You mean upon its upon its initiation? However you want to express it. Well the grace is that that he created man in his image and he gave him the ability to obey. That's gracious. Right? You could you could also the only thing I'll say about the covenant of grace, is it all grace or are there some works in the covenant of grace? There are works, yeah. Christ works. Christ works. You can actually say we're saved by works, we're saved by Christ's work. But I don't want to get into the covenant of grace too much. Anyway, so what responsibility in this original covenant was placed on man? Obedience. Obedience. Obedience. And so what did God threaten? What do we are doing? talked about that. He threatened death. Adam had the ability. Does anybody know the saying that from Augustine about ability? Can you quote it? What do you mean in the Latin or what? No, the about the Carolina. He had a famous saying about our ability uh to sin or not to sin Depending on where we are. That one. Oh no, I don't know it in the Latin. No, no, I'm looking for you to give it to me in the English. I don't even have it memorized. Anyway, it goes something like Adam had the ability not to sin. That's part of it. I don't know the whole So he had the ability not to sin. Post fall, we do not have the ability. We definitely have the ability to sin. We do not have the ability to be holy. get to conversations or debates with Armenian friends about free will, I tell them this is where free will existed. Adam and Eve had true Free will, the ability to not sin. After the fall, we are fallen creatures, and we do not have that ability to not sin. We only have We actually have free will post fall, but our will will always be the will of sin. So you just obedience, but it uh or someone who what responsibility is placed on them. Um so the the creation mandate To cultivate, to multiply, to care for what was a perfection of heaven brought down to earth. Obedience is that broad understanding like that. The idea was that he was to expand God's theological footprint outward, right? And And this would be a the work of his obedience as he acted as So you're I think you're I I think you're kind of adding the what what's called the dominion mandate to cultivate the earth as part of this, right? Right. Well and that that that's part of Being obedient, right? He he was given a purpose to work in God's kingdom in obedience to what God. And so that explains Expansion of Eden um outward is part of that picture of what he was given to do. And when I'll I'll just stop here because why did it you're you're probably gonna get to the the next point. No, that makes sense to me. I didn't I didn't read that in the literature I wrote that the Dominion Mandate is part of it, but it makes sense sense that until Adam sinned and we don't know how long it was from creation to when he sinned. Right, right. It appears to be a short time based on Genesis one and two, but we don't know. I guess what I'm getting to is at some point Satan enters in in the guise of a serpent and what was Adam called to do. Yeah. And so you have that picture of A real living creature that entered into a place where in the guise of a you know, a a snake or serpent and what actions were was Adam called to do at that point and what did he actually do? a picture of the failure. And then being cast out. So the that whole picture to me is part of what Noahworks is about. Up until the fall. Yeah. Yeah. So like when he named all the animals, he he did that in perfect righteousness and holiness. You know, that was a a godly thing to do. Could I just So are you saying like that um when the serpent first appears, this is the first appearance of evil in any form, right? That part of Adam's the probationary task that was to recognize that and expel it from the garden before the it rather than r hang around and listen and right, right, yeah, yeah. That makes a lot of sense. That's where I'm kind of right now. Yeah, I don't really have any specific answer to that, Carol. I'm just putting it down. I will say, like, in contrast to Covenant Theology, so Covenant theology has been around since the beginning. It was codified during the Reformation And in recent generations it is very much contrasted to what is called dispensationalism. So dispensationalism is also a biblical hermeneutic and that wasn't in my notes, but I think it's worth talking about briefly So it it it actually arose in the late uh eighteen hundreds and it was popularized by the Schofield Reference Bible and basically it has seven distinct periods. The first parents is is the period of innocence. I actually read the book. I forget the author of it, but I read the book just so I could be familiar with it about fifteen years ago. So it's got seven distinct periods uh you know, from Genesis to Revelation, the biggest difference between dispensationalism and reform theology, covenant theology, is not the difference is the infrared when you hear about eschatology. That is a major difference. But the biggest difference is dispensationalism sees two separate peoples of God. They see Israel and they see the church. That's the biggest difference. Whereas covenant theology, reform theology teaches there is always one elect of God, one people of God, and all the rich promises for Israel apply to us. So that that is that's the biggest difference. But uh covenant theology is a good good way to understand the big picture and just where you are in the scripture. So the covenant of works, um You know, that's it's pretty straightforward, but that's about it. Uh when I saw this question, I thought to myself, uh Oh I gotta cover an hour on this. So so uh uh we've got about almost a half an hour left. So I'm open to uh does anybody have any questions? concerns. If you haven't heard of the Covenant Works, I I actually thought more hands would would go up because it's not well known outside of certain theological circles, I would say. But most of you it sounds like you've already heard of it. Do they teach that at Rockbridge, Jane, or anybody else? Have you heard that in your theology classes there? Um probably I have a hard time distinguishing in my mind what I learned in school. Yeah. And what could 'cause we had a lot of like discussions and stuff about it and So I I would bring stuff up and not everybody would know what I was talking about. No, because when you look at the scriptures, there's the passage in Genesis two about you know the promise about eating of the tree and and what's gonna happen and from that mainly from that passage they deduce his covenant works. Um it makes sense from a big picture standpoint, but there's not a whole lot of explicit scripture related to it. That's why A lot of people may not may not be too familiar with it. Joshua? What's the difference between the covenant of works and salvation by works? Because people need it to do work you know to offer sacrifices. But they weren't saved by offering those sacrifices. So what's the difference? Big difference. So in the covenant of works, God is saying, if you obey my law perfectly, you will have eternal life. We no nobody only one man ever obeyed God's law perfectly, Christ. Right? If you think you can obey God's law apart from Christ. You're that's salvation by work well, that's I mean that's salvation by works. So it's two separate things, right? I mean you're you're getting into how you abuse the covenant of grace. I think. Salvation by works is an abuse of the covenant of grace. Yeah, because scripture, especially in the Old Testament. You'll see them offering sacrifices for the atonement of sins uses that terminology. So what do you think that means? So they were true sacrifices, got God for atoning for sin for the Israel people. Obviously they didn't know Christ. They were looking forward to the the Messiah. But God set up a system that uh works had rules and structures that they were to follow to be obedient. However, was it Romans, where does it talk about Abraham was Abraham justified by his works. No, it was by his faith. The Old Testament saints had all of Christ in the scriptures. They had to look forward to Christ, where we as New Testament believers born after Christ's death look back to what Christ did. Christ is in the scriptures. The same Christmas Christ that we know is in the scriptures and it was always there for them from the beginning. So they had they were justified always by faith and faith alone, even though they were living in a time of a Covenant of works where prior to Christ's coming she had a covenant of works. It's not the covenant of works that we're talking about today. That covenant of works Applied to Adam's pre-fall condition. We're talking about abuse and abuse of the covenant of grace. So the Old Testament covenants, whether it's Mosaic, Abrahamic, whatever, that's all part of the covenant of grace Not the covenant of works. I'm just trying to uh be clear in the terminology. What we're talking about only applies to Adams that they had these sacrifices to give not justify them. Those sacrifices were part of the covenant of grace. Not the covenant of works. I'm trying to make that distinction. We don't want to confuse what the pre-fall covenant of works with the postfall covenant of grace. You understand that, Joshua? So today it's a very narrow topic just on in the prefall. God's plan for Adam pre pre fall. He knew he was gonna fall, but he had set up a system where You know, made in the image of God, Adam had the ability to not sin and to live eternally. Now we don't have that ability. What are the signs of grace in that covenant of works? knowledge of good and evil. That's one of them. That was yeah, that was the the major condition. Don't eat from this tree. What did Adam and Eve do? Well They took it among themselves uh to decide to do that. Anyway, there there was brace, there was additional brace, and he said The grace was you have the knowledge of how to obey perfectly. I gave it to you. Yep, absolutely. That's the key difference between Adam and us. He he was created in true righteousness and holiness. We're recreated in true righteousness and holiness But we still uh will always have that that that part of indwelling sin us sin in us until glory. Um I think one of the one of the gracious things in that in that covenant with the Jews and all the things that they had to do in the book of Leviticus was to show them how impossible it was for them to keep the entire I mean I read through it and I get exhausted. I can't imagine having to do it every day. No, not this year. We got the Day of Atonement now. So I think that was just kind of a picture that they were supposed to get through their heads that you they couldn't they couldn't do it. Um and that they need it. They needed something bigger than what they could do and that God was gonna have to provide it. Yep. Yeah, I mean the picture with all the bloody sacrifices that had to be uh a brutal reminder just of the bloodiness of it. We we're our culture is is largely divorced from we don't see death and blood like like they did. Would you I'm new to Presbyterian and all of this stuff, so for my sake, would you mind giving me a summary of what the Covenant of Works is? Because for for me it's kind of getting all money together. Yeah. I want to keep it just okay, Adam was created in the image of God. Adam was created with the ability to obey God perfectly. That God, the covenant of works was God created Adam, and he says, obey my law. If you don't obey my law, the result is death. His law for Adam was was, well, a central part of it was don't eat from the from the fruit tree of the fruit of good and evil. And Adam disobeyed that, therefore he entered into death. Uh so then God had to implement the So is the covenant of works really just Yes, that's all it that's all it is. That's why it can be confusing with the language of it. Okay. That's very normal. Yep. Sorry, what's your name? Elaine. Elaine. Okay. Yeah, and this is Joe. Joe. Yeah, m I met Joe before. Uh Dwayne's hand first. How'd you remember his name? So So with without trying to go into the covenant of grace, um God fulfilled that promise or that command that upon the pain of you know of sin would be death, that death was satisfied. immediately as a symbol in even the covering that God did for Adam and Eve. Yeah, yeah. Which was the first blood You could say that was the first gracious act in the covenant of grace since that was postpollar. So most so just so you know, Elaine, the vast majority of the biblical discussion on covenants is has to do with the covenant of grace. So the covenant of redemption and the covenant of works are just at the front end. Uh you know, all of biblical history from Genesis three onward is the covenant of grace. Why would be the redemption So the redemption the covenant of redemption is is the the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit agreeing before creation that they were going The Father was going to send the Son to die for his his people and the Spirit. You know, that was all God's plan to redeem his people before creation. So it's just a theological construct, you could say. There is biblical evidence for that. I didn't come prepared to to give you that biblical evidence because that wasn't part of the lesson. No, no. I think that's yeah, you hear that in some circles. Uh after Adam fell, God had to implement a plan B. That's not Nonsense. God knew Adam was Paul. And God always knew that Christ would redeem his people. Merlin? Um and you already mentioned this, but the fact that Christ is then called the second Adam and that it he did fulfill God's law perfectly, not just from The Garden of Eden, but all through Moses and all through those Old Testament things. So that there was the evidence, like as Carol said, it's it was very clear, or if Natalie said that it became very clear that this was not going to be achievable through the Old Testament sacrifices and things. And that but then Christ, God didn't just say Uh oh well you can't do this, I'll just forgive you. Um but he sent Christ who was under the same um requirements and blessings as Adam saying, if you obey perfectly I will give life. Um and Christ did obey perfectly, but then the life that he got was not for himself alone. But for all of those who are in Christ through faith. Um so in a sense that we see that covenant going all through scripture to You're talking about the covenant of works? I'm talking about Uh we can was removed from the covenant works a sinful sin. But God did not just then, like you said, go to claim G. Yeah. uh the covenant of works was actually fulfilled by Jesus Christ. Yeah. And that's why you can say the covenant of works does still apply. Only one man ever fulfilled it, Christ. So our only hope is to have Christ's obedience from his fulfilling that covenant. And of course Christ does give us that hope through faith. Uh Jeff? Question uh sort of as we were just talking about interesting active is really the next sixty seven questions in fact as um I'll talk about how it still happens. Yeah. In a sense, but in the n in the negative way, the the the curse and the punishment that's in the world um because of it. And even Even when we see physical death uh all around us, it it's showing that the Covenant of the Works is still active in the in the Yeah. Yeah, we think of the old saying there's only what two things in life that are sure. What are they? Death and taxes. But really that's not biblical. I mean it's biblical post fall, it's not biblical pre fall. Right? Marilyn. So the piggybacking on what Marilyn was saying about saying about you know Christ being the second Adam, we have all of these comparisons between Adams temptation and Christ's temptation and and contrast because you know Adam was tempted in a beautiful garden, you know, surround you know, with his you know his wife was there at but she was the part of the temptation And you know, Jesus was tempted in the wilderness where he didn't have anybody and he hadn't he hadn't, you know, he fasted for forty days and and and um it you know, so you just have this whole comparison, um then what was funny was I think it was back in the nineties there was a t-shirt that said Jesus beat the devil with a big ugly stick. And of course there's a cross on it. It's the ugliest problem you could probably possibly imagine. And if you if you send that back to the the garden with Adam, he should have beat that snake with a big ugly stick. And then we wouldn't have had this problem. So just uh you know, all of these comparisons and the you know that are absolutely intentional. But yeah. And contrast. The head should have been crushed sooner than huh. Yes, yes. Don't you be talking about what? Jeff, do you have something? I mean one one problem that some people have with this is that is this fair that that person Yeah, good point. Yeah, good point. I did want to talk about that. Thanks for the reminder. So yeah, so so the what Jeff is talking about is what's built it's called federal headship. Uh a lot of people have a problem with that. Yeah. So that that we are in Adam Be well because Adam sinned, we are all born sinners. It doesn't s does it seem fair? That's the question. Is it fair? Is is that the right question to ask? Is it fair? That's not the right question to ask. We are we are the we are the we are the clay. God is the potter. He has created us as he so fits. Who are you only? Mm maybe maybe is it just. But but even then the answer is of course it is. Well and our question is we what we need to discuss, especially when we're talking to our neighbors, is How is it just? How is it display God's character? And that's what I think Jess is bringing up. Because that's what people question, right? Mm-hmm. I would say that that the best um one of the most impactful descriptions that I've ever heard of is you know when you talk about what the alternatives are you know if it were up to every person, you know, at what point he's are he are gonna judge him on the works when he's a baby. or a two year old or a five year old or oh it doesn't go into effect in 80 twenty one. You know, s something like that. And uh the alternative is to have Have a what? To have a champion. To have a superman and do it for the whole race. And he was a s a champion. He had a perfect man, the only man is And create it perfectly, go be the champion for the entire race and use it. If you think let me just say a couple of things. If you think that's a good idea, you can see it. We're not responsible for Adam's sin, then you also have to say we're not responsible for Christ's atoning for us. So then you get into salvation by works, what Joshua's talking about. Let me read one key verse from Romans 5, 5. 12. Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sin. So the folks that question, is it fair that we're responsible for Adam's sin don't have a right view of Of their own sin. They have the world's view that man is inherently good, innately good. So kind of piggybacking on on on what Jeff was saying there, so like if Let's just say for the sake of argument that there that so the so let's say for say for the sake of argument that Adam didn't eat the fruit. So therefore For each and every person after and God didn't have him be federal. No, let's just take that argument that there wasn't a federal head. That each person was going to be responsible for their own perfect life obedience. So then let's say Adam he does it just fine, but he's got you know, he has a couple of sons and one of his sons, I don't know, says he says he kills his other son So so but the one son that was killed is perfect obedient, so he has earned eternal life so it it so he can't be killed, which is really weird. Um but then you've got this other son who the moment he kills him, he's gotta go to hell. And there's no other option. There's no there's there's if if it's it's either gonna be a covenant of works or ever Everybody's going to be individually responsible and then there's no chance of any kind of forgiveness and redemption, or you g we're gonna have a federal head Um and then we all fall in Adam, but then we all get to benefit of from you know we all get the benefit from Christ's sacrifice in the mercy of God. So I mean I mean those those are the the two options. Yeah, that's a good way to look at it. So yeah if you wanna if you want to be on your own obedience. Okay, there's no No, you're you're gone, you're in hell, you're suffering forever, there's no chance at all. One and done. Yeah. Yeah. That would be mass confusion. Which is why there's so many different denominations because everybody wants To add and change scripture to fit what they believe. So we just need to stick with what Scripture says. And and you know the Westminster Confession is such a rich theological statement. Anytime I r run up against the Westminster Confession in something I don't understand, I just you know so I pretty much submit to it because that was I consider that the high point of theology in my personal opinion. You want to say anything else on that, Jeff, the the federal headship issue? No. Yeah. That is that is that is tough for modern modern readers to to really embrace. I don't know what to go. I understand the concept of what you're saying, but I I haven't done a lot of either on that. But I was thinking that it was Eve who who said first, and then Adam followed And I I'm remembering something from perhaps from Archie's teaching that Adam could have offered his life and You know, in in essence laid down his life to save his wife. He didn't. So again, it was a failure of his headship. Uh God had designed Eve at from Adam and Adam did not stand in in her place to to save her. And so you have that picture of a Christ-like picture. And looking forward to the last Adam does stand in place. those who deserve that and who gives his life for those who he loves. Yep. That was a very gracious act in God in creating Eve a companion well suited to Adam. So he had everything he needed to live a holy life and to glorify God, but he he along with Eve fell. Duane? The the whole term federal headship um turns off Many, even in the church, even in some that call themselves reformed churches, which is interesting. Um, because it does federal headship flies into face of the modern world that we live in. Because federal headship gives a hierarchical authority that is laid out in Scripture. You know, Christ is the head and um it it breaks down into uh headship even in a family, uh as the husband being responsible for the whole family. Um so it it's a touchy thing. It's uh goes a lot further than what this cat this uh catechism question is dealing with. So I don't want to go there, but I But you brought up the term and I I just it's uh it's it's a very touchy thing, but you know if it falls back to I didn't say it, I didn't make up those rules. God did, and he did it in the beginning. So it's it's something worth discussing in the future. Yeah, based on my reading uh it says a lot of evangelicals deny the covenant of works. I'm not sure why that is. It's not it's not embraced it's not embraced uh across the spectrum of evangelicalism. I assume it has to do with Arminianism. You know, if you think you can Yeah. But do it on your own. Marilyn? Uh I think that's what just what you're talking about is just coming to ahead in our culture with this idea of personal autonomy. You know, I can make decisions for myself, I will create myself, I will be whatever I think. And it comes down to uh part of it, not all of it, but submission to like language, the way God set it up and submission to authority and being able to find joy in In submitting our minds and our rejoicing hearts to what God has told us is true, instead of doing what's Yep. I will own my own truth. That's another way of saying do what's right in in your own eyes. Doug? What's the difference between why why did they use the term federal headship instead of kingship? I don't I don't really know the answer to that. Uh kingship is a I mean Jesus is is prophet, priest, and king, so he has three roles. Federal headship is We are Adam is representative of the whole human race, and Christ is represent representative of the whole redeemed human race. So it it's it's it's kinda apples and oranges the way I'm looking at it. Was was Adam intended to be a king? Or just the head? No Yeah, I mean that makes sense. In his in his prefall state he had definitely rule over the earth and dominion. Okay. I was saying that sounds like a kingly role Right, but what would have happened once he had kids? He would have still been king and who would have been king after him. You're asking a lot of questions, Natalie. You would have played a lot of would-ifs, don't you? He was vice regent. He was he he was supposed to be vice regent. Makes sense. We're all prophet priests and kings? In what way? Oh well I mean we're we're a holy nation. The church is a holy nation. We represent Christ. He's the ultimate prophet, priest, and king. Again, vice reason So all of if that all of his children are the same roles. They're supposed to represent the father. Part of the covenant of grace. Yeah. We can't talk o yeah, I mean we can only talk about ourselves with respect to the covenant of works in the sense that That still applies to us. We have no hope apart from Christ. We can't obey God's law. We have no hope apart from apart from Christ. Marilyn? Um when we define federal headship as uh representative, um I think that term is uh thicker than the way we have come to use the word representative. I mean like we elect a representative to Congress. Oh yeah. But he's off there and we're not sure what he's doing and he may or may not represent our values or whatever we thought he would do, but in Adam as our federal head, not only do we look at him and go, well he's an example and I probably would have done the same thing. or the kind of stuff we're talking about. But actually in Adam all died. And he we are in him just by the name of the fact that he is our father, but our federal head. And and the same thing happens with Christ as our federal Head of Christians, it's not just then he's a good example and we we follow him like Muhammad Gandhi said. Um but we are actually united with With Christ in his death, that we may be united with him in his resurrection. Sinless because of his obedience. And there's that matter of imputation, but it's It's even that it's richer than just imputing like I give you my bank account or something like that. But we actually become unified to prices as well as his bride, as one. And without him, none of us had a choice whether to s we would be born sinners or not. I mean we were automatically there Because he's our federal debt. We don't have anything to say though. Yeah, it takes a it takes a while to understand that theologically. Posse peccatur, non-poste peccatur. Non poste non peccator. That's what you were thinking about. Oh, okay. That's the Latin part of it. Yeah, yeah. So Adam was Adam was he ha he was non-poste peccator and poste pecator He had the ability to sin and the ability not to sin. After the fall, we still have pose pecator, but not only that, we have non pose non peccator. We have we don't have Very good. Okay. Keep on going from Romans about what Marilyn was talking about five eighteen. Therefore, as one trespass led to combin condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life. for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. Praise praise the Lord for that. Oh sorry. Go ahead. Oh yeah, first fifteen. From the dead and has become the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For since by man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead. For as an Adam will die, even so in Christ, all shall be made alive, but each one in his own order. Christ first greets afterwards. Yeah. That's a really good corollary passage. The Romans five passages in that passage are the two great passages related to How we're all we're all fallen in Adam, we're all raised in Christ. Would everyone just submit to Adam as their federal head? I think the answer is no. Because of the household, because of marriage. But a man his father and mother, like said in Genesis, and hold fast to his wife and he become one flesh. He is now the federal head of his household and no longer is full to submit to his mother and father. He still honors them as his mother and father, obviously. But submission is a different thing. I think confusion and federal headship is common in our culture because it's confusion of what the household really is. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah the the term federal is yeah it's not meant in terms of the sense is federal government, right? It's a covenant. So you think federal is a synonym for covenant? It's covenantal. That's what federal means. It does? It's a post yeah, I mean uh traditional. Yeah, it'd be federalism. Federalists. But of course we've now got to I wasn't thinking that on that term but it actually strengthens this argument of covenant theology. Yeah, if we understand covenant, how God works the covenant, has a covenant with himself within the Trinity, you wouldn't expect God to do anything otherwise. It really helps to understand the the chaos of the world to know that it's not just, you know, God's plan B or C. Things aren't just happening at a random whim. This really is God's God's plan. And we need to submit to it. Well thank you guys. We actually used almost the whole hour. I really wasn't sure we were gonna so I appreciate all the all the good feedback. So let me uh let me close us in prayer. Our Lord God, we uh thank you, Father, for this time with these brothers and sisters. Father, I pray uh your spirit will Will uh manifest itself during the service. May we worship you in spirit and truth, and may your son be glorified today. Amen.