God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that we have this morning offering where we can look a little more closely and more interactively at your word, at the doctrine that you have given to us, which is not just teaching but a doing. I pray that your spirit would help us to understand who you are and what you require. require of us. In the name of Christ. Amen. Alrighty, so I was going to start our review. with Mark Levecki, but he is not here today. Maybe he'll come in a little bit later. He had the final word uh two Sundays ago on Uh on um God and his decrees. And I think he was going to bring up something about uh understanding God's decrees and the significance in the midst of human suffering But I'll let him speak for himself. He was thinking about God's decrees relative to Nazi concentration camps, and he was going to comment on that. But we'll let him do that in his own words when he shows up again. Uh uh generally speaking, we're on the same lecture outline, which you can You should have left over from two weeks ago, but you can also find this on our website somewhere. And I think it's under about and then it is in the midst of those worship service uh bulletins. At the top of the sheet, I hope that you all can pull this up and look. I mean it's it's gonna be difficult I don't have a whiteboard or anything, but you can look here. At the top of the sheet are these diagrams. And what they were supposed to do was to be a review In that when we look at how the apostles and the prophets interpret the scriptures, We see that there is there is revealed to them God before anything else So, there is a teaching in Christianity of God in Himself that He has revealed. Not all about God in Himself, but only what He has in fact revealed. We have called this the imminent Trinity or Intertinitarian doctrine. And Then there is another part of this, which is what is revealed about God as he acts or executes his decrees in creation and in providence. And then there is a special providence relative to the church. So let me ask you a very quick question by way of review. When we talk about God's decrees, are we talking about an economic act? of God or are we talking about an imminent act of God? Give it your best shot Fire away. Darren, your your uh cogs are turning, brother. Did you have some coffee? We have coffee out there. Oh you're not, okay. I'm so sorry. I wanted it because it seems to be in curview of Yeah. Well all the members of the ch all the persons of the Trinity uh have an economic relation And it's a little bit of a tricky question. I f I phrased it uh in a way that's ambiguous. For the sake of dialectic. See yes, but in what sense? And th there's a couple different senses that we have to work with. Primarily when we're talking about the decrees, we're talking about the imminent work of the Trinity, because it is that which is Taking place among them. It's their plan or counsel, the council of his own will. And then there is a second part of it, which is its execution. Right? So that we've been looking at just the fact that there was a plan. And then what the confession is going to do is it's going to show us the doctrine of the scriptures. The whole rest of it is the execution of the plan. And when we say the plan, we mean all of history. So there it is. So we stepped through a a few things. Just by way of reminder, we looked at what does the word council mean? We looked at Psalm 33, 10 through 11, and we asked questions like: who controls the plans of men? Who can thwart the plans of God? According to Isaiah 46. 10 and Ephesians 3. 11, when did God make his plan? That's before the foundations of the earth or eternity past. Some people like to say it that way. We asked the question, if the decree of God is eternal and God is unchangeable, do you think God's plans can be changed? We answered no, and we especially looked at Hebrews chapter 6, 13 through 18, where God establishes Particularly in verse 17, that his plans do not change. That what he said will be done will be done. Now, I want to pick up with question number five today, and that is, according to Romans 9, 11, and 13 and 1134. Is God's decree dependent on what he knew men would do? That tends to be a, I imagine even here that will be a debatable point for some of you. But I want to take a look at this. Romans, so let's look open our scriptures together. That's what we're doing today. We're just going to look at different scriptures to better understand the decree. That's the main topic, the decree. So who would like to read Romans 9, 11, and 13 and then 11, 34? Nice and loud. Alright, Ashley, nice and loud. Oh, you can go ahead and start at 10. Okay. Uh go to um thirteen. And not only this, but when Rebecca also had conceded by one man, even By our father Isaac, for the children not yet being born, nor having done any good or evil, that the purpose of God according to election might stand not of works but of And to fall. It was said to her, the older shall serve the younger. As it is written, Jacob I have loved, but Esau I have hated. Okay, and then Romans 11, verse 34. Do you want me to keep on with that? You can y yeah, you can do eleven thirty-three through thirty-six. Oh the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. For who has known the mind of the Lord or who has become his counselor, or who has first given to him, and it shall be repaid to him. For of him and through him and to him are all things Amen. And my ma the main argument here is that these verses, if you want to understand them, you've got to put them under the category of the decree, that is to say, the plan of God. And so what is being revealed here? Here you have apostolic doctrine, and what's being revealed to us about the plan of God? What are some observations that you would like to make? You can start in verse 9. There's a little parenthetical remark that deserves our emphasis. What are some observations you'd like to make about the plan or decree of God? Yes. Like the thing that says it's it's not about me. Okay. It's not about us. We want it to everything that we don't know. But it's not about us, it's about God, it's what we're doing his word glory and and getting in line with that important. Alright, very good. Do you want to say a little bit more? is uh the in front of the level. Yeah. This is about things. So let us all take the V and Praise and find All right, very good. Now with what you've said, you summarized it by saying it's not about me. Right, okay. Then how do you explain all of the effort put towards the human race? You agree that there's been a tremendous amount of effort put toward put toward the human race, right? Okay. I mean there is a sense in which it's about him and I'm benefit from that. And there is an ever If you'd been the only person on the face of the earth, Jesus would have still died for you. That's what we would say to people. And so it's not exactly accurate. His plans are for his own glory. Okay. That doesn't mean that I'm I'm not in the in the s in the place I had a couple hands pop here, but I want to have a another question for you real quick. Just a clarifying just a clarifying question. You said you used I f I don't know if it's French or Latin But you said it's not about me per se. Now that's a technical term. What do you mean by what does per se mean? It has a technical it has a technical meaning in these kind of discussions. The direct and primary reality is God is glory is everything is everything is in service with that. Um the vessels in my so when I go home and I pull out a something to use a hand Hammer or whatever it is. It's not about the hammer per se. It's about the fact that I am going to do something amazing and I didn't use that hammer or this saw or whatever. It's not about Okay. I think you're getting close though. Yeah, that's how I've that's how I've heard it used. Rachel, your hand went up. Um I think. Okay. He got it. And then Ashley, was it you or was it Cheryl? Or was it Shannon? Sure. I don't well, it just I got time on that first the first question that you asked and say it's I think and I was just gonna say it's it's about us in so far as our salvation glorifies God. He glorifies himself in saving us. That's about as far as it's about us. Okay. And then we benefit, we do benefit from God being glorified because of how he designed his creation to glorify him. And when it's functioning and in order, he is glorified and we benefit from there being order. And justice and good things that you design. Okay. Alright, Dwayne. I'm gonna stick with the uh hammer analogy. Okay. Okay. Um I think the Westminster minds in their scripture proofs that they give are much more gentle than I am. Okay. But I fall I fall back to So why is man's chief and to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. In other words, why is man made? Yeah. Man's not made for his own glory, man's made for God's glory. So I will be as harsh as to say God made us for for for his pleasure only. That's it. That's the reason that God made us keep any pleasure in ourselves. His grace. And then we go to Romans 9:20. But indeed, O man, who are you to reply against God? You are the thing formed, happiness being formed. saying to the map or why it may be this way. Um i it we're we're so quick in in this conversation with other believers or other believers so quick to want to point out, well, why would God do that? Why would God do that? That's not the God that I know. That's not the God that I serve. Well that's the God of the Bible. It is it is how it is Okay. Who are we going to try out the other side? I think that's Sheryl's left hand. It looks too s skinny for it to be Nick's. Okay, yeah. Yeah, that's good. Right now we've been um going off. Which is good. I mean we're just collecting things So according to Romans 9. 11. 13 and 11. 34, is God's decree dependent on what he knew men would do? Say it based on the the parenthetical part of the verse of evidence. Ultimately no, because his decrees for his purposes were made before any action or intention on our part like he says about Jacob and Espal before they acted or how can I go to people. Right purposes are Yeah, and and that's what their point is in eleven thirty-four, if you look at that again, uh who has become his counselor. And then you see in thirty-six, for of him and through him and to him are all things. things. This is all referring to the decree as the argument. So then even go ahead, Natalie. So having a please back up with what Cheryl just said about I would say that was just a little bit more well. No, absolutely not. Because if if if that were the case, we wouldn't have this verse And then we wouldn't have the verses in um fourteen what can we say then if they're unrighteousness with God. Because if God's choice of us was based on what we did, then no one would raise the question, is there a righteousness with God? The fact that the question is raised means the answer is categorically no. It's not based on based on what he saw we would or wouldn't do. Okay. Because if it was based on what he saw we would or wouldn't do, all he would have seen was prevent Unless you show it up. Okay. So as soon as we and I expected uh the majority of you to affirm this reading of these scriptures. But as soon as you do, there is this thing that rises up on the horizon. There's actually two things. One is, well then how can mankind have any responsibility? We'll deal with that later. Deal with that later. And then the other thing is, what do you do with the passages? Because we're trying to be coherent. What do you do with the passages that talk about God regretting his decisions and repenting of his actions? Or even, for example, the Ninevites seeming as if God's decisions are based off of what people will in fact do. Like the Ninevites. If they repent, I will relinquish. If they don't, then I will judge. That does not seem to be rooted in an eternal decree, but rather on the decisions of men. So how is it that you handle these kinds of verses in order to remain consistent with the total teaching of the scriptures? Mark. Okay. Yeah, very good. So then, and then how is it that our prayers have any significance whatsoever? How many of you, by the way, thanks for that example, because I've heard so many um When folks enter into the church and they're on that road of maturity, usually a question will arise which is if God does in fact know how all things will end, what use is it of me praying about anything? It seems futile. And evangelism while we're at it. Yeah. Very good. That's good. Uh yes, sir. You look a little different to me today. Are you uh you living on the island now? They just moved to Kent Islands, so congratulations. My hometown. Wish I was there right now. Sorry. So I I don't know why, but it' In my mind I have to bring love into it. Okay. So God's love for man, uh, and sometimes that um transcends Okay. Uh because we're not doing the right thing just like a parent to a child. Um and uh why Because he put so much effort into us. Sure. Okay. You know, and I I don't know, I I get the hammer part and all that stuff, but I have to think I don't know why. I guess I just sent it like Well no, it's uh it's an important it's not contradictory to anything that anybody has said. It's an important part of the total picture. Right. When we ask questions like this, you can imagine a very large canvas. And if you're going to answer the correct question correctly, there's a lot that you have to put on that canvas. Canvas to to paint it accurately. I don't have a 42 button. I do think that that's the purpose of Roman at the end of Roman's letter. Is when we come to questions like this, we talk, we go, we're dealing with God, who is an order of being uh completely other than us. And so as we begin to ponder and contemplate what it means to conceal and time to make decisions to change the model. We're we're we're we're bound by our finiteness and by the nature of our being. And so that's what Okay, after everything I just said about God's decrees and his things and all kinds of stuff on the line, we do need to pause Okay, got is at some level. Uh um everything that we've been thinking about talking about does come to us at a level of as capital Yeah, that's the same thing. So I'm just saying that as context. I'm not saying that I'm not trying to avoid the question, but that's that's context for us as we begin to donate. things that are extremely difficult challenging and perplexing to us. Yeah, I agree. Thank you very much. That's uh those are helpful guardrails for us. Okay, we're gonna go with Christina and then we'll go with Shannon. Um, I think that phones are really helpful for this because they do a lot of just position of the sovereignty of God, but also that he flight you I think about the eight where he gives us dominion over the earth to rule and to judge. It's under his sovereignty, yet he also ends in And part of the way that God gives glory is the way that He um gives I mean I don't wanna get too tricky, I'm not gonna say gives us all the choices to do all the right things necessarily, but there's some sort of relationship and going back and forth like in Psalm 119 the we are totally unrighteous all the time and yet we also are righteous and desire to follow his law. There is a tension there. Yes. And I think it's a tension here that yes we're under his decrees And yet in what gives God glory, in the way that He has ordered our lives and how we're to relate to Him and to creation, there is There is a relationship of our sin and the work of God and our righteousness and the work of God and our dominion. Okay. So we take specific things and we turn them into little pieces. But the other thing is intenting to use like a sort of antomorphic state in attributing to God our characteristics of how we would do things because I Right. So when you make decisions, it's easier to do anything humanistic idea. Okay. Yeah. Okay, Sheryl. I'm wondering if it would be correct to say that while God is not bound by our actions or And then that he's bound by who he is and his character. So like considering the psalms, there's a lot of times in the psalmist to pray for me. Like deliver us deliver me from my enemies for your main. Um so I'm wondering if you know specifically like with of uh or places where it will say, if you repent, I will relent. That maybe it in right now maybe it's in in the way that He is God and all knowing keeping in balance all the parts of his character, like you know, justice and mercy. Like I'm also wondering in relation to I do believe carefully because I'm afraid of falling off ditches that the Lord blesses your obedience. That like you in some sense can expect because of who he is and because of his character that he that you will reap what you sow in obedience And so maybe that's I'm just wondering, is that a proper way of kind of understanding those anthropomorphics? Can you define anthropomorphic? Yeah, human characteristics to things that are not human. So like the hand of God. God refers to the Well I guess that wouldn't be human with it, like him saying like uh like means like evil or but I guess it's essentially like saying rip that God written Or or God's right hand. Yeah, or God changed his mind or something like that. Like not understanding it in a way that we would change our minds. I I don't exactly know. But I guess that's what I'm wondering. It's I guess it's because I can trust God to hold and perfect balance All all that he is. Um being just and merciful and good. And we were just seeing this Different ways of that playing out. And so while you've knocked down to our actions of obedience or repentance, but surely there's some hope in confessing sin and repenting or going forth in obedience when you don't feel like it, trusting on this God that is good and It is just. I don't know. So like if if I think that if I repent of my sin, but God will still be wrathful toward me. As regards that specific sin, um it seems um unlike him as revealed by his words. Okay, that's a good one. So I think those are it's interesting to see all of the different models that you use to try to resolve what we have in front of us. And I don't want to go to a resolution this morning. it would take too long and I don't even know that I'm capable of it at this moment. The um what I would encourage you to do is to think through this conversation that we're having right now is to do a couple different One is there has to be we have to go back to the beginning of what the confession was saying, which is that we're really supposed to be thinking God's thoughts after him Him. That is to say, that there has been something given to us or handed or passed down. The word that the scripture often uses is the sacred tradition. That sacred tradition is summarized under the prophets and the apostles. So we have the prophetic and the apostolic doctrine passed down to us. Now the question is, is what are we supposed to do with that? We're supposed to understand it. But when we go to understand it, there are some things that, Christina, you use the word tension. Some things seem like they're in tension with other things. Some things seem like they outright contradict other things. So the first thing that we have to do is we just have to name what do we see? What are all the different things we see? Do we see in the scriptures, let me ask you, that God has counseled all things or decreed all things before the foundations of the world? Okay, some of you will say yes and then some will disagree with you. They'll say that this means something else. But here we teach that he has in fact decreed from eternity all that shall come whatsoever shall come to pass. This is what we call foreordination. Okay. Do we see in the scriptures that our actions make a difference? Do we see in the scriptures that we're responsible as human beings? Okay, very good. Now, how do you make all those things fit together? So that's the when they start to intersect, that's the difficult thing. And what I would encourage you to do is to look at the Westminster Confession and the larger catechism and not the shorter catechism. for the language that that at least this branch of the church has chosen. And when I say this branch of the church, I mean the Western Church at this point. Because the Westminster Confession of Faith on this these articles are not going to disagree with the other branches. These are like major. So I would look and see what is the language that they have used to try to figure out how these things can fit together without falling into error because that's all they're trying to do. They're just trying to keep you from falling off the road. So in other words, the discussion in the confession is How can we not say something wrong? That's all they're doing. How can we put these things together and not say something wrong? So would it be wrong to say that our prayers don't matter, that they're not effectual? Yeah, it would be wrong But how do you deal with that and the sovereignty of God? Right. I mean some of these things are philosophical questions that we don't have answers to, quite honestly. But we have made a pretty good attempt at how these things could fit together. And I'd encourage you just to look at the confession for those kind for the language. For me to answer that question up here would require many Sunday schools and lots of uh distinctions that have to be laid out. in order for it to happen. One of our elders, Chase Vaughan, that's your husband. He was doing yeah, you know. Good job. Something we know today. He he was doing his uh gra postgraduate work on William Twist and the reform doctrine of free will, correct? Twists. Yeah. So if you wanted to get into a a more specific discussion, he would be a good person to to talk about. about that with. Now, all that being said, let me just remind you of some of the language that you've used. You're proving yourself to have been under good teaching You are seeking to resolve the tensions by the language of anthropomorphism. And there's another one which is anthropopathy, I think is how you pronounce it. So we have the assignment of human characteristics to a non-human. namely God. And we have the assignment of human emotions, that's the pathy part, uh, to a God who is in fact not human. And that, as Darren said, this is a kind of condescension on God's part, not trying to describe who he is. in his being or his decrees, but communicating in such a way to where we could understand. That is one model that theologians have used to try to explain what is happening within the scriptures. And they're not backing off from giving a good explanation. I'll have to come back next week because I forget the scripture verses, but it says that God repents. And then it says he should not repent because he's not a man. I mean and it's within the same book. So you have to deal with these kinds of things. And these are the models that we've come up with to try to be able to deal with them. Yeah. So Jesse, what you're saying, and I'm asking this for a friend, not for me. Uh-huh. Sure, yeah, yeah. This is really the breakdown of the word for us, for those simple guys. guys that are just like an air conditioning guy, right? And and also uh the mentor theologian uh hierarchy in the word So to speak, is also uh placed there or there to help us simplify it. Say that one more time? Yeah, so so So like uh uh people that are are that understand God's word and and uh more of uh uh a theological sense and a basic sense can break it down to a basic guidance. They can. So and what I would recommend is you just memorize the creed. That has been affirmed by the m the Western branch of the church for a really long time. It's a really big deal to go against where all the churches agree. Yeah, yeah. It's good it's good stuff. And that's a summary of um not doctrine just from the sixteenth century. We're going back to the Apostles' Creed, really. Yeah please share it. repenting a sending could it be that that could sess up uh because we are since the word repent it's even not correctly essentially means to turn from yeah. So and with us returning from sin because we're fallen and sinful. Uh God obviously isn't turning from a sin that he committed. Right. Um he's coming from this thing that you've done. Yeah. Um and not necessarily because he made an escape or it's wrong or he needs different factors But he has turned away from it. Yeah um and wouldn't that be consistent with what we understand him to do in his wrath towards sinners? Yes. He turns from them. He turns back to them. Um I don't know if you say w with reference to sinners, do you mean that once we're sinners he turns his back to us, we lose fellowship with him? Or are you saying that when sinners repent he relinquishes his wrath? Yeah, when sinners repent, he relinquishes his wrath. Yeah. Right. Yeah, the and so maybe it's talking about a different sphere And it's not using language with reference to the decrees, but rather to portray his relationship to the holy or something. Yeah, I think that's gotta be a possibility. Uh when you look at these so one of the dangers that we can run into is we can look at all of these different scriptural references. We can grab the context the concepts from the passage and then we can start to have a philosophical discussion. But what we want to do is we want to look at the concepts rooted and the specifics of what issue they're dealing with on the pages of scripture. And you have to make sure that you've tapped into that. Otherwise you're going to be in deep trouble. So if yours is a Levitical context, for example, and that when we're working within sacred spheres, that the holy can't be faced towards the unholy, but But in the context where we are talking about and pondering the fact that God has made his decrees from eternity, when we run into something on the pages of the scriptures which seems to contradict that, well, people want to figure out a way to resolve it. so that they can know how to talk about God accurately. This happened particularly because of what we would call heresies. That have that cropped up. And those heresies were trying to resolve things like, well, how can human beings have significance in their choices and and that kind of stuff. And they would resolve it by not denying God's sovereignty, but making it a kind or type of sovereignty whereby he rules through a kind of forward or middle knowledge or something along those lines. These are all middle these are all different models that have cropped up in the church throughout time, trying to do the best they can to explain what they see in the And a church council has come along and said, Nice try, but you didn't get it right. And that and those counsels are recorded here within the words of the Yes, please. Back to your original question about the guy to create something I mean I I don't necessarily have an opinion on all the decrees, but as far as if we're talking about his decree of salvation, his this uh salvific decree um and him choosing, right? Because he knew those who would choose him and who wouldn't. Then we we're then we're just kind of smacked in the face with the verse. Okay. Dead men can't do anything. Right. So he the only thing that he would know or have foreknowledge of knowing is To see for choose. And that's that's really smart to I don't think about, but Yeah, that is how we have seen the tiles go together. There would be others that would argue and say that we are unable to do some things but able to do others. So for example, one major teaching within the church early on was that our wills but not our intellects are fallen. And what that ends up leading to is different positions or a model on how to bring all these different things together, which is Pelagianism. I'm just going to drop some terms and not explain them. There's Pelagius, and then there's going to be a kind of moderate view, which is going to be called semi-Pelagianism. And and these aren't meant to sound fancy. We're just talking about a guy who was trying to put the tiles together the right way And then when he was subjected to review by church by the church, they found his views at one point correct and then at another point not correct. So original sin. Yes. To my knowledge. That's my advantage. But um I need to go and read him. A lot of times when you read them as uh primary sources they didn't say what people said they said. uh but it's it's good you know I think that's that's generally the case. Yes sir welcome back. Good to see you. Yes. Hi. Helpful to make a distinction between decrees, precepts, and this decision or flooding the waters No, that's fine. I think that when you get in and that's why I didn't want to go there. It it would it it would well it would be help it is helpful when you want to get in when we want to stop and say, this is the conversation we're having. for the next month. What you're going to do is you're going to find these distinctions between a decree, a precept, and a disposition. You're going to start the permission of God, the um the ordained will of God versus the there's all these different types of will. Yeah, that that comes out of this discussion to seek to make sense of it and not fall into error. So I should come back in a month. Well, no. But if we did want to have a separate Sunday school class on just this topic, it would be appropriate. We could look at the reformed teachings specifically on these things, but since we're trying to get through the whole confession, I've got to hit the mountain peaks on it. You know what I mean? Yeah. But thank you so much for giving us that terminology. These are distinctions that matter. Some people re um get a bad taste in their mouth when they start to hear distinctions like that, do you? Because you're not going to find those distinctions in the scriptures. So let me just ask you a quick question. If we don't find that terminology in the scriptures, should we use it? Natalie, appalled at any other option, says, yeah. I I like your I like your conviction. But we find concepts there. We they're like tools. It's like it's like saying it's like saying if we if if we don't happen to have a hammer in our And we need a hammer and nail, we're not going to go borrow a hammer from somebody else because the hammer is the tool. Uh we also don't see the word tunit, I mean it's a kind of kind of different word unity, but it's in there. Right. So Yeah, so these are distinctions that describe hopefully describe accurately what God has revealed to us. And that's their use. Yes, so you better make sure you know what these words to which they what you better know to what these words refer. Yeah. Okay. So I want to continue now and just looking at the different things that are obviously in the scriptures, and then we can perhaps have another Sunday school class in reconciling them. But I would encourage you to go ahead and look at the confession in its fuller statement of the doctrine because it really does maintain all of the pieces. For example, if you're concerned about human uh the significance of human action and the freedom of the will, the confession does not deny that. It doesn't deny the freedom of the will. It says that it's they work it out to where it's established by the sovereignty of God. And if you're worried about the sovereignty of God, the confession doesn't allow human will to violate it. So you might want to see how they put the puzzle together. Okay. Uh hope you don't feel like you're being cheated this morning. I'm trying to uh recognize our limitations. just in terms of time. Okay. So here's the next thing. This will be a a little more down to earth. I'm glad that we passed through those troubling waters. Did I leave any of you behind in the water drowning? Can we are we can we okay. I'm sorry. Here's a life jacket. Just come on over and we'll go back to the waters another time when we when we have the resources. Sounds good. Yeah, I want to figure it out. Yeah. We'll we'll need a special time for that. That's good. But we can reach for the life jacket. Oh yeah, somebody's gonna be a good idea. Never mind. Well, see this is what I'm saying. If we want to do justice to this topic, we would have to have its own Sunday school class. So hold me to it. Say, Jesse, I need you to, you know, solve the riddle a little bit later. And and give me a heads up so I can pray for many months and fast. And also resign. What topic are you talking about? I'm not being smart. I'm confused right now because we jumped all over the place. Yeah, yeah. What topic do you want to cover in Sunday school? I don't I don't know Okay. God's decrees? Is that what we're talking about still? We're talking about the questions that arise when we start talking about God's decrees. But when we see in the scriptures that mankind is also responsible for his actions, so human free will, but also the scriptures that arise that talk about God as if he changes his mind. But those have to be looked at together. They're in a conversation together. It's like scripture. And none of us are going to completely ever understand all of God's words. We strive for it. We long for it. And one recall to glory, so many things will become clear to us. Yeah, and I d I agree with you that we're gonna we get to a point where we've hit our limit. Is that what you're saying? Yeah, none of us Yeah. That his ways are beyond our ways. He is kind enough to condescend to come save us, he's also kind enough to give us his word to help us try to understand him. I don't want to presume, so may I just ask do you therefore think that having that conversation about those things is valueless. Oh never know. Okay. That's why I'm asking. I try not to assume it got me a lot of trouble in my life. The greatest of us in intellect has never done a completely apprehension everything out. He's he's beyond it human comprehension. He is so kind to love us. He's so kind to save us. He's so kind to give us the word to try, to strive, to comprehend Yeah. So then thanks for uh bringing us back down there, Buff. And um what we've been looking at is the decree. Right, and that's the plan of God from eternity. But there are a couple of things revealed in the scriptures that seem to headbutt that. So I'm bringing those things up because I want us to uh I find the best policy i is frankness And honesty. And I don't want us going to read the scriptures a little bit later and saying, well, wait a second, what about this? He never brought this up. So I'm just bringing up what tend to be the the thorns in people's sides relative to the decree. And um those tend to be the passages that talk about God not knowing what would happen and therefore he He had to change his mind. That's not ca that doesn't sound consistent with him planning foreordaining everything. And then the other thing is the how do we resolve that with man having free will and prayer and any actions? Any other So there are some other things that we Yes sir. So a lot of times I mean in this we're balancing between the shorter catechisms and the catechisms Large catechism, you know, there's chapter three of God's Eternal Decree. Yes, right. Section two of that. Although God knows whatsoever may or can come to pass Upon all supposed conditions, yet had he not decreed anything uh because he foresaw it as future or as which would come to pass upon such conditions. Right. We we have to remember that as as reformed we do have the Westminster Confession to help us understand because the councils and everything that went together before that and then the the bodies forming that so that we would have a clearer understanding so that we don't fall into error. Yeah so we don't fall into error. So while while we're here, uh I mean we're just gonna ping off of these different things as you bring them up because it will all come together eventually. When we I've heard it multiple times this morning. What do you all mean when you say, well we are reformed? This is our reform doctrine. What do you mean by that? What do I mean? Yeah, what do you mean by that? And then I'll tell you what I mean by it. Well go for it. I am just interested. So I was raised um in the Catholic Church. Uh-huh. I am reformed from that. I am the longer tactical. I would say for someone that came to faith as a Jew, they would be reformed from Judaism. They are no longer a Jew. They are now reformed and reforming more and more unto Christ. So when I say reformed and reforming, I go back to the Westminster Confession, 1647 During the one where they still call the Pope the Antichrist. Yeah. So yeah, um reform and reforming. So continually becoming more and more unto Christ uh behind what I was What is it that some of you mean when you say the word that you're reformed and you're a part of the reformed tradition? I heard you some of you say it, yes. Jen? is that we see the continuity between the Old Testament and the New Testament. And the other thing I think about the informed tradition is the idea of the sovereignty of God and the glory of God. being preeminent um in our focus and that meaning uh that's you know through what's you know looking at the migration professional data and I mean like that you mean um primary focus as opposed to something yet things that get tangled up in any Okay. Yeah, that's good. Yeah. And I like how you talked about it in terms of first things first. Yeah, that's nice. Anybody yeah, Natalie? So um what I think uh Therefore not based on um anything that we do or don't do God uses some um and only some um it's not a mer merit based system. But elective. Um so while he he could absolutely um he's the one that changes the heart and he absolutely could change the heart of everybody You know, only change part of the thumb. Um with the I'll be actually irresistible grace. Right, right, okay, right. When he does do that choosing, when he does do that choosing, um he changes the heart. Changes the heart. So he's not bringing into the kingdom, he's reading into the kingdom of God. Um the end that you come comes willingly but they come because he's changed their heart and then then they are secure to their salvation um because he preserves them. We persevere Yeah, and those are the articles I believe from the Serena Dortmund. Some of them. Okay. Very good. Anyone else wanna pipe up? Thank you so much for allowing me to broaden the conversation when I think it's important. I think it can maintain like the um referring to like the reform tradition, there's an assumed hermeneutic of things like covenant theology yeah that works itself out in a lot of experience. But I kind of feel like it's a rowing points that like Brownie points. Yeah. Okay. Which means that we also Yeah. Well no, you did. You said different words. Well you've all listed m different marks. So the word reformation can be used broadly. It's you know You can reform just about everything. But in our context, what I would mean by it, whenever I re say it, is I mean Reformed Catholic. So, and that's what we mean by our tradition here, and that's what we mean by the Westminster Confession of Faith, is that we are reformed from the corruptions that entered into the Roman Catholic Church. We sought to go back to the apostolic teaching to make sure that we had it right, and then we brought it forward, and that required a whole a whole host of things. But it was primarily located within corruptions with regard to the decrees of God and the will of man, both showing up rather drastically within the penitential and sacram sacramental system of Roman Catholicism. So then once we went back to the apostolic teaching and said, no, this is what they're teaching about God's decrees, and this is what it's Teaching about the will of man, the sacramentology of the Roman Catholic Church falls under that correction, and now there is a reformation of the church. So I always refer to myself as a Reformed Catholic. I like the look on people's faces when I say that too. So uh Cheryl? I just kinda pushed back against that. You're pushing back against me, you said? No brown. protesting Rome Protestantism. But I feel like right now in history to say I feel like um reform is a subcategory of productivism because I would not tell someone re Broadly I'm a product, that just is too large of a category. So I feel like even saying that you're reformed is a more specific category within product and to zone. Yeah, where are we disagreeing? Oh I just I You said you were coming at me. You said you wanted to qualification. Oh okay. That's your pushback? Okay. I think I have to use her evening. I think you can have a new Oh. Well there the Protestant movement, those who also agreed that Roman Catholicism was corrupt, divides off into many branches besides the Reform. form tradition. One major one is going to be the Anabaptist tradition. Which is gonna then bring all the other denominations that we're used to hearing about. is a dirty word. Really? Yeah. Oh man. Yeah, and so there are some areas of product citism where you might not actually be seen as a brother or sister. Like it's really quite that joke. That word really I mean It's a it's a pretty big umbrella, if I understand correctly. Like all non-path like Christ affirming churches would be Protestant. And I mean Christformation is nothing which is the first time. Uh maybe not Eastern Orthodoxy. Right. But um they're not all reformed because the Anabaptist they they denied a election, I believe. They said they decided to predestination report my understanding specifically affirmed like the soul the five Those are specifically from Luther and Calvin and and that was not That is not in all the Protestant churches. Protestant churches. Yeah. Yeah, so those are gonna be th those are gonna be saved by the bell, is that what you say? Yeah. Right. Those are going to be later editions, all that stuff. And you're looking at reformers being in the 13th and 14th centuries. Those are the real reformers. If you want, um, I would encourage you now listen, um Bob, I didn't go off topic, bro. This He holds me accountable. This is important for us to realize that the decrees and these things that we're discussing are at the heart of what it means to be a reform. Catholic. We went away from semi-Pelagianism. We went away from all of these things because we thought that it was an error to the apostolic teaching. Covenant theology. uh that kind of a hermeneutic. It's all going back to apostolic teaching in our in our view. So I think we stayed on point. It's good to get back to what do we mean when we call ourselves reform. It can have the later additions of those who are gonna build on the firm foundation that the original reformers gave. But but you want to think of the original reformers as like John Huss? And um and I would encourage you to, you can even find this online. William Perkins wrote a book, and it's not that big, called Reformed Catholic. And he's an original reformer. He's uh one of the fathers of the Reformation. And he will go through and he will state what the Roman Catholic Church believes, if or what we have in common with it still, and then how we are different. And it just does it in one article after another. And that that could be a good primer for you to understand why these conversations are so important and w why the language is used the way. That's because that one's published by Doug Wilson. Yeah. But I have a volume that doesn't have a picture like that. If you want to look at it after service, I'll be happy to we can all take a field trip. And I'll show you in my office the work. Alright, thanks so much for your patience. I would like to pick up next time with something a little simpler, which is where we can see all of the different kinds of things that God has foreordained. like um the birds and the fish and it'll be nice to just talk about that for a minute. So we're on uh question number six and we're gonna look at all of those different scriptures to see what God has planned out Then I want to go into seven and warn us to not uh attribute sin or evil to God, even though he has fordained whatsoever comes to pass. The question arises, well then isn't he responsible for the evil Well we've got to look at that, at least what the confession says. And then does he deny the responsibility of man? Nope. And then we'll get into some practical parts. Did anybody ever have any fun with this thing? Alright. Yeah, you had a good time? Yes. Alright. Alright, good. Glad to hear it. Okay, well let me close in prayer. Lord, I thank you for your congregation's patience in this conversation. Sometimes uh these kind of conversations sound more like we've been drinking a lot of wine. Um But Lord, that's the way that these things go, really. And uh I pray that you would bring it together, that you would please make sure that things are the things that are meant to be clear to your people, please make them clear. Please do never allow your the revelation of yourself to be discouraging. I pray, Lord, that it would have its proper use in bringing life. And never confusion. And I ask that you would do this by the power of your Holy Spirit. Amen. Amen