Novice to have ears for your word, but for it to produce no fruit. And Lord, we we pray that we would be more than that, that you would fill out and bring what you say to us We have many purposes depending on the various lives in this room. And I pray, Lord, with your knowledge, your omniscience. And by your spirit that you would make your people fruitful for their good, for the good of their neighbor, and for your glory. In the name of Christ. Amen. Alrighty. Well, here we are. Back in Sunday school. Welcome. Um Now let me see who's here. I need to pay better attention to that. Okay. And do we have some more folks that are yeah we have Some more folks coming in. Well it's just give me one second. Good morning. Good to see you. It was smart to wear the rain boots. Very good. Well, in this Sunday school class, we're going through a confessional document entitled The Shorter Catechism. And here at this church, the leaders, the teaching elder and the ruling elders and the deacons all are required to subscribe to the vitals of these documents As an accurate representation of the faith taught to us in the scriptures. And that faith consists of two parts. What we are That would be a summary of it. Now not only do our officers here subscribe, but any officer in the Presbyterian Church in America has to subscribe to the vitals of this document as an accurate representation of The tradition that's been handed down to us, the authoritative tradition or sacred tradition that's been handed down to us from the apostles and the prophets, representing the truth of God and his salvation. The PCA, the last time I checked, I don't know how many teaching elders and ruling elders there are. But I believe we have a church membership of about 400,000 congregants in North America. So if you think about how many officers does it take to manage 400,000 people, then you can get what's that? Yeah. I I don't that's a that's an interesting joke. I don't know. I don't know. Uh so far zero because our sextons take care of all the light bulbs. And Ron Crab and uh and Klaus, thank God for them. Um but you could get a picture of we're about an average sized congregation, maybe a little bit above average now actually. I think the average size in the PCA is about a hundred people, 125 people. And that typically consists of five session members, maybe five deacons. an average and then go ahead and do the math and you'll see how many authors there are out there with just within just the PCA who subscribe to this document as an accurate representation of the faith. That gives you a sense of what we're a part of, I hope. We've gone through several questions already. This Sunday school class, if you want to be successful in the class, there's four things that you need to do. Number one, you need to have your Bible with you. Either The physical Bible or the virtual one on your phone, number, well let me start over. You need to be in prayer. Number two, you need to have your Bible Number three, you need to have your confession in front of you so you can see the the question and the answer. And hopefully I've included that. I didn't include it in this latest handout, but you can pull up the shorter catechism. on your phone. There's PDFs all over the place and there's an app actually. And then you can also buy a physical copy if you prefer. And then lastly, it is very important that you talk about these things with each other afterward. The growing in the faith is a communal project. You're not supposed to be doing it. as an individual. If you do this alone, you're almost guaranteed to do it in error. So make sure that you're talking about these things together. This morning we have arrived well for several mornings now we've arrived at question number seven. which is what are the decrees of God. I'm ready to move on, but we are going to we are going to look at it one more time, hopefully a little bit more more simply this this morning. But that means that if we're on question seven, then we've already traversed through six questions. So let's just review those very quickly, just so we can see where we are. The first question is, what is the chief end of man? And the answer: man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him. Question number two. What rule has God given to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him? The Word of God, which is contained in the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments? is the only rule to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him. Question number three, what do the scriptures principally or foremost Teach or foremostly teach. The scriptures principally teach what man is to believe concerning God and what duty God requires of man. Well, if that's the case, let's go ahead and start down the first branch off the trunk and ask, what is God? God is a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. And that brings us to question five as we consider, continue to think about God. Are there more gods than one? There is but one only, the living and true God. Okay, and then question number six, how many persons are there in the Godhead? There are three persons in the Godhead: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. And these three are one God, the same in substance, equal in power and glory. And we come to question number seven, which we're on this morning. What are the decrees of God? The decrees of God are his eternal purpose. according to the counsel of his will, whereby, for his own glory, he hath foreordained whatsoever comes to So what you should be picking up with this shorter catechism is that these are the principal teachings Of the scriptures set forth in such a way to be easily memorizable. And what's supposed to be before you is a way for you to have all of the main heads or principal points Of the entire system of theology of Christianity. When you become a theologian that is well known Nationally and internationally, you don't ever leave these points. You're just diving deeper into the all the particulars of them So I'd encourage you to use this as an opportunity. Maybe you could set a challenge for yourself, or maybe we if you'd like, maybe we could have a Sunday school challenge. And uh something is better than nothing, so maybe we could try to get the articles concerning God memorized. Uh which is just a few, it's like four questions, right? God and himself, I mean. We could do those kinds of challenges and I'll I'll think about that. See if we can do that. Alrighty. So The um and I've also tried to give you some charts so that you could visu see the visual representation of the structure of the shorter catechism. That's supposed to be helpful. Alrighty, so we've talked about the decree of God and we've said a few things. One is we've said that this is an intra-Trinitarian And let's just state that a little bit more simply. God, among Himself in the three persons, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, they plan everything before they do it. How's that? That's what question number seven is about, and we have a fancy old word for that, which is called foreordination. So we've been looking at that and different parts of it. We've done so by reading Psalm 33, 10 through 11. We've looked at Isaiah 46. 10 and Ephesians 3. 11, and we've looked at Hebrews 6. 13 through 18, which was really helpful. in my opinion. We also looked at Romans 9 to see if his plan depends upon men, and we learned that he makes his plan before even men are born. And so they can't depend upon them. And now we uh have come to question number six. Now before we get into any uh of these scriptures Scriptures, one of the things that can happen when we study uh the confession is that we can have a strange almost most allergic response to the language that they use. Okay? And I just want you to watch your hearts on that. I think that it's a good summary. And I don't want you I want you to remember what we're doing. I'm reading the confession the shorter catechism to you, but then we're going right to the scriptures. And I want you to remember that this is a personal act of devotion. devotion. So when you are reading the scriptures, God is talking to you. He deserves your respect. He deserves for you to listen carefully. And he wants I want you to respond, whether it's here in your heart or a little bit later, in prayer and talk to him about it. Okay? So let's make sure we're communing with God when we read his scriptures. So now in question number six we get to be move towards more of the practical and thank God for that. We get to consider all of the different some of the you know some examples of uh the way God decrees things. So on the handout we have a list of scriptures 6A. And the very first one is Matthew 29, or 10, 29, and 30. And what I want to do is just look at these scriptures together and In the question itself, it says that we are to underline circle or underline the phrase that best summarizes the meaning of the verses. So let's start with Matthew. Chapter 10, 29 through 30. Ultimately we want to see the glory of God and His sovereignty here. Yes. Six uh I'm sorry. So I'm on question let me just that was an ambiguous. Uh Nora's taking logic right now and we're learning about ambiguity and I'm finding that um I do it a lot. So question number seven in the shorter catechism, but then on the handout, I'm on question 6a. I think there's some right out in the hallway if you want to grab one. Yep. I if I were you I would send your servant Cheryl. Yes ma'am. Oh great. Yeah, thank you. It looks like I should have made an announcement that there's handouts. out there. Either that or everyone's upset with me. Oh, that's sweet of her. It's also online in our on our webpage somewhere. Yeah, it is. That's uh that's maybe yeah, whatever. Who knows? Okay, so if you can share, then please do so. I see some folks that have the notes and maybe you could share with me people around you. But the but really I'm just going to at this point the use of the notes is for you to see the Bible verse I'm going to announce that we're going to look at. So you don't really need it too much Matthew chapter ten and verses twenty nine and thirty. So who would like to read that nice and loud for everybody to hear? Yes, please. Are not two sparrows tools for a parking and one of them shall not fall on the ground without your problem Yeah, and then read number thirty, please. But the very hairs here Woo! Man. Hey, okay, so that's our first one dealing with the the um kind of sovereignty that our God has. And even the decree, which has to do with prior to you even having hair or there being hair created So what are some comments that we have on this verse? What do you think are some some important observations to make? God knows all. Okay, God does know all. Yeah, i there's a real question as to whether there's anything um insignificant to him in the way. that you're using that word. It's not too hard for him to know everything. For us, if we tried that, it would feel it would be exhausting and we'd stop. Some of you are better at trying to know everything than others. But anything else? What's that? What are we trying to stop? Some of us are trying to stop. That's good. That's progress. You should recognize you're a human and you can't know everything. Oh, knowing anything. Yeah. Too late. Any other observations? There's a lot to make up here. We're trying to learn about our God. Yes, Mike. Okay. That's good. Yeah, that's definitely meant to be communicated here. If you miss that point, you really miss the whole point. Okay. Yeah, what do you think it means when he says that it is numbered? Okay, that's definitely an implication one implication is that he is a god of order, that things are done in accordance with a purpose or uh an order. Oh but but the the internally three in chapter three of the catch. says uh that uh their number is so certain and defined that it cannot either be increased or diminished. So be careful we're talking about that scarably your head changing Well I'm just thinking he knows we we he knows the flux of everything. Things are always moving. There's there it's always a moving target. And we have a law to think of how we do that. Okay. Make sure we speak up so everybody can hear. We have people in the back. They're numbers. This is the first pair, this is the second pair. And along with what Maryland says, so and so there is a finite number of pairs that we have. Um, it's a pretty large number over the span of our lifetime. Um pretty sure that for all of us their number one is gone. Um you know so we're some but but but it's none of that escapes the Lord. He's got their all all numbered. On all of the hairs that are on our head right now, if we live for another, I don't know how many years, you know, how long can it take us, all of those hairs will be gone and there'll be more hairs, which the Lord has already numbered And it's just you got it. Okay. So what would so let me ask another question, just uh for the sake of the practice of handling God's word rightly. What's the main heart here in this passage? What is Jesus Christ's heart in this passage? Is he just trying to show you that God's great with numbers or or what? Yes, ma'am. Because it's not good number. You can be good at organizational, but he's literally tracking. He cares enough. But the own numbers are trapped. He knows So I think that also shows the part. Yeah. How many hairs on you had where we don't Mark? Yeah. I didn't want to ask why. Yeah, right. Okay, so how many of us agree that we should be taking this down a personal path. Jeff, you agree? You looked you cautiously agreed. Yeah? Okay, there. That's more bold. Very good. It's like um depending on who the elder is up here who's deleting the doxology, it's like d different hand positions. You notice? I think Chase is like this. Brad's like Um yeah, okay. What are the some other observations um based now that we know the heart? Yeah. Yeah, so so whatever this is about who God is it should lead to us not fearing and being overwhelmed with his uh how he accounts for us to use your language. Yeah, that's very that's very sweet. Now I want to introduce a d a distinction here that we've already that I've already mentioned to you before that we can begin to see that is helpful. So let me just ask you to see if anybody remembers. I'm going to call this um a level 10 question. This is a zero out of ten and a ten question is going to be one of the hard What what does it mean when we talk about the sufficiency of God versus the efficiency of God It's a level ten. I know. You should feel it. Yeah. Hey, me too, brother. Me too. You heard that saying that uh the ground is Yeah, we're all right there. Technical. Yeah, just like in your own words. Sure. Um we're all English here. What indicate um the capacity to handle that The sufficiency indicates capacity to handle everything? How does that work out? How does he actually apply that in the world? actually apply that. Yeah, that's a that's great. Did everybody hear that? That's what we're talking about. Go ahead, Ashley. Um I think when I hear like God being sufficient for shipping efficient. I think it's it's enough. Uh-huh. Um and where where scripture says this grace is sufficient. Yeah. It's it's enough. Right. We don't need more than that, we don't need less than that. or not. It is exactly an all that we need. Okay. All of that. Very good. And then what do you have any remarks on the efficient word? If not, yeah. Well yeah I think Marilyn summarized it well. We have the capacity to do something and then there's the actual doing of it. Okay. And that's so typing on natural if the position is or not, then the defensive is not the way to do it. Yeah. Well yeah, maybe okay, sure Maybe so. I have to think about that a little bit. Yeah. Yeah, maybe nothing was a little bit something. Maybe so. I have to think about that. That's like a further implication. Yes. Well I I think that's very good. someone who excels at it, I see the difference in that I can do something a couple different ways first couple of states and how I do something before recognizing okay this is the best way to do it that's not wasteful, it's expedient, it's Yeah, those are further implications. It's really important to keep talking that way. Um, because it means that service he has he he he has plans. Yes. And he has foreorg the best way to do anything and carry out anything um and nothing is outside of his like Yeah, you know, he's got it covered. Right. And that's the purpose of me asking the question and the purpose of the church being given the distinction between sufficient and efficient. The efficient, you could think of the shorter word, which is the effect. Okay, so when we see what God is doing, can we work backwards and then answer the question, well then What kind of person must he be? Or persons must he be? And you started to describe it. Well, he's trustworthy. He actually has a huge heart for us. He doesn't just Do things like an aloof engineer, though he's the best engineer. He does things out of love. There's all of these different things that we could say. He plans, he knows all things. There's nothing that is going to surprise him where now he's not sure if he can make the plan work or not Someone was saying to me the other day as I was talking with them about history that when they read Sun Tzu, is everyone familiar with the author Sun Tzu? The Art of War. He wrote a book and it's called The Art of War. And this person who uh has spent some time in Sun Tzu said the art of war may be summarized like this. You plan the entire war out to make sure that you can have the victory and then once you've done that you send people And that's a kind of prudence and planning that we seem to be talking about here. And uh so at any rate, there's there's that verse, and thank you so much, Bill, for Bringing up thirty that therefore we're not to fear. Now we're going to have a If we were to think of God in error, that is when fear will start to arise. So for example, raise your hand if you've ever faced a circumstance in your life that is really, really complicated. Right. Now if you look at your circumstance and it's so it's overwhelming you, and then you reason in your mind um somehow or some way that not even God is capable of solving this, or that he doesn't have the heart to care enough about me to solve it. That's why we have to be really careful about uh those little voices Okay, so those were extra applications that we just had on that one, yes. Right. The bear sparrow does fall to the ground. That was enough to and you know, we're a more value than service, but sometimes we probably uh income for us. Yeah. That's what for us is It's it's one our children call that because we probably want to do that. Yes. Right, very good. Yeah. It would be silly. I don't even know how we could ever make the assertion. That we shouldn't fear because there's nothing out there that's fearful. Well people well it's a it's a it's a temptation when bad things happen or things that are not according to our will happen. Just saying, well just I said God doesn't care about did this would happen or this would clear up Yeah. So here you see a mix too in this verse Where God not only has planned but has uh He's uh superintending everything that takes place. So uh why don't we look at the next one, which is first Kings twenty two one through forty. And who would like to read all of those verses? Uh I said first Kings chapter twenty two verses one through forty. Sure, I don't see any objections in the room. If you could just read nice and loud, please. without war between Syria and Israel. Then there came time in the third year that Jehovah passed between the people went down the business between Israel. King of Israel said to his servants, you know if the Raymouth and Gilead about we have to take it out of the hand of the king of Syria. So that's the Hashtag And Jehoshaphat says to the king of Israel, I am a sheer, my people is your people, my horses are your people And Hashtag said to the king of Israel, please, inquired for the word of the Lord today. Then the king of Israel gathered the prophecy of the gospel. He said to them, Shall I go up against Rencale to fight? Or shall I retrain? So they said, go up. The Lord will deliver it into the hand of Cain And that's that's it. They're not still across the board here, but we may inquire. So maybe this would say There is still one man, Makaiah Sun Zimma, I know in that choir of the word. I hate him. And the Office said, not the case like this. Then the came to Israel called an officer and said, Bring fire because I'm doing quick. and top that we can do that. Having put on the ropes, packed each on his front, at a threshold floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria. All the prophets prophesied before it. Now Zedekiah, the son of Shanah, had made horns of iron for himself. And he said, Thus says the Lord, with thee. You shall ignore the Syrians until they are destroyed. And all the prophets prophesied so saying, Go out to Ramath Iliad and prophesy, for the Lord will deliver Then the messenger who went on on the pipe strokes again saying, Now look The words of the prophets, of one according cursed king. Please let your word be like the word of one event, exceeding curses. And the heart Micaiah says, as the Lord lives, whatever the Lord says to me, that I will see. Then he came to the king, and the king said to him, Micaiah, shall we go to war against Rim until he had our children refrain. And he answered him, Go and prosper, for the Lord will deliver it into the hand of the king. So the king said How many times shall I make you swear by telling number of the truth in the name of the Lord? Then I tried to say, I saw All Israel scattered on the mountains the sheep that have no shepherds. And the Lord said, Can you have no nests? Maybe there's a real fair, so half fair. But I'm not telling you he was not cross like that concerned. Then I Therefore, hear the word of the Lord. I saw the Lord sitting on his throne. All the hosts of heaven standing by on his right hand And the Lord said, Who will persuade Abraham to go up that he may fall at Ray McCain? So one Then a spirit came forward and stood before the Lord and said, I am persuaded. The Lord said, In what way? So he says, I would go out and be a lion's spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And God says, you shall persuade And to fail. Well, and do now look. The Lord has put a line spirit in among all these practices. And the Lord has declared exactly. Then the child, the son of Sana, went here and struck the child on the cheek and said, where did the spirit of the word go? And that day we go into it in the tree. Then we can revisit up there. And return them to MR, the governor of the city. Joe Ash can say. That says the king, put this follower, pay him with credit with So I returned then retires and high school. If you ever return the Lord has not spoken by me So the King of Israel and the concept came to Lumina. And the King Visra said You can ask that. I'll disguise myself and go to that one. You've got one. So the king of literal disguised herself and then battle. King of Syria had commanded his Parisian captain of the cherry, saying, I would never smell the grace, but only of the king of the blood When the captains of the chariots saw Jehovah, they said, surely there is the king of Israel. Therefore, they turned inside the fight against him. And the hot sacrifice. And it happened. And the captain of the chariots saw that it was not being miserable. And they turned back and pursuing Now a certain man drew a book at random and struck an inner vision between the joints of the tongue. So he said to the driver's Area Turn around and take me out of the battle, I know. The battle increased him. The king was wrapped up in his chair, gave him serious, and died. The blood ran out from the wound once and four characters. And then we're going down to the shower throughout the army thing. Everything was sitting there So they came back and looked up to scenario. They very came in scenario. Then someone washed the chair at a pool scenario and the dogs look up his blood while another phase according to the order before we should sort of know the rest of the action they have and all he did The Iron Hashtag builds and all the city builds, are they not written in the open chronicles? So egg progressive All right, thank you so much. Alright, what are some observations we want to make in terms of our planning God and Him foreordaining particular things? And it really being done, the the battle being won specifically as soon as the decree is pronounced in a sentence. Any observations from the story? Oh, Ashley, I'm sorry. Go for it. Um I'm also basing this on what I' Sure. Can you speak up a little bit? Oh okay. Thanks. And basically that's also on what I already already know about AHAB and the evil act you didn't mean it persecuted the Jews. Um and I just see this as an example of God's judgment on him. Um Um and that she forward names of this was how um Ahab would be judged serving then. Um and then he would not essentially be allowed to to know the truth and and lest he be able to determine from it This is really hard, I think, to follow, right? Um like like like how bad it's like it's describing the new test not like he gives them over. to their refer based kind, give them over to their sins as a form of his judgment. Right. Not even allow them to turn. And then so he did this with ACAB Okay. That's definitely some good observations about it. Thank you so much, Natalie. So even even in knowing after A decided to try to make his own plan to see that it didn't happen. And That didn't work. A random person shot an arrow eventually happened to hit him fifteen armors and he died Uh-huh. So no matter we cannot run from the determination plan. Okay. Okay, anything else? Yes, Mr. Shinjak. Um Bob. Congratulations on making it through your first week of school, the two of you. So God can't sin, so he cannot cause the prophets to lie to Ahab. But a spirit can come to him and say I will go into those prophets and cause them to not tell the truth. And God can then ordain that. Say, yes, do as you will. I will allow that. So God can use secondary causes to sin for the badness of somebody else for his hands because he knows it's going to happen, but he is not the root cause of the lie that we have. Okay, I appreciate the observation and I appreciate you trying to articulate how those relationships should be talked about. We should probably talk about that some more. Just to see. And we will in some passages that are coming up, but we do have to deal with and try to explain relative to everything that is revealed about God, the occasion that we see here with the lying spirit being sent into these Yes, Mike. So so just kind of to back back up what Bible's saying that God allows you. But I appreciate the distinction that you're trying to that you're seeking to make. That he permits it. But he doesn't All right, let's move on away from this uh t topic right now and and let's make some other observations. I appreciate you all wanting to work on that What I would say is that in order to keep things from getting all tangled up, is to put it in the form of a question and then know that these kinds of things take a long time. So when we see something like this in a passage, let's just, for the sake of argument, say that this is a good way to put it. Does God cause people to sin? Let's just hold on. Hold on. Let's just raise the question. Is it okay to raise the question? Just raise the question and then take your time in answering it. Okay? But it but it begs the question in the passage. And then you're going to look, and there's going to you're going to see in the scriptures themselves that authors of the scripture, under the inspiration of the Spirit are going to address the question for you, like 1 John and in James. James addresses the question. And so then we can start to have some confidence in the answer. But let's not just jump to step seven. Let's start with step one and raise the question. You can even raise this question. Does God in any way cause people to sin? Now what you would probably do is look through the history of the church to see if there are sin. species or kinds of causes and is there a kind of cause wherein God does do this, but he's not making people sin and nor is he responsible For evil. And that's going to be a part of this conversation. And you all are already intuitively trying to do it. Mike, you wanted to make a distinction between God's permissive will He permitted it, but he didn't make them. You're already, there's something about it that you're already starting to split it up to make sure God isn't doing evil things. Yeah, right. So I don't want to talk about this anymore. But I'm just letting you know. I'm just letting you know that when you enter I'm trying to show you that when you enter into something like that how to do it. Start with the question and then you're going to have to have patience, which means you're going to have to calm your heart down, take a deep breath, and take some time to answer the question. Yes, Ashley. Oh, I love this preface. think about how to describe what God did with the spirit. And the same thing with the the account of Job. Um I find comfort even though I struggle with I struggle to struggle with But I I recognize though that it does not it still does not happen outside of his people. Uh is still sovereign even over Satan. Like like he has allowed him to really clear example, is it not, where he permits Satan to uh afflict job but not in his flesh which I actually think refers to not messing with his wife. Right. So it's like even we can look at that and say if there's evil or suffering going on in our own lives, we comfort in that we can outside of God. and he is not unaware of it and it is still within his power to allow it to go as far as Does that make sense? Yeah, I I'm hearing you say that you appreciate that everything is under God's power, even evil powers. That uh Satan is God the devil. God was Satan is God itself. Oh no. Um Uh Elizabeth, you've been so patient. I do not want to keep talking about this particular topic. Okay, great. I want to make observations from the passage. from Samuel when God talked to Samuel about kings not being a rejection of Samuel, but it didn't help. And then you see the pattern of from Jeroboam down in Israel and the evil kings. Um it seems like he's being very consistent with his way of healing when the kings of the northern Egypt and uh that it was more gained that they were Okay, yeah, that's true. Okay, very good. Uh thanks for bringing in that larger perspective. Uh here's a quick question and I try to help us along. Did anyone notice the counsel of God? So that language seems abstract to us in the actual article of the confession where it says in number 7 according to the counsel of his will. But here you have a picture of an actual counsel. Can anybody point that out to us? Where do we see the counsel of God? Anywhere else or where in this passage where in this passage. What prophets trying to tell Micaiah how to do it? I was Yeah, I was saying I was saying then Micaiah said, Therefore hear the word of the Lord and then he says, I saw the Lord sitting. on his throne and all the host of heaven standing by on his right hand and on his left. This speaks to me as the cord b the the Lord being surrounded by his heavenly counsel. of those who make decisions and then there's the execution of the decision. And I think one of the points we're supposed to get from here is that once it's been decided, there's no stopping it. So if you hear a pronouncement or a proclamation of the Lord, then it's going to be done. Go back to the sufficiency, efficiency, discuss distinction is God, if he says that he's going to accomplish something, is he capable of doing it? And then what goes into all of those capabilities? Well, we've learned that he has all those things. And now there's no stopping it. And he he actually accomplishes things in the in a pretty creative and uncanny way, uh slipping through s the scenes of armor or um Abimelech uh hanging himself in the tree, um riding along on his horse and then getting caught in Absalom. I'm sorry, Absalom. And think of all of the other ways in which God plans these things out and then accomplishes his work. Well that's the one of the purposes I wanted you to see here. Would you clarify which which uh will that you were making the part about birds eating them and dogs um lifting up their blood, that that's possible or some other thing. That seems to be a part of the decree. Yeah. What do you think? I think that that's why we see the detail of the dogs licking up the blood so that you can immediately go back and see what God decreed has come has Come full circle. That's exactly what we see. Can you think of another example with dogs? Where we see the decree being fulfilled. Because all the dogs ate the rest of her body. Now it's interesting, why the palms? That's pretty wild question. Yeah Uh but that's the whole point is for you to see that what was stated in heaven shall stand and go all the way through. Which is why it was so significant for example for the first century church and for us to see what was going on in heaven in the book of Revelation with John on Patmos. To see, yes, there is a beast, and he is afflicting the church and has chased the child into the desert and all of these things, but they needed to see this story arc and where the decree was going. going to end. And that is supposed to be refreshing to the church of every age, because in every age there are antichrists, etc. Um I don't know who was first. We'll go with Ashley and then Marilyn. And then I want to move on to the next scripture example. Y'all are long winded. Sorry. I I asked this kind of question right. But I just I think when I read this and it talked about the spirit that came forward, I assumed that it was a But were this word demonic or like we're demons heart supposed to heaven? Do you think we should understanding technically speaking the word host will re would refer to to all um angels so an angel I have to look at this more closely to see if this is a it it says a l it says it could potentially be an angel here because the word spirit is used. And spirit, we know, has the the idea of like uh they're ministering spirits says in Hebrews. I'm not sure. I'd have to look at it I'd have to look at it more closely and then also see what John Milton ends up saying. Okay, and then Marilyn. And then I want to move on to the next verse before we end today. Well I just I just want to say, you know the thing about the lying spirit always hangs us up. But when I says whatever the Lord tells me, that's what I gotta say God sent him to give that first sarcastic comment. Oh yeah, go ahead, you'll be fine. Um but what God wanted him to say, he told I had the whole picture. He told them the whole truth. Ahab wasn't a victim of that lie. Micaiah says if you listen to these guys you're listening to a lie. They're gonna lie to Ahab. And see he told him, he gave, I mean, in this particular situation, which may not speak to the deeper situation to the question that you asked In this situation, the whole situation was under God's control. There was not deception going, I mean, Ahab freely chose which of these two Prophets to believe. And and uh Matthias said it over and over again. I mean, he has several iterations, you know, if you ever come back alive, God didn't speak through me Um so it's not like um and it's and then another uh slant on this is it could be lawful deception since it's warfare. Right. Yeah Yeah. And then I mean I don't know, it's just such an ironic situation. You put your royal roast on and I'll like go like a dozen. They'll never know. Right. So well at any rate, uh aga once again you get a picture of who your God is and when he makes decisions. according to the counsel of his will, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, we know that once he decrees something, that that decree is going to come about. You could start thinking about well when is it that God decrees certain things and you can look at the scriptures and see that the description is eternity past. Here you get a snapshot in in um the prophet having access to the throne room where decisions are made. It's like entering into the parliament, so to speak. Since I've been watching the The Queen and the you know, a lot lately. Yeah, yeah. So Okay. What a class act. Okay. So next one, uh Proverbs 1633. This will be, this Proverbs of course rely on the historical narratives But this will be a nice pithy way to put it. I'm sorry? Okay, yeah, please read nice and loud. is cast into the lap, but it's every decision is from the Lord. Yeah, so that's interesting in multiple respects, the idea of using lots. Uh but here's every decision is from the Lord. Uh and then let's look at another one just to keep getting a good sense. I thought we had a decent conversation. Isaiah 45, 6 and 7. We're definitely going to see, you're always going to see God in his decrees and foreordination and Because that's the whole point, is the prophet is allowed into the heavenly chambers. And what is in happening in heaven, we pray, would come about on earth. That's the whole point of the Lord's Prayer. So Isaiah 45, verses 6 and 7, if someone wants to read that. Okay, nice and loud. That they may know from the rising of the sun to its setting that there is none beside me. I am the Lord Lord, and there is no other. I form the light and create darkness. I make peace and create calamity. I the Lord So this is a poetic device called uh Merism and the light to darkness and the peace to calamity are meant to show that he controls controls all things from one end to the next. Next. He's the alpha and the omega. He's the whole alphabet. In our culture, we'd say he's the whole enchilada, but that doesn't seem dignified enough for God. Okay, and then Acts chapter two, verse twenty three. I'll read that one. Him oh I'm sorry. Brian, go ahead. You get the honor. Yeah, please. This is a great one. This Jesus delivered delivered up Yeah, there you go. So Mary it's a really good one, right? Okay. And um so you can see that even um the even the crucifixion of our Lord was a part of the plan. Something planned out by the Father. It wasn't ever outside of his control. And I think that Jesus ends up being a good example of what it it means to live under God's decrees. Even when he was sweating blood. And then Acts four, verse twenty-seven. Demonstrating again who our God is as a planner and an executor. For truly against your servant, your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together. Hold on one second. 427 and 28. Yep, there we go. To do whatever your hand and your purpose determined before to be done. And notice that this is an exposition right here, actually, of a prayer of the early church and the prayer they actually prayed Psalm 2. So they're saying uh if you had to we we've already seen statements where we know that God plans things from eternity past. Um and here is a great example of the kind of uh planning that happens early on, right? Because h here they're saying the fulfill the real fulfillment of Psalm two is coming to be in Christ, which, you know, how long ago was that written? So these plans go way back, and if we keep looking, they go all the way back, even before the creation. And then what we're supposed to see in all of the scriptures are vestiges of the completion of the plan, which is why when Christ teaches you how to read the scriptures, you can look back even in Genesis and see him in the plan of redemption from the beginning. Right? Everything points to him because the decree is all about him and his work. Yeah. Okay. And then we have Job 42, 11. Who would like to read that? Uh Ashley, go ahead. Yes please. Then all his brothers, all his sisters, and And although he had been considering part, he came to him and ate food with him in his house, and he consoled him and comforted him for all the adversities that the Lord had brought I don't know why I put that one in there. Oh, okay, yes. Thank you so much. Yep. Yeah. Okay, so there's another look. I don't like that one as much as uh I like it because it's scripture, but the other ones were more clear. But if you were to think of the if you use that as a summary of the entire uh book of Job, you can see that it was God and his decrees, and then the unfolding of his decrees now we're seeing. being the result of it. Yeah. Okay, well that's great. So uh quite so take a look at the lecture notes this morning. What we would do if we were going to stay on the decree I'm going to say, please just read through this so that we can move to question eight because I want to, I'm so excited about God not only being sufficient to do what he has planned, but I want to see the plan unfold. So let's go ahead and move to question number eight next week, please. And we're going to categori we're we're yeah, I was just counseling among myself. We're going to see there's two different kinds of decree and the or execution of decree. Let me read to you question number eight. How does God execute his decree? See that language there? God executes his decree in works of creation and then providence. Creation takes six days. Right? And then rest on the seventh, and then we have providence and all the rest. So go ahead and read on your own that we want to take warning that if you are going to answer the question about does God Uh do evil things. How do we how do we talk about him sending lying spirits and that kind of stuff? You want to take into consideration what the apostles have communicated in 1 John chapter 1, verse 5, and James chapter 1, verse 13. And then do men under the sovereignty of God, and by men I mean humans, and we could say irrational beings because there's two kinds of rational being, angels and then humans, do they still have responsibility? Are you responsible for your acts? And the answer is yes. And I would encourage you to look at Acts chapter 2. 22 through 20 or 38. And then look at number 8 on the lecture, and you can look at, well, what are some of the benefits of knowing this about God? Well, one, it displays his glory. Two, it comforts us when we're in tough situations. Three, it strengthens and builds our confidence. And four, it promotes godliness among us. So I'd encourage you to read through those as an extension of this class. Alrighty. So we're on to number eight, and let's close in prayer. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit have foreordained whatsoever comes to pass. We thank you that You have given us glimpses into your heavenly council room wherein you make decrees. And we thank you. for your decrees especially in the sending of your son, that he would take upon himself human nature, that he would uh live righteously to be a perfect offering for our sons. sin, that he would remove our guilt and punishment, since he is a substitute, and Lord, that he would put our sin to death, nailing it to the cross. We thank you, Lord, that his death is the death of our old man. We thank you, Lord, that his resurrection is our newness of life. We thank you that his ascension is the His reign over all of heaven and earth as has been promised. And we look forward, Lord, to your providential care over us. In the meantime, before you return and put all things, all enemies under your foot, and you hand all things to the glory of the Father. Lord, we pray that we would take great comfort in that you plan these things out and that what you have pronounced shall come to be. Lord, we even have in every prayer, we end with Amen, which means so be it, and it relies upon the sovereignty of your will, your sufficiency to accomplish the task through Christ and His Spirit. Lord, make us people of hope, therefore, make us people of love, and make us people of love Full of faith in the name of Christ Amen