Good to see you all. Um Let's go ahead and we'll we'll start our time with a word of prayer. Lord God, we thank you for this season that we're entering into. We thank you for this Lord's Day and where we're able to focus specifically on your incarnation. We thank you for that great work that you have done and that you are in your ascension. Showing that your work truly has been fulfilled. We look forward to the fullness of all time in your return to where your creation, especially your church, is brought to complete glory. We ask Lord that you'd use our lesson today to continue steadfastly on the pilgrimage that you've given to us, that we would remain on the path. And uh all the way on to glory. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Okay. So this morning we're going to read uh through these lessons. I think I'll try to do the reading today. Uh I thought of it the other day as when folks go to watch the Sunday school, which I'm not too concerned about, they can't hear other people reading it. So just as a c I don't know, trying to be considerate. So we'll see how long that lasts Because I do like other people reading. More participation. But this morning we're looking at shorter catechism questions 13 through 19 because of the uh intimate relationship that they have with each other. We could spend a lot of time on each one, but but I want to look at more of the connections and get get the get the overall um gist and structure and order and teaching of of what's going on here. And I think by looking at these sets of questions together we can do that. So I'm going to go ahead and read through them so that you can have these things familiar in your mind. Then I'm going to read paragraph by paragraph. After I read the paragraph, give you the opportunity to speak. We'll have a little discussion and then we'll move to the next paragraph. Okay, so question number 13. Did our first parents continue in the estate wherein they were created? Our first parents, being left to the freedom of their own will, fell from the estate wherein they were created by sinning against God. Okay, so then question number fourteen, what is sin? Sin is any want of conformity onto, or unto, or transgression of the law of God. What was the sin whereby our first parents fell from the estate wherein they were created? The sin whereby our first parents fell from the estate wherein they were created was their eating the forbidden fruit. Did all mankind fall in Adam's first transgression? Yes. The covenant being made with Adam, not only for himself, but for his posterity. All my mankind descending from him by ordinary generation sinned in him and fell with him in his first transgression. Question 17. Into what estate did the fall bring mankind? The fall brought mankind into an state of sin and misery. Wherein consists the sinfulness of that estate wherein to man fell? The sinfulness of that estate whereinto man fell consists in the guilt of Adam's first sin. the want of original righteousness, and the corruption of his whole nature, which is commonly called original sin, together with all actual transgressions which proceed from it What is the misery of that estate wherein to man fell? All mankind by their fall lost communion with God, are under his wrath and curse, and so made liable to all the miseries in this life, to death itself. and to the pains of hell forever. So I hope that you're already starting to see some of the connections between those questions and answers. Let's go ahead through the paragraphs now, and then if you have questions about those questions in general, we can talk about that at the end if we have time. Ha ha ha. Ah. Never happens. Never time. Okay, so let's start with a re What's that? Yes, because today is the Advent Day of Hope. I think they uh it's the uh it's this candle. It's that one. They put the they take little names on 'em because of my color blindness. When I first started as an I started lighting the wrong ones. So free of a lot of things. Well, yeah, I think it used to be different. Yeah. They helped me out. Just label everything. Okay. So let's start with the review. The catechism follows a na a traditional division of theology into faith and love. Faith concerns who God is, what he decrees, and how he executes those decrees in the works of creation and providence. Last week, I assume, since I was not here, you considered the special providence of God exercised toward mankind in what we call the covenant of life. That covenant has several names. In the catechism they call it the covenant of life. In our culture, we tend to use the creation account to debate evolution. That's fine. But over the weeks, I hope you have seen how many other uses God intends for his creation account Seeing God's dealings with Adam and Eve in the covenant of life is yet another example. The account shows Adam as a public person entering into a kind of relationship with God, which we call a covenant. As with any other covenant, it comes along with blessings, curses, promises, and sacraments. So therein ends the reading of that paragraph Do we have any comments or discussion on that review? I wasn't here, so happy to field any questions though on last week's lessons. Was that a decent summary? What we see here on this paper? And would you be able to understand those parts, how that how that works? All right, so let's give this a shot. What do we mean by the important statement that Adam is a public person? Okay, we talked about him being a public hedge uh a public person under the idea of him being a federal head. Very good. Yeah, there's more specific way to talk about the same thing. Anybody want to build on that or or bring up another point about Adam being a public person and the importance of recognizing that? If he's a private person, there's not much talking about him. No use talking about him, honestly. between private and public um that what we do publicly has greater consequence than perhaps Okay, that's definitely true. But that's true in several ways. What is the the way in which we're focused here with Adam? Well, I would assume we're talking about in it's fall that it had burned a reach and comprehensive because he was a public figure, but it didn't just affect him. I don't know how. I'm just forget. I mean like I don't know how in terms of like him being Uh-huh. Now Maryland also used the term federal head. Sure. uh uh Adam is means man. Right? So that's an idea where you're starting to see him move just in the way that he's named. You're starting to see him move from Just a proper noun to a public head. There's something going on with him. There's a special kind of relationship that the human race has to him. And anyone who came out after him was from him. That is how he represents us all. He's the father Okay, so there is a biological descendancy from Adam, uh but that's not the only I don I don't know that we could say that he he is properly a representative in that sense. I agree. That is by way of ordinary generation. But what happened what what is going on with Adam to where uh his choices by ordinary generation affect all human beings. There's something more than biol biological here. Yeah. getting at. It's the idea of he enters into a covenant with God not just for himself individually as a private person, but publicly for the whole human race. That's very serious stuff. And that ends up being really important because a little bit later in the teaching of the scriptures, we're going to see there's another public person who's called the new Adam. Who will end up being a federal head. Well, the federal head. So what do you think, Cheryl? Great. Okay. Would you say it's good news? Okay. Um okay well then what about the last sentence there? When we are dealing with covenants, the covenants come along with blessings, curses, promises, and sacraments. What do you think about that? Any thoughts? Yes. Um so a covenant uh would the it's um it's it's it's bigger than the contract. Bigger than just the contract. It is the type of a contract, but it's bigger than my thoughts. Um but the so a covenant I mean a contract doesn't you know, I if I make a I make a contract with you to do something that I have you can do that. That is it doesn't come with blessings and curses, um, but it does come with with promises. Uhhuh. But it certainly doesn't come with sacraments. It's just kind of it's ordinary. Yeah. Um so a covenant's like a a step above that. I don't know I don't know if the spatial metaphor of a step above it is the right way to relate it or not. But it's right to make a dis uh to distinguish between the two Two. That's a pretty traditional thing to have happen, just to distinguish between those two. Yeah And once we get a chance to look at more scripture we can start to accumulate uh look at covenants and I think we'll have more data to go off of. For now, what are some of the things you see within the creation account in terms of blessing? curses, promises, and sacraments. Do you see anything in the creation account? Any accoutrements surrounding this covenant with Adam? Okay. And if he disobeys the covenant uh the curse of death. Yes. And that curse is going to and both I both we I think we would Well all of all of his progeny, right? So that's the covenant. Then then those blessings would have descended onto all of his progeny just like Christie did it. Sacrament? Is there a sacrament present in the creation account? Well that you know that's a that's a a debatable point. Uh even Among the reform, but let's see if you could pick out something that looks like it. What's that? Yeah, you can do blessing. Go ahead. No, I wouldn't uh my takeaway from that is that you could be um obligation to be in Yeah. Yeah, blessing. And then he would remain in that state of blessing, right? Unless he ate from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and then that state would be gone. Yeah. Okay, very good. So let's go ahead and move on then. No, we'll we'll do it later. Yeah. Yeah. You can think about the tree of of life, for example. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, so here we have something, Gary? Okay, what? What did you choose? Well, the the tree of the tree of life and the tree of knowledge is good and evil are Yeah. Yeah, right. Yeah, they are. Very good. Okay. So here we go to the next paragraph, and then I'm just looking for you like we were i i in a grad class where you would just comment on on these things or have questions and keep the conversation going as adults. Okay, so I want to start by noticing question number 13. The title of this section, by the way, is Estates Generally Considered I think it's helpful if you want to understand not only the catechism, but the way in which the Christ communicates to us on how to think about our lives over the whole period of time. of all lives, we want to start thinking in terms of the word a state or the or a state. And I'm hoping to show you the fourfold state So we'll start by noticing in question thirteen that question thirteen says that the human race did not continue in the estate in which they were created. The word estate is important. Estate refers to someone's standing, condition, status, or place in life. We studied the original state of mankind in question ten, actually. This concept has already been introduced to us Sometimes that state is known as the state of integrity, the probationary state, the state of innocence. I think there's some other ones. But question ten talks about an original state. Mankind existed as man, male and female, after God's own image, and the estate is especially brought out in this three these threefold qualities that we pick up from Ephesians and Colossians and read them back into the state of integrity, which is knowledge, righteousness, and holiness with dominion over the creature. That also is summarized as the image of God. Sometimes it's summarized as original righteousness. Those are terms that are used to talk about all those things. According to question 13, however, the human race did not continue in that state. As question 15 says, our first parents fell from the estate wherein they were created. Did only Adam and Eve fall from that state? No. Question 15 says, All mankind descending from him by ordinary generation sinned in him and fell with him in his first transgression. Now, to what new state, condition, or status did humanity now inhabit? And that's question 17. The fall brought mankind into an estate of sin and misery. And then what you're seeing in questions 18 and 19, which is why we're looking at all these questions together. is they provide us with more information on the estate of sin and misery. So Any comments on that paragraph? Who would like to try to put that into their own words as a kind of press or a summary? That paragraph there. What is what are some takeaways from for you on that paragraph? handouts right out on the table if you want one. Take your time, look over it. Let me know if you have any questions or comments. Of course. Yes. I I haven't mentioned omission or com Although that is one of the questions that we looked at, where what is what is sin? Any want of conformity unto or transgression of the law of God, that's omission and commission it's good that you pick that up but I'm also saying that there's a in a state or a state or condition that's right that human beings are in. Yeah exactly But even a newborn baby is still in a stage of synagogue. Even before they're born. While they're still in their mother's womb. Um yeah. Yeah, that's right. And uh and you may want to look at uh Psalm fifty-one and the kind of language there for that. Yeah. Very good. Yep. Any other thoughts? I feel like I would summarize it in just saying man was created in a state of fellowship with God and in the fall they were then out of fellowship with God. But like in a in a Uh-huh. Yes. For me I I if I just had to summarize that someone wrote that you like We were created in a state of fellowship and then involved fellowship with other people. Do you do you see any evidence in the creation account itself that mankind moved from one estate into another estate. The creation account uh d gives an argument in a non-argumentative form. So let's uh what would you say? And yeah, look at one through three. Yeah. One through three. Elizabeth. Well direct community with God and and having that situation and then having it removed when they are when they're annotated and being separated by being sent out from the last case. Yeah, that's right. Very good. Yeah, they're definitely sent out. Uh and they're yeah Um Ryan and then Jen and then Natalie. Yeah. Jen? Okay. Very good. Natalie? The the the killing of that animal explosion. would be evidence of the change in the state because it's an effect on alteration. The step wasn't a thing. Okay. Uh you said a couple of things there. W why don't we stick with there's some kind of a new state that requires the animal sacrifice. And we would need to determine what the significance of that sacrifice is. You could say, well, were they cold? Or is there more going on here? Yeah. Carol. That says a lot, doesn't it? They hid themselves from God. That's a big deal. And then my all-time favorite is favorite is uh it w it was Who was this woman that you gave me? She made me eat. Even though he was right there with her. You know? Oh. Dave. Um I just well I think it's interesting that these the awareness the psychological gain of awareness is of uh nakedness hiding though happened before the curse and before they were expelled. So it was like this time of change that happened to them Yeah. Yeah, so what so it sounds like if we were to get into some of the specifics besides just um a state change, there's some specific thing Yeah. The tree was the tree of good and evil. So in meaning that that would have that would have literally opened their eyes because that's what they intended to do, and the first thing they saw was their own evil. Maybe. So Brian. God didn't have to pronounce the curse and that's over here for the profound after the first But you know there are promises and curses with a covenant, but they sent them right away. You broke you broke the covenant and their first curses are coming down. Yeah. Okay. Any other thoughts on seeing anything within the account itself that shows a different state? Yes. No, but if they were in like a three unity, it's like if my child does something wrong and I'm going to put it in mind rather than her being in my presence all the time. Yeah. And he was he wasn't done. Yeah, they were hiding. Which is uh has anybody had that experience? Uh who was uh what was that kid's name in the m the cr anybody here seen the Christmas story with Ralphie? Sounds like an old Supposed to be taking it's supposed to take place in the fifties. And um he di and uh Ralphie's little brother's hiding under the sink 'cause his dad's gonna come home angry Yeah, Mike. Um just about Adam, uh the change in him, he was the leader. He was um you know, the head of all and then after the ball you kind of drop down and became um you know basically one of the fall I think um didn't uh didn't have the same authority that he had prior. That's what he said. Have you looked closely at that text where it says that he was there with her? That was his his his position was to go, okay. God told us. No. But he didn't do that I would I would say it should have been way before that. He should have said, Hey, what there's a snake in this realm, it's not supposed to be here. Where's the hatchet? Well I don't know what he was doing, to tell you the truth. And uh rather than being Christlife, which is another thing Yeah, I think that's significant also. Uh Ashley, you've been very patient. Go ahead. But the whole issue of of Adam blaming the woman. Yeah. Right? And and her and she was deceived, right? She was they were they both for responsibility. Uh-huh. There seems to also be a theme, and I'm not criticizing scripture on this, but there also there also then seems to be a theme around I don't know how to paraphrase this other than like where the woman is lame. But the whole like like basically in the New Testament, where it's all that you know like women are are easily deceived and and I can I can see that okay and somebody can get said that I'm just saying I can see that that doesn't affect And I almost wondered if that is the part of the curse on on women, right? Where where that is how Arson can pri not primarily manifest, but significantly manifest in our Potentially being where you're the structure? Yeah, it's like that. Paul, Peter? One of those guys. Yeah, and he points back to creation. I would love to look at that this morning, but we're not going to No, no, it's a yeah. I mean it's a there are a couple different ways to look at that verse, I believe that it is in f First Corinthians. Don't read it. We're we're not gonna go we're not gonna go down that road. We can hold on to that though and get into the details of that kind of stuff. Right now we're just looking at the estates Cool. First Timothy two fourteen for anybody wants to go back to reading. Don't read it. Yeah, go ahead. Um just jump back on something I can't remember to use. Main topic is we're just looking at the states of mankind. As our federal head. And when Eve was deceived, Adam quickly jumped down and said She did it. Yeah. Instead of standing up and taking responsibility for it. Because if you truly understand federal headship, you're responsible for whether you did it or not. A true federal head in his family is responsible for that which his wife does or his children do because he didn't properly teach them equip them and or protect them, so left them into a position where they could be deceived, tricked, or fallen into Which is something they shouldn't do. So I think it's interesting early on in scripture that Adam just gives up. He's he says, okay, well, you know I know you created me as that, but she did it. Well we could speak we could speak more possibilities. race is fallen, um headship is no longer exercised properly. There's a quite a mystery right there at that moment of wow, what is it that is making him choose being in a state of positive righteousness and loving God and neighbor perfectly at that time. It's a pr it's a pretty big mystery. But but what you are witnessing is is um what will be unfold in the scriptures over and over again, which would be the misuse of male headship. We see this especially in the book of Judges, right? I mean it's over and over again in our judges series where you're just seeing the improper use of authority. There's a lot there's a lot going on there. And it's a good thing. But uh there was a whole lot of sin on Adam's part, more than just eating fruit. Yeah, and if you wanted to start cataloging those, it's interesting to me that the creation accounts Especially during this time, is there's the use of Levitical language. So m Moses, writing these things on the plains of Moab, wants to you to look at this through the other sections of the Pentateuch. And not just look at Genesis by itself. And then you want to use Deuteronomy to do that too. Deuteronomy was written by Moses in order to know how to meditate on the rest of the Torah. Yes. Maybe someone's already said it, but I don't know a lot about that thing because then he's starting to run the off. Yeah. His tune changed. Originally his song was this is bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. I love that the first words out of his mouth are a poem. I really love that. And that uh it moved from, you know, a love sonnet to like uh some kind of heavy metal Death ballad. So okay. Very passionate a long time. What's that? Yeah, he did. So alrighty. So um uh you can remind me another time we can look at that narrative of what's going on in the Timothy verse with that teaching. And what we want to do is look throughout the whole scriptural collection to make sure that we have the right one. I think the reason why that interpretation ends up, I think you call it spicy. I think that the the reason why discussion around that verse becomes spicy is because sometimes that verse is used by men who want to justify their Humble and realize that the scriptures are interpreted by way of the other scriptures. So and Okay. No, you don't need to be sorry, you're fine. Go ahead, Dave. Um it's not as well unless it's a break back It seems to get kind of emergency when you start thinking about, you know, did the female have a propensity towards deception? Did the male began to abrogate his responsibility attached to you know we have uh an original sin which was eating of the fruit of the tree but I think we can kind of wander speculatively into areas before that wander, you know, what the advocate was responsibility that brings so elephantly without that And before you know that led to her being the C um I think we need to be cautious The way to tread is to look at the rest of the scriptural collection and to see how what are other what are authorized understandings of the And that's why we have those prophets and um Moses and the apostles. They'll lead us down the right path. Yeah. There they are the authoritative context for all interpretation. So Okay, I do want to go on this next paragraph, although I I'm sure that what you all were gonna say was beautiful. Okay, so here we go. Before we look at those details, let us notice the further use of the word estate in the catechism. You should find that it structures all of God's work with humanity. Notice first that God does not leave mankind in the estate of sin and misery, but determines to move them into an estate of salvation. And this is question 20, which will be there pretty soon. Soon Did God leave all mankind to perish in the estate of sin and misery? Answer. God having out of his mere good pleasure from all eternity, elected some to everlasting life, did enter into a covenant of grace. to deliver them out of the estate of sin and misery, and to bring them into an estate of salvation by a redeemer In other places, they will call this the estate of salvation by the name of estate of grace. We so uh that's the first one I want you to notice. So you have The state of integrity, we have the state of sin and misery, but then we're going to be brought into a state of salvation. And that state of salvation begins with a state of grace. In other places, they will call the estate of notice second that at death believers move into a state of intermediate glory. This is question 37 of the catechism. The souls of believers are at their death made perfect in holiness and do immediately pass into glory. This is a They're talking about an estate here. And other bodies, being still united to Christ, do rest in their their graves till the resurrection. And then finally, notice that the final state of believers is full of glory, is uh is in full glory, and that's question thirty-eight. At the resurrection, believers being raised up in glory shall be openly acknowledged and acquitted in the day of judgment and made perfectly blessed. See that language of perfectly blessed there? We can get that wrong sometimes thinking that as soon as the person dies they've moved into full beatitude. And that's not the case. There's actually four States. So at the resurrection, believers being raised up in glory is when the fullness has come and made perfectly blessed in the full enjoyment of God to all eternity Okay. So any comments, questions, concerns with that paragraph? Yeah, Brian. I didn't read enough of these questions yet, but um Um would you say that they're overlap with the state or are they kind of separate? Yes, there's overlap of some. So uh what would be just with what you've heard, how would you put them together? Do you see some overlapping? Some that don't overlap? Certainly some that don't overlap because we're still liable to paint a death in this world. Uh-huh. Um Not internal data. Okay. Um but I I should I have a record bar. Yeah, but but this isn't your first record So what what so what do you what do you think? You know the different estates. You have the state of integrity, you have the state of sin and misery, you have a state of salvation, which you can divide into grace and glory. So with with integrity, sin and misery, and and the glory being twofold, being there's like an intermediate glory, and then there's Full resurrection body glory. Do you see those as totally separate or is there some overlap with what's going on? Okay. Um but certainly there's overlap in other areas like um all of a sudden Yeah, yeah, very good. There you go. That is in the catechism. Well okay. It talks about what are the benefits we receive when we are in the state of grace and that we have a foretaste of glory, one of which is a joy in the Holy Spirit, peace. of conscience and some other things. Oh hang on. All I'm saying is that we have words that seem like they want you to s see that some of what you're going to get in full is already here are more fully present later. Something like that if we want to talk about overlap that way. Foretaste is a huge word. What's that what's that Elizabeth? Yeah, there you go. Boom. Stopped. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. And there you see that state of glory being drawn upon. Okay, hold hold on one second. Marilyn, you go first. historical points in time would separate the overlapping states that was before the fall and end of the fall. no return to the state of this after the fall. And then at the point of personal death, Jesus talked about about belief during the day of salvation. The day of salvation ends at personal death because there's no going back. Um yeah for Protestants. So it's glory can glory can save back in because we have a whole spirit and that's he's the forte, he's the down payment. Yeah. Um but just like in life Sometimes things are kind of wishy-washy, but then something happens and everything changes and you get back. I mean so that there is there's a little flow, but there are No points of no return? Points of no return. I mean where yes. Like yeah, we leave during the day You know, don't delay. Yeah, right. You know, God is being patient, God is is um not not bringing the curse that you deserve because And you distillate the code, you violate the code. Because he's he's giving you time for some time for his hand for it. Yeah, that's pretty that's great. So as we're trying to think about how these different states relate, we're seeing that one seems to show up in anticipation of what will come later. We have a little for Taste, but we also have to be careful and recognize that there's discrete um places where there's no point of there's a point of no return. That's another way of being accurate about the relationship. Between them? That's very good. Allie? So if we the state of integrity, I think would be there's no overlap, right? I think there's no overlap and state of integrity. No overlap is a big assertion. It's not as it's not a technical theological term like Maryland used wishy-washy. is early last state of salvation because even though we're saved, we are still sinning and there's we are still subject to the sin and misery of this world uh because of the fallenness of the world, the sin of other people, and our own sin. Um, but once in the state of salvation, I think there's overlap for the in both direction of the salvation State of salvation which will continue into eternity. Yes. So that's gonna be overlapping all of the rest of it forward. But the state of uh intermediate glory, that's in the in this life and in after death, so there's overlap there. I'm uh not in the way that I'm using it. Intermediate glory is going to be after death Bodiless existence. Okay. Then I guess it wouldn't be existence. Well, I can't say bodiless, but I can say not your body. Okay. So then That you have right now. Would it be that final glory that is a little bit of ribbon up now? Because we now we've got we still have our body You could say glory in general, as opposed to dividing it into the two species of glory. You could just say glory, and that there's aspects or features of that glory which enter into life now. Because Christ has poured out his spirit on us. Right? So we're already existing in a sense in the realm of the spirit spirit uh um but not in the in the um not fully so so still still with the the I think the the hard line between integrity and similar misery. Yeah. I think that the integrity there kind of jump over all of that. Do we get our integrity back? More. We right, so that's there would be over between the state of integrity and and the state of glory. Yes? There are some similarities. Okay. But it's more So in the state of integrity, Adam had the possibility of sinning and the possibility of dying. In the state of glory, there's no possibility of sinning and no possibility of dying. That's all written out in little Latin phrases that have jingles and stuff. And I and I and I don't know Latin. I know I know pig Latin. Pase non picare, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's all that that's what we're talking about right here. So you got it. You're on it now. Great. Gary. the distinction between the greatest and glory and full enjoyment is perfectly collapsed because I think it's evangelicals we tend to think of well once I die it's all It's all said that Jesus in 6 John 6, 40 said, this is the will of my Father, that everyone beholds the Son and believes in him will have eternal life and I will myself be raised him up on the last day. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. Yeah that's uh that's a part of it. And that that gets lost. So thanks Gary. Yes. You've been patient. Thank you. I don't really understand the state of integrity. And are Adam E the only ones that ever were in that? We already taught who said that we were in sin before we were even born. So we're the only ones that had that, except for the described as like even that under the father. Yeah, yeah, good point. Yeah, that's right. Unless you want to start talking about the angels. Yeah, that the there seems to be an angelic state of integrity and then a fall into them being devils. But no, you're right. Very, very good. That's good. Sure. I wonder um it it feels like experientially that there's an overlap between ten imagery and the state of growth because we still are tempted to sin, we still fall to the temptation to sin, we still experience the misery of sin and like broken fellowships between relationships Yes. However, when I consider like Just real quick, did you mean the state of glory? No. Okay. Um I consider like Legion slides and talking about sewing to the flesh and sewing to the spear, but I just reread it real fast because I was wondering, does does he talk about it in a way that It can be a little bit of both, but I don't think he is because he he um lifts on fruit of the flesh and says those who have So it's like no, it really is one or the other. Like there's an objective thing happening here. And then somewhere maybe in First or second Corinthians, where Paul talks about like you are made a new creature. And that's what I'm saying is there's there's that tension of like the I've I've always felt the tension of like how do I believe that objective truth of like no I am a new creature in Christ and yet when I am called to greater patience than I feel like having, I don't feel so much like a new cre creation. Yeah. So how do you explain that phenomenon Well I mean there's pl you know, think about the the collection of the scriptures. Do you see that phenomenon present in the scriptures themselves? Or do you see once you receive the spirit you're perf you're perfect? Right, right. a man after God's own heart. But obviously we have some significant sin or like Abraham was belief being counted to him as righteousness, but obviously he he Well you quoted Paul, who said that we're new creations. How did he relate the fact of how do you relate him saying we're new creations And our experiences of sinning and misery. Yeah, so that's a particular way to start working out the relationship between those states. So they there is an obvious overlap. not it it's not um like though though it seems like you experience it we have this objective truth in scripture saying really are a new creature in pride. Yes. You really are. Yes, I know. Okay, Brian, you're up. Well, I was I was gonna say I was reading this paragraph a little bit closer, and when we use the word salvation, you're saved now and probably um But there's also a a a bigger sense of it for salvation is as state of glory, right? Yeah. That's right. Yeah. There's things in there that are not just like fate alone. Right. So the they are effectual function that big salvation. So I like some of them. Yeah. And there's those are very distinct things actually. So the glory. Yeah. So maybe they're just you know we're using words here to describe truth. Yeah, that's the traditional division, is that there's communion with Christ in grace and glory. And everything flows with our union and communion with Him and grace and glory. Yes, David. Uh just to jump over what Brian was saying, and to some extent these are constructs that we have to help us but understand the principle of scripture and at some point I think they break down we need to be careful that we don't you know try to define all these the states and whether they overlap how much they overlap But they're good and they help us. But you know, if we get too proficient on trying to proficient and cookie cut of these things into the flow and And that kind of thing, but we're we're kind of misusing them for the the point that we can't. Yeah, we want to use them, not misuse them. Misuse is an abuse. Yes. So what I'd like you to do is at least have these as a lens so that when you're looking at the scriptures, do you see them present behind what they're saying to better help you understand Yes. Uh-huh. I don't think that those are the same thing. But and a state is something that belongs to you. Uh It brings in the notion of possession. And so this is something that Set and misery belong belong to us. That's something that's a property of us and we we can't especially legally get away from it. salvation salvation by a redeemer that's an estate we belong to or that it belongs to us um by the redeemer's work and so When we stand, that's that's uh avoid the book uh what belongs to us. That's true. With the way that he has set up the estate, it does not. Not in the estate of grace. Whereas in the in state of integrity it did get taken from us. are really important and and the state of salvation by the meaning. Right. And even sanctification itself tells us that there isn't um a downside and an upside. And it's not a um unlike justification in adoption, it's not a single app, it's an ongoing work. Yeah, it's a cooperative work over time. That's right. Very good Very good. And that's the and then and that starts to help. Yeah. But the practical side of it is the is an encouragement that that this is not mistake or about I just flip back to the different states. And now I go flip back to the show and state. It doesn't work like that, so there's no overlap with that sense of the work, right? Correct. Yeah, that we're in possession of. Yeah, very good. Thanks, Jeff. That's really helpful. All right, I'm gonna keep going. That was a that was a good transition. Okay. So far we've looked upon what uh the church titles the fourfold state of humanity, and let's uh make use of it Insofar it is it it is present in the scriptures and useful. If you did more research, you would find the estates of the angels and of Christ. The Westminster Confession and Catechisms will teach that angels fell from their original estate, becoming devils, and Christ moves from one estate to another. As it mentions here, Christ as our Redeemer executes the offices of a prophet, of a priest, and of a king, both in his estate of humiliation and exaltation. Can you so far? So so far we moved on what the church calls church idols for the humanity. Yeah. So what is this That's the passe non-picare stuff. And you can look that up. The way the catechism puts it is in those two parts. What we have the state of in of integrity integrity, and then we have union and communion with Christ in grace and glory. I like that way of organizing it. That that makes a lot of sense with the teachings. of the scriptures. Okay, so we'll we'll only spend a couple minutes on this. We can at least get it kickstarted here. So now we move out of estates in general. I wanted you to see through the catechism this discussion of estates and all the way up until the resurrection of the body and the um full enjoyment of God forever. And now I want to look at uh the questions that end up focusing in on the estate of sin and misery. The sinfulness of this estate is summarized in three main parts: guilt, loss of original righteousness, and corruption of the whole nature. Traditionally, the church pictures these three parts as fruits of the first sin. And so let's take a look at guilt over the next couple minutes. Through Adam, humanity is guilty. Now that is also true of our own actual transgressions. But as soon as, because he's a public figure, as soon as he eats of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, we move into in a state where we possess guilt, if you want to put it that way. The scriptures speak about this in different ways, and here are a few. And it might be surprising to you on how it speaks of it in the language that it uses. First way that we s that I'll bring to your attention of guilt is to be under sin. Now Jeff was talking about this in terms of estate and possession And here you're starting to see that. To be under sin. Here's Romans chapter 3, verse 9. What then? Are we better than they? No, not at all. For we have previously charged both Jews and Greeks that they are all under sin. And then secondly, for we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold under sin. These are different ways of talking about it. Second way is to be in sins. And if Christ is not risen, your faith is futile, you are still in your sins. Another one, this one's real straightforward, to become guilty before God. Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. This is also spoken of in the Lord's Prayer as being a debtor to God. And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors So that's the guilt idea. There's a really close association between guilt and the fruit of guilt, which is punishment, when we look at the scriptures. Um I'll read one more from original righteousness. In the creation account itself, you can witness the guilt by the description of Adam and Eve Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves coverings And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. Then the Lord God called to Adam and said to him, Where are you? So he said, I heard your voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself. You can look through that lens at this passage specifically with guilt in mind and explain his actions. Though Adam, through Adam, humanity lost their original righteousness. Original righteousness refers to the state in which God created man in knowledge, righteousness, and holiness. Mankind conformed to God and his law. Their actual chief end was the glory of God. In the estate of sin, mankind no longer has God as their chief good And here's where I want to start to make a distinction, to make sure we're accurate. Sometimes the reformed are misrepresented in this regard. That's the next paragraph. We must be careful. We are not saying that mankind cannot strive for and achieve other goods. We are simply saying that humanity no longer does everything with reference to God and his glory. You can look around the whole world and find mankind achieving things of good use to themselves and their families and their nations. Mankind in an estate of sin, however, does not work for the highest good, which is God's glory, and to enjoy him forever. So there's no need for us to deny the obvious out there. What you will find though that even as man expresses himself civilly, still having retained some of the image of God, his achievements will look grand. And if he's just left to himself, those achievements will destroy. Because they're not directed at the right end. They always become idolaters. That's the point. But don't deny that God, by a kind of common grace, by way of his spirit, allows mankind to still accomplish a great many good and useful things. We're not using the word good in the sense of um uh being able to merit salvation. I'm using it in a different way. It's a cut it's categorized sometimes as civic good That means that it's good and useful for people around people around you. Um makes sense. Yes, ma'am. Does that mean that our worship is even not perfect until Well that's a bit of a trick question. In one sense, yes, and another sense no. Natalie? I am the judge. No. Just kidding. I'm neither. Okay. Uh Being able to worship him in perfection will not happen until glory. But Jesus Christ, by way of his spirit Spirit does good things to us even through us even now. And even though even those good things, if someone were to spend enough time researching them, they'd find some defects. God is greatly pleased with them because they come from His Son. Now I just quoted the catechism to you. And I think that's the right answer. Well I know that. That's that's what I believe. So So that's why it was a little bit of a tricky question, because Christ is already doing good things through us now. And he's Pleased to accept uh and the way we want to phrase that is is that God is pleased to accept our worship to Him through Jesus Christ. And there's a lot going on with what that means. It means that this Christ is Sent his spirit, and the spirit is actually bringing fruit from us now. And God sees that, and he's so pleased, even though it's a little messy. It's like um I remember I think I told this story before. I remember one of my friends' daughters was really excited to help mom around the house. So mom gave her the job of folding laundry. So she'd take the clothes out of the basket and she'd kind of do this. You know? And it was like worse than when it was in the basket. But you you see, when the mom looked on that, she thought it was beautiful. And you could see why, because of the heart that was going on On there. Right? I think that's a similar picture to what's going on with us and our Father in heaven and the work that Christ is doing for us. And over time, by what we call sanctification. we learn how to hold that shirt better and better. Okay. Let's go ahead and close there. We're late. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have given us your word, that we will better understand you and understand our ourselves in relationship to you. We pray, Christ, that you, by your spirit, would lead us in worship, and that through you our worship would be pleasing. In the name of Christ.