Right on it. Uh huh. All right. Do we have others that are out there? Okay, well I'm just gonna go ahead and get started. Okay, so uh good morning. Good to see everyone. Uh let's go ahead and open with a word of prayer, and then I have a few things to mention to you. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have given us yourself, really. That you have revealed yourself, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, one God, and We ask, Lord, that you would help us this morning by way of your spirit to see wonderful things in your scripture. And it really it's the wonderful works that you do and the wonder of you. Pray, Lord, that you give us a deep reverence and attentiveness to your word. Help us to be respectful to each other. Help us, Lord, to not just study for self or for pride or all of those abuses of your word But instead help us to use it as a means to know you and to know what you require of us. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alrighty, so we're going to continue. We're continuing with the shorter catechism. We're looking at the major articles of the Christian faith by way of this shorter catechism. It is much easier for you to follow along if you have the catechism in front of you. If you don't have your own copy, or you don't have your copy on your phone, or you don't like looking on your phone, if you look in the back of the Trinities, Which we have um on the shelves back there. The shorter catechism and the and the Westminster Confession is all on the back of this. And so that's another way to um take a look. Yeah Yeah, it's in and it's in the back of the PIPA study guide, which is super helpful, that guide. Um So those are a couple different ways for you to have the confession or the shorter catechism in front of you. The creeds, in fact, start on 845 in the Trinity. And then you can see it has the Apostles' Creed, the Nicene Creed, the Westminster Confession of Faith, and the Shorter Catechism. And I like that they put all of those creeds in the back of the Trinity because if you look closely, they all are building on each other. Well, let me put it this way. The Westminster Confession of Faith and the Shorter Catechism is building on the earlier creeds. They're not trying to invent anything new. They're just trying to this I haven't gotten a chance to talk much about the history of the Westminster confession and and perhaps we can have a class just on that or a meaning a class or two, not a whole Sunday school quarter. But one of the things they were seeking to do in the formation of this confession and in the catechisms was to continue. Giving the clear articles of faith that the faithful agreed upon throughout the history of the church, but they wanted to do so in such a way that would be uniting. There was a lot of division during their time. So if you study this pretty thoroughly, you'll see that they left a lot of things out that people would not have agreed upon They kept it pretty general so that they could unite nations. For example, Scotland and England and And you'll see that the confessions, the Reformed Movement, which is the, remember, that's the Reformation from the errors that took place within Roman Catholicism. That reformed movement was not just on the island of England, and of course this is an English catechism and document, but that reformed movement happened all across the continent of Europe And if you wanted to, there's a really uh great book out there called The Harmonization of the Reformed Creeds. And what it does is it it divides the page up into different columns, and it'll have, for example, the Heidelberg Catechism Catechism next to the shorter catechism of England and then next to these others. And you can look at how each of the different Reformed churches in England and across the continent, uh how they spoke about those core doctrines of the church. If you study even further, you will find that these confessions and creeds are really the ingathering of the teaching of the church. from the very beginning, which would include the preservation of that apostolic teaching, especially by the early church fathers. So Again, they're not trying to do anything new. They're just trying to perpetuate through the ages what the scriptures say. And we call that the the census fidelium, which is a nice little Latin word for you, and that means the sense of the faithful. It means when we look back in uh throughout all the history of all the saints, what have the saints confessed? And uh that's a great thing to know. And I think it's it's actually uh taking the fifth commandment seriously to honor your mother and your father, our mothers and fathers that came before us. the faithful and what did they believe. Okay. So, but of course, even those faithful would say the only rule for faith and life is the word of God is scripturated. So that's the ultimate judge. Alright, so today, uh are there any questions before we begin? That was just an introduction. I told you where you can find the catechism and I gave you a little bit of uh uh orientation towards the catechism. Any questions for me on the last lesson at all? Or on anything in particular? Okay, I have one more word of advice for you. There are a lot of different kinds of people within the body of Christ. Have you ever noticed that? Uh, you know, and um that's represented here in this room. There are so many different uh people here. So many different callings and vocations. Some of you are teachers of younger children. Some of you are teachers of older children. Some of you have your PhD in theology. Some of you have your master's or your master's of divinity in theology. Some of you have been studying the confession since you were born. Others of you, this whole thing is new. And so we want to be patient with each other. And I would recommend that you try to get out of this class taking away at least one thing. each morning. So show up and don't try I think it could be difficult to try to understand everything that is said with perfect clarity because some of these things take a little while to think about But try to get out at least understanding one thing and maybe even asking questions after a class to make sure you get out of here with one thing. It seems like a reasonable goal. to me. I'm around, I don't consider myself a scholar. I am clearly called by God as a pastor. I am around a lot of scholars, however. And whenever they're talking, I say, guys, look. Or ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what you're talking about But I think it's I think I think it's this. Am I right? And they're like, Yeah, kinda. Keep going. And then I'll k and then I'll and then I'll keep going and I'll eventually walk away with about one thing from a four-hour conversation And that's okay, because I know who I am and they know who they are. And that one thing, I'm just trying to get one little golden nugget to bring back to you all. That's my goal. And uh usually the Lord lets me have that. So perhaps you could have the same goal also. Uh but one thing that's not helpful would would not be helpful for me is in a room full of scholars to be frustrated that they're scholars and that they talk a certain way. They have a place in God's kingdom too. So and and they shouldn't be frustrated with me because I'm not doing the work that they're doing. I'm doing something different. So if we could think of each other that way, I think it would be helpful. Alrighty. All of that being said, I think you should all still take the moral responsibility of reading the room when you talk. How's that? Alrighty, so we are off of God's degree. God's decrees Uh Dave, you came back from vacation just in time to be released from foreordination. It's been that's our next part. Thanks so much. So we're moving now into, we're moving out of considering the actions of the Trinity among themselves. And now we're going to start seeing the execution of that plan and counsel, that eternal plan and counsel. And this begins in Westminster Confession of Faith, Chapter 4, which I put on the handout, and then I put the corresponding question number eight from the shorter catechism. And then we're going to talk about question nine this morning. So let's try to get some volunteers and just reading this stuff. Who would like to read W the Westminster Confession of Faith, Chapter 4, Article 1 of Creation? It's right there at the top of your handout. Just need to read it nice and loud. Go ahead, Natalie. It pleased God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit for the manifestation of the glory of the glory of his eternal power, wisdom, and goodness. In the beginning to create or to make of nothing, the world and all things therein, whether visible or invisible Visible in the space of six days and all very good. Okay, so what are some basic observations just off the top? Let's try to get warmed up. I hope you've had your coffee Let's try to get warmed up. What are some observations or questions that immediately rise in the reading of the WCF? What are some connection points from what you've already learned? Do you see anything in there that's a continuation of what you've been learning in the shorter? Natalie? So one of the previous um shorter catechisms talked about that is infinite eternal in the infinite Yeah. Great observation. That's great. You're seeing that doctrine of God carried forward and that the revelation of those things happens in the act of Creation. Very good. That's a really important part of the teaching. Yes, Michelle. Yeah. Woo There it is. It looks like we're on the right track, right? Because we just talked about the economic work of the Trinity being the main way in which he reveals himself as though one God equal in power and glory in three persons, right? So we're already starting to see that move forward Uh this is a a good thing to see that everything is launching from the doctrine of God. That's really what all theology is. It should all be rooted in the doctrine of God. Yes, Tate. Yes, that's right. Uh him as creator and redeemer are the the two main ways in which God manifests his glory. Excellent. Thanks, Tate. Yeah, you got y'all are picking up on all the major themes. And you can see them running through like a beautiful thread. Alrighty, so who would like to volunteer to read question and answer number eight? I'll do that one. Okay. How does God execute his decrees? God executes his decrees and the works of creation and providence. Alrighty. So guess which one we're going to talk about first? Creation? Yeah. Good job, Natalie. The works of creation. So here you have, though, for those of you who are are trying to study the shorter catechism, and part of that study is understanding the structure of the catechism. Here is that major branch off the trunk of the tree. In that we're now going to, earlier we we made a major division off the trunk of the tree, and we said that the scriptures principally teach what man is to believe concerning God. and what duty God requires of man. That's a major branch off of the trunk. Well now um and then we started going down the um the branch that was dealing with who is God And now we have another fork here or branch which has to do with the works of creation and then the work of providence. So each of those will be taken up in turn. You could see how this is would be very easy to diagram. Can you not? You remember the diagram I put on the I put once where it looked like branches kind of going out? And and that's um just to drop a little history here for you, this is a part of a methodology that these gentlemen had adopted called Rheumistic Logic. R-A-M-I-S-T-I-C, and it's from a Frenchman, Peter Ramou. And it was just a way to um as like a method of teaching that would help people to understand a subject as well as memorize them So if you were to take a time machine back and hang out with some little Puritan children, you would see their sermon notes put together just like this. And then when they would show up on Monday morning to the schoolhouse, they'd be able to tell the teacher all of the parts of the sermon. Isn't that nice? Little Puritan children. And that's what you see here within the confession. And that makes sense, right? Because we're supposed to be memorizing this thing. Right? So each of the nodes, if you will, on the branches is meant to jar the memory into remembering that part of the alpha. And that's how I try to memorize also, and I think that it works quite well. Okay. Who would like to read question number nine? And answer. Mr. Shinjak, what is the work of creation? The work of creation is God's making of all things of nothing by the word of his power in the space of six days would fall very good. Very good. Thank you. That's a good that's a good summary. I get excited when I hear good summaries. You know. Uh very good. Any basic observations on this one before we're gonna we're gonna dive into this question, but I just wanted to know if you had any basic observations Looks like these people take state creation. That's a possibility. It is. It's a possibility. Every writing that included a discussion of creation by a Westminster divine, did take a 624 literal view. But there is some debate, which we'll talk about in a succeeding class, as to whether they were just writing down the words of Scripture so as to avoid controversy. Yeah. That's a pretty good rule to live by, right? Yeah. Yes, sir. out of nothing emphasizes God's supremacy and uh sovereignty. You're right, it does. That's the main focus. If you were to spend time in all those theology books, as far back as you can go, they're focused on uh God's power and supremacy over all things. Yeah, that's right. In fact, if you were if you get a chance uh look through the scriptures when it talks about him as creator and the main emphasis at least in part of that part of the scripture will be that he um uh that he owns it everything and that uh uh uh everyone owes obedience to him. Yeah. He has a proprietorship over heaven and earth Yes, Dwayne. because he told the seas to calm and did so later in scripture they were able to see that same power of his word uh lived out and it made it trouble Yeah, and and what do you think is the significance besides just the spoken word when Christ was in the midst of of a storm with the disciples, what other uh elements should be evoked in that story? Do you see a connection between that storm and the creation account? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, there's the possibility where we could the obedience of the elements. The obedience of the elements, for sure. Right? Moving from a chaotic to an orderly state. And then you were mentioning. Okay. You forgot. Yeah, m and and then also the the um formless and void and the spirit hovering over the face of the deep, and then God says right and then there's a the creation of order. So maybe we really should, you know, we'd have to think about that for a little bit, but perhaps that story with Christ in the storm should evoke for us the creation account and we should connect the dots that this is the Son who created all things and maybe they were connecting the dots which is why they became so afraid. They realized they were in the presence of God. Yeah. Yeah. There's some good thoughts. Peter Lightheart would be proud of us. Yes. Bob. And it ends with all very good. Yeah, and that word really packs a punch. It has a lot to say. Pardon? Oh good. The word good. We want we have a we have a deep relationship with the word good as Christians. Um It it uh implies uh purpose and all that kind of stuff. David. Everything is declared good, you know, you say uh man the creation of man when it's created was declared very good. But here instead of Yeah, that's nice. Yeah. Yeah, well I'll have to look closely at that and uh you let me know what you end up coming up with too. But that's good to pay attention to those kind of details. And actually, we could go one step further and we could say for the first time, God does not declare something to be good with the man until he then creates the world. Yeah. It is not good for man to be alone. You think that's a summary of the time? Yeah. And God said everything that he made was very good. So it wasn't that was the first time it's a very good that you didn't apply it to everything. Yeah, and what we would need to do if we want to be real thorough is to take a look at the the Hebrew. Yes? It just this um this question just makes me reflect on the power of God. Yeah. And and you know Yeah created everything, you know, and uh created man, created everything. And then there was work before that and work after. Yeah Yeah, the power of God and um And you can see why he's called life. He's the vital principle of all things I don't know. Maybe so. Dwayne, yes sir. So I'm I'm not trying to jump ahead to whatever you Okay. But in in the space of six days or that conversation controversy has always bothered me because, in my simple mind, it is very clear from the beginning of Genesis that there was morning and there was evening creating this word picture for a twenty-four hour cycle. So it is very I believe it's very important in the creation experien uh uh example Well, that is there. Yeah. Yeah, definitely not by accident. So I'm gonna take some time. I'm trying to break the Sunday school classes into pieces these days as I I've been praying and asking the Lord please make me an effective Sunday school teacher. And and one of the things we're trying out now is to break it into pieces. And so we'll look at uh what does the Bible say? Then we'll look at a little bit of well what What do they say in history? You know, what historically, what have teachers taught? What are some of the objections against these kinds of things? I think if we we hit on each of those, we should feel like I'm not trying to be disrespectful if you want to say what's the story for a separate time. But I equally think it's important not to step over it today. Thanks. Do you know the latest count? This is now now I'm not saying this to become agnostic about the creation of count, but I say this uh I don't know. As a fun fact, do you know the latest count on how many different views people have taken on the creation? Fifty-five. Vern uh Vern Poithrus in all of his detail put out a little book and he said there's a total of fifty-five and I was Now does anybody here know Dr. Poithrus? You do, okay. I've heard some funny stories about him from his students. Doctor Foythrist, I believe, prior to being a theologian, was a physicist music I I don't know. Okay, physicist and musician. And he is he really is like the quintessential um boil your watch and crack your egg on your wrist, Professor. Just like doesn't connect well with common sense things. You know, I ha I I had a a friend, does anybody here know Max Fenford? Yeah, he had him as a professor Max saw Dr. Poithoras downtown and said hi. And Dr. Poethoras uh stopped his car uh I think his car was stopped in traffic and then he got out to say hi to Max and then they just kept walking and talking and he had left his car just in the intersection and then asked Max, What if where's my car? Like what up So it's funny, you know, how those brains can work sometimes where the all the details They also, um, he did his dissertation on the aspects of the Trinity, and I heard that when he was delivering it and trying to a sustained conversation about it that he k he i was thinking about it on the spot and I believe he passed out. Yeah. Anyway, uh Dr. Porthos is a w he's a wonderful um gift to the church from Christ. I hope you get a chance to meet him sometime. He's over at Westminster Theological Seminary, right? Yeah. Yeah. Nope at least not while he's thinking about things. Alrighty, so before we get started on this, the the lesson is going to be entirely taken up with the first Um God uh first part after the comma, God's making all things of nothing. And we're just going to take this uh little prepositional phrase by prepositional phrase. We'll have God's making all things of nothing. I think that's a Uh not well. And then next week it will be by the word of his power, and then in the space of six days, and then and all very good. There's enough to say about all of it. And that's not shouldn't be surprising because this is a summary of the whole canon of scripture. So the um before we get into looking at God's making all things of nothing, uh preliminarily I just want to remind us the kind of subject matter that we're dealing with. So let's turn to Job 38 verse 4, and I'd like to hear what you think some of the implications are. of about the, you know, and how we should be studying the doctrine of creation. This should just be a brief conversation, but I do want to hear what you have to say. Job 38. 4. Who would like to read that? Yes, Carol, please. Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth? Tell me Yeah. And uh what is God's intonation at this point? He's putting Job in his place. Yeah, he's putting Job in his place. So what are some implications you can draw from this in terms of here you are, now you're going to study the doctrine of creation? Okay, we should definitely be doing so reverently. I like that. Very good. With humility. W yeah, with humility. Yeah, very good. What else would you say? And you can also show us how these things flesh out. Yes, Jeff. Yeah. He's just on a different level. Yeah, very good. His thoughts are not our thoughts and nor are his ways. We can forget that. In fact, if you were to look at the history of heresy, you will find a couple main problems in every one of them. And one of the problems will be they've taken the creaturely relationships and aspects and then worked up to apply those things to God in a way that God has not authorized. He's just on a different plane. Yes, sir. We're viewing uh his uh act of creation from a finite and simple nature. Yeah. Uh can I summarize that by saying we better know our limitations Is that okay? Yeah, okay. Yeah. Yeah, Dave. What he wants us to know about Gray and he revealed to us, but we weren't there, so Yeah, that's right. And that ends ends up being like the main point, right? You know, you weren't there to see this. You're not going to be able to derive knowledge by By way of observation, and neither will anybody else. You have to go to God for this. And really the correct way to say that is he has to come to us. Duane and then Joe. Verse five. Uh-huh. Not only in actual physical measures in terms of length, but also of time. Thus in experience. Yes. That's great. Yeah. Yeah, very good. And that that ends up being reduced too to God um sometimes we don't think about this, but he is the creator of space and time. Right. There's there's no time before creation. You know, the God's response which goes on for several chapters. Uh huh. He just uses the example, he's the creator to say, Who are you? Yeah. Do you think that the um The observations that folks are making are wrong in wrong inferences from this? I'm just saying it's a response to the question of human suffering and it's I was saying I am Yeah. Right, but you didn't answer my question. Do you th do you think that uh the inferences we've made have been wrong from this passage? It could be yes or no. People are making inferences about our limitations. Yeah, that's fine. have made inferences about yeah mostly about our limitations honestly and then also um there were two uh inferences uh of uh adoration and humility. Yeah, okay, great. Elizabeth. Rather than the actual you know, yeah. I have my reasons and you have nothing to do with it where we use. Anyway, that's also an Um what I was going to talk about is um I think that the humility level is fascinating in terms of the scientific creation and how Until Louis Mastor, they just gonna lots of things happen that was nothing spontaneous generation of a thing. Yeah. And then suddenly they figured out it wasn't. And so science had to adjust and I just think it's that we're very arrogant in our understanding of creation and science. Yeah, that's very true. Uh for example, if you are a human scientist with no theological Input, how is it that you will make determinations on the origins of the universe? It will not be by way of observation. It'll have to be through some kinds of deduction based off of other findings that they've observed or something. Trying to put together a model to make sense of the whole thing. Well they would be doing both, but in order to surmise the origins of the universe, it'd have to be a deduction. Based off the things they've induced. But I don't you know this is starting to sound confusing. Um so I think it's interesting that whether you're the scientist or the Christian, that both of you have to just accept a testimony of some sort. You none of us have observed it. And we're accepting, if we have understood the scriptures correctly, then we're accepting the testimony of God. And then others are, if they contradict God, are accepting a different testimony. I think it's an interesting way to look at it. What do you think, Elizabeth? Okay. It's okay. It's okay. All right. Yes. Yes. The very beginning is about creation. All that follows is about problem. Okay. Oh yeah, yeah. Okay, that's a really that's neat that you would see that division. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I love it. That's great. I was there new words. Yeah, and like Elizabeth and Joe have pointed out, it really makes the case that Job is in no position to question God. About anything. It's just too complicated. Okay, great. So what I would like to do now, thanks so much for all of your comments on that. And it's good. And we did open with prayer. I think that's an act of humility and reverence and respecting that God must reveal these things to us even now. And let's continue to do that and make sure we're living within our limitations here. Alrighty? Okay, so The first thing I'd like us to do is just read through this section on the Trinity as Creator. It's um I'm going to call this one, two, three, four, five paragraphs And I'd just like to read through it and let's just make some comments together about the whole thing. I thought that this section from Joel Beakey's systematic theology series I just really liked it. I thought it was great. I wanted to share it with you. I hope that you gained some things from it. You might want to underline things that you find helpful or inspiring. And so I'll read the longest paragraph and then I'll ask for volunteers for the others. I'm going to read, you can follow along, after each paragraph, let's just make some comments and observations together as a class. Okay, so here's the first one, and remember that the topic is uh the Trinity as Creator, which we saw in the Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter 4. So this is not off time. I'm on um preliminary number two. Yeah. And then we'll get into the heart of the question. on um out of nothing. We're still working our way there. Okay. God progressively revealed through his word that he is one God who eternally exists in three persons. God is most fully made known in the New Testament as the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Genesis 1 contains references to plurality in God. Everybody know what that means, plurality in God? God? More than one? Okay. Plurality in God, that we may cautiously receive as early partial revelations of what God would later make known in the doctrine of the Trinity. When the text says God created the heaven and the earth, Genesis 1. 1, the verb created is in the singular form indicating one subject. Do you see what he's doing here? He's pointing to the monotheism of Christianity, or the oneness and indivisibility of God. And that's that he's saying that the grammar points to that. However, we read next, and the earth with whis was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. So here we're starting to see a div uh distinction into the persons. And that's verse number two. The phrase, the Spirit of God, is the same expression used elsewhere for the Holy Spirit who empowers God's servants. We interpret the image of the Spirit's activity according to Deuteronomy 32, 10-12. He found him in a desert and in the waste. Tohu, that's the same word in this Hebrew text here from Genesis. The same word as without form. Howling wilderness He led him about, he instructed him, he kept him as the apple of his eye, as an eagle stirtreth up her nest, fluttereth. It's the same word as moved, over her young, spreadeth about abroad her wings, taketh them, beareth them on her wing. So the Lord alone did lead them, and there was no strange God with him. See that image of the Spirit in Deuteronomy, of taking them through the wilderness, is the same kind of language of the Spirit hovering over the face Therefore, we interpret Genesis 1. 2 not as speaking of the wind of God, which is a possible translation because the Hebrew there is Rosh. Okay. Uh and that could be spirit or wind. But as revealing that the Spirit of God acted upon the primeval creation like a tender mother bird over its children. In a wilderness nurturing God's work. Isn't that a lovely little image? Isn't that nice to see the constancy of the Holy Spirit? You know how nurturing the Holy Spirit is to you, I hope. And he was That same way with the elements of the world. Calvin said, the eternal spirit had always been in God, while with tender care he supported the confused matter of heaven and earth. until beauty and order were added. Isn't that a delightful image? I find it delightful. The strongest suggestion of plurality in God appears in Genesis 1. 26. Let us make man in our image. Both the pronouns and the verb translated as make are plural in the Hebrew text. Since there is no hint in the Bible that man is the image of any being except God, This text pictures God and conversation with God as a plurality of persons. In the confessional language, we would say according to the counsel of his will. Oh yes, no. Let me uh finish this up uh finish up and then I'm gonna take a bunch of questions there. So make sure you put a little check next to the section that you want to talk about. about. Please. Okay. The angels did not create man. Some theologians have proposed that this is the plural of majesty, you know, the royal we that kings and queens sometimes use. However, there does not appear to be evidence of such a practice by royalty recorded in the Old Testament scriptures. It is best to take this text to indicate a plurality of persons in God, which of course we wouldn't see till later. I mean this is us looking back, right? And we'll end uh right there. Natalie. So um because this is a quote or the Genesis twenty one twenty six quote. Um and there's not uh phrase um in the original or whatever. Does it uh or you know how like when the um when the when we when we've got our vibes or a certain words are how it's Yeah. Correct. Or did he just Uh he wanted to emphasize the point he's trying to make in the paragraph he's writing. Okay, so that so that the that italic is not in the original because The words are actually there, but Joel Vicky has emphasized certain words to m make sure you don't miss a point, which is that there's a singularity in the verb in the Genesis 1-1, but then there's a plurality in 126. Okay, uh it's a large paragraph. Any other observations there? I just wanted to talk about it a little bit. Any any observations about the image of the spirit connected to Deuteronomy and You don't have to. We we can move on to the next one. So I'd like to be addressed with that oil we've done for that. Yeah. Yeah. Uh he says perhaps Yeah, when you're reading scholars, you have to pay real close attention to their words. If they say the word perhaps, it means they haven't taken a definite line on it. There does not appear. That's also important. He's being respectful of the scholarship. Um, if you, as a Christian, want to base your doctrine of the Trinity only upon these verses, you're probably going to be in trouble. Uh there's a whole heaven full of Trinitarian doctrine and the scripture. So we don't have to base it just on this. But it is fitting, based on all of the other evidence, to have confidence in these also. It should just match the pattern of what God has revealed to us. But this is a good lesson. I mean we must pay attention to when humans are writing, especially scholars, and they say things like, It appears, or perhaps, that means they're not uh willing to go all the way out on the limb. Right. They're trying to be humble, yeah. Um you know I think that's good. I think it's good to be accurate about how much information we have on things and how certain we can be about certain things. You know? So alrighty. So we'll we'll move on to the next paragraph. Who would like to read the next one? It's shorter. It's more fun. Elizabeth, thank you. Are there an infinite genesis of what plurality might entail? We have already noted the agency of spirit in creation. uh Job twenty-six thirteen and thirty-three four. Genesis coordinates the agency of the Spirit in creation with the agency of God's Word, such as, and God said let's Every light and there was light. Genesis 1. 3. In the Old Testament, God's word sometimes acts as an agent sent by God to do his will with divine power Somewhat like the divine angel of the Lord. The word of the Lord had supernatural qualities and the godly praised God's word with reverence. And the godly praise God's word with reverence Uh John gives further clarity to the distinct personality of the Word when he writes in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same when he I tricked you. You gotta keep going. Sorry. And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. John one three and fourteen. Therefore Christ is the creator of the world along with the Father and the Spirit. Hebrews one Christ and the Spirit are not merely instruments of the Creator or co-creators subordinate to the Father, but are one creator. Very good. You might as well finish. The creator, the triumph. Let us reverence all three persons of the triumph as worthy of our praise. Revelation four eleven. Worthy is the Father, worthy is the Son Worthy is the Spirit. Let us praise him free in one. And uh one of the things I like about this systematic is each chapter ends with a hymn for you to sing. All right, any comment on that one? Was anybody here surprised by the John verse? No surprises for you. I don't know. I still feel surprised. I've read it, you know, a thousand times, but I still feel I don't know. Maybe it's not surprise. Uh wonder, maybe. Just wonder. And then he took upon himself flesh. And he was among us The same one who created the heavens and the earth by the word of his power? Man. And that we'll one day see him. Hmm That is wonderful. Okay, well I'm not seeing anybody jump in here to uh make any comments, so we can go ahead and start in on the main um lesson. I just wanted to ha uh to to uh give you those paragraphs. Oh yeah, Jeff, please. Um I think he mentioned that was not our Right. Yeah, that was a view held early in the church. uh all things visible and the and the space in six days. So yeah. Yeah, that's right. Okay, say the question again. Is that what it means? When it says he created all things physical and invisible and spaces and things? Yeah, it would be the angels and their abode were created during this creation period. Is that what you're asking me? That's what the that's I'm telling you what the confession would say. Correct. And the history that they're drawing upon. But there was a teaching that entered into the church. You know, it's funny. It's like at any point that we want to assert the truth that God has revealed to us, somebody has come along and thrown stones at it You know? And that ends up being how God, by his spirit and his providence, worked out the church being very accurate on what he has communicated. Those folks who had error really pushed people, and we were forced to really make sure we knew what God's word said. For example, I've always wondered why there in the Confessions and the Creeds, why were people though why did the writers pay so close attention to prepositional phrases. When you study this, you'll notice the word in versus by versus through versus from. All of these make a world of theological difference. I just found out the other day that there was a heresy in the early years of the church that made a case against the Trinity using prepositional phrases in the scriptures. So they were forced to then study all the prepositional phrases with reference to the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Isn't that neat? Natalie was first and then Marilyn. So kind of back to that question. So at the end of that those first seven days, that's when the angels were created along with all the creation because all things are created Very good. So we're saying the fall of the angels didn't take place before the end of that seven those seven days. I don't what makes you draw that Well, I don't even want to know what makes you draw that because uh we're gonna get to men and angels later. Right now we're just doing a summary of the creation, and then we have to talk about some of the specifics that created that have a lot to do with redemption and we'll have to talk about men and angels. But that's a few lessons away. Yeah, if you could write that down and remind us to talk about do we know when there when the fall of the angels took place? We could ask it, we could first say, was there a fall of the angels? And if so, when did it take place? And we'll want to look to the scriptures and not John Milton Unless we use John Milton to get you the scriptures. Or Don Tasanfer. Yes. I'm sorry, Marilyn. It's like what it's it's related. Yeah. Everything's listed in Genesis one. Okay. The heavenly bodies, the waters, the land, the animals, the fishes. And there's no national pages which would make to me. I mean I guess when you'll talk about it later. I never don't mention Well that has that concludes what the waters are created, air is heavens are created then, fish or birds are created to Yeah, we'll need to put all the pieces together pieces together and we can maybe look to see if we can see any scripture dealing with uh angels and the origins of the cosmos. And of course we can. We'll need to make sure we understand them appropriately according to genre. And then we um could hopefully look at some of the particulars. For example, when it says that God created the heavens and the earth, and that's what's we're getting ready to get into this, but that's America. It's talking about everything. As it says in Colossians, we'll get to this in a minute too. Things invisible and visible are created by the eternal Christ, right? Paul says that he went to the third heaven, and there was a council there teaching him that were things that were then unlawful for him to speak. So we'll so we can I think we can start to put the puzzles or the mosaic together to have a place for angels early on. Isn't that fun? And uh the reformed tradition has a robust angelology, by the way. So so hopefully we can focus on that. Yes, Dave? Yeah, we're gonna jump that's the that's merely the only thing I wanted to teach on today, but we're almost out of time. What's that? Um can I go let me go through these scriptures and then we're obviously going to have to keep talking about it next week and then we'll go into the next comma also hopefully. But let's just take a look at the notes real quick, and I'd appreciate it if you would uh look up these scriptures. I start with just a historical account. I want to look at the phrase all things of nothing that was in the Shorter Catechism and in the Confession. If we look in the ancient writings, which is this is just the history. Okay, I'm not saying that these people were infallible, but I want to look at what other people have said in other literature that is to be respected, but not respected at the level of uh God's word. So when we look at ancient writings, there's a c a couple that we want to make a note of. For example, in 2 Maccabees, which is a part of the Apocrypha. Apocryphal writings. In chapter seven, verse twenty-eight, it says this I beseech thee, my son, look upon the heaven and the earth, and all that is therein, and consider that God made them of things that were not Now this is written in the Greek, and the phrase of things that were not is uks exantan. Now if you look at that anton, can you think of any English word that is a derivative? Ontology or the study of being. So we're talking about the most basic things here. We're talking about God making all things Interestingly, when Jerome goes goes ahead and translate these things into the Latin, this is the translation he gives it. Ex nihilo Alright, that's part of it. And that's where we get our phrase out of nothing with the rest of theology. You'll continue to see this view held by Irenaeus, Tertullian, and Augustine. And though I disagree with um a number of points in the fourth latter in council from the years twelve from the year twelve fifteen, uh they get they get repentance wrong in that document and a a few other things. But uh the Fourth Later in Council actually includes this same kind of phrasings and you can see it's still the teaching of the faithful. whether west or east. And here it is. Here's the phrase from the fourth ladder in council. Now notice the Trinitarian language and then sliding into the execution of the decree. The Father is from none, the Son from the Father alone. And the Holy Spirit from both equally. Now the Greek church would the Greek Church would not agree with us on that. Eternally without beginning or end. The Father generating, the Son being born, and the Holy Spirit proceeding. Consubstantial and co-equal, co-omnipotent and co-eternal. That's all to just make sure we we retain the indivisibility of God. One principle of all things, creator of all things invisible and visible, spiritual and corporeal. Who, by his almighty power, at the beginning of time created from nothing both spiritual and corporeal creatures That is to say, angelic and earthly, and then created human beings composed as it were of both spirit and body in common. So I'm just showing you some of the historical statements that are a part of of the church and how the church has decided to put it. Now the Fourth Later in Council is significant. Because there were a total, I think, of four hundred and twenty bishops from a from around that known world who had come together to make this statement. And I think they got a couple things wrong, but this one is uh right. It's kind of continuous with the other councils that had gone back quite some time that are meant to preserve the teaching of Scripture. Okay, now that's historical theology, if you will, and here we just get into straight-up theology with the scriptural teaching So let's go ahead and look at uh Genesis 1. 1. Might as well, right? Makes sense And then I'm going to fly through this, then we can pick it up next week. And Dave, you can ask the first question. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And then we're just going to read this for a little bit. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was on the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. So we'll start there, and then we get into the word of his power, let there be light. in verse number three. So Genesis 1. 1 has been interpreted by the faithful, and there is a consensus that it is a marism. That the heavens or are on one far end of the spectrum and the earth is on the other far end of the spectrum and it includes not only those things at the ends, but everything in between. It's an enveloping phrase. And here the confession is if you would look at the exegesis of this verse, you'll see that uh it is taught that God created all things of nothing, that there was not co-eternal matter with him. Can somebody tell me what that means? We're using some philosophical language here to try to get to the truth. What does it mean to say that there was not co-eternal matter? Mr. Alt, you look like you want to talk about co-eternal matter Yeah, very that's a good way to put it, which were the hypothesis amongst especially Aristotelian scientists. and Platonic scientists that matter was eternal. They knew that you can't have an unc you you can't have a an infinite series of causes, that there has to be an uncaused cause just working through that. And they uh pa they posited that matter was eternal from which all things flowed. Yes, Mike. So is it safe to say then the the terminology came out and it said that um God never existed and then all of a sudden he He would be a creature. Right. And since he always existed. Yeah, and that's the and we use the word eternal for that. Right. Yep. Yeah, it's another way of saying there was never a time when he was not. Yeah, so so um but the reason why we say that is not just philosophical uh speculations. I mean Those are pretty not speculations but philosophical deductions. Those are pretty good really. But there's also a scripture here that we need to wrestle with So for example, I have the scriptures here for us and then I'll dismiss us. Psalm 146, verse 6, who made heaven and earth? the sea and all that is in them who keeps truth forever. So it it doesn't look like the biblical authors want to leave some kind of eternal matter outside of it that coexists along with him from eternity. But rather there's God and nothing, and then there's, after the execution of his decree of creation, God and the creature. Or creator and creature. And now we have a very important distinction. Here's the same kind of language from Acts 14, 15 and saying Men, why are you doing these things? You remember this when they tried to sa sacrifice bulls to Paul and Barnabas? We also are men with the same nature as you, and preach to you that you should turn from these useless things to the living God. who made the heaven, the earth, the sea, and all things that are in them. Again, I see universal language here, not excluding some kind of matter that co- existed with God. Here's a really good one that is often cited in these discussions. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 3. By faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God. So we're talking about the creation account. So that the things which are seen, like me, were not made of things which are visible. Okay, and I don't think the point here is to say that the co-eternal matter was invisible. The whole point here is that God calls things that are not as though they are, which we'll Look at that verse in a second. Now here's another one which we've read, Colossians 1, 15 through 17. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. For by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers. There's the angelic reference, by the way. All things were created through him and for him, and he is before all things, and in him all things consist. And that's the statement of providence at the end there. And then finally, this is meant in context for a different purpose, but it does declare something about God that is. applicable to us here. As it is written, A father of many nations have I made you, in the presence of him whom he believed, even God, who gives life to the dead and calls into being that which does not exist. So it just shows you his capabilities and how he works. So for example, in this particular case, it was Sarah who was barren and could not have children. and then called into being from that not only that child, but then the whole nation. Right? Okay, so we need to end there. And um so if you could please While you're having lunch today or whatever, look over the notes and see what kind of questions you have on ex knee hello as a part of our confession or out of nothing. And then once we talk about those questions, we'll move on to the next phrase, which is by the word of his power, and maybe we can also do in the space of six days in the same sitting. Sound great? Okay. Let's pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, you reveal to us how You reveal to us truly who you are as the Creator. Lord, we have had the opportunity to reflect and just say a few things that are implicated here. Such as the humility and the reverence that we should have before you. Lord, we think of your power, your supremacy over all things. your proprietorship over all things, that all things are yours, and that that is part of what it means to relate to you as a creature. is that we are yours. When we put it like that, Lord, we think of the great tragedy of rebelling against you. Especially when we note that the Spirit so lovingly nurtured and pulled together order from chaos and gave special attention to human beings in your image. And then we turned our faces away from you. Lord, we thank you that out of nothing, conceived in the womb by the Holy Spirit, is our Christ. We thank you, Lord Christ, that you are teaching these things. About you to us, that we might understand that you are both God and man, that you were before the worlds began, and that you created all things by way of your spirit. and that you have taken upon yourself human nature. It helps us to understand what you are doing with us as a new creation. You hover over your church. You hover over us. You hovered over us when we were formless and void, and you were making us ordered. You are making us beautiful. Pray that you would continue to do so. Lord, please give us reverence for you today, and may we worship you. As we enter into worship in the name of Christ, Amen