The uh food table. I'm just not competing this morning. Yeah. Alrighty. Well uh we have the The 13 and up here with us this morning too. So let's be on our best behavior. Elder Jeremiah has got a splitting headache this morning. He's not able to make it. Okay, well let's open in prayer and we'll we'll even pray for him. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you. Now for so many things already this morning. Today is a day that you've set aside to where we can remember really what you have done and where you're taking everything by that doing. Pray, Lord, that the hearts of your saints would be encouraged this morning. We pray, Lord, that you would be with the Horner family and with other families that are are wrestling with allergies and colds and all those kinds of things. I pray that you would give them the stamina they need to serve each other in such conditions And Lord, we pray that you would help us understand your word this morning. Please make it profitable in the name of Christ. Amen. It is profitable. Okay, so here we are in Sunday school class again. I'm going to give it another shot. We um when I went to seminary I thought all I really need to do is go to seminary. And then when I get out of seminary, I'm going to really be useful to God's people. And then I got out of seminary and I found that I was hardly useful And then it started to uh work out under God's supervision through trial and error. And uh that's kind of a funny thing to realize that That wisdom comes from trial and error. No matter how many books you read, you just basically need to find every door you're not supposed to go through and then uh eventually know which one you're supposed to go through go through. Although I wouldn't I'm not uh advising that as a strategy. I'm just saying it's a part of the human condition. So what I'm saying. You see there's been trial and error with the Sunday school, and I think we're getting closer and closer by God's grace. Although I do think there's been some profit in each uh class. So remember, one of the goals you have this morning is to make sure you walk out of here having something to take away that is in fact profitable for you serving the Lord and for those around you. So we're going to continue with shorter catechism question 9. I have a bit of a different angle here this morning, and it will probably displease some of you, but that's okay. The question number nine is this: What is the work of creation? The work of creation is God making all things of nothing by the word of his power. in the space of six days and all very good. I find that to be an excellent summary of what has been taught to us from heaven. And that accords with our experience when our minds are illuminated. So what I would like to do first is to really just review and go over some passages. that help us to see the truth of each of these statements. That's going to be pretty quick because it's a review. And then I want to get into the bulk of the work today, which is When we see the teaching about creation in the scriptures themselves, besides just the creation account. How do we see the authors of Scripture using the teaching of creation? How do they take the teaching about creation and give it to God's people to help them. That's the main question I want to answer. So that you can begin to see how you should be taking the teaching of creation and where you can be encouraged by it, inspired by it, strengthened by it, convicted by it, and then you can take that learning that you have by way of Christ So let's look at just the teaching first. So you can follow along in the notes if you want, or you can just listen. to you. Or you can do both. So as one looks throughout Christian history, it seems that all Christian teaching has been questioned and sometimes attacked. I would say, yeah, almost all the time it's attacked. The assertions in this catechism question are no exception. Perhaps we should give a defense of every point in question nine, and we would have, and that is what we find throughout the history of the church actually, is having to give a defense at every point in question nine. And yet to begin, let us look at a few scriptures which speak to these points. My hope is that perhaps in another class we can get more into the exploration in defense of these things So the first point and this is review is that God is making all things. Now hopefully you have become convinced that the work of creation is in fact a work of God. one. I think that we're are we all on the same page with that? Work of creation is a work of God. And then hopefully to be even more specific, you have become convinced that the work of creation is a work of the triune God. So that's one God, equal in power and glory, right? But in three persons. And we talked about that in terms of the economic trinity. And so we see, when we look through the scriptures, our argument has been that we see the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit all involved in the act of creation and in the act or work of providence. The church spoke about God the Creator from an illustration of God the Father having two hands. Does anybody remember which teacher talked about the two hands of the Father? Uraneus. Irenaeus. Thank you, Gary. Irenaeus. Um by which he carried out his work of creation. Now, here are some scriptures to consider. Number one is the sun. And these are some things that we've quoted even among ourselves. Again, this is review. All things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. John 1, verse 3. Now this is significant if you look at the larger context of that passage Because the one who is in heaven making all things, God the Son, then takes upon himself human nature and dwells among us. Number two, he has spoken, uh has in these last days spoken to us by his son, whom he has appointed heir of all things through whom also he made the worlds. Now we did a in-depth dive on that passage last week. I hope that was beneficial to you. We're looking at the superiority and excellence of the sun Above angels, above Moses, above Aaron, above all. And the whole book of Hebrews starts off with the superiority uh superlative, if you will, and by showing that he is himself the express image. of the Father, which is to show that they are equal in power and glory. That is to say that the Son is God. Well, that's the Son and his involvement in the act of creation. We also have the Spirit involved in the act of creation. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth, the earth was without form and void, and darkness was on the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. When we look throughout the rest of the scriptures, we can see the same imagery of the Spirit, whether it is over the chaotic elements of the creation or the chaotic church. or chaotic nations. And we see the Spirit taking that chaos and forming it into good things. Number two, we see in Job 26, 13 references to this eternal reality. By his spirit he adorned the heavens. His hands pierced the fleeing serpent. You can look at that passage on your own when we're talking about creation. Number three, the Spirit of God has made me, and the breath of the Almighty gives me life. This is a reference to the role of the Spirit and how he acts. So that's the first point, is that God makes all things, and I'm really emphasizing the Trinitarian nature of the act of creation. Because the scriptures emphasize it. If God in his revelation is going to go to lengths to point out the individual actions of the persons, then we need to take notice of it. Number two, we observe secondly that God creates all things out of nothing. And historically this is referred to as next ex nihilo. As by way of review, this phrase is popular because it is the translation which Jerome chose for his Latin Vulgate from 2 Maccabees 7. 28. Some scriptures that you'll want to consider as you think through this teaching of the church, this article of faith. It was a Hebrews 11:3, which we looked at last week. By faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God, so that the things which are seen were not made of things which are visible. A second one you would want to consider is, for by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions. principalities or powers. All living things were created through him and for him, and he is before all things. And in him all things consist. So the picture ends up being there's God and nothing. And then God, through his speech, calls into being the creature. And I mean the creature not just in the sense of like animals and snakes and stuff, but his creation And then we have Acts, God who made the world and everything in it, since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands. The whole idea here is to show that there was God and then and nothing, and then there was God and his creation. And that's to say, by way of implication, that he made things All things out of nothing. Okay, and then we observe thirdly that God creates and upholds his creation by the word of his power Interestingly, when you start looking at, I think it's all important the more you get into this stuff, that you look at your Greek and your Hebrew translations. Very important. do this seriously. But then I think it's I'm big I'm increasingly compelled that you should also be looking at Latin translations. The Latin Vulgate is going to give you a going to lead you to some places in the church and how they were conceiving of the reality. And it's usually quite fruitful actually. I find that their minds back then were are better than our minds today. So when we do that, for example, we can see the word fiat, that's a Latin uh let it be done. Uh and has everyone here has heard of uh divine fiat, right? Um when you ask I I remember growing up and I would ask my grandmother for something that was ridiculous. She probably uh no you know most of the time I'd ask her for something and she was already doing 17 things like drying clothes, cooking something, painting a picture, whatever, mowing the lawn, all these things at one time. And then I say, Grandma, can I have And then she says, What do you want me to you know, you want me to accomplish this by divine fiat? And she was getting at the idea that she can't just like speak things into existence and that she's already preoccupied. Anybody have their grandmother Talk to them like that. She was sweet. Only me. She was good for me. She was just what I needed. I miss her. So you can see the reference here to the word or a command being the instrument that makes or permits something to be. And that actually is behind our prayers when we say amen. That's what we're, it means so be it. Right? May God bring it to be. Similar concept, but his is by way of the word of his power or his powerful word. So some scriptures that you'll want to consider is God speaking in Genesis 1. 3 We do not see him constructing things and forming them through other means than besides the word of his power. So he says, let there be light. Let there be light. Psalm thirty-three six, by the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. There is another Trinitarian reference in my opinion there. Let them praise the name of the Lord, for he commanded and they were created. He also established them forever and ever. He made a decree which shall not pass away. And I think Psalm 148, 5 through 6 actually has two categories in there of what God accomplished. What would you say the two categories are in that psalm? Yeah, creation and providence are both present. Um did anybody see creation and proverb providence in the Hebrews passage? And if so, can you tell me the language that you used about Christ to show that not only he's not only the creator, but he is the one that upholds the world? You can open your Bibles and look at that Hebrews one through Four or whatever two. Anybody see that kind of language speaking about Christ? Yeah, Jane or not Jane. Grace, I'm sorry. So if we are speaking those things we could probably do, we're not going to be able to do that. Did you hear Grace? One more try, Grace. Elizabeth. I think you're showing the ball on the thing. And that's an implication from that passage. That's 11. 3. You can also find this in Hebrews 1. Yes. Um the very end of that one where it says in hand all things could just be the first passage argument out of. Translation. I memorize that the norm that says all things hold together. Yeah, all things hold together or upheld or consist. Right, which to me is the ongoing data Yeah, yeah, that's right. And we see so we see both of those elements and it's important to see that in the psalm. You can start to see why the catechism itself is dividing like this. Remember we have two branches heading off the tree now. We have the work And you're seeing the same kind of distinction made by the inspired authors. Um he commanded and they were created, Psalm 148, 5 through 6. He also established them forever and ever. He made a decree which not pass away. Okay. And uh does that re-evok any biblical stories for you? Noah. Noah and the rainbow. Then he makes a decree that they shall not pass away. Right. Okay. Uh I won't say any more about that. That's a profound. Okay. Uh Isaiah forty eight thirteen. Indeed, my hand has laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand has stretched out the heavens. When I call to them, they stand up together. And that we looked at last time too. Did you see the two hands? I think that's where Irenaeus gets it from. He's trying to let the words, we're not used to doing this as modern or postmodern people. We look at words as mostly things to be shaped and manipulated to refer to our subjective feelings. But that's new in the history of the human race. Well, it's not totally new because there's nothing new under the sun But it used to be that words would point you to they're referential and they would point you to realities. And those who read the scriptures well will see those words pointing them not just to one kind of reality like a sociological reality or a historical reality, but they'll keep climbing the ladder all the way up into the heavens to see the reality of God and what he's doing in Christ and His creation. Those are the best interpreters of scriptures. Those are the ones who read scripture theologically. And they're also the ones who read their lives theologically. And uh the the church has traditionally thought of that as climbing a ladder, like Jacob's ladder, except the angels were climbing down there, and you're climbing up If anyone here has not checked out Lilith Trotter and her artwork as a form of climbing the ladder to know God, you may want to check her out. Lilith Trotter. Did I say that right? Anyone else know of her? Yeah, you do. Did I say her name right? Lilith Trotter? Yeah. Yeah. Okay, very good. Right. Okay. Uh and then we gave this example that is analogous. Matthew eight, eight through nine. The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that you should come under my roof. But only speak a word, and my servant will be healed, for I am a also a man under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to this one, Go, and he goes, and another come, and he comes, and my servant do this, and he does it. The focus here is again on the up maintaining or creating or maintaining order by way of the word of his power I would like us to get into letter D in more detail at another time. This is the most contentious phrase these days. Within this catechism question, we observe fourthly that God created all things in the space of six days, and it deserves its own time. So that just very quickly Uh I told you before that Vern Porthris has recorded 55 different views on the creation account in terms of the length of days and how we should be viewing it. A very popular view for a good majority of the church in the early years was the instantaneous creation. And nevertheless, those who put together this catechism by the order of Parliament Um if you look in their commentaries, all held to a 624 creation view. And Um there's spec there's um uh different reasons that people will ascribe to that. One This was meant to be a document that brought nations together so they could stop chopping each other's heads off. And it is possible that the ones who wrote this just wrote down the words of Scripture in the space of six days. and all very good. Uh or they may be trying to make a particular point, even amidst the Copernican Revolution. They're trying to make a particular point as to how we should be viewing the the creation account. So there's a lot to look into that, or a lot for us to look at when we look into this article, particularly with the rise of the contention between faith and science. And I don't really think there is a contention in reality if we look at those things correctly. But we'll need to have um perhaps our own space of six days just to look at this article. So we'll do that another time and I hope that you can be patient with that. If you want, if you can't be patient Uh if you're like an animal in a box, just clawing, and you gotta get out and answer this question, then I can tell you some books to read. So just come to me afterward. And then observe fifthly that all God's creation was created very good. And we didn't get a chance to talk about this. So when you see that within the creation account, let's go ahead and open our scriptures. To Genesis. Where do you see this pronouncement that things were created good? It's a little bit of a review, actually. We've talked about this a bit And that first word says and I saw all the DNA and it was very good. Yeah, which verse is that, my friend? The verse thirty-one of chapter one. Then God saw everything that he had made, and indeed it was very good. So the evening and the morning were the sixth day. Yeah, that's very nice. Um let me show you one other thing while we're considering this Pardon me I should have had this uh marked out. Where do where uh there we go, verse eighteen of chapter two. Anybody want to read that nice and loud, please? Chapter two, verse eighteen. So here you have two examples of the word good being used. He surveys everything that he has done by his son and his spirit, and he says it is good. But then we see here in chapter 2, verse 18. Which is a different account of the same creation story, zoomed in, with different theological purposes. And we see God saying for the first time, it is not good. So when we have this contrast before us, it's meant to help us to deter to see what is God talking about with the word good here. This is a thick, profound sense of the word good. Um somebody asks me, well, you went to the new ice cream place, how was their mint chocolate chip? And I say, ah, that was good. And that's not what's happening here in this scripture. Not uh not exactly anyway. It's way beyond that. What do you think? When you compare the two, what are your thoughts? I'm not gonna lay on here for too long because I have a What do you think? Um I think it's it's pretty fun to see. that without the woman, God knew that man was incomplete. So it was not good. And then after the creation of woman and the animals and everything that was in the earth, God said and is very good. So the woman was the completion of man. Man's Uh huh. It's not complete. Okay, that's really interesting the way that you just phrased that. Because you put it in terms of man's work and action. His his will. His role. That's pretty interesting. So now we have the word good. And now we have the word will, roll, action. agency, um completion of things. These are all things that came out of Duane's mouth. So does you know, sorta. All associated with the word good. So what are some other observations on how the word good is being used here? It's used throughout all Genesis as a mark. It's a literary feature all the way through. And it was good. He saw, and it was good, it was good, it was good. It was good. And then we have it at the end. Mark with a C So you see the same categories, right? at this moment is not good. So this word completion makes me think of flourishing, makes me think of you know human beings flourish in a fairly limited way. And to flourish means to be that for which we remain to be. So we're brought into creation, that's good, but in terms of ongoing flourishing and our care, there's more that needs to be there. Yeah. So any other thoughts? He's bringing in a providential element to be able to explain this. So I got uh Mike and then Jess. And I agree with that. So Something's missing that's all that we I experienced that this weekend actually. Yeah, because your wife is out of town. Well, I mean you're dressed and you're here. uh reflection of thought and that's kind of creation. But I also want to point out that the woman there's nothing that I agree as well. Right. So so the the pronouncement in chapter one, it it all being very good after Okay. Actually verse 27 of separate one says it's created in male team. Yeah, right. So it's probable that this happened before Very good. Very good. And um can you say just a little bit more about it being a reflection of God's goodness? But a lot of times we'll talk about um mankind being created in the edge of itself, right? So the um uh you know we are here uh not the guide as a body but somehow uh um in many ways that that's how many kind of it is created about them is not that so it could reflect us. That includes reflecting the business. But all of the influence are necessary because I want to declare the glory of God. So they're this this very good. And this whole creation was out of place. Everything had its own place, its own order, God talked about location, function of things. They were all There was not at the beginning, but eventually the sun was created for both the day and the night um yeah, there's stars too. Great, yeah that's r that's really nice. Yeah, very good. Marilyn and then Christina. Um I agree with um no with that Dwayne. Um yeah, that idea of conclusion I would like to answer with every what everyone said. I think it'd be interesting to explore the idea of agency, which I guess we'll do when we get to probably works Because it is complete. And Wayne brought in the idea of man's agency and that was a good thing with the professor. So God says it's it's good and then he's going to want to rest. The seventh day but his agency doesn't stop. He continues to do but there's we've come to a place of also perfection completion perfection going together um but it's time for something else Yeah. And and man is now complete with his his woman. Yeah. But it's time for them together to move forward into the agency partner. Yeah. Yeah, very good. And I would add to that, and then Christina, you can go for it, is the image of God so far reflected within the creation account. is that, or if we want to see who God is, he is one who takes that which is barren and fruitless. and makes it productive so as to be a blessing and gift to everything in that domain Um James says that he is the giver of all good gifts. And this is a picture of that. He's the great blesser. call them alone. I know there's not three in the future relationship that that God is not alone and I mean He is one, but He is there's a conscious being and so also in creating women it allows that man and marriage is talked about, you know with the marriage movement that reflects the Trinity in that way. Um so maybe that is also Yeah. Um we could go a long way with that actually. So if you look at other places where the creation account is used, like in Proverbs, you can then look at Proverbs 31, where the husband or the man sits in the gate. And I'm going to go ahead and draw off some implications here, ruling things by the word of his judgment. And if you look at the woman, she has been sent out to accomplish that particular order. Order as the great helper of all society, similar to the to how the Son sends out the Spirit. You could look at that also as the Son sending out the church. uh his wife to bring forth all of that fruit and to make this creation habitable and is actually what we're supposed to be doing. So I think there's a ton there of these uh things that look analogous to that. That's great. That was a good catch. Um Tate and then Elizabeth. I don't know who was first, but Um real progress development said he who finds a wife finds a good thing and obtained a favor finds a board. Very good. Yeah, we want to look at a thick, profound sense of that. And that, like I said, is going to take us up the ladder to seeing what God is doing. And Paul encourages us to do that in Ephesians Six. Elizabeth. But Christina's thing is they may think of the uh creation from the lid as being sort of that implication that they are existing Yeah, you almost want to start saying that the woman proceeds Yeah, yeah, exactly. Very good. Yeah, that's great. We could use if we want to just stay in the the missionary terms, which I think would be more appropriate as opposed to talking about the interrelations of the eternal trinity. You know, the the uh Jesus Christ is sent by the Father. Okay. So actually we just jump right into the inter-trinitarian relations. But then in John, he sends his church, who is his bride. Right? So you really can start getting to exactly what you're saying pretty quickly. You know? Both are sending. And of course, the Son sends the Spirit also. That's the confession of the Western Church, not the Eastern. But There's a lot going on there. I'll point out one last thing. I didn't miss anybody, did I? Good. I'll point out one last thing. Let's turn to Revelation chapter 21. Here we find the new Adam and his wife once again, but in their perfection. And all is very good in Revelation 21. Uh then I uh I'm gonna start in 20, just verse 1. Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. Also there was no more sea. Then I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of the heaven from God, and then noticed the switch in the literary trope Prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men And he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God. So it moved from the individual bride to a collective who makes up the bride, now dwelling together with her husband Who is the Christ? And then we see, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain for the former things. have passed away. You can find her also being dressed or adorned in her good works. And I think this is how we're we're supposed to take the beginning chapters of Genesis and lay them and map them on these latter chapters of the scriptures to see everything coming. to completion. And that's why in our notes I said that this is an eschatological sense of good What I mean is that things are doing or accomplishing that which God has planned for them to accomplish. say that being what we are meant to be. But there's a story arc with being who we are meant to be. and a developmental aspect as creatures to where we can't even be what we are meant to be within the councils of God until over time. There's a lot that God is doing. And so here you see the fruition of it. And I think that's what he's talking about. Notice how by the time we get to the end of the story Though each of the domains had had the sea rush upon them and kill all the life, that it has been restored. And that all things are good. And it happened for the man and his wife, Christ and the church. See that? It's nice. Okay. So I'm sure there's a thousand more things to say about that, but that's the more of the profound sense of good that we're talking about So now I want to shift gears and I want to move into the profit like I promised you, P-R-O-F-I-T, not P-H-E-T And so let's take a look at the second part of the lecture where we're going to see the authors of Scripture use the creation account to bring profit to Christ's bride. I remind you of 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17 as to how we're always supposed to be using the word. And then I remind you of 1 Timothy 1. 3 through 4 on how we're not supposed to be using the word. Notice, let's just look at 1b. As I urged you when I went into Macedonia, remain in Ephesus that you may charge some that they teach no other doctrine. Nor give heed to fables and endless genealogies. And then notice how it's not profitable, but instead look at what it produces. These kinds of conversations which cause disputes rather than godly edification, which is in faith. Now that word edification is a construction term. It means to build up. Like you're building a house. I mean it's used for building a house. So here we have disputes which are tearing down houses. It's not building anybody up. So you could work from effect back to cause and check yourself on some of your conversations. You know, and uh maybe we shouldn't be talking about some of the things that we try to talk about. Okay. So here's the main question, Roman numeral number two on page number three How does the Son, by the Spirit and His Word, minister to his people with the doctrine of creation? This is very exciting to me, by the way. So even if well, I hope this is profitable to you. Okay, so here's the first one that I want us to take a look at. And I give you a little summary and then we're going to look at the verses. Since the Creator is our Redeemer, we should be comforted in a world of insecurity. So who would like to read Isaiah forty-four, twenty-four? Nice and loud. I'll read it. Yeah, great. And what I want you to take note of is I want you to look at how these inspired authors handle the Word of God. Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, and he who formed you from the womb, I am the Lord who makes all things, who stretches out the heavens all alone, who spreads abroad. Okay, and I wanted to read this in so you can get the sense of what Isaiah is preaching at this point. I wanted someone to read Ruth four thirteen through fifteen. So Gaussi took root, and she became his wife. And when he went into her, the Lord gave her conception, and she bore a son. Then the women said to Naomi, Let the feel the Lord, who is not let you stay without a close relative from the Dima. May his name be famous Israel. And may he be to you a restorer of light and a nourisher of your old age, for your God and one who loves you, who is God Alrighty. What what's the connection that we should be making to see what the Lord is communicating to Isaiah for his people under affliction? And then we can draw implications ourselves. Well in the in the translation we write a good same theme. Right. We try to get the idea Yeah, but in terms of the other one, yeah. Okay, very good. That's a good start. Excellent. So keep going with that. If this is too easy, we'll move on. As our Redeemer creation shows his power and majesty to accomplish his end. So we can rest assured Yeah, very good. Okay, that's a uh you just kinda like did all the work right there. That was great. And I I love taking it down into the um into the sweet intimate realm uh between uh well in the book of ruth that we see with Boaz taking Ruth and then the security um that is gained for Niab Yes. Well jumping on what you said earlier about when the redeemer redeemed his or fruit. It what? Okay Yeah, very good. Yeah, when the Redeemer Redeemed it bore fruit. And in that story there's lots of fruit going on. There's fields, which I think should evoke the idea of creation. Here's a man who was able to take dirt and make something out of it. so that it can bless all those who are in that domain, even the foreigner. And that is a reflection of God Himself, who makes uninhabitable space habitable and And uh creates food for the creatures in that area. That's Boaz. Boaz is a image of God in that story. Yeah, and you have in the beginning of the story how there was expanding And then we have Nayoki finding out that God had left her land with um a harvest. Yeah. So she decides to Yeah, and I think if you're reading the scriptures correctly, this story of Ruth should take you to the creation account. And that's in fact what it does in the book of Isaiah. There's a direct link which uh Dave somehow. For us. We should be thinking about the Creator and how He cares for us. That's part of what it means to be a Redeemer. Yes. Well, also our redeemer Christ came as a result of this redemption that's being here. Um God's whole plan announced to have me have a curse. Yeah, he is ablely bringing that forth. And we can jump into our Trinitarian concepts now and we could ask the question Now you understand the deep sense of this word. Is Christ sufficient to redeem his church in the thick sense that we see here? Well then you turn to him as creator and you say, of course he is. And then he asks the second question, is he efficient to do so? Well yes, he is. He has showed us his love by coming to take upon himself our human nature and then you see him interact with his people and what he's like. Okay. So emphasizes that he Yes. Yeah, and there's actually more there. If you wanted to read more of the Isaiah, uh there's more allusions to him being the creator, and this should bring us comfort and security. That he is the kinsman redeemer who in fact can take care of his church. Now there's more that has to go along with that message if you're wise Because oftentimes God makes you wait, and when we have to wait, one of the first thoughts we have is He doesn't take care of us or that He can't. And we have to work But here we want to land on this and see that God is our security and that we should gain confidence in this. by way of him being the creator. Okay, so here's another one. Since God is our creator, we must worship or we must adore him in worship, even in our postures in worship. Who would like to read Revelation 4, 9 through 11? Whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him, who sits on the throne, who lives forever and ever. The 24 elders fall down before him, who sits on the throne and worship him, who lives forever and ever, and cast their crowns before the throne, saying, You are worthy, O Lord. To receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they exist and were created. Whew. Okay, so what's the basis of their adoration? There's several things. What is the basis of their adoration? God created it and as obtained all things. Yeah, him as creator and provider, or the one who upholds all things. When when we see those whom we should emulate. Interacting with the doctrine of creation, or learning this about their God, they have to prostrate themselves and adore Him Now that can be a really great lithmus test for if we understand the doctrine of creation. When you learn this of your God, are you led to prostration and worship? Well the answer is, well, sometimes. Uh but now we see where we should go. Yes. We are involved with a crown, but that was Yeah, and we are excited for me that's glory is we need to do it all in front of the side. Well it tail it just tails in comparison Right. And we end up seeing who the primary cause of all these things are anyway, though there's great glory in being a secondary cause. Right? To have secondary agency. beautiful thing. Okay, very good. I want to keep going. I hope that these things are refreshing to you and you can see how what it looks like to really handle the word well. So I hope that you can reflect on that last one. What is, as you're taught in the catechism, this teaching about God as creator and doing his work of creation and providence? What is it that you need to do to get to the point where you're adoring him? What's missing? To talk with you more about that. You can also at another time look at Psalm 148. It's an extended praise of God who is the Creator. Actually, let's just do that. Let's look at Psalm one forty eight. What we want to do is we want to look at these other people reading and applying the scripture so that we can learn how to read and apply the scripture like them. Who would like to read where did I get where did I go? Yeah. Okay. Well, what's that? Yeah. Who would like to read that? That's fine. It's kind of long. I'll read it. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord from the heavens. Praise him in the heights. Praise Him all His angels. Praise Him all His hosts. Praise him, sun and moon. Praise him all you stars of light. If this is in sequential order, when were the angels created? Anyway, it's his interest. Interesting. Let's keep going. Praise him, you heavens of heavens, and you waters above the heavens. You see what he's doing though, right? with the framework. Let them praise the name of the Lord, for he commanded and they were created. He also established them forever and ever. He made a decree which shall not pass away. Praise the Lord from the earth, you great sea creatures and all the depths, fire and hail, snow and clouds, stormy wind. Fulfilling his word, mountains and all hills, fruitful trees and all cedars, beasts and all cattle, creeping things and flying fowl, kings of the earth and all peoples. Notice we moved into the dominion on the sixth day. Princes and all judges of the earth, both you men and maidens, old men and creation, uh and children, sorry, let them praise the name of the Lord, for his name alone is exalted, his glory is above the earth and heaven. And he has exalted the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints. O the children of Israel, a people near to him, praise the Lord. So when he goes through the creation account, it is just an extended praise, especially when he does not just declare that he is God, but that he is his God. The God of the people. See that connection right there? Okay. So that's another good one. And that is an interesting question that he starts with the angels and the hosts before the sun and the moon. And you'll see some of the church fathers play with that. At another day. Okay. Um letter C on page three. Since God is our Creator, we must repent quickly and enter into humility before Him. Who would like to read that one from Amos 4, 11 through 13? Christina, go ahead. Like a firebrand flesh from the burning. Yet you have not returned to me, says the Lord. Therefore, thus will I do to you, O Israel, because I will do this to you. Prepare to be your God, O Israel Israel, for behold, he who forms the mountains and creates the wind, who declares the man that his what his thought is, and makes the morning darkness, who treads the highest Okay. So how would you summarize that relative to him being a creator? What's being brought out here? And the c him as creator is being used in service of something. Get ready with things uh which will be responsive to We should be responsive to his actions. Try to tie do you see do you see him as creator in this passage? Yes, Dave. Um I see the same thing that I think I see more clearly in Joseph when he's finally confronted by God and become humbled by it. God uses that same approach of where were you when I did all these things. Oh great. Thanks for bringing that up. We're we're nothing we're and that means Joe Yeah. Yeah, I was foolish to speak before you, and then what Amos will bring out for the people is it's foolish for you to keep running headlong against him And then if you do return for repentance, just know I mean be still and know that he is God. I mean there's this uh Yeah. So hopefully that can be useful to you as you If you're running headlong into sin now just remember who you're running headlong against. Yes, Marilyn. When it talks about being a fire brain cut from the burning holds you out. Uh huh. This is a res the response of the repentance. Certainly appropriate. I mean it's inappropriate not to resent at that point. Yeah. Right. Yeah, it is. Okay, let's keep going with me. Hopefully we'll get a couple more here. Uh letter D. Since God is our creator, we are called to live in accordance with his will. And I'll read this one for you. Your hands have made me and fashioned me. Give me understanding that I may learn your commandments. Again, what we're doing is we're looking to see all of the implications that the divine authors use or draw out relative to God as creator. And here we have him fashioning a human being. And because he is the creator, this doesn't always click with us. We have a responsibility to do his will. There is an obligation automatically in that relation. So if you were to say, well, what are my responsibilities if you are my father? Well, we get that idea. You know, the child is supposed to honor the father. Well that, even itself, is coming from what is the responsibility between the creature and his creator? And it is to do the will of the Creator. Yes. Oh, very good. Go ahead. Or if uh or if the fine owner of the finger puts people in charge of it. So then, you know, nobody wants to see how it's alone and sends people in So basically just not taking proper care and trying to disturb uh the owner's authority and control within your own Yeah, very good. So then now we would turn that to the owner of the vineyard as the great creator over the vineyard of the world. And then we are given as the caretakers of the world. And we are to do his will with his vineyard. So that's another implication of the doctrine of creation that we see used by the scriptural authors. How are we doing here? Is this profitable for you to see how the authors of Scripture use this doctrine of creation? There's probably a thousand more examples. Um let me give you one more and then if there's any steak and eggs out there you Yes, I'm sorry. Oh okay. Okay, great. Uh and it was during the reading of Revelation, okay, well when were the He he skips over when were the angels made. So uh verse one of chapter two uh puts that sort of in the sixth day. Because there's a recap of the sixth day that's very short. Um and it says, oh I just went away from it. Thus the heavens and the earth and all the host of them for a finish. Yeah, and that either so you're t you're you're saying maybe this is uh is you let's just put it in the form of a question. I think it's really helpful at this stage Were the an is this a reference to when the angels were made? We could ask another question and say, or is this a summary of all that he had made and they were made? made on a different day. That's a good question. And and and I'd like to keep we'll we'll keep thinking about that. It's gonna we'll have to go outside of Genesis to answer it. Good. Thank you. Very good. I'm glad you're attentive to the text. Okay. Let's do one more. E. Since God is our creator, he expects us to create in his image in wisdom. Now this is a more complex kind of chain argument. Here, okay? And so um let me just point it out to you very quickly. Proverbs three nineteen through twenty, the Lord by wisdom founded the earth. So there's our reference to the creation. Okay? But then I want you to notice this triplet that comes along with it, this triplex. By understanding, he established the heavens. By his knowledge, the depths were broken up. By his knowledge were, I'm sorry, wisdom founded the earth, by understanding he established the heavens, by his knowledge the depths were broken up, and clouds dropped down the dew. Wisdom, understanding, knowledge. Alrighty. So staying in the same book of Proverbs, we go to chapter 24, and we see the picture is of a young Israelite. who has been given land, but the land is not producing anything. It is um shapeless and void, so to speak. Now look at this. Through wisdom a house is built. Think a state. Okay, think a state or ranch. And by understanding, It is established and by knowledge. So now we've moved from an uninhabitable place to a place where the estate is built. And that by knowledge, the final reference, it is working so well that the rooms are filled with all precious and pleasant riches. riches. Things are going so well that I can have a daughter sitting in the living room reading Pride and Prejudice. You see what I'm saying? Instead of always putting her hand to the plow. going that well. I think there's a lot of people that have said a nation in decline can no longer study theology and philosophy. And so here's that picture. And then you have the opposite in the same chapter in Proverbs 24, where those who are not virtuous or wise When they are given the inheritance, they allow what has been created or made by wisdom, knowledge, and understanding to be decreated back into the formless and the void. And the main virtue that accomplishes this most readily is called laziness. I went by the field that notice there's a field again, like the earth is a field. Went by the field of the lazy man and by the vineyard of the man devoid of understanding. See the reference there? Again, to how God does things as opposed to this. And there it was, all overgrown with thorns. Its surface was covered with nettles. Its stone wall was broken down. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hand to rest, so shall your poverty come like a prowler, and your need like an armed man. So he ends up being robbed. By the robber called laziness. That's the whole idea. And it is not how God does things. God is diligent Okay, and let's go ahead and stop there. Go ahead and and look at these other two. Oh, that's so funny. I didn't go over the Sabbath with you in person. Well, you'll have to read that one. And then um What's that? Well maybe we'll pick it up next week and then we'll go I want to go on to the next article though. So try to read this on your own with the weekly rhythm of work and rest. My main argument here is that the creation account is also An ethical document showing you how you are to be. I've already started to show you that through Proverbs, that you're supposed to work like God, and the argument here is that you are to rest like Him And then the last one is 1 Corinthians 15, 35 through 49. Since God is our creator, we can have confidence that God can recreate and reembody the new world and all those who have died. This is an appeal to the resurrection of the dead. Okay, let's pray. Father, we thank you for the example of those who you have given to your church who know how to handle your word well. We pray, Lord, that you would teach us through this good handling of your word. We pray that I pray that your congregation would profit from it And then I pray also, Lord, as they look at the example of these teachers, that as they have to teach students or their children or whoever, that they would handle the word well like this also. Especially at this point, the word that you are the creator of heaven and earth, and that you uphold all things. We ask you in the name of Christ. Amen.