Service today. When I went on the Southern Presbyterian Theology Tour, we toured different churches, and the churches at least in Charleston rented the pews. And the prices differed relative to the location of the wood stove in the sanctuary. The price actually dropped if you got too close. And it dropped if you were too far away and there was just bridge people in the perfect space close to the wood stove. And they also used to heat up bricks and And then um put them down on the floor and they'd have blankets over their legs and anyway, it's kinda interesting. Different now. I thought about selling these chairs to you, but what's that, Carol? Bri a warm brick? These? Huh? Cool. Okay, let's pray. Lord, we thank you for this morning that you've given to us. We pray that you'd help us to not only understand your word, uh as if we're just English majors, but really to uh understand you, that by your word you would lead us to you And we pray, Christ Jesus, that you would accomplish this by way of your spirit when we ask these things in your name. Okay, so we've come to question number 10 this morning. I'd like to do a quick review, so let's take a look at the shorter catechism. If you don't have a shorter catechism, there is one in the back of the Trinity Hymnal, and the Trinity hymnals are in the back of the sanctuary. So we started off with asking the question, uh, what is the chief end of man? And here we see that the chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. We spend a lot of time thinking about our location or place within the world and how we're re supposed to have horizontal relationships, but there's also a vertical relationship that even determines All of the things horizontally, so to speak, and that that is given to us in the creation account. Creation account is really a revelation of God's divine order. And how things are meant to be. We then uh the confession then leads us into asking, well, how are we to glorify him or to know how to glorify him? enjoy him? What rule has God given to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy him? And the answer that we give as Christians Is that the Word of God, which is contained in the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, is the only rule to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him. The uh which then moved us into, well, what do those scriptures principally teach? If that's where we have to go to know how to glorify and enjoy him. W if you ha if you read the whole thing, is there a way in that whole canon that you could summarize its teaching? What are the main things that it teaches? And the answer given in our conf our shorter catechism is that the scriptures principally teach what man is to believe concerning God and what duty God requires of man. And we looked at how Paul taught the same thing to Timothy by saying by dividing the whole thing into faith and love. So that question number three ends up being a crossroads When you come to question number three, you're now going to have the opportunity to go down several different lanes of understanding. And the first one is, well, what do we believe concerning God? And then when we get to question 38 of the shorter catechism, I believe it is 38, we'll then ask to start asking the question, well, what does God require of us? So there'll be an exposition of the Ten Commandments, we'll see our responsibilities in listening to the Word of God and the taking of the sacraments and prayer. But here we're going down just the first path, which is what do we believe concerning God? So that brought us into question number four, which you know quite naturally we're going to ask, well, what is God? We gave an answer that is what is the common essence between all of the persons God is a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit all share these. And that is not a great way to express that doctrine. They are equal, they have the common essence equal in power and glory. All right, so um there we go. So then when in question number five, we start to get into the uh Kind of apologetic question, are there more gods than one? There is but one only, the living and true God. And this is unique to the Christian confession when we get to question number six, is that not only do we profess to be monotheists in the sense of There's one God, but we also are are that there are three persons, and that's why as Christians we profess the triune God, one and three, the the Trinity. So we say how many per how many persons are there in the Godhead? There are three persons in the Godhead, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. And these three are one God, the same in substance, equal in power and glory. When we're talking about God that way, we're speaking of the revelation that's been given to us of God in Himself. And we labeled that as ad intra, or you know, like the just in and of himself When we get to question number seven, we're now going to start to see what we call the economy of God proper. which is going to be the work of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Irenaeus talked about this in terms of God the Father and his two hands. And it begins with the decrees of God. What are the decrees of God? The decrees of God are his eternal purpose according to the kingdom. Counsel of his will, whereby for his own glory he has foreordained whatsoever comes to pass. So that's the general definition. Then we're going to ask, well, how does God execute those decrees? God executes his decrees in the works of creation and providence. So now you have a second crossroads within the first crossroads, and we could start to draw this like a family tree if you wanted to You would have the scriptures and then they teach us two things about God and what it what he requires of us and then we start to learn about God until we get to the fact that he uh executes his decrees in two ways. And you can start to create this this um pattern that looks like a family tree. The two ways by the way of God executing his decrees are what? What are the two principal ways? Creation. Creation and providence. Very good. Yep. And by the way, if you look through the literature, the word providence is also is usually synonymous with the word economy. in the way we were using it before. And another word also substituted for providence or economy is history. That's how we view that as Christians, is that history is God's working out all things. That's why history is there. Time and space. Okay. So we're focused then on the first execution. of his decree, which is his work of creation. And the work of creation is God's making all things of nothing by the word of his power in the space of six days. and all very good. So as a quick review, how would you support the idea of God's making all things of nothing? This doesn't need to be complicated. Okay, Genesis one one. All right, very good. What are the the two ways in which we hear about God making things, however? Right, by the word of his power, but um there's the out of nothing, but then there's also another way that is more regularly talked about. The idea of fashioning or forming that um initial uh form Formless and void is then fashioned and shaped into habitable spaces where people can be blessed. Okay, and where would we turn to find the idea of that he does this by the word of his power? I'm sorry? Okay That's true in the sense of we start to see that the the idea of the word as the Lagos or Logos who is is the one who has created all things by way of his by way of the spirit. There's another place also that is speaking about the divine imperative. Genesis one where God spoke. Gary? Hebrews eleven. Hebrews eleven. You can read it if you like. Oh. This is why you have a helpmate. Monica, could you read uh Hebrews eleven three in the English for us? Oh, are you looking at the French also? Oh okay. Okay. And this anybody have any English translations this morning? Go for it, Cheryl. Yeah. But they understand that the universe was created by the Word of God so that what it seems was seen with the right thing. Okay, yeah. Alright. So then uh the next one is um what would you say it means by an all very good? Okay, very good. And then we could talk about what he means by that, right? And where do you get the idea of in the space of six days. Because that's the way it's put in Genesis 1. And then we can argue about it from there. Okay. Very good. And uh Okay. Great. Uh what we did with the what we'll call the doctrine of creation, what we had what we did last time before the break from s for two weeks was we really just wanted to look at not how have we decided in our culture to use the creation account, but when we look at the scriptures themselves, how have the inspired authors used the creation account? And we saw a lot of different ways where they were using the creation account to strengthen the church, whether it was repentance or how we are to work. Um it really ended up being a l uh what I argued for was that it's a law text also. In other words, here we see God, and since we're made in his image, we are to work like him. And Christ by His Spirit is making that possible. Okay, so this morning we're going to see how this goes. This morning we're moving into question number 10. How did God create man? God created man, male and female, after his own image in knowledge, righteousness, and holiness with dominion over the creatures. I'm not going to address knowledge, righteousness, and holiness this morning. Because we largely did that in the last time we looked at the creation account. We looked at what would it mean to be to work in God's image and And we developed these ideas pretty well already. They come from Ephesians and from Colossians. And the whole idea that we see what Paul is doing is he's saying, um, well, let me put it this way. If you look at the Genesis account at the creation of man, You're not going to find Moses saying that we were created in knowledge, righteousness, and holiness. You're not going to find those exact words there. But when we get to Paul, and Paul is reflecting on our creation by way of thinking about how we're recreated and brought back into that image. um more fully. He speaks about it in terms of knowledge, righteousness, and holiness. And so what you see here in the catechism is that they're connecting the dots for us. And saying, well, what whatever it means to be in his image, Paul conceptualizes it by not knowledge, righteousness, and holiness. And then what we would want to do is gather up all of the scriptures that talk about those same things. to see what they're talking about. But I think we largely did that last time we were together. But you're welcome to continue to do that study. I want to focus this morning really on just God creating man, male and female. It's a pretty hot topic, um, strangely enough in our culture. Just the idea of Male and female. I think there's a pretty um popular conservative documentary called What is a Woman? Uh so these are the kinds of questions that are surfacing right now for us. I thought it would be a good idea for us to take a look at, well, what does the scriptures have to say about that? And I don't think we need to get too complicated. So what I'd like to do this morning then, yes. Did you see the new story from the last day or two for the legendable and Thompson? um filtration was happening and we don't get into reading on the scripture and the activist came and George Webbox and one of the speakers Really? Wow. So you're blaring signs in these ears and Pardon? Jeremiah. Well Jeremiah and also um John in the Revelation, but I think they were probably doing something different than the activists. A was actually probably I don't know, I mean poetry is today. Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead and swallow the scripture. Go ahead. See what happens to you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah, with the sweet. Yeah. Uh-huh. I don't think that's the case that is gonna help us understand her though. Yeah, so let me do this. Uh I expect that. Uh it was nice. It was like a all these I heard all this fire That was good. So let's just stop for a second and look at the crowd or the picture that was painted by Grace. What are you supposed to do with those people? What are they primarily displaying? They're very emotional. Do you agree? So I think that's an interesting observation that they're just really emotional. And then once they calm down and they can start to order their emotions instead of being dominated by them. them, what do you think is going to come of it? How do you what do you think they'll start to say? I think that'll help us to understand maybe where they're coming from. instead of just being emotional right back at them. I think the emotions are there and they're meant to be ordered. So I don't know if that's valuable to you, but that's how I'm starting to look at it, instead of um being reactionary. Yes. So they're creating the money. Not that you were telling me to be reactionary Grace. Thank you so much for letting us know. It is a hot topic. It is. Yeah. That's a scripture indoctrinated man. Yes. Um I don't I don't deny that, but the scriptures goes on to expound and explain even further in Genesis two, when man and woman, the two things of creation made in God's image, are the two things that weren't really made of nothing. They were made of something that God had already created. Yeah. Man out of the dust of the earth and then woman even further to expound the position uh that woman came from and from the ribs. So I just think that's interesting because Because they're the only two beings that were made in God's image, yet were made of something else. That's interesting. I agree. Yeah, that's good. Okay, so I want to look at what do the scriptures say about male and female. It's uh been demonstrated that this is a hot Male and female. And then uh I would and then I want us to consider a question relative to something we talked about in creation. And that is that we in God's image are supposed to take those things that are like barren wildernesses and shape and form them into hospitable places. I want to look at that in relationship to the doctrine of male and female. And then I want to look at two court cases on a transsexual reassignment. And I want to us to I I I really don't think I'm going to come to too many conclusions on those court cases. I don't think we're equipped to do that, but I do want you to s to toss around some of these concepts. and get used to how people are using them today and then let's bring it back over to the scriptures. At least start to do that. Transsexualism now is different than the court cases that I'm going to give to you. The court cases, believe it or not, are from the seventies and uh it's been around um at least that long. Uh and now it's become a little bit more complicated, but it'll nevertheless be good fodder for discussion. Okay, so let's go ahead and jump right in. I'm just going to read from actually I'm going to ask you to read from here and then we're going to discuss each paragraph briefly. And we'll eventually get to talking about the case studies. So who would like to read the first paragraph that begins, God created man, male, and female, and then in our culture, comma? All right, Cheryl. Thanks. Yeah. In our culture we must What did these terms mean? A few weeks ago we dwelled on the idea of creation and to create. In one sense, it meant to make something. In another sense, to create means to for or shape something. The image we used was from Jeremiah 4, 23 through 26. The picture is of decreation, but it gives us a sense of creation as the meaning of Any comments? This is what we do in grad class. You read a paragraph and you talk about it. So what would you say do you have anything to say about this first paragraph? It was largely review. Cheryl, I really like how you read. I think you should be our reader today. Okay, so go ahead and take us into the second Uh and let's see if anybody has anything to say about that one. Oh, you did on the first one? Go ahead, please. When you ask what do these terms mean, implies that they have meaning Yeah? Yeah, and the veragraph, the first term in this paragraph is the word to create. That's the first term we're looking at, and it was defined in two ways. out of nothing is one sense of what it means to create. But then we also saw that the word create or make was used in the sense of forming or shaping a pre-existent substance. And that's the example that Duane gave to us. From the dust of the ground or from the side of the man. Yep, that's right. So we're male and female. Correct. And I'm trying to eliminate the ambiguity. And what I meant in the paragraph was not just to define the terms male and female, but a whole a series of terms beginning Okay. Yeah. I my my my um when I use the word these I realize there's an ambiguity because the direct antecedent is male and female As opposed to all the terms that we've been dealing with in Genesis that are important. Okay. Cheryl. With this sense in mind, we are face to face. Form of humanity. God, in fact, like a potter, shapes man from the dust of the ground according to the two seconds. God next builds and fashions the woman Her creation is described in Genesis two, twenty through twenty two. Okay, so let's go ahead and take a look at that. I read for like the last ten years. Yeah, okay. All right, let's look at first at 2. 7, just so you can have this in your mind. And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground. And breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living being Alright, and then let's look at the formation of woman or the making of woman. Genesis 2, 20 through 22. So Adam gave names to all the cattle, to the birds of the air, and to the beasts of the field, but for Adam there was not found a helper comparable to him. And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam, and he slept. And he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh in its place. Now that's quite the sleep, by the way. Okay. Then the rib which the Lord God had taken from the man, he made into a woman, and he brought her to the man, and Adam said, and then it's in the form of poetic verse. And I would like you to notice in verse 23 in as poetic stanzas that he goes right to the idea of his rib. This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh, because she was taken out of me. And we know that when he says that, he's saying more than she's. What are bones made out of? She's my calcium. She's not just trying to be l he's not just trying to be literal and scientific. that these words are significant of much more of what's going on in God's economy. And they will in fact be used by our Lord himself in Matthew 19. To help the Pharisees to reunderstand God's intent from the beginning for marriage. Right? So this is more than just about anatomy. It's not an anatomy class, primarily. Um but the okay so any comments on that paragraph and then those and those two verses Right now we're just establishing that God has made or fashioned. He didn't do an ex ni hello with man and woman. Mike? significant that God made man out of dust and then woman out of out of man's room. Uh-huh. And he certainly could have formed her So the significance and the connection of that is what you were talking about. Very, very Yeah. Yep. And I my hope is that we would one day be able to get into that because if you start to look at the Apostle Paul and what he does with these passages He starts to show the relationship that's supposed to exist between the man and the woman, both in the home and in the church. And he shows what the relationship between the man and the woman signify about the entire purpose of history. and the relationship between the new Adam and his bride, the church. So there's a lot of different things going on here. I think there's so much to it that we're learning all Yes. Well I agree. I think so too. And one of my hopes is to start bringing the uh meaning out of these things to help the church today see, well, where do women belong for example in the worship service. A lot of discussions on that, and we're kind of confused about it. You know? So yes. My eyes were against brief under me. Oh yeah. do was to play the tryout against the part the correlation between that and the real remote. Yeah. Clash. And I I never saw that I always solved that Yeah. Yeah, isn't that fun when God does that? He just lets you see how his thoughts are connected. What a privilege. That was so cool, Joy. Yeah, that's great. And his name, Adam is uh so it's uh ha ha uh uh adama, right? And he's And it's one translator, he's a a Jewish guy out of Berkeley, does a good job of catching the poetic part of the Genesis when he says The human, God made the human out of humus. And the humus is that idea of the soil and the clay. And then you're bringing in the sh the what potters do with it. Yeah, that's really neat. So yes, Christina. When you talked about creation, the idea that God is also continually creating like our creation is towards the end and revelation as well. He continued to build up and that as male and female we talk about it so much in the negative terms of the restrictions and what we're not allowed to do that here we can there is a vision to capture of him continually continuing to build something beautiful and more up in male and female together and then the way they work together and uh just the Roman Catholic in fact who are we to say you know that the that the pottery is wrong so it's a positive vision that's the vision vision not bearing under the burden but fully entering into the glory that is intended for Yeah, I think that's good. And you use the word submission. And that's another thing that really needs to be worked on these days. that word is meant to care that word is meant to refer to a relationship between the two sexes in marriage, at least That's one example. But what is that relationship referring to? A lot of the times we end up seeing people thinking they don't know what to do with it, and it ends up being more like a master's slave relationship or something. But it doesn't say master slave. Right? So it's it's different. It's it's interesting. That needs to be worked out. I would say the whole idea of creation has been But rather like dwelling in his glorious creation as he has ordered That's good. And it's a positive. And I think there probably that is Also the direction to go I think that is very similar. Yeah, very good. I like the way you put that too. That's good. Any other Dave. Um I'm gonna G go a couple words further, but Okay. And then you have uh Adams go back other than That's then usually by the author. That's the basis of marriage relieving and cleaving, but what I want to keep on is totally one flesh Yeah. This idea of marriage being this made of the same substance. And that that making woman out of man rather than out of the dust Yeah, I believe so too. It's supposed to be able to for us to root these kind of things in an ontology, as opposed to like a social construct. to put it in today's parlance. Um and you know uh Paul picks up on the same thing because he says uh do we hate our own flesh? And that's what he that's the deep that's the thick thing he's getting to. You know? Thanks, Dave. That's great. Isn't it cool too how many times uh we see the canon referring back to the creation account? I think it just holds a place in the Christian faith more than is recognized sometimes. The answers are here. So yes, I'll do the last one with Marilyn. Um I kinda want to combine the last three Okay. Um what's the last thing you just said? Uh, you can do whatever you want. So um well I was thinking well going back to the idea of um Um submission and the fact that oh, hanging our own flesh. There's what our own. Because that's what our culture is encouraging people to do. They are not willing to submit even to what their own flesh tells them That the potter has made them to be a male or a female. And they have something inside them that says, I feel More like a male, even though my body says I'm a female, therefore maybe the potter made a mistake. And um And then I as Christina was talking, I was thinking about maybe we're obviously we're off our culture's off in their definition Like I'm saying inside myself, I feel like the other gender. Maybe I don't understand what my gender should have been then maybe my my thoughts of of male and female have been so distorted by my culture that I'm saying, well to be a man needs to be rulers but it wants to be needs to be played, um going back to that and then submission even in our definitions, in our internal definitions. um is we're eating we're ripping the pigs out the Bible and trying to eat 'em get rid of 'em. Yeah. Um and and as as single totally out of sync with the creator. Yeah. I mean the only way to be happy in Jesus is just an obey, right? To to be in submission to what God has created us and extended some bath but we we come fully into who we were intended to be. Yeah. In harmony with ourselves um by listening to the scriptures and and and and Joyfully becoming a thing with that. Right. By way of the spirit. Because he's the only one that can allow us to do that, as you know. I like the way you put it, where we are, you said we are out of sync with the created order. And I would like to emphasize that that's a big we. We tend to focus on those who are wrestling with the psychology of their gender and then the given sexuality that they have. But guess what? The we include them us too, because there's nobody in this room that is comfortable or not in tension with God's created order in some way. Maybe not in those radical ways that are new to us. that are really challenging, but in some way, I guarantee you you're wrestling with God's created order. Yes, Duane, and then I gotta go pull back to my phone and nine point Can you hold on? Do you mind? Please. Because I actually said that she should be the last one, and then you're like naming all the verses I'm getting ready to do. Yeah. Okay. Thank thank you. I appreciate it. Okay, so let's keep going. We're already getting in into the two lessons, I can feel it. Go ahead, Charles. Male and female show that the terms refer to two heterosexually ordered biological sexes of individuals, humans, and animals. Don't worry about that. Keep it going. Denoting the sexes of humans, Genesis 5, 2, 6, 19, Libya 12, 7, 7, etc. As well as with animals, Genesis seven, three, nine, fifteen, etc. In short, it is used for the fa in short, it is used for the male sex with Yeah, male and female. So let's take a look at some of those scriptures. We usually don't get the opportunity or the time to do this, so let's just take a look. And see, all I'm doing at this point is I'm taking the Hebrew word, male and female, from our Genesis passage, and I want to look at how else it's used in other places of Scripture And my argument to you is it's really clearly just saying How do I say this? Um referring to their biological sexes. Sorry. Yeah. I had Yep, let's just keep going. Alright, Genesis 5. 2. Let's look at that one first, and I'll I'll just read these so that we can keep moving. He created them male and female and blessed them. uh and called them mankind in the day they were created. So that's one place where we see it. Okay, and I'm going to keep going. I did want you to notice in verse 3 how we immediately start moving into the idea of natural generation, which is what uh girl parts and boy parts are for. Okay, so number three, and Adam lived 130 years and begot a son in his own likeness. Okay, and then I want to move into Genesis six nineteen. Here we see the story of Noah. But I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall go into the ark. You, your sons, your wife, your sons' wives with you, and of every th living thing of all flesh, you shall bring two of every sort into the ark, to keep them alive with you, they shall be male and female Well to keep them alive, what do we mean by male and female there? What's that? Yeah, re- the the reproducing parts. Right? Yeah. That's that's pr I think it's pretty obvious. Okay. Uh Leviticus twelve seven. And then we'll jump back Then he shall offer it before the Lord and make atonement for her, and she shall be clean from the flow of her blood. This is the law for her who has born a male or a female. And this is going to be referring to the obvious identification of the sex of the child. They're not at this point asking the child, psychologically, how do you feel? They're just looking and they're saying, well we know what that one is. Oh we're looking and we know what that one is. Right? Okay, because there's uh uh obvious biological markers. Okay, let's take a look at Genesis 73. We'll pop back there. Um you shall, I'll start with two. You shall take with you seven of each, uh seven each of every clean animal, a male and his female. two each of animals that are unclean, a male and his female, also seven birds of the air, male and female, and then notice the emphasis, to keep the species alive on all the face of the earth. Right, so again we're talking about the reproductive qualities of animals, uh girl parts and boy parts. It's how my kids learn to talk about it when they're growing up. Girl parts, boy parts. Okay. And then we can look at verse 9 of the same chapter. Two by two they went into the Ark of Noah, male and female. As God had commanded. These are the same Hebrew terms. Verse 16. So those that entered, male and female, of all flesh, went in as God had commanded him, and the Lord shut him in. Okay, so in short, it is used for the male sex when sexual sting male and female sex when sexual distinctions are in view. Now, I won't get into this this morning, but we could talk about it another time. The words when it says that he created man and then he created woman from man. The Hebrew words there are not male and female. They are ish for man, and then because she is taken from him, it's isha. And so even in the language you can hear that the two are of each other. Ish and Isha. That's how it comes off in the Hebrew. Okay, Sheryl, take us away. Before the break, we compared Proverbs 3, 8, and 24 to the creation account, discovering the creation account with karma as to the meaning of the image of God. We learn how We are to imitate God and how He forms and shapes chaos, barren soil, into a fruitful farm, blessing the society of animals and animals. This is true, but we must be careful given the spirit of the age. Let me, for example, ask a question. Are there some parts of the creation that are now that are not raw materials for us? Yeah, so let's just stop there for a second. That's the question of the age. So this is why we have to be careful is because we just talked you okay? Uh we're yeah no we're working on it. I don't know what to do. Uh no, you don't need to be sorry. I feel bad for you over there. There you go, Bill. Ish and Isha. Nice. Good example. Okay. So uh okay, we'll just keep going. This is an important question given our current honey. And our advances in technology. Let me show you what I mean. Okay, so now we have two cases. So the reason why these cases are coming up is because now we as human beings made in the image of God do have an inner impulse An instinct to take those things which are unformed and shape them. Now imagine that impulse alongside of Technological advancement alongside of a sinful heart. And the question that ends up arising in our day and age is: are there some things that should not be re-shaped? shaped, but only accepted as creational gifts? That's the question Yes. Are there some things that sh that's the question and then I want to look at the two case studies so that we can and maybe we'll have to do this next week before We can look at case studies to see, well, how does the world think about this and how does that compare to how we think about it? How would we instruct them from the struggles that they're having? Cheryl, you were going to say something? I was just going to ask is Um in light of that question, is it because there are things is it because creation was made good? And so those aren't things that need to be reshaped and reformed, but rather like through the history of God's people learning to subdue those things and have to make an over those things, whether it's like animals or the fields or just human sexuality that like man was made good woman was made good what them in relationship to one another looks like was always good it it's just that sort of history of the church learning to glory in the obedience of it as we learn it from, I mean like currently from God's Word. Or you know, not even in relation to one another, just like as a standalone world. And so perhaps that's why we're in this business of kind of hating female or hating male or whatever. But like if if the church would remember no These things were made good, so they don't need to be reformed or redone. We just need to relearn Let's put it like this. Can we answer the question by turning to the word good in Genesis? Can will the word good in Genesis help us to answer this question? question. Yes. I think so. I think that's the question you're asking. Yeah, and I think it goes to the positive aspect that Christina was bringing up is that it's two sides of a coin. Yeah. we can see really obviously the negative side of like don't do it this way. Right. But there's also this positive kind of like the law, there's like the doubt shelf not but there's also the other side of that point is the positive aspect of the life. How about we learn and really grasp and hold on tightly so what God intended for females to be, what God intended for males to be, and then just like obey it so hard that it's compelling to the world as opposed to Perhaps we've just fallen as people so letting it get muddled and muddy where there's not a clear distinction And the good is lost. Yeah, and I think that's because some of the difficult cases that arise for every human being. Do you mind if I share a couple of difficult cases? Okay. So there's a couple case studies that are coming up, but I want to share, in light of this question, I want to share with you the kind of the field of things that human beings struggle with. with. So for example, I think really what we're asking the question is, is what is real? What is a real thing? All right. We're we're we're s asking it by way of saying, are there some things that can't be r should not be reshaped? Okay. So let me put just give you a couple cases, not even these yet. Is a genetically modified tomato a real tomato? What about corn? What about all of the various species of dogs that we have created? Was that dog meant to be reshaped the way that you'd reshaped it? Yeah. So those are some you you can start to answer those kinds of things. Here's another now notice how all of these things are connected with man and his technology. How is the tomato genetically modified? How? Because I think that matters. I don't know, but I don't want to get into these particular cases. I'm just sharing with you that there's a lot of cases in the uh that we deal with that can m start to make this more complicated than you think. Another one and another the other thing I wanted you to notice is notice how they're all connected with technology. We are becoming capable of doing certain things. In other words, we can do certain things, but then the question becomes, should we? If it becomes possible to grow a baby in a jar and it is no longer necessary for the woman to have a womb. Should we? No. I think there's a distinction between Those are the questions. Man and female, male and female female Could you s I don't know that I wrote this down for a certain number of bases, but like when we talk about call and actings and collapses, we're talking about the purpose of creation of men and women experience You know signify the relationship between Christ and the church. That's one of the purposes. It's also to have babies and that kind of stuff. Enjoy each other They have babies? No. Oh, you're talking about oh, they're not a picture of all of the purposes of history. Yeah, thank God for that. Yeah. Yeah. We need technology to be fine. Yeah. Which I hear you're saying, like, let's not go down the rabbit trail and male male and female. Like there's a significant difference. Only one of those was actually created in the image of God. Okay. And I think for a greater purpose of being able to teach some truth at at very least of like between Christ and the church. Sure. So I think yeah there's a significant difference in answering the question are is it permissible for us to be formed as well. Yeah, yeah. So I think what you're saying is maybe a certain things in a certain category, it is permissible to reform them, but when we get into certain categories we should not. Okay? There's also a question like Dwayne is asking, he's saying, well Are we really reforming the tomato? Because it's still a tomato. The la Yeah, he said, are we really reforming a d are we reshaping a dog here? No. So I I would agree we are with the tomato. It's being done differently. And and he thinks we are with a tomato. Okay, and the and the corn Okay, sorry. We're gonna get to these case studies, Raquel and then Christina. But yeah, the goal is like I want a little bit of thought that it just goes the way what God wants us to be, you know, if we're getting away from God Oh yes. There's something else. And it's tomatoes. So it just marked it. But that's a difference in the caution. It's all about once God is not created, it's not part of God's creation and we don't want to be a part of that. I think that's just expensive. You can go in discussion with white, you know, but out of bond, you know, laundry to get a brass, long tree is animal, and you will just trying to put like um experiment with animals and human beings that's out of God's creation and we don't want to go away Yeah. Because it's called what abomination. For me it's that's what God says, right? Abomination. Yeah and the and um Okay, that's great. Good answer. Very good, Raquel. Christina. Um I want everything that you would need to be like oh People who want to change their biology in a little ridiculous where we don't want to do that in that green. But I do think that you know it even comes down to the level of my personality does not fit sometimes with what seems to be what God asks for out of of men or women or um or these stereotypes that I have heard at church or I have heard in these different things. I don't always fit into those things. My marriage relationship doesn't necessarily look in the practical aspects like this married relationship does and these different things. And I think we do struggle with that like you were saying what is a woman's role in church what is Paul asking with head coverings and making those distinctions please And who speaks when and all of those different things and are um I think there have been times where the church's difficulty in answering those questions like And robustly has then said people say then going, you know what, maybe I need to check all of this and become an entirely different thing Yeah. And I think that for us that is more of where the danger in questions are the things that we really need to wrestle Yeah, I think you're right. So for example, one thing that typically comes up is what if the the woman is the breadwinner and the man stays at home? Some people would say, well, they're not a real tomato. Right, but that's a question. Yeah, that's good. Very good. Okay, I'm gonna move in to the case studies. I want to I want us to read the c sorry Adrian. We're gonna read the case studies. All right. Mercy. There's a big difference between false breeding animals and plants. and using the mechanisms of man to alter the sex after someone is born. There's no equivalency between the two One is just a pure abomination. Okay. But all of the plants we see today have been cross-bred with other plants other plants. The seedless orange has been cross bread so it doesn't have seeds to our benefit. There's nothing wrong with tax. But when you start altering no one trying to take a male plant and turn it email after it's been sprouted. So it it it it it it's definitely. So to to compare the two logically it doesn't Okay. Great. It's a good discussion. We've got to talk about these things. These are cases that are showing up that are really uh leaving us with our mouth kind of open and not sure how to respond. And we need to talk about it and see that the scripture is even going to be sufficient for these things. Okay, let's read through the case studies and then we'll talk about them next week. Alrighty? That way you can have these on your mind as you go out and have a bagel. Or whatever, and you can keep talking about these ethical cases. All right. Take it away, Cheryl. Don't let anybody stop you. Is a 1970 family law divorce case heard between November and December of 1969 by the High Court of England and Wales, in which Arthur Corbett sought annulment of his marriage To April Ashley. Corbett, the husband, had known at the time of the wedding that Ashley, the wife, had been registered male at birth and had undertaken sex reassignment surgery. However, after the relationship had broken down, Court had sought to end the marriage, since legal ground for doing so being that the wedding had been invalid, as actually was one of the man's death. The court held that for the purposes of marriage, sex was to be legally defined by three factors present at birth that the judge referred to as biological, namely chromosomal botal in general. Any surgery or medical intervention was to be ignored, as were any psychological factors, which were in this case identified with actually transsexual Holding that Ashley had been born and continued to be a biological male, a fact that could not be changed by surgery, the judge held that the marriage which had to be between man and And women should be adults. Although the judge was restricted to a consideration of legal sex specifically with marriage, its reasoning was later applied more widely Yes. Now this case is is a is still a major precedent for the reasoning that's going on today. you can see some things have changed and that um same-sex marriages have been legalized and that that hadn't happened by this point. Okay, so go ahead with case study number two. This is now, so that's gonna be that's gonna be a ruling across the pond, okay, uh over in the England. Now we're gonna look at one in New Jersey. So all those are the same. Yeah, don't worry about it. Yep. To a man, and in particular legally recognize the woman's post-operative gender of the plaintiff. This case is considered to be the first legal case which specifically addressed Transsexual marriage. In 1972, MT filed a lawsuit claiming spousal support after her husband's two years, JT abandoned her And ceased providing financial support. A pre-judged panel of the Superior Court's Appellate Division affirmed the holding of the lower court that MT was female for the purpose of Of New Jersey law at the time of the marriage, and therefore the marriage was valid, and that MT was entitled to support. This opinion based its reasoning in part on the fact that MT has undergone sexual reassignment surgery. The court considered but rejected the arguments of the earlier English case, Corbett v. Corbett, which had ruled that English marriage law Yeah, so this is how it's playing out in our world. Some questions that you're going to need to start uh throwing around with each other as you talk about these things and then try to figure out uh what we think as Christians. What ways does the world make sense of their sexuality or of our sexuality? What is the difference between male and female and masculine and feminine? Or masculinity and femininity is going to be different than male and female, but what is the difference between those words? Why is it dangerous to say that two persons may marry? instead of male and female may marry. What happens when we reduce people to people or persons? Now that's a feminist trick. Okay, and what do we face as what do we face as technological creatures within these domains Alrighty. Very good. That was a good discussion. We're starting to really uh uh see the the issues that are at stake and the importance of the creation of male and female. Okay, let's pray. Oh Lord, we thank you so much for the sufficiency of the wisdom that you give to us in the Scriptures. I pray that you would take uh cases like this and the knowledge that you've given to us from the whole canon to where we would be able to explain. To this culture, the hope that we have in you, and why our marriages are the way that they are and why we don't reshape certain situations. Pray that you'd truly give us wisdom so that, Lord, if it is your will that you send your Holy Spirit and convert someone who has had sexual reassignment We would know with more wisdom how to disciple them to obey all that you have commanded after they've received their baptism in you. Ask these things in your name. Amen.