For all unbelieve. For there is no distinction, for all sin fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. whom God put forward as propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was shown, this was to show God's righteousness. Because in the divine forbearance, he had passed over the world. It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier. So you see here an example of the last Adam saving his people from the tragedy of the disobedience of the first, and that will come out more clearly the effects that they've Had just described as coming from the first Adam, and that God has, in a sense, had patience for a long time. Okay, Colossians 1:13 through 21. For he rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption and forgiveness of sins. For he is the image of the invisible God. God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, both in the heavens and on the earth, invisible and invisible, whether friends or dominions Or rulers or authorities all have been created through him and for him. He is before all things, and all things are hold together. He is also the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, so that he himself will come to have first place in everything. For it was the Father's good pleasure for all fullness to dwell in him, and through him to reconcile all things to himself, having made peace through the blood of his cross, through him, I say whether things on earth or in things in heaven. And although they were formerly alienated and have still the mind engaged in evil deeds. All right, very good. And there's a picture of um like we saw Adam in the creation account standing kind of at the pinnacle of all creation, looking out of all that he's responsible for with his wife Eve. Uh they here you see a picture of Christ standing at the pinnacle looking out at all things, uh not only maintaining them but redeeming them. So what what he's what this guy wants you to do is he like we talked about frameworks earlier, he wants you to you to use Adam and the creation account as a framework by which to understand these passages. There's an echo and a vestige of it through it. And we want to make sure he's not overdoing that model. But let's get him the benefit of the doubt and look for it And I'm trying to explain it in those terms. Okay, Philippians two, five through eleven. Philippians two through. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. who, being in the form of God, did not consider it robbery to be equal to God, but made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a servant Servant and coming in the likeness of men. And being found in appearance of the man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the Therefore, God also has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow Of those in heaven and of those on earth and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. Yeah, so here we see that he has become Adam or man. Uh in the Hebrew that ha adam just means Man, but it is also a specific proper noun for the name of Adam. So you can see that that is doing two things. It's a it is being used to talk about a historical situation, but also as a framework for us to understand all of humanity. Here you see Christ being spoken about in such general terms so that you could make the connection between the first atom and the last atom. And uh um what a picture of what it means to be a responsible man. Where he um dies I love that I love that picture. Holly? Confused for a second. You look confused. You can ask a question if you want. Was there something intriguing about that for you? No, I think that's a good question. Do you want me to repeat it? Yes, can you repeat what you said? Sure. So so what this guy in the com in the commentary is doing is he's saying he's basically if he were standing here he'd say something like that. Like, I think we can learn a lot if we look at the passages about Jesus Christ through the lens of the passage about Adam in the creation account. Because and the reason why he wants to do this is there's like a little hint for him in Romans 5, where Jesus Christ is called the last Adam, and Adam is called the first Adam. So there's something going on here we w where we want to look at compare and contrast the two. Well, if we do that and if we keep that in mind, then when you look at Philippians, what is the difference between the Man Jesus Christ and the man Adam with regard to his wife. You know, it was already said a couple weeks ago that the first Adam, instead of eating the apple with the wine, wife could have died for her. Perhaps. It's always been an idea floating around. And uh but he doesn't. And then by the time you get to chapter 3 of Genesis, what you're going to end up seeing throughout all of Scripture until the redemption of Christ. um is you're going to see man and woman no longer really knowing how to relate to each other very well and a consistent thing that will happen is that men, by way of their strong muscles, will oppress women. And women will contribute their own problems too. This is summarized in the Hebrew term Mashal. Mashal talks about the difficult relationship that is now present between man and woman and you're seeing examples of it within judges. What happens when when a man gets power, he not only destroys destroys women, but he destroys children. This will be exemplified at the final note and chorus at the end of judges when they chop up the concubine after they have raped her all On the other hand, if you were to look at Deborah's song and look at the the song of the mother of Who is it that that Deborah sings a song and there's a mom who is also singing a song from her window at the loss of her son. Cisera. Sisera's mother. Uh if you were to look at her song, you can see that you know women can create their own problems. All human beings have issues. Right. Yeah, but we want to keep these things so we want to keep Keep these things in mind. And um so what what we're doing is we're then looking at these individual passages through the lens of atom to see the new atom, compare and contrast. And what you see in Philippians 2, what I was saying was, what a beautiful picture of what it means to be truly responsible and to be a head of a house. For example, Christ is clearly the head here. It calls him that. And every knee is bowing. But it's not the kind of head that you would regret having. Uh he's lovely and I enjoy his rule. Now it's very difficult to say that about anybody. That was my only comment. Does that help at all to kind of draw out that That was kind of long-winded, but that was the fuller picture. In a nutshell, compare Philippians two with the work of the first Adam and you'll see quite Thanks for looking confused, psychocalling you. All right, any other thoughts on that? Okay, very good. We should talk about Michal sometime. Who? Michal, that uh enmity between the man and the woman. Yeah. Uh it's the word uh It is a model or framework to understand one of the problems between the genders. And it's um Verse sixteen Your desire shall be for your husband and he shall rule over you. Mashal rule. Yeah. Sometimes it's a good thing, sometimes it's not a good thing. Okay. All righty. Hebrews 1, 1 through 14. God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past of Hebrew Fathers by the prophets, as of these last days spoken to us by his son, whom he has appointed heir of all things, and through whom also he made the world. The brightness of his glory and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down and at the right hand of the Majesty on high, having become so much better than the angels, as he has by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. For to which of the angels did he ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you. And again I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. But when he again brings the firstborn into the world, he says, Let all the angels of God worship him. And of the angels, he says, Who makes His angels, the spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire. But to the sun, he says, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. Assessment The scepter of righteousness is the scepter of your kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated lawlessness. Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness more than your companions. And you, Lord, in the beginning, laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hand. They will not perish, but you remain, and they will all grow old like a garment, like a cloak. You will fold them up, and they will be changed, but you will You are the saint, and your years will not fail. But to which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool? Are they not all ministering spirits sense points to minister for those who will inherit salvation? Wow. Wow. Alright, any comments on that? That is intense. All right, so w what would you say is the dominant note there? Definitely a lot of messiah talk, even the sun language, though we'll work our theology out to see that um Christ is God incarnate, and rightfully we may call him the son of God in that sense. There is also a real strong messiah note here. But even as Messiah, the Messiah is being described in terms of the original dominion given by Adam over all of creation. And pretty soon, how much longer until there is a quote from Psalm? Or did that already happen? Yeah, it's right there. Yeah, so there's a direct link between the first atom and the second atom. Yeah, this Adam will not fail. The angels are not deceiving him, but bowing to him and being destroyed by him. Yeah. Also minister to those who are inheritance of it. Yeah, that's what angels do. Yeah. And apparently according to Jesus they surround our little ones sometimes too. That's nice. Okay, the next one is uh thanks for reading that Carol, that was a good really good one. 2, 6 through 13 of Hebrews. Starting verse 5. For it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking. It has been testified somewhere. What is man that you are mindful of him? Or the Son of Man that you care for him. You made him for a little while lower than the angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in Subjection under his feet. Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection. To him. But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor, because of the suffering of death. So that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. That is why He is not ashamed to call them brothers, saying, I will call of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will send your praise. And again, I will Put my trust in him. And again, behold I and the children God has given me. Yeah. For Adam and ushering all his brothers and sisters into eternal glory. Alright, Austin. Yep. To the seven churches that are in Asia. Grace to you and peace from him who is and was and who is to come. And from the seven spirits who are before you His throne, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings on earth. To him Who loves us and has freed us from sins by his blood and made us a kingdom, priests to his God and Father, to him be glory and dominion forever. Ever and ever. Amen. Behold, he is coming on the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierce him. And all the tribes of the earth will wail. On account of him. Even so, amen. I'm the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, who is and was, and who is to come, the Almighty. Very good, thank you. Very good. Okay. I think we get the point with that, so let me go ahead to the next paragraph with our remaining minutes. We know that Paul visits the account well just so make sure we do. Hold on one second here. Okay. So the last sentence, all of those quotes were in support of it. However, it is helpful at this point to appreciate that the theme of many of the hymns quoted in the New Testament is For Paul, a Jew, there is only one man and one woman who have known God in the intimate way he describes. Adam and his wife had perfect fellowship with God. They had been created for this unique relationship. Despite this extraordinary privilege, they rejected his love and friendship and believed the lie that Satan presented. They accepted that. If they asserted their independence, they would be as gods, who knew the difference between good and evil. They were neither thankful to God, nor did they glorify him I'll keep going. This description was not only true of Adam and Eve, but of all their descendants. God is accused of imposing his power, making men into religious robots who are deprived of fulfillment and self-realization. In reality, the situation is reversed. It is God who delights in the development and growth of man, but it is Satan who seeks to make him into a mindless being with no freedom. The God of this world has darkened the minds of those who do not believe. The outcome of this sin is that humankind is warped in its thinking. Despite great scientific and cultural advancement, that's what I mean by civil, Bill, a civic role of man, there being some retention. Despite great scientific and cultural advancement, sin distorts their ability to reflect on the consequences of its action. and attitudes. To achieve goals such as self-satisfaction, power, and economic success, ends justify means, and personal morality is interpreted through the lens of personal happiness. While such moral bankruptcy exists, the human heart becomes ever darker. Alright, any comments on that one? Pretty good account of our world, wouldn't you agree? Yeah. And ourselves. Any thoughts? I'm sure that these thoughts are familiar to you. I think they're well spoken. It's a nice reminder. And we can see what the catechism is striving. Tom Holland. Yeah, there's a famous Tom Holland out there and it's not that guy. This is uh what's that? Yeah Spider Man. Right. It is not him. But then there's another Tom Holland who apparently like wrote a n novel or something. But then this one is just some lonely little professor in the UK. Yeah. And and I have a copy of both of his commentaries on Romans on my shelf if you ever want to borrow. Okay. Actually I think this this Tom 'cause I looked him up, but this Tom also wrote some. Did he? Well, I don't know. I don't know. So he he's um he he's a Pauline scholar. Pauline scholar. Yeah. Yeah, I definitely want to remix it. That's his focus. And and he's got another one. I'll show you some after service if you want. We can look at the books, that's always exciting to me. Okay, so let's go on to twenty-two then while we have some time, and that way we'll have a chance of getting done this handout. Um in the new year. Okay. twenty two. Although they claimed to be wise, they became fools. Paul underlines the depravity of humanity's condition, for they have no real appreciation of their predicament. Although their heart is in darkness, they claim to be wise and have, as a consequence, become fools. But in whose eyes have they become a fool? The policies and values Paul challenges are upheld by many powerful and educated people. They can accommodate God as long as his presence justifies their agenda But when his claims are taken seriously by an individual, the follower of Christ is accused of being fanatical. A person's reaction to this allegation marks them out as a true believer The approval of others is not important, for their values are not those of the kingdom that controls humanity. What matters is the approval of the king who has saved them from darkness and death. Any thoughts? Were you criticizing his pronoun usage? Okay. That's important to do right now. No. I didn't say that I was anyone here. It was a public statement. I'm gonna read the list of the fruits of the spirit, one of which is self-control. Nope. Nothing. This this paragraph reminds me of verse of second Corinthians. So just steeped in that in the Bible study and it's just really, you know, reminds me, I know Paul wrote Romans from Corinth, so there's there's definitely a lot of overlap within those letters, but his um defense of his apostolic ministry and say Second Corinthians is along these lines. And you know, he's being accused of being fanatical and being deceptive and being insincere and you know, he essentially turns all of the things they value upside down and and and says essentially what is concisely said here that he's a follower of Christ and it doesn't matter what someone say. Yeah. Yeah, that's um wait, I'm sorry Oh yeah, well that's good. That's the way that it's supposed to be. That's why we get steeped in the work so that we can see those kind of connections. So any other comments on this one the the reason maybe I'm I'm not going there. But the reason why I heard that is because I had an issue with the pronoun they as opposed to all of us because and I don't want to correct Paul because obviously that's he's talking of it's not just say, I mean it's real easy to say they did this They did this, they did this, and not consider what I do. That's what that's why I was interested in. Maybe Marilyn was hitting on the same point that Mr. Holland, hi. Okay. But but yeah, but but my my my point being is although they can't can't claim to be wise, they became fools. Right. We need to be careful because we also I let me just say I I also sometimes claim to be wise. Uhhuh. And I I start to be wise in my knowledge here, but there are people who disagree with some of the ways that I've interpreted things and I need to be careful that I don't um that I'm not arrogant in my interpretation because maybe I'm wrong even though I don't think I am. So I have to be Yeah, that's that's true, and that might be a like a a remote application to what's going on here, but what what is he talking about? He says they it's gotta have some kind of referent. So Who are we talking about? Well, I guess he's talking about those who are those who are unbelievers, so live well. Yeah. Well what do you think about what Tom Holland says? Because he says that it's Adam and Eve, at the very least. He does and then and then and then I think he he does expand on it a little bit more. Right? He says he does say that that's Adam and Eve. Well real quick, let me ask you a follow-up question, Alex. We're good. We're gonna use you on this one. Right, because the this is you script is not screw only of it, and that you put all our extensions. Yeah, yeah, that's right But he says there's a kind of premiere spot that they get. Do you see any clues in verse twenty-two that it could be still referring to what happened in the garden? Yes. What? Um Eat of this fruit and you will become wise. Yeah, right. So yeah, and so then their eyes were opened. Their eyes were opened and they they they Became fools. Yeah. So that really starts if that's right, if we're right to link what Paul is saying to the garden, if he's using the creation account to understand human existence. as we'll see more fully in chapter five, then you now have a great insight as to what it means to be a fool. That's that's pretty interesting. It's pretty thick concept. actually. That would be one part of it. And then he's going to start going down this line where the human goes in thinking that they're wise Can you think of the premier character in the Old Testament who depicts a fool? Well th he's pretty good pretty good. Nabal. Yeah, his wor his name means fool. And um and then who gets who gets to shine in that moment as Abigail. Yeah, that's right. She saves her household. Isn't that interesting? So uh so we want to use those different m uh that's one of the lessons we were learning also is we want to use all those stories to try to understand understand even just this one verse because this verse is in the middle of a canonical collection, right? Yeah. So what do you think about that with taking the pronoun they not as a um Look at what they are doing as opposed to focusing on ourselves, which seems to be a vice when we take everyone else's inventory but not our own. This they seems to be a bit different than that, right? Seems to be the the antecedent seems to be, at least in Tom Holland's mind, Adam and Eve and then their descendants. Yeah, they're they're they're still unbelievable. Yeah, m maybe even ref reference to the nation of Israel. Because they have uh plenty of times where they know God and then they choose the gods of the nations. That's the that's the continual problem throughout all of the the scriptures. And well even the Pharisees were were I think are kind of vagues as well because they're they're contributing too much to their they're they're missing the point. They're missing the point of all of the the sacrifices and all the laws. Yeah they definitely are. themselves wise and they're really cool. Yes, that's correct. Yep, that's right. Alright, very good. Thanks so much for the discussion this morning. I hope this is beneficial again really remember we're just trying to accomplish what do we mean when the c what do we mean or what does the catechism mean when it talks about the estate of sin and misery. I hope you're getting a more fleshed out view of that and you're being acquainted with the scriptures that talk about it. Fair enough? Okay. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you so much uh for this time. Pray that what we have done here and and talked about that it it would stick with us and that we would uh understand our own lives and the lives of those around us uh by way of your word. and live in accordance with it in love. We thank you, Jesus Christ, for dying for us. We did not deserve it. There was nothing on our resume to recommend us. But you took responsibility for us and you took it all the way. Through and through all the way down, you loved. And you still love us, and we thank you so much. In Christ's name. Amen.