Like all the Sunday stuff. And then I think the links in there, but I think it's also Wherever you would find our worship bulletins, I think. I'm not really sure. Nick is right. Yeah, that's right. Wherever you find the worship bulletins, there should be links for the Sunday school lectures from now on. All right, well let's go ahead and open in prayer. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for your son, your only begotten begotten Son. And we thank you, Christ, for sending your Spirit. We ask that you would by your Spirit teach us today. We pray that we would not just be hearers of your word, but we would be doers. We pray that any understanding that you give us of who you are and what you require of us would be Would be ushered and ordered by you unto your glory. I pray that you do all that is necessary to accomplish our salvation, even in the use of this Sunday school. And we ask that you prepare our hearts and our minds for worship hereafter. In the name of Christ. Amen. All right. So I thought we'd start with a review. Let's see how we all do from last week. This week will continue to be information heavy. And um and then Uh we'll start drawing out some more applications. I also think if I'm correct, that this is the last week of this Sunday school term. And then we have two weeks where we don't have And then we jump right back in and we'll continue with question number seven. Probably Yeah. But then thirteen weeks. Yeah. Yeah, I hear ya. I'm sure it's somebody's fault. But it's but not mine. Yeah. Well, I just love all of you. That's all you need to know is I love the Saints. Okay, so all righty. Um so let's go ahead and do a review And what are the two main categories that are used within the doctrine of God? All right. Yeah. Look, I have brought I got a black marker for y'all today. Can we see that Keith, can you see that? Doctrine of God, there's a lot of categories, but I gave you two. Yeah Okay, and what do we mean when we're t what are we getting at? We don't I know these were You know these words sound like seminary words, I get it, but what are we g what's the reality that we're trying to get at when we use the word imminent There should be if there's a distinction present, it means that we need to make a distinction based on the reality where this being revealed to us. Yeah. Yeah Right, yeah. God in and God in and of himself. Yeah, so God is a spirit, infinite and eternal, and unchangeable in his being was right, all of those things. And we We capture that under the question, what is God? Okay. Alright, very good. And we heard um Raquel actually clarify that for us when we were talking based on the Portuguese language. They have a the the word is still a part of their normal talking of a a person unto themselves. Okay. What about e Economy. What are some ways that we can we can understand what economy is and what's the reality that we're trying to get back to in terms of the doctrine of God? What's the Greek word? Okay, yeah, very good. And um right, okay. So Yeah, okay. Yeah. Oikonomia. I'm i yeah, I did. I did, I used them. I just used them right there. Oikonomia. Okay So how does that help us? What what are what are we getting at with the economy? There's a reason why we're we're using the word or why is Paul using the word What is he capturing with it? Okay, great. Very good. Orderly management of a household. Now why would we use something like that in the doctrine of God. Yeah, there were there's also administration And the word though it's been corrupted from its biblical usage in the history of the church, the word dispens which which um has come to mean something different in American theology but really what we want to do is go back to Jerome's translation and look at this uh this And what they meant by that and they just meant these they're trying to get back to this. Alright, so and and what are we what are we trying to describe With what's going on here. We're not trying to make things up from our own imaginations as human beings. That's not theology. What are we describing when we have words like like this and definitions like this. Yeah, God's order. Alright, very good. So we have God managing a household. Okay. What else could we say about this part of the doctrine of God? What is revealed to us about God besides that He's infinite, eternal, unchangeable, etc. It's his house, the whole cosmos, heaven and earth. Okay. That's how I think of economy, but I couldn't draw What has value? Well Carol gave a pretty good one, the orderly management of a household. And so we're looking at um there's all of this And it has to reach this particular end, what are we going to do in order to get there? And that is another way of describing the history of salvation. And um but there's some other things that are importantly the the main what's the main revelation under here? I was just gonna say uh it also that has a plan. uh um achieve the order. Exactly. There's a plan to achieve the order. Right, exactly. And that is oftentimes the process and the plan is just described in the scriptures as wisdom. Alright, let me put it this way. We can take these two parts of the doctrine and they're summarized in your notes by way of a diagram Here's the top part. This uh whiteboard ready to go. Okay. This is gonna you see a diagram of like this and we're gonna we're gonna really be talking about the imminent trinity and you can talk about all of the attributes that they share or what we may attribute to them God is a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable, and you can say that about all of them. There are specific things that you can s say about each of the persons. There is something moving this way, moving this way, and in the Western church moving this way. And those are all called processions. And then there will be given specific names for the processions of the persons of the Trinity. Now that this is like a little more advanced, but does anybody know the name of the procession from the Father to the Son Yeah. Go ahead, Jeff. Eternal generation. Yeah, uh exactly. Eternal generation and the reason why we're using the language of generation is because he's the son. We'll also talk about that as him being the only begotten of the Father. Right? Those are all that's all what we would call filial language or language of a son. Okay? And then what about this one? You could label all of it for session, but is there what's the more specific term with the relationship of the Father, of the Holy Spirit proceeding from the Father. Does anybody know that one? Spiration. And that's gonna be because of the idea of him being the breath. That that right. Okay. So I know that's a little more advanced, but I thought you, you know, while we're Let's just say it. Okay, and then we got. And these are words that we use to try to capture what we see within the scriptures with a specific kinds of proceeding that are happening from the Father. Okay. Yeah, the the Holy Spirit proceeds from the Son. Yeah, and and I and I don't think that there is one. I th I I just used the word proceed. And now this this connection here and I'd have to research this to I I am actually researching it trying to figure it out. But this connection here is denied by the Eastern Church. Yeah. But it's not like what's the one yeah that's what split them up. Maybe that's what happened. Maybe. We'll see. You know, when something good if you want to win an argument you just Bring the Pope into it for Protestants. But I'm not you know, we we want to make sure we're accurate with the history. We'll have to see. Okay, yeah. So at one one time where they put something on the on the on the on the outside the door to kind of explain what happened and they said that possible did a good Yeah, break it from the Catholic church. They forgot that it was like fungy that part. Yeah. And this special little I think I'm gonna spell this correctly. Could I that right you know filioque yeah and that's the that's the the debate that goes on there's a clause within the Nicene Creed that the eastern Eastern Church denies, which is that the Spirit proceeds from the Sun. So no matter how fancy all that sounds or what words you see up here, if the if we're doing our job, we're just supposed to supposed to be describing what we see in the scriptures. Now that can be from explicit statement or good and necessary consequence. But you know don't lose hope. Okay. With all these fancy words So just to clear this up, that's the first part when we talk about God's eminence. But if you remember on your chart, you had this, and I and I don't know if you noticed on the chart, but there's little hands at the end. And this is supposed to describe for us the economy. The most important part of the economy that is revealed is that God is triune. It is the Father sending the Son and the Spirit to accomplish the orderly management of the household. And that's where our term came in Recapitulation. Now that also sounds fancy, but that's I'm just pulling words from the scriptures at this point. This recapitulate it's just a translation of one of the words in the same Ephesians passage that this word is from. So what did we mean when we said recapitulation? From the Latin head. Yeah, recapitulation. Yep. There's a re there is a repetition. Now how do you account for the head part of the word? There's a re there's a re but then there's I don't remember member. Anybody know head and Latin C A P U X? U T? And so there's a there's some basics of it. Is that right? Okay. So So to rehead. So what's Paul's point in Ephesians in talking about reheading the cosmos? What's that? What's that? Yeah, to restore. Yeah. That's right. But why does he use the word rehead? It's from agent one time. Yes. There you go. Yeah. Right, so let me just show you what I think is a clear picture of what we're talking about. Could you please turn to Psalm eight? I'm sure you've heard me talk about this before Then who would like to read that loudly? Miss Vaughn, are you up for a little reading today? Alright, go for it. Oh Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth? You have set your glory above the heavens. Out of the mouth of babies and infants, you have That was strength because of your clothes to kill the enemy and the adventure. When I look at your head and the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have said like What is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you care for him? Yet you have made him a little lower than the head of the beings, and crowned him with glory and honor You have given him dominion over the works of your hand. You have put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, and also the bees of the field, the birds of headens and the fish Yeah, so you can see a very clear picture there Of layers within the cosmos and the Son of Man being placed over all of them. There's a question that arises when it says he's a little lower than the angels Does that mean that the angels are actually the real head if we're going to refer this to what's being done with the whole cosmos? And that question is clarified within the Book of Hebrews. And um so let's turn together to Hebrews chapter 2. And we know that in this chapter Is being established that Christ is above the angels, the Son of Man. And let's take a look at chapter 2, starting in verse Could someone read that out loud and go through the quote of Psalm eight? Yep, and then um you can keep going. But there is a There you go. Left nothing that is not put under him. But now we do not yet see all things put under him, but we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death Crowned with glory and honor, that he, by the grace of God, might taste death for everyone. So here we see this same kind of relationship With with Psalm 8 being understood within the economic relations of how the household is being reheaded or ordered when we want to put all these different passages together I'm sure you think of Philippians too, do you not here also? Yes, Carol. Yes. Yeah, let's go ahead and uh Lloyd, go ahead and then let's read first Corinthians Corinthians fifteen, twenty-seven and twenty-eight. Lloyd? Oh oh emphasizes the word in the E S also refers to man. And his real name on the fact is set up another screw and it's who is supposed to uh do certain things that you're playing on but it's certain Yeah, I think it's important for us to recognize the different ways or the different things to which the word messenger refers. And it's it's good of you to bring up Israel and Israel's failure in their dominion mandate. And then Christ as the Israel does not fail in his dominion mandate and actually supersedes dominion over any single land and is given glory, honor, and dominion over the whole whole cosmos. Okay, 1 Corinthians 15. This is uh one of my favorite uh sections. I you know I say that one of my favorite sections in the scriptures and then I I got you know what does that mean? I like it all but I have any favorite okay So let's turn there. And Carol, do you mind reading that for us, please? But when he says all things are put under him, it is evident that we can put all things under the subject perspective. Now when all things are made subject, he has all the subject Yeah. Now did you notice the Trinitarian language in the passage? There you're already Starting to see that the way that the economy is going to work out is not going to violate the imminent relations of the Trinity. Great with that regard. It keeps going and goes back. Just as Psalm 8 is based on the framework of the creation account, and so too was Hebrews 15. There's a lot going on there as a model for us to understand how God is ordering his household. Okay, so that's the reheading and And does anybody remember what Irenaeus, the church father, um why do we have these two, what's going on with these two arms or the two hands that are coming down out of the eminent Trinity. It's a based off of an old analogy that's been a part of the church since the second century. Anyone remember? The two hands or the two arms of the father? Son. Son makes makes the uh Yeah, that's right. That's true. Yeah, very good. Those are the two hands. Yeah, very good. Yep. So this is this is so we have the imminent trinity and then we have the economic revelation of the Trinity, that there's Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, and that each of them have been given a different work. Though they all share in the work, they have been given a different work work in the orderly management of the household. Alright, now that is true for creation and it's true for providence. Alright. So An old analogy is just the two hands of the father, and I'll read that quote in just a second. Since we have some things up here, I'll give just a little bit more detail. This is known as sending of the Sun, while he becomes incarnate. Okay? And that's what we read about in Ephesians 1, the big deal, the big mystery that's been revealed on how God is going to accomplish everything. the incarnation. That's the big deal. Okay. But there's also the there's also Pentecost. So the Spirit comes to be with us. And Pentecost. And both of these things are called the miscia. And that's where we get our idea of mission. And I only bring that up, not to overload you with words, but I want you to start to see that these are are the words that we're supposed to reference when we are trying to understand who we are and what we're supposed to be doing. If you were to read books on mission How do they make sense of the idea of missions in those books? If they're not referring back to the Trinity, then they're really missing the basis for what Why we're supposed to be doing all that we do. Everything that we do is meant to be a kind of analog to what they are doing. And that's what it means to be a part of their fellowship. Okay. I know this is a lot, but let's just list these things down and then the rest of the catechism is nothing but unfolding these particulars. So you're gonna have, you know, so many you have Have a hundred and three more questions, right? Or however? No, I've done six. So you have a hundred and one more questions to work this whole thing out. Um but Right here in the front is the fountain head of the catechism and and so this is the way it looks when you're dealing with fountainheads. Okay, so that's a pretty decent uh Let me um let me read to you that quote from Irenaeus again. Um and then I have a I do have another review question for For you now that we've talked about imminence and economic. Um let me Yeah, okay Uh it was not angels therefore who I'm on page number four. It was not angels therefore who made us, nor of all things. For God did not stand in need of these beings in order to the accomplishing of what he had himself determined with himself beforehand should We're going to see that same language in the next question. Spirit, by whom and in whom freely and spontaneously he made all things, to whom also he speaks, saying, Let us make man after our image and likeness. Then the next quote is how Just as he did the creation, so too he shall do the new creation with both the same hands. estate of sin and misery, but has sent a redeemer, it's the Son of God incarnate and his spirit to rehead or order the household of creation. As opposed to leaving us in our sin and misery. That's the whole point. And we're just getting into the details of what is revealed to us, particularly by the teaching of the apostles on who God is, because we're just into the doctrine of God. Now let me ask you a quick question because this is really important, and you can use your notes if you want. What are the four main traditional categories to be able to prove that we have a triune God. categories or what are the four main heads of argument names names the names that are used The attributes that are used, the workship, and the worship. So One of the things that's going on behind here is we fear we see very little within the history of the church where the d where the father is doubted as God. I don't know of anybody that does that. But there are different heretical um movements that have arisen that will deny that the Son is God or that the Holy Spirit is God. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, there's a there's a there's a lot. Um there yeah, there's a lot lot a lot of different versions of these things. Yeah. So so um what we want to do is when we're looking at the Son of God incarnate, we want to look at the names that are used for him, and same thing with the Holy Spirit. What are the names that are used for him? What are the attributes that he has? What are the works that he does? And what is the worship that is given to them? When we look at those things, we can see that the underlying implications are that they are God. And now when this becomes clear, you can start to look through not only the new Testament, but the Old Testament, and you can see that these things were present all along. They were just darkly understood. Yes. So in the in the note if you need um I don't know if you give it a crypto reference for the that would be um the first one is uh closure references. Here is the second one for atomic derivatives for the sun, third one for the sun, and the fourth one was here. Are there other derivatives that like you? There's many. There's tons. There's tons. Yeah. So I was just giving you a little sampling. You could do are arguments, multiple arguments for each one of these kind I mean just there's a lot. There's a lot. And if you were to look in any uh systematic theology, then you could look and you could see all them just listing argument after argument and see what what's going on. Yes ma'am here I'm trying to understand the differences Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Right. Well you got it. That was it right there. Yeah, the the whole idea behind begotten is that he's not created. So does that mean that it's like part of No. Let me try to t to clarify what they're after With that term, and I'm going to do the best of my ability. Okay, I'm not a professor, uh, and there's better explanations out there than what I'll give to you. But I think what's going on here Is that they're trying to come up with the terminology to describe accurately all that they see within the scriptures about the relationship between the father and the son. Now they can't they don't want to say the word born because that's that's a word that we use to Describe how your children are generated from you and your husband. You see what I'm saying? And the reason why they don't and that's not how So we can't use a word talking about the relationship And the word that they have chosen to try to stay out of all the traps, that's mostly what these words are are just trying to stay out of the the pits and the traps is the word begotten. That word begotten is supposed to communicate to you that he is the Son. That's why that that That word has that history to it, that he's a son, but it's supposed to maintain his eternity. Right? Yeah, and that he is equal and Power and glory with the Father. And it is also supposed to show that there is something primary about the Father That that is that the Son I don't want to say c comes from the Father. That word doesn't doesn't do it. He's begotten from the Father. Yeah. And the the other word that they use is proceed, but proceed is really general and doesn't get at the sonship part of it. So maybe the most helpful thing for me to say to you is they're just trying to use language. That keeps them from saying things that are in error. Does that help at all? I know that this is very difficult. You j you said it did help. Okay, great. Good. Very good. Isn't that funny though that um uh it was funny to me to realize that as I started reading more and and more and more and going through seminary, a lot of the time they really are just trying to say things so so that we don't say what's not true. Yeah, you know. Keep it's like guardrails. Keep us falling off the cliff. Yeah. So we I think I guess I've always wondered about the problem or something because we use you know so we got so and so and so we got so and so we're talking about human generation in the Bible. Yes, that's right. So we're saying that it it would be got it would be getting in in the Bible, but they're only talking about in a filial uh internal relationship. That's talking about human that's talking about human generation. Which is different than what's going on with God. Yeah. So I guess you could I don't know, I guess even if it would be God has not made it always been a little because We use that word to I get the non-name word. Easy easy word. But the begotten part we we use to try generate So why in the world did they think that word? I just think it seemed like they're they were I don't know. I don't know, maybe it was something else I don't know I think it's a really great question. Why would they pick the word? And what you would need to do is you would have to get into the conversation that has happened in the church for a very long time to see why. Why would they arrive at that language in an ecumenical council? Right? That's the official language that they chose. It's going to have to do with a couple different things. It'll have to do And then the second thing is going to be and doesn't Have us fall off into these other pits that people have fallen into, which is the reason why we're having this ecumenical council. Or all these different heresies will challenge the idea and it forces us to refine the language to make sure we don't say things in error. Sorry. I think especially if we're talking to friends who must be familiar with these things that they're not really believers that are struggling with it, that they would fall off because of the word Gotham. Because of all the Gotham the Bible they're talking about human generation. So we you know, I mean I know and I think they don't know about the real greater, but I mean if you I'm So what I would do usually when I am hearing questions like what I'm hearing from you, whether it's in the realm of the Trinity or any other place within life, I try to encourage people to To go back and listen to the conversation first before they try to proceed by just raising a thousand questions. You want to go back and make sure you understand that original conversation that they were having and that will take some time for you to do and extra work than what's going to be in this class. And then I think you'll know the kinds of questions that really should be raised. Yeah, that I think should be raised. Is does that what do you think about that? I know that's really general, but I think it personally definitely ideas. Okay. But when I'm trying to talk to other people who who have questions who are not gonna go and that they're just they're actually they're trying to find ways to get out of it. Trying to find ways to get out of you know, guiding over everything and the whole trinity thing. Um I Uh then I would have I would have something to say, yeah, but then I don't really see the scriptures encouraging us to spend a whole lot of time dwelling in the imminent Trinity. And that's the only thing we're talking about right now I see God revealing himself in a very particular way where just about anybody can talk about it. He re he takes upon himself human nature so that you can have each So maybe we you shouldn't get into that conversation about the only begotten until much later. That is a good question. And it requires moral judgment. And I don't know that I can keep working through the c this like moral case here. The hypothetical is a good question, though, because we are going to be faced with a culture that's less and less biblically literate and all of this just sounds crazy. Or nonsensical, right? So we do need to ask those kinds of questions. What do we do when they took a college class on Christianity and they start bringing up questions to us about the Trinity What do we do? Yeah, that's a great question. We need to talk about that as a community. Yeah. So that's good. Well I was just thinking that we would it would take all all of the rest of the class to even start working toward a solution to that moral that moral judgment. It really depends on the situation and the circumstances. So Dave, you've impatient. What were you gonna say? Yeah. Translators as well. Yes. Right. Yeah. They're debating in Greek or Latin. And and they're pardon? Yeah, but he and I think that's why that also back change Look at all the work we've had to do just to understand the word economy. Yeah. Yeah, we have a pain that we find uh crypto or something that you know being crystal and kind of But it's not worked out very well at all the things. Right. But it's a hard thing to convey, at least to answer the question. Yeah, I agree. And I'm glad that we're raising it because Let's just, for the sake of argument, assume that those who penned this catechism had some great understanding, that the Lord had given them wisdom Just assume that with me for a moment. If so, they're saying that our evangelical faith all flows from the doctrine of God. So if you look at modern day evangelicalism, a lot of the times the way we talk about things or set up our lives, we've lost a clear connection. To the doctrine of God for why we would do something or why anything is done. So I think one of the goals of us going through the catechism is let's get back to a real Evangel evangelical faith that's rooted with everything that we do in the doctrine of God. And that will require us to speak more intelligently and to Be able to articulate more intelligently things like the doctrine of the Trinity. And as soon as we start to do that, there's another thing that we have to admit: we're going to hit a ceiling. And there's no more revealed. And you shouldn't be saying anything else. Yeah, I'd say most things are a visit Yeah. Oh we get the other one to like one or one equal two and maybe Well maybe we do what we call everything. Yeah. And God has not hidden he God has not revealed the hidden things to us. But the things that he has revealed to us, and part of that is who he is in and of himself, are for us and our children. So we should get those things down. And this is a good beginning, right? I mean I we have an hour together every Sunday morning. There's no way you're gonna just with that exercise get your head around all this. But at least there's an introduction And you're starting to see some of the terms. And we'll start to work this out in the rest of the catechism. Because the first thing we're going to do is see the incarnate Son, and then we're going to see the Spirit. Joshua. Joshua? Father. Father Joshua. Oh, you kind of spoke on it. These are revealed from the script scripture. And it's beyond logic. So we have to subordinate to that. That's why it's faith. We believe this guy is ridiculous. So we have to stop. Right. If we go any farther we actually fall into sin. And and that's what happens with everything trying to explain the way And change their process. Yeah. That is a contentious statement that is beyond logic. It's worth something. discussion. Yeah. So like me. But uh but I agree with you that all these things are revealed. And what is the other assertion you're making besides these things are are revealed and we submit onto that. We submit to it. Just in the bare fact of its revelation, even if we don't understand it. And you see it with Paul. Okay. Salvation he stops. He says this is the will of God, and he gets the praise for that. Yeah, because God says, I will be merciful to whom I will be merciful to, and then Paul stops And doesn't say, well, explain how you choose, how you you know, like it's according to the counsel of my own will. That ends up being like the final statement, according to my own good pleasure. Those are the kind of things we hear, and that's a that's a ceiling limit for us. I mentioned about logic, it's not illogical. Okay. Okay, thanks for the clarification. But it comes to us it's a hidden thing of God that we have to do. We get like what's happening here, the world logically put us together and it it makes sense. Yeah. To a point where we cannot go any farther because God hasn't revealed to us that keep those categories in mind, that which is hidden and that which is revealed. Try to stay away from Joshua. So my main point was uh thinking about how we engage with unbelievers. I think there's an underlying issue of our goal. Can you speak up a little bit? Sure. And I'm not going to dwell on this because we're still in review. Yes. So our goal is a little bit more than a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit with talking with unbelievers is not to necessarily appease their mind. It's not to they're digging into solitude, these theological discussions. They don't even believe that Christ is Lord. Okay. So w it's not for us to have a Bible study with that. We have a Bible study with Christians to encourage our faith. We there's no faith to encourage enough believers. We want to plant that seed first. So when you're talking about having a conversation about the imminent and economic nature of God with an unbeliever, first of all, how did you get there? And second of all, spread the gospel. stop there. Any more than that I just believe is they fall into evidentialism and putting yourself and the unbeliever in a footstool above God and saying, hey, let's judge this together. That's a So if you had a college roommate who was interested in the Trinity, just took a college course and said, I'd like to talk to you about the Trinity, you would say, I'm not talking to you Not necessarily, but you you would use that as a segue for the essential gospel. You need to have a goal in your conversations too. But what if he doesn't want to talk about the essential gospel? He just wants to talk about the Trinity. Possible. He completely denies it. But he wants to talk about the Trinity just for logic's sake. No, I didn't say that. He just he's taking a class and he's really interested in trying to understand it. But he has no interest with the essential gospel was He didn't bring that up. You guys are in your dorm room, he's taking a class on the Trinity, he's been reading the Church Fathers and the Ecumenical Councils. Well that wouldn't be brought up in the conversation. I would bring it up Okay. Very good. Yeah, so you could you could talk about other things besides what he wants to talk about? Is that what you're saying? Well this is all about tactics and wisdom. Yeah. About spreading the gospel. It's not like a one size fits all approach. Very good. But you want to lean on the side of let's not just have this conversation just for reasoning's sake, especially with an unbeliever who doesn't trust the Lord, doesn't know Christ as Lord. We're not here just truth for truth's sake. I don't care how interested you are, what's the goal here? You can use that as a segue to lead them into being more interested, but it doesn't matter how good an atheist is the other is still an atheist. Right. Demons probably have great theology. Lucifer knew the Bible pretty well. Yeah. Yep. Yeah, that's good. So I think that you said a number of things from just the original assertion which are important. It's important to recognize, I think, as a broad umbrella in the conversation is that we need wisdom, which means we're going to have to take into consideration all of the specifics of what is exactly in front of us. We can rely on the general principles of the scriptures that have been given to us to help us in those specific Specific situations. One of the principles is that it seems wise to try to use things to get into the love of God through Christ and His Spirit, that is to say the gospel. You think that's a fair summary of what you're saying? Yeah. I'm also trying to share with you some of my experience going from a person who I used to be a person who just read books and knew the principles to a person who had some experience and then how did that change the way I viewed the same things. And the way that that the way that it changed was now I say, in moral situations like that, when I'm trying to figure out how to talk to my college roommate, I need wisdom. And part of that wisdom will be knowing general principles from the scriptures. And then there's a whole bunch of moral judgment that comes through God's providence and experience and all kinds of stuff. And that's the more complete way to talk about the same thing as opposed to just making it sound like all you have to do is follow this pancake recipe when you're doing evangelism. Which I know you wouldn't want to do No. And I just want to make it clear. You like pancakes though. You know, when I talk about um you know having that conversation with a color for me. Um I didn't mean to come off is where they never talk with him about the Bible. If he doesn't have interest in the essential gospel, that's that's why I tried to make it clear that you need wisdom. Yes. position you're talking about that throne and I stand by that strictly. You can't talk about it from the position of him being equal authority with you above the scriptures and you can dissect them together. Yeah. I would really like it is I see you wanting to apply rigorously the presuppositional method of apologetics. So when you do and you get Get more and more experience. Will you please tell me those different experiences and let me know how it went? Okay. Yeah, that'd be great. Thank you. Hopefully you'll have lots of opportunities. Well this has been fun, folks. Can I show you a few other things? Thanks. Alrighty. So let me point out I'm just gonna fly through a couple things because we only have a few minutes left. I know. I I don't want to do that yet. Okay, number one, here's that little chart that I drew up on the board where we have the two arms of God. The reason again Again, why I I brought this out was remember last week I showed you how the rest of the catechism is now broken into the work of the Son and then the work of the Spirit. Okay, so when you look at the catechism, we're now when we go into question number uh seven, we're going to start seeing God by way of the Son and the Spirit and the act of creation, the act of providence, one part of Providence is special providence, which is salvation. And that's going to be the whole bulk of the catechism. It's watching the sun accomplish salvation. And then it's going to switch. And we're going to look at how the Spirit applies the same. Imagine Imagine having the medicine, but not being able to apply it. Okay, and that's what we see between the Sun and the Spirit. The Sun is going to apply accomplish what the spirit then applies. That's the reason why we have this. All this other stuff is extra credit. It's all extra credit and we'll talk about it later. So um let me point out um on the new supplement chart They these are just kind of paraphrases, and you can see See then the work of the Son and then the work of the Spirit in relationship to each other. God with us as one of us, God with us dwelling among us. You see what we're doing There. Okay, so and then uh let me just say a few words about the note under that. So you can read these things when you get home, but now I'm gonna look Look on page number five, and I'm going to look under Gospel Still Centered on the Incarnate Son. So when we go and we have a diagram like this. And we say that the gospel is Trinitarian, if we really want to understand the gospel of God, we have to understand how the Father is working through the Son and the Spirit. can make you think that you should be giving uh a kind of absolute equal weight to each of the persons. But that's not exactly what we see within the scripture. When we're reading, we see still that there is an emphasis placed upon the sun. So this is my point here. Is that even when Paul in Ephesians is talking about the great mystery that has been revealed, it is the mystery of the Son taking upon himself human nature. It ends up gaining a kind of centerplace. We can see this in other verses, like even when you're to understand how all of the scriptures fit together in Luke chapter 24. four verse twenty-seven and beginning at Moses and all the prophets he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. That's the Son of God. It's not the Spirit that took on human nature. It was the Son of God who took on human nature. And he's saying that all these things are about me. Right? If you want to understand the scriptures, you've got to read them. Here's a buzzword, Christocentrically. Have you heard that before? Okay, Christocentrically, we're Christ at the center. Okay? We can see this now. I already mentioned the Ephesians. But here's the mistake that I don't want you to make. Even though Christ is at the center, when you read the scriptures, the find Father and the Spirit are always still a part of the work. We don't want to become, as one Arthur says, fatherly forgetful or unappreciative of the Spirit. When you look at the Son accomplishing things, oftentimes the Spirit is right there because it's by the Spirit that He does it. And the reason why he's doing it, because it's the will of the Father. You see what I'm saying? So they're always present there, even though we give a kind of centrality to Christ. Now that is Captured in this little chart here on page six of the supplement. Notice how Jesus is at the center, and then we have the Spirit and the Father, and that's what that Spirit So without diminishing our Christ-centered reading of the scripture, we should not dimin we should also we should not diminish the presence and work of the other persons of the Godhood. even in the ministry of the Son. So let me just relay to you a few scriptures and look down on page six, you have permission. For God, and this is the it's on Sorry for any confusion with my supplements. Isn't that fun? Yeah, it's a supplement. Yeah, so here are some with regard to the Father and the Son. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. John three seventeen. Now I I'm saying this is God the Father. Okay. John 6 8. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. And if you were to read, that's the Father. That's the whole point of the news. Nicodemus conversation, by the way. Okay, and then John 20, 21. Are you noticing that if you want to learn about the Trinity, you should read John? So Jesus said to them again, peace to you, as the Father has sent me, I also send you. Now isn't that interesting? And that's that missio idea. If you want to understand the mission of the church, you need to see the mission of the Son from the Father. And is not the Church empowered by the Spirit just as or like? In less measure than the Son. We also see the Spirit and the Son. Now here's a bunch of references. Jesus Christ was begotten of the Holy Spirit, Luke 1. Jesus Christ led a holy, spotless life and offered himself to God through the working of the Holy Spirit. Jesus Christ was anointed for service by the Holy Spirit Jesus Christ was led by the Holy Spirit in his movements. Jesus Christ was taught by the Spirit who rested upon him. The Spirit of God was the source of his wisdom in the days of his flesh. The Holy Spirit abode upon him in fullness, and the words he spoke were the words of God. Jesus Christ gave commandments to his apostles, whom he had Chosen through the Holy Spirit. Jesus Christ wrought his miracles in the power of the Holy Spirit. Jesus Christ was raised from the dead by the power of the Holy Spirit. Sometimes That's a surprise to folks. And that's what I have for you this morning. So the point there is for you to see that yes, there is a centrality to the sun and His incarnation and the accomplishing of the work of redemption, but do not allow that to diminish the other persons. You'll see it as you read. Or it will be implicit. Okay? And that sets us up to now understand or start to understand all the work that we're going to do from here on out in the catechism. We're first now going to look at the the work of the members in the act of creation and providence in general. There's very little time spent on that in the catechism Catechism because the main point of the catechism is salvation. Let me point one other thing out to you. Now this is not the supplement but the regular handout on page number Five, right above the further readings, we'll end on this. I just want you to see this. We talked about the hidden and we talked about the revealed. This is not proportionate. It's just supposed to get across a point. Here we have the inner life in the land of the Trinity. Most of a decision from us who knows what Their object. But the Father sent the Son in the incarnation. And that is represented by the large square. It's pretty big, but it's still just a small part of what the total trinity is doing. And then if you want to look at The role of salvation, even with just in the incarnation, not to mention what the Trinity is up to, it's that little tiny piece right there. This is a Atonement and salvation. This lets you know that more is being accomplished in the incarnation than just these two things. And it lets you know that the Trinity Is not consumed with his work with the work of salvation. One way that you'll see this talked about within the books is that This is going to point out his sufficiency, and this points out, once we get down into these areas, his efficiency. And this is a practical point. Let me ask you this question. Based on this chart, knowing who the Trinity is and all that he is capable of. Is he s is he sufficient to accomplish this task? Are you kidding the other question? It it sounds like a trick question when you start to realize how these things relate. Okay. This is one of the things benefits of starting with the Trinity is to see. Yes, he's sufficient. He can accomplish this in a million more things on a million more planets and not even losing press. Right? But then there's the question is is he efficient? That is to say, we know he can do it, but does he? And the answer is yes. Because he did not See that? Isn't that nice? And that that's that chart catches both of those things. This is where you are going to find, for example, if you were an old evangelical who was still relying on the Trinity for everything, this is where you would In this kind of stuff. And I'll end on that. Alright, thanks for your participation today. You all are very kind. Let's pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Lord, we thank you for this these mysteries that That you have revealed to us. Oftentimes we take your revelation, whether it is of yourself or what you require of us, and we twist it to ends that you never intended. Please do not let us twist these things into unsolvable math riddles. Please do not let us twist these things into becoming a skeptic. Skeptical or growing in resentment that this is what Christianity is. Lord, keep us on the path of righteousness. May you make us humble as we realize who you are, and may we be humble when we realize that out of nothing but your grace You have come to give us salvation. And may we be humbled by the length and the breadth and the depth that you have gone to to accomplish it. Lord, you don't need us, but we sure do need you. Please help us to now, as we go through the rest of your scriptures and discovering your scriptures salvation help us to understand the Son and help us to understand the Spirit. We ask these things in your name. Amen