First that your patience this morning. My allergies are in full bloom. So I'm going to try to put two thoughts together today. So let's uh open with prayer. Father, we thank you for this time to get to know you more as our covenant God and to glorify you as we get to know you. For what else is there to do? But to praise your name the more that you reveal yourself to us, especially in the person of Christ and by way of We pray, Lord, that you would do that very thing this morning. Lord, we are not interested in continuing in our sin. We are interested in manifesting the fruits of your spirit. And we pray that you would use our study to that end. And that it would be to a further end, which is to your glory. And we look forward to enjoying you forever. In Christ's name. Amen. Okay. Well I thought we had a good first class last week. This is um supposed to be interactive. We're really spread out today. All right. It's supposed to be interactive, and so we'll continue with that interaction this morning. And And the the first thing I want to do is just just have a few volunteers, you don't need to raise your hand, but if you could just summarize for us some of the main points and main discussion points that we covered last week in Catechism Question number one. one or shorter catechism question one. How would you summarize our discussion last week? There's several ways to do so. Yeah, we had a huge conversation on order. And how things are ordered. Very good. What else would we add to our conversation? Okay. Yep. Anything else? Yeah, it is. They have a different order uh throughout the eras. Okay, anything Anything else that you want to add that you took away from last week that is important to remember? Okay. Yeah, we do. We live in this world before God. Very good. So the reason why we were talking the reason why we centered our conversation on order last week was the first catechism question has to do with what is the chief and When you get into the discussion of the language like chief and ends, we're a part of a moral discussion about the moral order of beings. And we made a note that there are a couple different kinds of order, even in the creation account itself. The creation can be ordered to itself in terms of kind. We called those generic relationships, but there were also relationships of ends, that one thing is ordered for the sake of another. thing. For example, some of you may have something delicious for lunch today for Father's Day. Maybe it will be steak. I don't know. If so, what you have there is that the steak or the cattle was ordered for the sake of the family enjoying a good meal. meal. You could do the same thing with plants if meat disgusts you. I don't know why I never mind, forget it. But but you get the point. We're talking about order. Uh one of the last things I said I think ties everything together Nicely, so you can begin to see what the eternal Christ is doing, even through his servant Moses, is that Moses was the was the human author of the creation account, and he was on the plains of Moab. The people were about to enter into a land filled with people who have alternate ways to order life. The creation account was a gracious act of God through Moses Calling the people back to Yahweh's will for his creation. So when they were overcome by those alternate accounts, they always had a uh something in scripture. Scripture ready to go back and see what is the order and will of our Heavenly Father. God has ordered things so that the chief end of man is to glorify and enjoy God. Forever. Now we turn to question number two of the shorter catechism. Does anyone have that one memorized? I know our young'uns do in the other classrooms, but anybody here? Some of you do, but you don't want to say, maybe. I don't know. Steven, do you have that one? That's nice. What role has God given us given to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him? Scripture or God's word as contained in the scriptures of the Old and New Testament? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. As a collect as a collector well as a collective, I think we got it. If we were to put all those words together. The word of God, which is contained in the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, is the only rule to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him. Now, some of that language might scare some of you. So let me read that again. What rule has God given to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him? And the answer, the word of God, which is contained in the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, is the only rule to direct us how we may glorify God. Now, this is the shorter catechism. If you were to look at the larger catechism and the confession, there's some articles of faith that come before this that help us to make sure we don't misunderstand. So one of the first things I want to do is I just want to tell you what this question and answer is not said This question and answer is not saying that we may only have knowledge of God through the Old and the New Testament. It's not limiting our knowledge to only the scriptures. Even the scriptures would contradict this if you were to hold such a claim. Romans 1, for example, says that, for since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen. Well, how? Well, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without a excuse. We also see a similar notion in Psalm 19, the first four verses. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament shows his handiwork. Day on to day utters speech, and night on to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard Their line has gone throughout all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world. In them he has set a tabernacle for the sun. Do you see what he's saying there, by the way, the imagery that he's using in Psalm Psalm 19, 1 through 4. Whose voice has gone throughout all the world? No. I mean, in an indirect way. Yeah, you can everybody can see the creation, and that it's God's handiwork, and what the person must be like. in order to create such a thing. To set the sun in the sky? Do you know what you have to be like to do that? Gary, can you set the sun in the sky? I mean come on. No, you can't. You got that one right. That was good. We're on the right track. Uh you also see the same kind of notion in action chapter fourteen seventeen nevertheless he did not leave himself without witness. Now this is he's Paul is speaking this to pagans. Nevertheless he did not leave himself without witness And that He did good, gave us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. And he's giving this as an argument that they should recognize who is deserving of worship and that That they are not. And neither is are any of the Greek gods. So that is what the the question and the answer is not saying that the only way that we have knowledge of God is through his scriptures. That's a traditional division that there is knowledge of God by way of nature or his gen to general mankind. That's one distinction, or through supernature or through the scriptures. That's a general theological division that's been around for a long time. And so let's make sure we know that he's not that they're not trying to represent the scriptures as saying that. This is a question about rules. That's what that's what the question is totally focused on. It's just rules. That's how the question begins. What rule has Now I'm gonna open it up for questions. What definition are they using here for the word rule? I'm going to list five different definitions that I found in the Oxford English Dictionary, and you tell me which one is applicable here. Are you ready? Okay. A regulation or principle governing conduct or procedure within a particular area of activity. That's number one. I feel like I'm on a game show. Number two, control for government. For example, an end to British rule. Number three, the rule, the normal or customary state of things. Number four, a straight strip of rigid material. Used for measuring a ruler. Number five, a thin printed line or dash. you think Stephen Mackis says one, a regulation or principle governing conduct or procedure within a particular area of activity. Okay. Any other diversions? Four. What is your name, sir? John. Say that again? John. John. Okay, great. John Daly. John Daly, hey. Good good to meet you. Okay. Yeah. Uh a straight strip of rigid material used for measuring a ruler. I would agree with four, or maybe one. His name is John. So you like the analogy of the ruler. Okay. So I've got uh I have a little coalition forming on four. Okay. The normal or customary state of things. Yeah. Uh huh. You can see they're all really uh closely related, aren't they? Yeah. A thin printed line or dash. Like something else. One and two months at least. Okay. Yes. Control or government, for example, an end to British rule. Remember it was small before you show Shannon. You do, okay. They're definitely closely related. Right. But how are they using it in the question? When they say, What rule has God given to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy him? Is he saying what regulation or principle governing conduct or procedure has he given us? What control or governance government has he given us? And then they end up answering the Old and New Testament. Elizabeth, you look like you want to say something. And the searcher certainly has regulation in mind and um a picture of how things shift and and how it went by. And and how about that how about um ordinary and declare all the things about Yeah, very good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah that's good. So I like all the arguments. We we can debate on the different ones. I myself think it's the rulers having a straight edge, that by which everything else is compared. So did you is this true? Who? John? No. No, not yet. I I only I invited him to this class for this. Uh Cheryl was with me too. But I think it's a metaphor then because if you use a plumb line. That's true. All of those are rulers in a manner of speaking. Yeah. That's fine, but I think that's what we're doing. We do with everything. So that's okay. But that's me. So um so did you is this true? D is there someplace in the world and there's a safe and inside of that safe they actually keep something that is the official foot. You could go there and you could see the actual foot by which all other feet are compared to know if it's truly a foot so that we have just weights and measures. I I've heard of that yeah. Has anybody ever seen the The f the foot? It doesn't say Stanley, yeah. Right. Okay. There's like a there's the way they've done it is like they've upgrade it as like under lighting form like this something. Now we're dealing with a document from the late sixteen hundred And these folks have been working on documents like this for a very long time, and they're picking up and trying to continue the conversation that was started in uh to uh or continued in 200 AD and they were continuing apostolic teaching. Okay. So it can be beneficial in conversations like this to look at the etymology or what's the ancient use of these kinds of So in that same dictionary, the Oxford English Dictionary, the origin of this is from the Latin regulare, and it is from Latin regula, which means Right? So I think they're going they're going along with something like that. So the problem underlying this question that you have before you Is that the church needs a rule or ruler or measuring rod or straight edge? that acts as an objective standard measuring whether what someone says is true and or good You see what I'm saying? This problem arises from the continual twisting of the truth. Satan is the father of lies, and he has many children. I think that's what undergirds a question like this. Now Dwayne, I've made you put your hand down like eight times. Did you have something you want to say before I move on to the next section? Okay. I will say we had a conversation with someone uh that wanted to disregard many times the weapons. And this was one of the things we had an issue with. Because he said, well, no, the Word of God is not the only rule in correctness, how may glorify and joy him. The Holy Spirit plays an important part too. So I really liked the way that you took from took it back to other scriptures and say, well you can't say where it means it's obviously we know that it's a it really hurts the only one that it would contradict scripture. Um but No, it I I didn't say I said No, no, no, you no, you you gave it not the only way by which we have knowledge of God, but I'm still holding that it is the only rule. So the main person the main issue that this person had they had an issue with rules. They had yeah, they they had a they they were never wanted to say this is right or This is wrong. Well no, I think that's helps wrong to maintain glorify God to import him. Yes, but that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about God God's word inscripturated in the Old and New Testaments as being the straight edge by which all other truth or goodness is determined whether it is in fact truth or goodness. Okay. But it's the word existence. Sure. The word of God contained its old Old New Testament's only rule that recognized God in the world. Really is and really does in its entirety. Um, oh yeah Definitely. J it's just in the second question we're focused on what's the rule. Yeah, right. Yeah, it's all those things. I don't think we're disagreeing. Okay, so what I'm saying is that underneath of that question is that um it's really God's grace and knowing that throughout history what we're going to have happen both within the church and without the church is that people are going to seek to twist or rearrange the truth and what is actually good. Okay? So then he in his grace gives us a measuring rod by which to examine or to test the Spirit, so to speak. We see that kind of theme running throughout all of the scriptures. This is a really important discussion that we've lost um especially within general evangelicalism. So I'd like to just focus on this today, which is focusing on the question. I just want to talk about the scriptures being a rule or a straight edge. And I want to talk about it by way of looking at scriptures where it talks about how people twist things. So let's just take a look at this problem as recorded within the scriptures itself. And I want to begin by looking at Jude verses 3 and 4. for so please open there with me. I'm just going to point out occurrences of twisting. These are very important passages. They deserve a tremendous respect and study and prayer. We're going to go through them quickly. I'm just going to point out certain words. But I would encourage you on your Sabbath day to mention Meditate on them. Here's Jude verse 3 and 4. Beloved, while I was very diligent to write to you concerning our common salvation I found it necessary to write to you exhorting you to contend earnestly for the faith which was once for all delivered to the saints For certain men have crept in unnoticed, who long ago were marked out for this condemnation, ungodly men, who turned the grace of our God into lewdness. and deny the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. So do me a favor and point out in this passage passage where you see evidences of a discussion about the rule and about twisting of the rule. Uh turn? Yeah, who turn. There you go. That's nice. Good catch. That's great. Who turn or twist the grace. Yeah, very good. Okay. Yeah. Uh-huh, go ahead and read that one out loud. Yeah, they change it. Yeah, they change it. Based on the context, do you think it's a good change or a corrupt change? Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah so then we could use a we could use a word that talks about change in a negative fashion and we could use the word twist. That's getting to the heart of it. They pervert. Very good. Do you see anything else in the passage that talks or alludes to a rule? And then we've pointed out the twisting of the rule, but do you see anything in there about a rule? Just go ahead and speak it if you if you see it. Yeah, the faith that was once for all delivered or traditioned, depending on how you know, you have to look up that word, but that was delivered to the saints. Very good. So there's something going on that's been delivered. All of them have this in common, the saints, and somehow this thing that has been delivered that's supposed to be common or the same among all the saints is being twisted. And what are the ways in which it's being twisted? Is it just academic theology or are there other things that are being twisted also? Okay. Yeah, lewdness is has a a different quality than just intellectual disorder. Right. Yeah. Oh yeah, they creep. Yeah, so they're creeping, right? Certain men have crept in unnoticed. That's not a good sign. John, when did you get here? No, I'm just joking. Sorry, you seem playful, so um I'm just kidding. What's that? Oh so okay, great. So he he's not unnoticed Okay. Yeah. Alright, very good. So you see the rule present here. We're already starting to gain some information about that rule that has been passed down to the saints. We notice that in an authoritative speaker's mouth it's it's being spoken of in in the in this letter. It's supposed to be contended for earnestly. Now you could start to look across the scriptures and see, well, what's contended for earnestly? And we would real quickly start to get into the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. I mean Paul at every turn is contending for that. And however uh there are some who seek who who uh creep in and they twist. Now if you take a look at the rest of Jude, it's really about a uh the there's a whole center section about different Creatures that twist. So you could have angels that twist. You could have people from the past that are twisting. There's some different examples in there of twisting. Uh antinomianism, which is going to be a big conversation in that book, which means a twisting of the order, uh moral order. or law. And so you can see that's that conversation of twisting is right alongside a rule. Or that is to say, the faith which has been delivered to the saint. Now, let's take a look at 2 Timothy 2, 15 through 17. This is another one. This is a fascinating passage. I'd encourage you to study this. one with prayer and look up the references. There's some quotations after this and after this passage that I'm going to quote to you, Second Timothy two, fifteen through seventeen, that take you back to uh the Numbers when there is a rebellion against Moses. and then also to a rebellion against Moses in the form of the sorcerers of Egypt. And it's worth your time to reflect on how all these dots that Paul is connecting. So this is what it says in 2 Timothy 2, 15 through 17. Speaking, now let's just get this straight, okay, before we jump in. To a full-fledged application. Paul is speaking to a young man who was in the pastorate. So now he has to say to this young man, who it seems can sometimes Be timid, and he's young, and that can be come with his own difficulty. He says this to him: be diligent to present yourself, approve to God. A worker who does not need to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth, but shun profane and idle babblings. For they will increase to more ungodliness, and their message will spread like cancer. Hymenaeus and Philetus are of this sort. Okay, do we see anything in there about a rule and of twisting? Okay, right. Yeah, so There's an assumption that some something is rightly divided, but but there can be a way to not rightly divide it, right? And I've been using the image of twisting it. Yeah, so it's the same thing going on here. If you were to keep reading in 2 Timothy, he'll um uh The argument that Paul gives from Numbers and from Exodus is that those who hold the truth Who actually have handled the Word of God well, they will be shown to be true by God Himself. In perhaps a similar way that Moses was shown to be shown to be true amongst the rebellion and as Moses was shown to be true amongst the s sorcerers of Egypt. And that's a pretty powerful argument. It won't just be a matter of words, but God Himself will establish the apostles. And he does, if you look at the scriptures, they're established all over the place as legitimate. Okay, so there we have it again. Those are just two examples. Now, from this kind of talk in these passages, what you will then see is the early church. developing images to try to keep giving this a getting this across to congregations. And there is a very famous image among the early fathers for those who twist the scriptures and not twisting the scriptures. Does anybody know that image? It is in Irenaeus. Anybody know the image? It is the image of the mosaic of the king. Have you ever heard of this? It's a very famous one. It there's a there's a parallel passage where he does something with Homer and shows what would happen if we did the same thing that they do with the scriptures if we did it with Homer. But here's a famous analogy and I'm just going to read his words to you so that you can have some Some familiarity with this because he had some really great Irenaeus had some great insights into the nature of what God was saying. He says, This their manner of acting is just as if one, when a beautiful image of a king, has been constructed by some skillful artist out of precious jewels, Should then take this likeness of the man all to pieces, should rearrange the gems, and so fit them together as to make them into the form of a dog or of a fox And even that, but poorly executed. And then and should then maintain and declare that this was the beautiful image of the king Which the skillful artist constructed, pointing to the jewels which had been admirably fitted together by the first artist to form the image of the king, but have been with bad effect transferred And by thus exhibiting the jewels, should deceive the ignorant who had no conception persons patch together old wives' fables and then endeavor by violently drawing away their proper connection, words, expressions, and parables whenever found to adopt the oracles or to adapt the oracles of God to their baseless fictions. Woo! What do you think? Can somebody summarize that in their own words? Ru Rubik's Cube. Okay, that's pretty good image. Yeah. twisting and all of that and how God's word is taken apart in many ways like that by those that want to make it sound poor just Yeah. It is re-put together in this way. Maybe not literally, but sometimes literally in different versions, but sometimes it helps. people justify sins by misquoting or misrepresenting one's verse here and one verse there. Yeah that's right. So does everybody know what a mosaic is? Okay, what's a mosaic I don't think you may have a small paint thing. Right, right. It's kinda like a paint by number with gems. Okay, very good. Nice. Robin. look like a dog but maybe not that well. But I I think that it sometimes puts together very well and that's how to see. Yeah. Uh-huh. Yeah, there can be some pretty um people can be pretty skillful in their deceit. Yeah, that's that's pretty good. Yeah, I agree. Stephen. I believe it. It's true. And we say, Oh Okay, yeah. Maybe you're out there something. Yeah. Yeah, right. The they there's y that and that's part of the trick, right? Is that they're using gems. And they're real and the right gems. It's just they've removed them from their proper connection and order. Isn't that interesting? And so you it's not unusual to have an apostate say, but Lie, Romans 3, verse whatever. Yeah, okay. I'm glad that you picked up on that. Any other observations about this famous analogy? Yeah. in the first place. Yeah. Yes. That's right. But if you could have the scriptures on your side to fund your sinfulness, I mean what greater ally? Nowadays. It also makes sense when certain people reject the picture of the dog if it's not beautiful. Like it's all constructed, but there's something wrong about it. Yeah. Behold your king, and there's the dog. Right? But if you don't know the king very well, you might say, Oh, what a noble breed. You know, like Look at this guy. He can run faster. Whatever. Okay, yeah. But it's it's not the truth. And Yeah. Okay, that's a good point also. Very good. Yeah. Claire. But it's interesting that he takes two things that are created and aren't they're just animals. So they're creatures that are ordered under God in a good way. Yeah But it's interesting that it's not that they made just something random that's just very beautiful to them. They made something that isn't taxed, which could they need even more convincing people to see is preventing a good thing. They're perverting something good. That's what the term is. They're perverting the word which is good, but also a good creative thing Right. And it's become perverted because it is now inordinate. And I think that's what you're pointing out. It's now put into a place that does not belong. Like a golden calf. Yeah, that's good. Right. And what took place during that festival. Yeah. Yeah. Or I can just sort of pieces together to construct something that's true. Right. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Okay, very good. Well if if you want the larger passage of that, you can read it in uh uh Irenaeus and I can get you that that if you want. But um uh okay those are some great observations. You can see the kind of twisting. You also see in that passage that there is an assumption of a rule That there is a right way for it to be together. The gems should be ordered a certain way. And the word hermeneutics has come up, which is very important. That's really what we're talking about here in this question. talking about a rule. Okay. Can you define her remote? Yeah, I can. No, let me let me give it a shot. Um The method rule or framework by which we know The correct order of the parts could be one way to put it. A methodology by which a person can receive the true message The right way of reading. Those are all different ways that it's been used. Anybody want to add to that? I know that this is not a unfamiliar conversation to some. What's that? Yeah, interpretation, right? Yeah, I'm trying to draw it out. Interpretation in j in uh involves all of those things that I'm mentioning, frameworks and lenses and all that, yeah. I I said maybe a couple examples. That would be great. Define by example. where the Catholic Church went off the rails. Right. It's we we looked at the more clear parts of Scripture to understand what the less clear parts of Scripture were telling us. Yeah it does Those are all hermeneutical principles for interpretation. Now those are very simply put that actually have a very thick and deep conversation behind them rooted in the doctrine of God. But those are that's the result. If you wanted to list it for an elementary school class, for example, on how they should re reading their scriptures, scripture interprets scripture, the less clear is interpret interpreted by the more clear. Alright, you've probably heard some conversations about covenant theology. Has anybody here heard of covenant theology? Please raise your hand. Okay. Has anybody here heard of dispensationalism? Okay. Anybody heard of full preterism? Okay. These are all uh at their core hermeneutics. They show you or give you a framework by way of which you would arrange the parts to know what God is doing with His creation Is that fair? Okay. Great. Thanks for asking that. Uh I had a few terms last week that were flying around that I never defined. So I'm glad that you did that. Okay. So then if we were to pick back up in 2 Timothy 3, 14 through 17, let's do so. And we can see here him him going now and he's going to name uh what the rule is and its uses. But you must continue in the things which you have learned and been assured of, knowing from whom you have learned them. And that from childhood you have known the holy scriptures, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus, which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction. for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work. Now do you see any language in there about a rule I mean obviously the scriptures are the rule, and then you can see that they are a rule for doctrine. Right? I think that's a good idea. Yeah. Um complete and equipped very good. Okay. Well, us what are you saying? Rule. Yeah, the the rule. What I'm saying is that verse sixteen, all scripture being the rule, it's the purpose of teaching, direction, and training, and I just So that when we get to verse 17 kind of being that school, um, being the thing in which we're measured by like our Yes, but don't get too broad too broad too quickly because he's still just talking th talking to Timothy. He's the man of God. I'm okay with you generalizing that and saying that yes, this also can help to perfect Christians for every good world. work. But I think first and foremost we have to acknowledge here that Paul is seeking to equip Timothy that he would be able to perform maturely his work in the pastorate. You see what I'm saying? So I I don't want to quibble about that, because I I would admit both, but I just want to do one thing first and then I want to do the second thing, that the man of God I mean why does he say it that way? Why does he say the man of God? Does he just mean just humans? Maybe so. I think um that's secondary and first is that Timothy would be complete thoroughly equipped for every good work that he's supposed to do. And he's supposed to turn to the scriptures for doing so. Remember, he was appealing to Timothy in the beginning of this sentence too, saying, You know what you received, even from your family. Stay with it. It will help to mature you that you can do all the work. Yes? Mark? I think both, but it it seems to me there's an order. First it's him as um One who's being placed as head of that church, and then secondly, it's going to be him as human being. Because I don't when I look at the rest of the scriptures, I think the scriptures should be used that way for everybody. Yeah. Yes, stick to the source and mature in this and you'll have everything you need to do your work. Right, exactly. And that discussion is continuing and he's reminding him That he's already received. Just like we read in Jude, people are receiving something that all the saints are agreed upon, all the preaching is formed around. Timothy has received that same thing. through his family. He should continue with it as he seeks to do this work in the pastorate. Yes. focusing in on these are able to make these wise perceptions Yeah. Yeah, I think so. And then there's a secondary sense also. Mark? So maybe a um distractive question, but does anything change here? Given that in in this age there were no mass-produced descriptors, right? Is there any Or is there actually a optioning code? What do you what do you um say again? Can you say a little bit more? Like what kind of shift are you talking about? about. What do you have on your mind? Okay. Yeah. Uh-huh. Right? Oh added to reliance on the profession group. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, that's a great uh that's interesting. I don't know. I mean it would be fun to speculate with you, but uh it seems to me like yes, there was not the mass production, so there would be perhaps uh few and far between those who had access to them and who had taken the time to study them. Paul is probably working with Timothy at a different level than he is with everyone Everyone else in the congregation, though they all receive Pauline teaching. I mean I could go down that line with you. Um and what scriptures is he talking about here? Answer, I mean what is he talking about? What's that? Old. Yeah, if you want to put it that way, the the Elder Testament. Elizabeth. Does that um require even greater constraints of the law than these kind of personal um respectability, um um faithfulness so that your reputation is good as a medical trip. I was just thinking of the Philippians reputation Timothy when it talks about being a light to the to the generation generation. need to be respectable and right and correct. It seems that yes, and that's why there's qualifications for teachers, for example. Is that am I missing you? Yeah, no, I just thought it's more and more messing with that. Yeah. That's yeah, that's right. I think so. That's that seems to be the representation of the scriptures. Okay. So we see the rule and we see the twisting going throughout the scriptures. We see that there's supposed to be a rule being passed down, but There are people that continually want to twist it. Those who are meant to have the rule and to be using it all the time must handle the word well. They can't become the twisters. Right? That's what we're seeing here. And this is all part of the conversation from that. Now let me share another passage with you to take you on another step here. And this is from 1 Corinthians 15. I'm going to start flying here, okay? Because we have Very limited time. This is this is 1 Corinthians 15. This is going to start to bring out to you that the church thought of the scriptures as the rule by which we know faith and life Okay, so here it is, 1 Corinthians 15, and I'm going to start in verse 1. Listen to how the rule is talked about here. Moreover, brethren, I declare to you the gospel which I I preach to you, which also you received, and in which you stand, by which also you are saved, if you hold fast that word which I preached to you You. Are you starting to notice the emphasis? Unless you believed in vain. Now listen to this. Notice the Jude language again. And the same. And the and the second Timothy language again. For I delivered to you, first of all, that which I also received. So there's context. Of the holy and authoritative tradition. And then he goes on and he says he's going to start enumerating the major points of the rule that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures, and that he was seen by him. Cephas, then by the twelve. After that he was seen by over five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remained to the present, but some have fallen asleep After that he was seen by James, then by all the apostles. Then last of all he was seen by me also, as by one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles, who am not worthy to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am. And his grace toward me was not in vain. But I labored more abundantly than the all yeah, not not I, but the grace of God but the grace of God which was with me. And he gets right back to the point here. Therefore, whether it was I or they, speaking of all those people that were who are also preaching, especially uh Peter and John. James, whether it was I or they, so we preach, and so you believed. Do you see the continuity of the message? That there's one rule among them, and that he chooses in this passage to enumerate some of the main points of that rule. That if you were to diverge from those things, you would be diverging from the apostolic message. We see that. Okay? So you can see Paul here Truth or goodness is determined. And we would say that that is the apostolic understanding of God's work through Christ by way of the scriptures. Now, here's a quick question for you. When he says that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures and that he was buried What scriptures is he talking about? Three. Elder Testament. Exactly. Hold on. That's my next point. Darn it. Yeah, so there you have it. So don't just think that the gospel is reduced to a couple little statements. What Paul and the others have done Both in the presence of Jesus and then in the presence of Jesus by way of his spirit when Christ is in his physical assembly. ascension, they have worked out the theology and hermeneutic of the scriptures that they might understand all of it and they're starting to re reduce it down to preachable points for large crowds. But they're getting their theology from a tremendous amount of study throughout especially the minor prophets and But they're going to go all the way through all of the scriptures. And that's what we see here with Paul. So what was delivered or traditioned down to him? What scriptures is Paul talking about? What are the main points captured here? We've started to answer that. There's other examples of authoritative handing down. Let me just mention these to you. You can write them down and look at them later. 1 Corinthians 11, verse 2. two. Now I praise you, brethren, that you remember me in all things and keep the traditions just as I delivered them to you. Now that's an interesting passage because Because it then goes in to talking about the order of male and female within worship services. Uh Carol, that was a tough passage for your class. Yeah. But but he's gonna to draw upon Genesis there, and he's going to show God's intended order in Christ for male and female and how that's liturgically represented. in that passage. So this is getting pretty, this is getting pro robust. The gospel is a robust thing. It's not just about a single thing. It's about all of the order of God. And then this is the rule that we can determine the correct order of God. Ultimately, this will refer to delivering down to the saints the correct order of all things under Christ. If you want to look at the hermeneutic, read Psalm 8. Psalm 8 is the hermeneutic. All things placed Then he said to them, this is Luke 24, 25 through 27 Therese. Then he said to them, O foolish ones and slow of heart to believe, and all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Now that that's a we need to read that in a thick and robust way, okay? And I and I gave and Psalm 8 is the robust way. It should be God. But it is about all of it in Christ. Later, this will be known as the rule of faith. And you'll notice in the larger catechism, that's how they phrase it. There is only one rule of faith that we might know how to glorify and enjoy him, the scriptures of the Old and New Testament. This is called the rule of faith. And there will be rules seeking to make sure this rule is not violated. It will be codified in various creeds, such as the Apostles' Creed. and the Nicene Creed. They are meant to act as rulers or standards or straight edges by which we measure any teaching on faith and life. And yet those creeds only have authority insofar as they are in accord with the apostolic understanding of the scriptures. Our hermeneutic is the apostolic hermeneutic. However, they understand all of the scriptures is how we should understand all of the scriptures. We read in line with the apostles. That's what it means for our church to be apost I got the bell, I saw you, you didn't you know. Okay He poked his head in the window and did this. If you missed it. Man. Okay, let's Okay. Our ru our rule Is not just the direct quotation of the apostles, but the apostolic arrangement, mosaic, and understanding Of all of the scriptures around the Son for the glory of the Father by way of the Spirit. There it is. You are no longer part of a General evangelical church saying things like that. Okay. So here are some questions for you, and then you're on your way. What are some ways in which God wants to be glorified by His law? What are some ways in which people have departed from the apostolic understanding of the law? What is the apostolic understanding of the law? What are some ways in which God wants to be glorified for who He is? What are some ways in which people have departed from the apostolic understanding of who God is? What are some ways in which God wants to be glorified for what He is doing with the creation and the Church in particular? What are some ways in which what God is doing with His creation and the Church in particular? have been twisted and is no longer the apostolic understanding. You see what what I'm getting at with those kinds of questions? You can look at everything. uh uh under that line. Does it match up with the apostolic mosaic or not? Forget it. Yeah, that's fine. That sounds great. I got 'em I got 'em right here for you. Okay, we ha I'm sorry, f that I don't have any time for questions. Okay, so let's pray. Lord Christ, we thank you that you have not left us as orphans. But you have given your spirit. You have especially given your spirit to the apostles. That they might truly understand your will, that they would understand your order. And they have inscripted by way of the superintendence of your Holy Spirit Not only things that were relevant to them, individual sentences or sayings just coming from them, but You have left us with a way to understand your will through all of your scriptures. It is the apostolic way. It is your way, but you have commissioned them. To do this work. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, for this rule. And we pray that we would know your scriptures better and better. That we might glorify you and enjoy you forever. In the name of Christ, Amen.