Yeah, I don't expect to get through it. Thinking this for a couple of weeks. Oh yeah. Unless you talk fast. Right. That would be the key. Alrighty, well I'd like to go ahead and get started. We're already late. The uh handouts are in the back there. Uh there's uh it looks like a white bulletin, but on the front it's uh asks the question, who is Jesus? So if you uh if you can share, but I should have enough for our normal uh number here in Sunday school. Let's go ahead and start our time together in prayer Lord, we thank you for this time that you've given to us to be shaped and formed by your Holy Spirit. We pray that you would do so. We anticipate that you will do so. So through your word this morning and through um our conversation about your word, pray that you would do your good work among us and that it would flow out into all of the Different areas under the stewardship that you've given to us. And may your name be glorified and may our neighbor flourish in their endeavors because of what you're doing through us. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Yeah, okay. So Nick just put them on the back chair there. Okay, so let's go ahead and open our Westminster Shorter Catechism. I have two kind of prefaratory things I want to point out. We're going to open the catechism to question number 21, and I will go through that in a minute. But before We do, I want to just mention something about the kind of conversation that we're having. I really enjoyed last week's conversation. I thought that it went really well. And one of the main reasons why I think that is because people walked away and they were clear about what we talked about. That's actually kind of rare uh is to be clear about something. So I really like that. I I I was thinking through what was it that Contributed to that. I think it's a lot of different things. So we're going to try to keep mimicking that class. It was a good one as a model. in the conversation and keeping it clear is I wanted to give you a little example of something. Let me just start by asking a question. If there is a child who is over a friend's house and playing in the basement, here's a couple moral scenarios for you, okay? There's a child over a friend's house. Parents are home. They're in the basement playing. The family that lives next door where that child really lives is. just over there playing in their basement with friends. Everything's going well. The family that lives next door, they're getting ready for dinner, so they send the oldest sister over. to knock on the door and um ask for the child to come home for dinner, what should uh the parents do who have who have the basement where the child Children are playing. This isn't complicated. Yeah, they should. What if the um older sister didn't come over to give that word, but the mother or the father, is it still the situation that that family should send the child home? Or Should they refuse and keep the child in their basement? Okay, okay, very good. Okay, now let's go ahead. Here's this moral scenario. The children in the basement are Jewish and they and now we're in the time of a Nazi occupation and a Nazi knocks on the door asking if they have So when you add the time of nine Nazi occupation and Nazi to the scenario when we are thinking morally that complicates the question. That question there is debated has been debated for a long time on what is the right thing to do. Professional ethicists disagree over it. I ha I know what I think about it, but I heard what you think about it, but it It's a more complicated question than the sister or the mother question. So what I would recommend, that's just an illustration. What I would recommend is you try to keep the conversation at the mother and the sister level in here, and don't try right away to add in complicating elements where everybody's confused. Last week I thought we did a great job because at the very end somebody used the word double predestination. And we didn't start there. If we started there, the it would have just been a I probably would have wanted to leave. It just it's a conversation that needs to happen, but everybody would have been confused the whole time. So if we're going to complicate it, that's fine because things can get complicated. And honestly, we do need to work through whether what we would do if a Nazi banged on the door. helps us work out moral principles. But let's not start there. Let's start kind of nice and easy and breezy. And then if you want to complicate at the end, then we can do that. Is that okay? All good? Great. Cool. Okay. So that being said, let's go ahead and open to question 21. I just want to point something out to you here. Hi. Uh say a look at question twenty one. Twenty one is the answer to uh 20 really is who is who is this redeemer and it starts to talk about who he is in different ways he's God's elect he's the eternal son of God. He became man. He continues to be God and man in two distinct natures. He's one person forever. Really working out the doctrine of Christ or the teaching of Christ. That the church has developed over many, many years. Now take a look at question 22. Now we're going to ask the question: well, how did Christ, being the Son of God, how did he become man? Okay, well they're going to answer that. Then they're going to get into question number twenty-three, and this is considered the offices of Christ. I'm sure you've heard of prophet, priest, and king. That's the that's where we could that teaching is right there. And then you're going to see it divided out in, okay, well how does he do that office of a prophet? And how does he do that office as a priest and how does he do that office as a king. Then we get to question twenty-seven, and now this is considered a discussion on the estates or the states of Christ. And there's There's two of them, humiliation and exaltation. And then it answers the question, okay, well tell me more about exaltation. Tell me more about Uh the humiliation. And then look at question number twenty nine. We move away from the doctrine of the eternal Christ. Yes. I'm sorry. Are the questions in here? No, I'm looking at we're looking at the Westminster Shorter Catechism right now. Yeah, it's in the back of the Trinity. I'm gonna wait for you. Cool. There's also an app. And there's an app. Uh Westminster shorter catechism for those who need an app app. Hey there you go. That sounds cool. All right, stick with me. You go you all can share apps later. So right now in the back of your Trinity Hymnal you can can find the Westminster Shorter Catechism. And Marcy, you're going to want to open to uh question number 21. Let me know, just kind of give me a nod when y'all are there. All right. Irene's there. Okay. And nod number three. Very good. Are we all on the same page now? Great. So all I'm showing you here is the there's this development of the teaching about Jesus the Christ, starting in verse 21. And then I wanted you to notice that when we get to question number 29, we are now moving into the doctrine of the Holy Spirit. Do you see that? So the question in 29 is how are we made partakers of the redemption purchased by Christ? And then the answer is the Holy Spirit. And then it will go on to talk about the Holy Spirit there in all of his work. Alrighty. So somebody saying something No, okay. So those so I just pointed out to you a few things. Like if you were to look at the uh faithful Christians who have been given the teach of the uh gift of understanding the Word of God, if you look back throughout all the ages, you'd find that these are the main points of the conversation that they would talk about with regard to Jesus being the Christ. They would talk about, well, is he just a man? No, he's also God. Okay, well then how in the world did that happen? And that's the next question. And does he play different roles? Yeah, he's a prophet, he's a priest, and he's a king. Does is are there different kind of moments or Places he occupies in his life, yeah. At one time he's humiliated, at another time he's exalted. And um and and that's what they're they're answering all those questions here. And then they switch and then we we move on to the Holy Spirit. So this is what I'm doing, is I'm using this free resource for the whole doctrine of Christ. Those same questions are answered inside of this little booklet. So this is R. C. Sprohl. This is a free resource. And he's answering the question, who is Jesus? And it will become obvious to you that he has the shorter catechism in front of him. So we're just gonna work through this. Don't throw this away. Don't burn it. Don't lose it. Just hold on to it for the next several weeks as we we'll see how far we can get along. And then guess what RC Sprohl also has? He has one that's called Who is the Holy Spirit? And that's what we'll be doing next. And that way we're really making some progress through this catechism. I have a lot of other things I want to teach besides this, so. Okay. So like we did last week, we're treating this class like a grad class where we read paragraphs. I hope that the um the font is large enough. Um I know someone who has terrible eyesight and they looked at this and they thought it was okay. So we'll read through these paragraphs and then we'll discuss any concerns or questions that we have. Robert, are you up for being a reader for a little while? Okay, you're gonna need to make sure you're nice and loud. All right. Thanks. Where do you want me to start? Uh start right under chapter one, the Christ of the Bible. There are vast numbers of portraits of Jesus in the art gallery. galleries of this world, these images are often conflicting and other different impressions of what Christ might have looked like during his incarnation. There were no cameras back then, of course And we have no images of him from his time, so any idea about Jesus' physical form is pure conjecture. The multiplicity of images of Christ Christ and art galleries parallels the widespread confusion about Jesus' identity that exists in the world today. The many theories about Christ's identity in circulation are Attempts to answer a question that Jesus himself once asks his disciples, Who do you say that I am? The question is so important that one's eternal faith hinges upon the answer one gives Unfortunately, most ideas about Christ's identity today are born of empty speculation or created to squeeze into a philosopher's pattern rather than drawn from scripture. The Christs that are born this way was simply set way simply won't do. A recycled Christ, a Christ of compromise or any imagery uh Christ can redeem no one. A Christ who is watered down, stripped of power, debased of glory, reduced to a symbol, or made impotent by scholarly surgery is not Christ, but Anton Anti-Christ because to supplant the real Jesus and a substitute is to work against Christ. To charge or to change or distort the real Christ is to oppose Him with a false Christ. To be redeemed and to have assurance of our salvation, we might rid ourselves of these imitations. We need Christ, the real Christ. Alright, thanks Robert. I'll switch to somebody else in a minute too, just to give you a breather. The um let me uh uh see if you had any concerns or comments about that section. I wonder if you've run into any of those false Christs that you see there on the list, recycled Christs or Christ as symbol or whatever. Be interested to hear from your experience. Gary. So we uh dealt with Mormon neighbors and missionaries for a while. And of course they speak highly of Christ. But of course it's not the real crisis, but the issue that kept bothering me was we all have a distorted view at some point. And like when you're dealing with someone who is really far out there, how much do you insist on the you know the real believing in the real Yeah, that's a good question that you're raising. How much do we insist on? Is there a kind of a core that you can't compromise on or be unclear about? Is that is that fair to represent your question? Right. And and I guess what immediately comes to mind is he has to be your substantiation area sometimes. Okay. Okay. Very good. All right. Yes, Jen. Um I've just been over ten years and But yeah. Um just that focus on God is love. And I remember being in a Bible study and you know bringing up well Jesus actually had more emotions than just love and compassion and forgiveness and and it was like, well we're not gonna talk about that. And actually glancing over scriptures that showed a balance view of Christ. Um So I found that to be very interesting. priest and of sacrificial love, but forgetting that he's also a prophet and a king. Yeah. Very good. Yeah, Ashley. One of the most the the images of Christ. Right. The majority of the well for the hi history has been portrayed is as white basically. Right. Um kind of like it's like a hippie. Um right? And so that we No, it's probably not accurate. But also on the flip side, what I'm seeing even more recently, especially with just the turmoil that's been in our country, is then him represented as um an African American. Which is not to say that he is not that. It's more so what I have seen when I've seen it presented in the context. Um the reasons behind that are also to sort of feel like another portion of our population needs to see him that way in order to identify with him and relate to him and sort of then it's it could also be seen as a as another manipulation to feel more comfortable instead of us submitting to what he did, which of course we don't know. I mean leaving potential second commandment the violations aside. You know what I'm saying? Like, um, that's just something else that I see on the surface. Or who is that? Yeah, right. And um it's interesting that uh God being able to do it um whatever he wants, that he does not create a he does not um the sun does not He takes upon himself a Jewish ethnicity. And that's that's pretty interesting. Oh it make your statements make me raise the question why that? Why did he why did he become a Jew? That's pretty interesting. that God chose. Yeah, he was Jesus is Jewish. Could it also be now I don't know at the time when the Israelites were personal like a original but you know what I mean? Um the original Jews if their complexion was darker than what we see today. Yeah maybe so of the intermarrying female. Like we see sort of a wide range of complexions among people who are at least identify as Jewish. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, very good. Yep. All right. That's good. So we see Christ depicted as different ethnicities to try to get across something different about Christ. What about the one in the list where it says that he is reduced to a sim a symbol? Have you ever seen that one? It's no longer important whether he was real, a real human being or not. We're just using him as a let me put I'll put it this way, this is a major hint an archetypal symbol. It's a major, major movement right now. Anybody know the head of that movement? Yeah, Satan, but then right below. Yeah, Jordan Peterson. Now Jordan Peterson's interesting because he acts also as a kind of shamgar. Um but he but he also is really missing. See if you pay close attention in his conversations, he acknowledges Jesus as a symbol for something, but does not acknowledge the resurrection or anything like that. Okay. Yeah, so we need so I I think we all agree we need the real Christ. With the real Christ, please stand up. Okay. Um Bill, do you mind are you in the mood to read this morning? Oh sure. Okay. Could you take us forward on the depth of Christ? Yeah. It is significant that our faith is called Christianity. For our attention is rightly focused on the one who has redeemed us. The place we must go to learn about Christ is his holy word, for it alone speaks utterly truthful. About our Savior. But because the portrait of Jesus in Scripture is so deep, because it defies human ability to grasp it exhaustively, any study The person of Christ can only scratch the surface. Consider the Apostle John's portrait of Christ in the book of Revelation. John sets the stage for Christ's appearance by presenting a conundrum. Then I saw in the right hand of him who was seated on the throne a scroll written within and on the back Sealed with seven seals. I saw a mighty angel proclaim with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open this roll and break its seals? And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth is able to open his scroll or to look into it. In John's vision of heaven, he is filled with anticipation as he waits to see who will stop Step up. Who will be declared worthy to open the scroll? He continues and began to weep loudly because no one was sound worthy to open the scroll or to look into it. And one of the elders said to me, We eat no more. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the brute of David, has conquered, so that he can open the scroll. And between the throne and the four living creatures, and among the others, I saw a lamb standing, and so it had been slain, with seven horns that Seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. And he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne. Then the four living creatures and the 24 elders prostrate themselves before the land and worship him. And John hears the praise of the angels. Worthy is the land who is in to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. You can see how John's came through this sequence of events. He is excited that someone is going to come and open the scroll. But then he's Plunged in the deep in the depression because no one was found worthy. When the angel told John not to weep because one hadn't found worthy, the one do that, he expected out of beast to come roaring and and uh rip open his goal. But instead he saw a slain man. This imagery is a vivid example of the profound contrast between Christ's humiliation and his exaltation, between his sufferings and his truth. Also using hand on the complexity of this character work. Yeah, any any questions or concerns or thoughts? on that. Do you see the point that he's trying to make here? Christ ends up being different than everybody thought Any thoughts on this? Jeff, please. Um I think uh the question who's the redeemer of God of the love? Um I think that we There is uh maybe nobody's the redeemer of God's left. I mean nobody's qualified. Is is one of the possibilities and that's what he was talking about when when John was in depression and looking around saying, nobody's worthy, right? Yeah, okay, yeah. I'm not saying nobody's going to teach. Yeah. And so Doc's can he's he's he left it, so he's saying we can do it by a by a redeemer. But if there's nobody qualified and there's nobody qualified. Yeah. It's it's pretty simple. It's just kind of striking, I don't think. It is striking. I like how you linked up question twenty-one with it. That's nice. John putting in the putting those words in John's mouth. John asking the question, will you leave a man, will you leave humanity in its estate of sin and misery? Is there a redeemer? And then he becomes depressed because it looks like there may not be. And then he becomes ex- becomes joyous because there is there is one who's able to open the scroll. But he's different than we thought. Yes, Cheryl. Looking back at the previous section of that uh uh illustration, I guess, of the mosaic titles that you gave us too long ago. Yeah, thanks for remembering that. Yeah. Well it was a good one. Yeah. I got it from Irenaeus in the Bible. Instead of then uh this section linking that to that, um letting oneself through be Letting yourself be reviewed from God's word to love this prophet, this priest, and this king is such a gift. Uh to Ashley's point of kind of trying to change those mosaics to make Christ bear our image instead of us who would renew to bear him. His image and to be like, uh I'll just come to you with open and open hands to be removed by you is like the love that the Lord grows in his people's hearts for who he is is so good. Very nice. We'll do uh Brian and then Robert. Yeah, I think I think the main point is that Christ is and was complex. He's a complete man. He was humble and he knew he knew how to serve and to be served. Like we don't think you know, if you picture him just being handsome and everyone waiting on him and just following him, it was like he actually like bending down and washing people's feet at times when it calls for it. Um and so you know I don't know the that picture gets lost if we if we don't have a complexity movement. Yeah. Yeah, he washed feet at one moment and then another he had a sword coming out of his mouth. Yeah. Yeah, that's pretty complex. We'll do Robert first. Robert. Um just you know, early church called to be Christlike And there was a big difference between how they had relations with authority, where it was often asked, you know, with Jesus, like, why don't you speak a your behalf and there was a few times would be impossible to do the same kind of thing. Um but there was just this distinct difference between society and how they were react reacting to it But I mean Jesus was when he dealt with the church or the religious leaders, it was much different than when he dealt with the people. time in the Bible where Jesus had a you know a poster and was you know protesting or anything like that in front of like an area but You know, there was compassion with sinners, but then a very different side had the people that were supposed to be the ones that got his image. That were the ones that were supposed to be the ones that are leading the people in the correct way. And and so calls to be Christlike and calls, you know, for the church is Yeah, that's great, Robert. You just summarized my sermon today. That was good. Um just sort of picking back again on what Brian said, I understood what Brian said. Um it's sometimes you know, I think one of the biggest challenges to too is our sinful nature, especially as you see it back through history and especially as you see it in the household and the way men's husband lived out their role, right? So the comm Conflicting but seemingly conflicting nature that we see in Christ is both one of servant and holding authority. And I think many people people really fail to view him with those two majors together and how it also plays out within uh with husbands in the home, you know, as they are called to love their wives as they their own body is as Christ loved the church, but also their given degree sorry in our home. And if you see throughout history and you see the failures of the many husbands to to fill both roles and instead to usually instead acting in the authoritative one and not and not the other part in how they are to let their wives lay down themselves their their lives for them And all of those things. And and then we see the damage obviously with that to variety and the rise of other things and Yeah. Just another way I think is people just wanting to um make crime bear our energy. Okay, yeah, that's a good example and as you're applying Applying it to the way in which the household can make that mistake also, particularly the husband. And the detrimental effects. And the detrimental effects of that. Also on around the slip side husband when you also see some kind of husband only doing the serving and the sacrificial part uh and not see Authoritative I know that can be like an offensive word, but you know what I mean. The headship. Headship of of the home. Yeah, sure. Student vote. Yeah. Yeah, that's good. Um real quick before we move on to the next section, let me ask a quick question. Uh so we see in the catechism questions and even already in R. C. Sprill's reading, that Jesus or the Christ doesn't just become human, but becomes man. We see that There's this complexity to him and he uh he's his own person and he's gonna do his own thing that he alone can do. But there also comes a time where there's there's been this this About us not making him in our image, but us being conformed into his image. As women, do you struggle with being conformed into the image of someone who is a man Do you do you wrestle do you wrestle with Jesus being a man in terms of having to imitate him? Be interested on your womanly perspective. I I was thinking Great, that's great news, girl. Yeah, go ahead, Cheryl. I was thinking of actually talking to the husband. in like seeking to have the authority but then not wanting to lay themselves down and I was like amen to that I'm a lover like right like I am entitled to you honoring me. But the more I grasp for like the respect and the authority, the more it flows through my hands. The more I can actually get it in that sort of way. And it really is looking to Christ as a man and in what he was called to do where I can find a Oh, because I'm doing it all wrong, I really need to flip it upside down and lay myself down to these people. My authority flows from that. Okay. Are you saying that there are some times when it's more appropriate for you to humble yourself rather than exalt yourself? Yes. Okay. And and that that's the same thing that Christ does. So your image you're seeking to imitate him and you don't find that difficult to do even though he's a man. No. Okay. That's great. That's great to hear. I didn't know. I'm not a woman. I just thought I'd ask. Yeah, Ashley. Well yeah, this will this is literally the first time I've considered it. So it does make sense because it's like, Okay, well, where do I hold authority in my home? And it's pr you know it's it's over my children I know my both well authority over my children like Cheryl said if we're only seeking um to grasp for authority or in or insist on respect but when we also don't because we know motherhood is it it's a sacrif it's sacrificial. We literally sacrifice our body. Yeah. become mothers and we are also to some degree like called to to serve our children and and serve our family but then we also hold authority and And we can see the harm that comes when one side is neglected for the other. Sure. In as as mothers, specifically as mothers. a follow-up question then. I think this is so interesting the way this is being answered. So far well we've only had two of the women speak, but so far the women have connected with Christ in his humiliation, have you ever connected with Christ in his exaltation, in asserting your authority, as opposed to just laying down your Well I've never thought about being connected to right, but I have no issue with asserting my own. Okay, let's move on. That was a curiosity of mine. I thought that was kind of interesting observation. Yeah, I was hoping to hear if someone you kind of who struggled with Christ being who was I was putting myself in their shoes and thinking, well what if Christ was made a woman? Right. And then I had to imitate I thought, huh, I wonder how I would work Through that. Well it's just yeah, I was wondering if someone overcame that that struggle they thought that you aren't thinking could happen. Yeah. Right. Yes. I think that's interesting you say that because it doesn't make any sense sense that way like Adam was made first and made from him. commercial across the church. But it would be so weird for men to be like, I must emulate what I'm seeing in a female state or it's just That's like a taking the tiles of the mosaic and just like confetti with them. It doesn't make any sense at much. I I see what you're saying when you're at that level. And we're gonna move into the next paragraph. I've really got us down at trailer. Okay. The the uh but I imitated my mother growing up. Because she emulated Christmas That's fine. I'm just saying as I think about it I'm like, yeah I can imitate a woman. I've done it. Yeah. Okay, next paragraph. Here we go. So sorry. I love you all, but we gotta keep going. I know it. I've been over a rule. This is a moboc this is a mobocracy. No go ahead. I was going to say that men do have to imitate a woman in that They have to be the church. Who's the bride of Christ. That's all I wanted to say. Yeah, yeah. I'm asking guys all the time who's your husband when I speak to them as the church Yeah. Yeah, that's interesting. Cool. Thanks for the thanks for pointing that out. That's great. Alrighty, let's go on to the next one. Jesus and the Gospels. Oh I see you. Oh I see you. But I gotta keep going. I gotta keep going. Can we go back to the revelation part? We're gonna keep going with Jesus and the gospels. So Brian, do you mind picking up for a bit? Okay. So you failed. Actually speaking of that, why don't we have a woman read uh as a break from the mail boys. Cheryl, you want to read? Sure. How far do you want me to go? I don't know. Keep going. Just go. If we are to look to scripture to tell us about Who Christ is, we are immediately confronted with the question why did God see fit to provide the world with four gospels? Why not just one definitive biography of Jesus? Great question. It pleased God for his own reasons to give us four biographical portraits of Jesus, all looking at his person and work from slightly different perspectives. In Matthew's Gospel, we are given a Jewish perspective. The emphasis is on Jesus as the fulfillment of numerous Old Testament prophecies, showing clearly that Jesus is the Messiah. Messiah who had been promised in centuries past. Mark's gospel is brief and almost abrupt. It presents the life of Jesus as a blaze of miracles across the landscape of Palestine. Then there is the portrait provided by Luke, the physician, who is part of the Gentile community and a companion of the Apostle Paul on his missionary journeys to the Gentile nation. Luke shows that Jesus did not come solely to save Jewish people, but also men and women from every tribe, tongue, and nation. Luke also provides many insights into the teaching of Jesus through parables. Finally, John provides a highly theological portrait of Christ, demonstrating that Jesus is the incarnation of truth, the life of the world and the one in whom there is abundant life. Almost half of John's gospel is devoted to the Passion Week of Jesus' life, encompassing his triumphal entry Alright, let's stop there because that's a that's a those are really important insights in terms of the the scriptures and where we're going to get our as that's our source for understanding Christ. So what are some thoughts here on this? Ashley? I did find that um question interesting and I also then I thought of the opposite why only for gospels? Uh uh sure why only for perspectives when He had many, many, many more to to choose from. You know, so clearly God was like, no, just these four Yeah. If you were to consider Acts, Luke, Gospel, Part Two, then you could have five Gospels. Some people. Okay, that's good. Yeah. But if you do have five gospels, then we just got another Pentateuch. That's interesting. Just like the five books of Moses. You now have the five books of the new Moses? I don't know. This is speculation. Okay. Uh we'll do Shen and then we'll do Sheryl. I I do think it's interesting you know God uh designed that we would have these four gospels and they do present different facets of Christ. Um and you get to really see um the you know just as different like whether it be the king Kingship of Christ or his humanity and his care for people, um, and his reach across like into the booth bringing out into the Gentiles and bringing men and women both into it. into um relationship with Christ. It it's just a beautiful picture to take them all together. Um Yeah, very good. Okay. Yeah. Of course they grew up with them, but That's good. Sure. I'm just wondering if maybe the differences in the gospels highlight his different offices of prophet, priest, and teaching? Okay, sure. Maybe that's why it was necessary to have Luke's account different from John's account. Uh-huh. Yeah, okay. Let me bounce off of that and raise a question for the class. If this is a imagine um someone doing a biography of uh say Joe Maccus. There ends up being four different biographies of Joe Maccus, and each of those different biographies differ on On what they say about Joe Macus. We have a biography from his mother, we have a biography from his brother, we have a biography from his wife, and a biography from one of his sons. I I can't write biography. If they differ, do you immediately have a question that arises that one of them may be saying something false and that they should all be saying the same thing in order for it to be true. And if that's the case, what do you do with the G with the gospels who have different have different information? different arrangement of times, different information about Jesus. Are some of them false and some of them true? How do you handle the differences in the gospels? I'm asking. We'll go with Michelle first. So if you think of like an accident on the road, okay, and three people witnessed that accident. Okay. If you ask them about that accident they are going to give you three different answers. Okay. Because we all see through different perspectives. Okay. Do you know it's so like I may see somebody and a like um I I may I may something might um something may stand out more about something like Joe Mackis' mother. Okay. Thanks certain things about him as he's growing up and her memory's going to memori is And so with but uh I mean we but but just think about market I mean uh let's take a John, for instance, John, he was actually there and with Jesus. Luke is just going around historically and asking everybody the earth accounts and so they're gonna see things a little bit different. Like you're gonna remember certain parts that that other people are going to remember. So to me, if they were all the same, I would thought that they got together and came up with this lie together. But that is different. Each person has a different perspective. To me that makes it more true. What's interesting and And sort of complicates it as they in a way did get together. Compare nodes. Like Luke, for example, right in the beginning. I've checked with all these people. And I'm gonna go ahead and pull the whole thing together. But you're right, there's something going on here where they're not all supposed to be the same. You're on the right track. Trail, Ashley. Well I think the distinction or or what matters is not that they're different, but whether they conflict. Okay. Like whether there's just significant contradictions. There are. Like enough that to pass doubt on the account or John re John arranges the trial and crucifixion of Jesus different than the rest of them. But is it that Like is it that we can't look at all of them as a whole to get a complete picture or that'd be one way to solve the problem. But that's but but I'm not sure. Because then we have John still giving wrong information. So he may have I'm gonna let Dwayne go first because you've had a couple times and then uh And then I'll go to Tate and then Robert. Okay, great. I didn't say that he gave wrong. I said that would have led to being that he did get wrong information. Um the the gospels, just like the car accident analogy, is They were the same story given from memory and also perception of what everyone saw. I see things different than you because you're colorblind. But we're both seeing the same exact thing. But what we see as reality is different. Okay. But it really is exactly the same. Same thing happens in a car accident. Or an account of what happened. As we get older, we can't remember what we did two hours. But in this case it age wasn't really the situation. It's just from perception, from what they saw, from what was important to them And you know, deep one gives details and the other one gives more of a generality. So it doesn't make one wrong for one right. Okay it's from what was observed. by different people because of their personalities or who they were. I think you're I'll go along with you on there's not one that's wrong and one that's right. I hold that they're all right But I will I can't go with you in saying that there they there was something lost in their perceptions. I don't know that I said lost. I think Yeah. Uh there's a and I think depending on what we mean by that, I can go with you. But this is a good c is a good conversation. We had um Tate and then Robert. Yeah. Okay, I was just gonna mention the fact that Matthew, Mark, and Luke are considered the synoptic. Okay. Uh-huh. And their significance in that. Okay, what do you think it is? Because they they did um present things pretty much in the same order. Uh-huh. And you can Check the they will have a different relaying of the story, but they pretty much can be said to go along with each other. Yeah. Okay, very Yeah, yeah, that's good. And then Robert. necessarily relate to that there aren't anything that you can point to that's hey this is different when it comes to account. The purpose of what is trying to be said like with the account of the possession of legions, you know, whether there was two people or one person or this happening and this didn't happen, you know, and the accounts are different. the main part of the story is told with the, you know, the you look at it with why is this being said? Yeah. And, you know Jesus and the way that he interacted with everyone, there's there's clear what is the point of the story. Yeah. And so when you have those different aspects of it. That's why you bounce it off other scripture and that's why you have to look at it as, you know, what is the point What is the purpose of Christ? What is the what is this showing us as how we can take Christmas? Yeah. Okay, that's good. And that goes along with what everybody else is saying, but it And it puts in a little bit of a different word or question, which is what is the purpose purpose of the author? What is the purpose of the spirit working through this particular author in the writing of this gospel. And I think that's how you explain it. You explain it and you say they don't all have the same purposes. And another thing you can say is their sense of history and Historical writing and biographical writing does not seek to fulfill the same purposes that we think it ought to seek. So I think the most obvious example Is that the gu the Apostle John is not interested in history? Everything he writes is historical, but he is he is giving giving you a situation alm it's almost this is the way I have thought of it it's been most helpful it's almost like j John is in the throne So there's a lot of the times when many of the things that are That John brings up about Jesus are not just meant to be seen as the fact of, but the symbol of. Literal water, though we though it can't be separated from that. He's concerned about what does the water symbolize? And it ends up being the spirit, for example. You see, it's it's a it's this it's like a heavenly perspective, which is why the if you look in Ezekiel, there's this vision where there, I think it's Ezekiel, where there's this Is it Ezekiel where there's the vision of the the ox and the man and the and the uh eagle and and And the lion? Daniel, right. The early church gave those four images to the four gospels. And guess which image they gave to the Gospel of John? The eagle, because it's soaring in the heavens. Right? That's that's the idea. So So instead of I think the mistake that the church can make is to just look at the four gospels as to historical accounts, and then we can become confused as to whether Which history is right. But the main goal is not to give a historical account. The main goal of the Gospels is to teach you theology. And when I say Theology, I mean who is God and what is he doing? Right? And what does he require of us? And those are the main purposes. And if you read it with that lens, you'll see why one One author does something different than another author, because like Robert said, they're trying to achieve different purposes. And they're using those accounts to achieve those accounts. to achieve those purposes, not to try to give you a scientific record of the hus of the history. Carol, I'll let go Carol go first. Especially uh with Production John, he's just so different as you capture he's talking about the world above and the world above. Yeah. And there's a very, very different um mindset that he has. But also you'll see he brings in Old Testament figures like the number seven. Yeah. he gives seven variables, he gives seven IM statements and a picture of completion. Yeah. And in Revelation we see you see how he used stick figures to the ultimate degree. So there is something going on with all of that. Yes. And it's not just the the stories. but how he puts those narratives in those figures and then gives this extra meaning. Yeah. the theological, the the scatological, crystallogical, all those things. Yep. So so then actually when you have those different calendar times in John versus the other synoptic gospels. He's trying to do something different with those calendar times than tell you the exact hour that Jesus was crucified. He's trying to do something very different. different with the times. So he's and he's and he's allowed. And the significance of this thing and how he arranges the details is very significant. So that's well I guess remind me question is do any of the the contradictions or whatever we want to call them have to do with the deity of Christ? The fact that he What I'm trying yeah, well what I'm saying is there are no contradictions. Oh I said if you if you think of the gospels a certain way, then you would have to admit that there's contradictions. But I don't think of them that way, so I do not have to say there's contradictions. Okay. If there were, it what would matter the most is if like one gospel. That's true. We would never even we would never see a contradiction in the most important Yeah. Right. But we don't even need to go down that road. Yeah. Yeah. That's true though. I was just gonna uh point out one of the verses at the end of drawn, which probably is true for the others too. He says, I didn't tell you everything. I told you they didn't want to Oh yeah, that's good. Each of them we're tempted to look at them as just a witness account, but if you realize each of them As you pointed out, there's a purpose. So it's not just a normal looking at the town if you're doing an investigation. Although there's truth to that, each person's going to see it differently. They have a very specific purpose for each of those and they wrote to that purpose to the audience and for that purpose. Yes exactly. That's the way that we resolve the tension. Yeah, that's exactly right. Okay. Very good. Great conversation. Did I miss somebody? Lloyd, go ahead. Um, is it possible that the book of John is written in a perspective that perspective? Because John was a close friend of Lazarus, and Lazarus was in the high priestly line. And also that Lazarus died and could see perspective from the heavens. I don't know, that's an interesting question. I like asking the question Which I think is a bit broader than what you're asking. Why is John writing from the heavenly perspective? I think that's an interesting question, as opposed to one of the others. And uh and you're suggesting perhaps it is his connection with Lazarus? Okay. It's a good question. But we're not going to get into that. But it's a good it is a good question. Thank you, Lloyd. Okay, so that uh helps us to then see that we're supposed to be learning about Christ, especially from the gospels. We learn from him, of course, from the Old Testament, from the whole canon. The whole canon is about Christ. But we can especially learn from him in the Gospels, and we can see the ways in which each gospel author is going to help us to deepen our sense of his complexity by giving us different perspectives based upon different theological purposes. How's that? That was a decent summary, right? Okay. So next week we'll pick up with uh make sure you hold on to your booklet. Um we are gonna pick up with this The second uh third actually it's a third paragraph. The gospel narratives do more than tell about Jesus. We'll pick up there and then we'll discuss that next week. Okay, let's Pray. Lord, we thank you that we are able to have your word before us. We are we thank you that we're able to learn how you, guided by your spirit, your apostles, and the inscripturation of all that was revealed about you as you uh visited us in your first advent. Pray Lord that through this a little booklet that you would help us to know you, to glorify you, and to start preparing ourselves to enjoy you. In our own exaltation and glory. Ask these things in your name. Amen.