Good morning, everybody. Good to see you all. Let's go ahead and open our Sunday school class. Good morning, Jason. Let's open our Sunday school class in prayer. Lord, we thank you for this time, even this whole day. And we pray that you would be with us this morning. We know that you will. Pray that you'd help us to know you. And we know that that can only take place by way of your son who sends us your spirit. Pray, Lord, therefore, that you'd give us spiritual understanding. And we ask, Lord, that it would not, our knowledge of you would not lie dormant in ourselves. As a mere potentiality, but that it would grow up and bear fruit unto your glory. In the name of Christ. Amen. Alrighty, so we move into question number four today. Last week we uh hit the pause button and proceeding in the questions properly and just ask the question, what does it mean to glorify and what does it mean to to enjoy. We saw when we looked at the scriptures that to enjoy God is in part to understand that it is from Him that all blessings flow. That he is our great satisfaction and in him we find our everything. The the um I've heard it phrased that he's enough. That's getting at the same reality. That He's sufficient, that our hearts are restless until our hearts find our rest in Him. That's all talking about enjoying God. Glorifying Him has to do with allowing ourselves and the world to see just how good He is. And we do that in our thoughts and our words and our deeds. There's whatever we do, we are to glorify God. That's from 1 Corinthians 10, 31, I believe. And And so um in addition what we did was we looked at a liturgy from a book, I forget the name of it already. Um Carol, what was the name of that again, do you? Every holy moment. Every holy moment and it ha every moment holy what's that, Ryan? That's it, okay, yeah. And we use that as an we use the liturgy on changing diapers To give an example of how to view even the most mundane things from an eternal perspective. That is to say, um, with reference to God. And that's What enjoy and uh glorify are getting at also is that we would look at everything with reference to God and his esteem, his reputation on the earth. And now we move into the doctrine of God proper in question number four. If you were to look in the confession, you'd see a much lengthier description. of the doctrine of God. Here it is boiled down to just a few things, and then we'll move on next week into his triune nature. is a continuation of the teaching about God. So do you all have the shorter catechism in front of you by chance? Okay. Okay, some of you do. Okay. I'm going to read the fourth question to you. What is God? God is a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice. Goodness and truth. Very good. Show-offs? That was nice. Oh, I thought you were reciting it from memory. Okay. That's a debatable point. And if I did if I did the confession time is coming up in the service Yeah, okay. Thanks. So uh there's quite a few things that we could say about this You could spend your whole life just thinking about this one question. It is in its very nature abstract The that you don't it's uh it's pulled away from all of the experiences and that we have of God and and it's just labeling what He is and His Essence and His and what can be attributed to him. And that is caught by just the form of the question. Does it bug you a little bit? Or did it um did you notice that it says what is God instead of who is God? Yeah, isn't that interesting? Yeah. So I I um have done a little bit of research on this. And they're they actually are doing that on purpose. I'm still researching it, but part of this is that they're trying to get to his his essence and who he is. And then when we get into his revelation in terms of how he interacts with the wor his creation, they're going to start asking who is God. And so that's why I say the very nature of the question itself is see I'm not going to handle it that way this morning. I don't want to get into an abstract doctrine of God with you. myself. Instead, I want to look at what are the ways from Scripture that we can begin to know God and what are the uses of that. that. So um but first before we move away from the question I did want to point something out to you. So take a look at the question with me and I just want you to see this structure of this thing. What is God? Okay. Well we have a statement that God is a spirit. That's primarily going to be taken from John 4 24 where that is said of him. It's a very unique phrase. We can derive from other places of Scripture that he is spirit, but it's there that it says God is spirit. So that's a pretty remarkable moment there. And then there are going to be these attributions that are given to him, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable. And the thing that I want you to notice about the structure, which you probably already noticed because all of you are brilliant, but notice that there's then a prepositional phrase in his being. And that in his should continue with each one of the attributes that are given. So he is infinite and eternal and unchangeable. He is infinite, eternal, and unchangeable. He is infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his justice. He is infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his goodness. And then you can say the same thing with truth. And what they're trying to do here is they're trying to to uh represent what is revealed of God in his word, but also to separate God as spirit from us who have spirits and also the angels. And they're going to do so as theologians through two main ways. This is just Just for informational purposes, I'm not going to dwell on this. One way is by seeing what God is not. Does anybody know the fancy Latin term for that methodology? It's called the negative way or the via negativa. I doubt I pronounced that correctly, Miss Lee. How am I doing on the Latin for negative? Uh okay. Great. So I I did it okay? All right. I didn't see you cringe, so You okay, you do both. I've done both. Meaning the different kinds of pronunciation. Can you give them both to us, please, since your experience? Do you mind? Um the two classes. Okay. Or the classical Mia Nagatia. Nagwatia, okay, yeah, very good. Okay, great. Thanks. I appreciate it. So that's the negative way. So then what we'll what we would see is we we We would say, well, we're very limited, for example, in the places that we can be in one time. But God doesn't have that limitation. And that's part of what comes along with Him being as spirit is that he can be in all places at one time. But it's not even correct to even state it that way. Perhaps he's above place and transcends it or something along You see, they're getting at he's not what the creature is, and they're gonna start to tap into his nature by doing so. And then the other way that they do, they discover who God is by what way of the scriptures is called the way of eminence. And this is like taking him to the superlative. Not only is he spirit like an angel, That's just an analogous way to understand him. He's the spirit of all spirits. In some sense, nothing compares. And that's called the way of eminence. That's just for your information purposes. you ever get into this doctrine of God stuff. Yeah. So if I have a question, can you just use the word analogy and analogous? Yeah And I'm wondering if and this is something that I really appreciate, but you can talk about lenses, the allies, ways to think of things, I wonder if it's important at the beginning of the conversation about who is So recognize even the language here of the of the catechism at some level analogy. It's not I mean there is there is some there's incomprehensibility of God at some level. And I'm wondering if that's important or helpful to discuss at the beginning or not. I don't know if it's just a five idea. When I read this, I realize that we are we're uh we're as And even that is limited in ability to grasp who he is because Yeah, I th I think it could come up it could come up at another time. I want to be really careful um because I think The the I haven't spent as much time in the scriptures as other people have. But I've spent some time in it. And I have not gotten the impression that God is interested in having an abstract conversation with me. He is revealing himself for the sake of his own glory, and it is to his glory that he reveals himself out of in loving grace to his church in her needs and afflictions, strengths, and all that. So I'd like that conversation to come up when it fits within that framework as opposed to getting into an abstract conversation about theological language and anthropomorphisms and all that and You know you see what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, great. But I'm glad that you brought it up so that people um can be aware of it. And what Darren is bringing up can uh usually or can productively show up in a conversation Like this. God says that He's a spirit, on one hand. On the other hand, we hear about God's arm being mighty. Spirits don't have body Body parts. So which one's right? How do you make sense of God talking about Himself as having an arm? Or that He sees, or that He hears? Or that he's located in a particular place as opposed to all places. How do you make sense of all that kind of stuff is the problem that we're that kind of Where we would start to explain it with what Darren's talking about. So we can have that conversation another time. It's an interesting conversation. So I just wanted you to see that structure. And And uh how the infinite, eternal, and unchangeable is uh modifying all of those other attributes. And and why they're doing it that way. Does anybody have any questions about that before we move on? Are you going to go into the comments? Yeah, I hope to get to it. If not this week, then I'll have to hit it next week. Yeah. Did you wanna did you did you want to say anything about it right now? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, very good. Mike? Yeah, so is God everywhere or or Probably not. I'm gonna be really careful with how I handle this. Like I said, I don't want to get into an abstract conversation. Yeah, what what I would like to do is rely on the scriptures and w and what it is saying about God and why it's saying it. And I don't want to, by just way of logical discourse, start start thinking about God. Yeah, it is an interesting concept and it can come into play when we want to think about How is it that he can be how is it that Christ can be present in the Lord's Supper at every church today? I think like if the slip is here to know why this is and why not? Why have we not included things like I mean put a scripture set the eyes of love? So uh why would this other passion for other things like that. Why are they not in this list? Is there a reason why this is our DK definition? We're not including so the which obviously the other thing I think that if you studied these attributes and how they were using them, that those kinds of things would be included in these terms. Yeah, these are summary terms trying to capture everything. And I would encourage you to turn to the confessions and the larger catechism to see the larger lists. Yeah. Yeah. Um so. Okay. Well, are there any other questions about this question? Question number four. And Dave, you ask a good question, just so you know where I'm coming from, for example, with infinity, I'm going to want to define that from the scriptural example. Examples of it and try to locate it with how God wants to talk about it and the purposes that He wants to talk about it for. As opposed to getting into some thinking about like a math map and uh extended mathematical enumeration that never ends or something. That's not how the scriptures present it. So yeah. It might that actually might just be a way to talk about what he's Not infinity is another way of saying he's not finite. And that's about as far as we can get. So at least we've put up a guardrail so we don't say things that he Isn't. Yes, that's correct. It doesn't say not that it's not, but that E Yeah. That's ex well yeah, that's a really great point. Yep, he's not an abstracted um uh quantif quantification or somet or something, but he is in infinite in his and then you have the attribute So just real quick, while we're on this topic, what would be some examples of God being infinite in his wisdom? What are what are ways that we talk about that? Gary? Yeah, because wisdom doesn't have to do just with knowledge, but it does have to do with knowledge. It also has to do with the skill and the way in which he could prudently accomplished the ends that he set out to accomplish. And so for him to say, to reveal that he works out all things for the good of his church, that's quite a statement. And he would need to be infinite in his wisdom to do so. Can you think of another theological term that's used for infinite knowledge, which is a part of wisdom? Omniscience. Omniscience. Who said that? Good job. Yeah. Omniscience. And how does that break down in terms of what the word is made up of? Do you know what the word omni means? All and then Knowing or to have all knowledge. And so you can see, what about if we were to talk about his um he is infinite in his being? What are we talking about there? That's usually referring to his omnipresence. And so you talk about he's all placed Right. Um and then you could go on to to look at the scriptures to see what it would mean for him to be in Okay. So I want to begin by just opening our scriptures to Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 4. And we're going to spend a little time looking at how it is that we come to know God through his word. This is a part of the overarching conversation that's in the shorter catechism, and we'll work our way to this question at by the end, hopefully. Okay, when we look could somebody read Deuteronomy 6. 4 loud enough for all of us to hear? Woo! Okay. You scared me. That was really loud. That was really loud. Yeah, we all heard it. That was right. Okay, so um what does this verse tell us about God? Okay, he's one God We're gonna have to wrestle with that. Okay, he's our God. That's good. And he is the Lord God. Now that's interesting in and of itself because that's he is Elohim Yahweh. That's what it's saying. Alrighty, so that's gonna be significant. Jesse, I think it also means that he's just not our guy, personally, because of the individual, uh-huh. But he's God of the whole world. Okay. Everyone's got to the confidential relationship is Yeah. The hour? Yeah, that's right. I think so too. Yeah. I believe so too. And I think that's also what's going on behind the Yahweh. Yeah, that's right. Very good. So we have a personal God, we have a covenantal God. That's probably the more accurate way to talk about about personal because he relates in a particular way and that's by way of the covenant. Um he is um the Lord our God so we're catching up with his name here which is Elohim Yahweh and that he ha is uh his unity he is one okay so when we Hear about him being personal. If you are to know someone personal, what are some things that you need to know about him Just you can throw a bunch of answers out there. Name is a good idea. Hey you. That only lasts for so long. Okay. Okay, where you're from? That's a good one. I like that. Anything else? What interests you? That's good. Think of when you meet somebody and you're trying to get to know them, what are the kind of questions you ask them at the cocktail party or whatever? What do you do for a living? Yeah, okay. That's good. Family background? Church affiliation. Obviously God was Presbyterian. Okay, that's good That's nice. Interests, maybe marital status. You get into that. How is it that if you wanted to get to know God personally and perhaps even have some of the answers to those kinds of questions you would find them out because you're not going to meet him at a cocktail party in the same way that you would meet a person. What's that? Okay, through the reading of his work. That's good. Light of nature. Yeah, light of nature. It's also going to be a part of that, especially as it is understood by the light of the word. Word. Yeah. Yep. Yep. Alright, very good. Well let's take a look at Exodus chapter 33 real quick. This is a a premiere part in which we would get a premier place in which we would get to know the personal God, we must seek the answer to who He is in His self-revelation. Now this is a really interesting passage, Exodus 33, 17 through 34. 7. And there's been some work done by a New Testament scholar called Richard Baucom. His name is Richard Baccom. He's really good. And he does a great job of showing that in John chapter 1, that John is alluding to this passage to understand who Jesus is. is that showing that Jesus is God by connecting the the passage with with uh John 1 and So you may want to take a look at that at another time. But here this is a pretty famous passage. If someone could read 3317 through 347, I know I know that's long, but if you don't mind. Or or I could read it so that everybody could hear it. Let me read it since it's so long. 3317. This is a famous self-revelation of God Himself. And he says, So the Lord said to Moses, I will also do this thing that you have spoken. For you have found grace in my sight, and I know you by name. And he said, please show me your glory. Well, that's interesting, isn't it? Please show me your glory. Then he said, I will make all my goodness pass before you, and I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious. And I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. But he said, You cannot see my face, for no man shall see me and live. And that's why in that chart that I gave you the other day, under the attributes of God, it lists Seeing God from the back. That's why it puts it that way. And the Lord said, Here is a place by me, and you shall stand on the rock. And it shall be, while my glory passes by, that I will put you in the cleft of the rock, and will cover you with my hand while I pass by. Then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back, but my face shall not be seen. And the Lord said to Moses, Cut two tablets of stone like the first ones, and I will write on these tablets the words that were on the first tablets which you broke. So be ready in the morning and come up in the morning to Mount Sinai and present yourself to me there on the top of the mountain And no man shall come up with you, and let no man be seen throughout the mountain. Let neither flock nor herds feed before that mountain So he cut two tablets of stone like the first ones. Then Moses rose early in the morning and went up Mount Sinai as the Lord had commanded him, and he stood in his and he took in his hand the two tablets of stone. Now the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. And the Lord passed before him and proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth Keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, by no means clearing the guilty visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation. And then I'll read verse eight 'cause it's appropriate. So Moses made haste and bowed his head towards the earth and worshipped. Does it surprise you that this is the revelation of his glory? This l this list that what's that? Yeah. And did you see any of the attributions that we saw within the Shorter Catechism number four? Not then. Pardon? Not then. Not then? Did you just the question was did you my answer was when I first read it Yeah, but this is for it. Uh-huh. Yeah. What are some of the attributions you see from the shorter catechism for in this passage? But that he is that he that he then he does not so you have to deal with his justice. Okay, justice. There you go. Very good. That's nice. And you can see how truth would correspond with that. Yeah, it's interesting that the tablets are all involved with the Ten Commandments are are going on here also. And there well anything else? Just in the symbolism that it might does it point us to any more of who God or what God is? Goodness. Oh yeah. Yeah, that's a right in the center stage, isn't it? reveal to you my goodness. Anything else? Gracious and shows compassion. He's gracious and he shows compassion. Yeah so there's there's a Mercy. Anything else? Holiness. His holiness. Yeah, there's a sense in which God is separate. That's nice. Yeah. Anything else? Is there a connection between activities? Is there a connection between the other things? I'm asking the questions here, Cher. Our engine thing might say for manageable not being in this define power, but It seems like that's so. And do you see any other evidence in here as a demonstration of his power? It's a a power too. Just think of the ancient sense of that like an unlimited ability. Imagine a desire arising and there's nothing that can keep you from it. Everyone's a very good thing. Yeah, Jeff. Um I not really the attribute but the the FNAF nature of all the attributes that start thinking about when we said Yeah. Yes. Right, exactly. Yes, exactly. That that speaks to the incomprehensibility also. Yeah, that's right. But there's an the infinity is present there just in the way that he's not able to see his face and live. There's also the descent So there's God coming from a different place than the creature, having to condescend or do descend to him, to stand there with him and to proclaim the name of God. So you can begin to see how all of these things are present and that the church has used different language throughout its time. Just some basic observations about the past. Moses wants to see God's glory, but according to Exodus 33. 20, no one can see the full personal manifestation of God's glory and live. And so we see the measures that he takes, and Carol has brought out that that seems to be an act of grace and compassion. God reveals his glory to Moses by saying who he is, his names. Notice, did you notice all the language of the Lord, the name of the Lord, the Lord God? Those are all names of God. So here you're running into Elohim Yahweh again. And so we end up seeing that God reveals his glory. to Moses by saying who he is, especially in his names and his attributes. He's has loving kindness. He's full of goodness and abounding in goodness and truth. And then also his work. And that is the that's uh some stuff that we can pick up from the scriptures and the kind of work that we would do. In Exodus 34, 6, for example, and the Lord passed before him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth. We learn two of God's titles, which I've mentioned before. God is the Hebrew word Elohim. And if I'm not mistaken, the Bible translators are sensitive to this. this and they will keep the word God for that specific name, Elohim. They're not going to change it around. So whenever you read the word God, it's Elohim. I'm talking about the Old Testament here. And then Lord, which is the Hebrew word for Jehovah or Yahweh. work with all capital letters is is Java generally for the for the publishers. There's there's a Lap L and Temple R But that's what capital O U R O D is something else. Add or nye. If I'm not mistaken. Yeah. Add a add or nigh. Yeah. And yes. I just was thinking it's interesting there seems to be different unifying themes surrounding God's self-revelation. So in the case of Moses, his revelation of Moses, the unifying theme appears to me to be just righteousness Yeah. If you look at Job, for instance, who also requested to see God's glory. Yeah. Yeah, that's good. Yeah, I appreciate that. Thank you. That's good. I th I wonder if that would tie well into him being personal. Yes. That uh again, he's not trying to just reveal Yeah. Yes, right. Yeah, very good. Yep. Yeah, he does. Um okay, so we have these two names that I want you to be aware of, Elohim and Jehovah Yah. Yahweh. And so um does anyone know where Elohim shows up in the most um accumulated form? Meaning you see the most iteration of it in the book. Genesis chapter 1. I think there's 27 verses in Genesis 1, and I think the the word Elohim is used like 23 times. So you can see what should be evoked when you hear that name. All right. So here we're talking about the God of heavens and the earth, the one who maintains the the created order of all things who made all things. And then we also have His name Yahweh or Jehovah. I have a note here that God is the sovereign creator of the heavens and earth, meaning Elohim, the oceans, trees, and grass, all living things and man. Man. God created everything with his spoken word without matter. God is in complete command and nothing or no one can thwart his plan. All of this is being So when you come across the name God in the Bible, for example, what are some truths that this what are some practical truths that this name should bring to mind. Let's just take a practical pit stop. Pardon? Okay. And what does that do for you? Okay. Yeah, and then go ahead and combine that with when you say Carol, you're my God. And combine it with a moment of affliction or something. And you can see how those dots are supposed to be connected, I think. Gary? Okay, that's good. Yeah, that's right. That's how Paul ends up talking about it. We're obviously his subjects, right? He's in charge. Yeah. I think the title has to do with judging the judge as well. Okay. Remember what Abraham says not the judge that the judge is all directly, right? Right. Yeah. Does anybody think of why Elohim would be associated with Judging. Why would the God of creation be associated with judging? This is an it this is an advanced question. Go ahead Okay. So you are obligated to obey them and Okay, so there's an authority that he has as the creator and a we the creature over we the creature. Anything else? Okay. Hmm, that's interesting. That's true. Darren and then Joshua. I think we can go all the documents together. farm is trust and peace. So this is who guy is highest and trusted. And peace in the sense that the uh the relationship between Okay. Alright, very good. Joshua? Okay. Right. That would actually be on Okay. Very good. The uh the other thing that connects uh even more directly than what's been mentioned so far with Elohim and being judge is that you'll notice as the creator, one of the ways that he creates is that he separates things. And that's what it means to put things in order. He doesn't allow the one thing to be to run over into the next. And so that's what a judge often has to do if you take a look at the scenes. I'm pulling this from Leviticus. But uh if you look at what judges have to do, they have to And no one can tell what's up from down or right from left, and they have to separate things out into their proper distinctions so that we can once again see just Justice clearly again. That's true both in their pronouncements of justice, but also even in the reorganization and ordering of a society that had been corrupted. So you could see how the same actions in which he separates the sky from the earth or whatever it is, that same ordering activity is present in him as judge. That's how I understand it. Alright, that's pretty good. So we have some ideas of what should be brought up in us when we read the word God. The name Lord is the Hebrew Yahweh. And This is explained in Exodus chapter 3, 1 through 15, and in verse 14 of that chapter, you're all familiar with that, right? The burning bush? God calls himself I am. And we get the title Yahweh from these words. I am who I am. The burning bush ends up illustrating this name Jehovah or Yahweh because the bush does not get consumed. It burns endlessly. And the church has for some time meditated on this and determined that it is to signify that God is eternally self-sufficient and he does not have a beginning or an end. And I'm not just- I'm just mentioning that to you now. I want to keep moving on. I know there's some work, thought work that needs to be done on that. So God is totally self-sufficient and he is eternal. And then when we get into verse 15, it mentions that this name Yahweh is his memorial name. And if you were to look at Exodus chapter 6, verses 2 through 8 You would see what's going on there with a memorial name. God tells Moses that his name is I am. This name is in remembrance, and this is what Carol was getting at. of his relationship with the children of Israel over generations. He has been the Lord God of their fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob He is the God of the covenant. That's why when you see this word Yahweh, you'll tend to see that listing of those names afterwards as a reminder that I am the God of the fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Right? And then it goes on to talk about his covenant faithfulness. That's what's going on mostly with that name. He is the eternal, self-sufficient God. He is a covenant God. He is Lord of all. And yet This is the amazing thing. He is concerned about the well being of his chosen ones. He has entered into a covenant to be their God. He is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Another way that God reveals his name is by his attributes or personal characteristics. And we already went through and we listed some of the attributes that we've seen even in Exodus 34. And some of those would be that he's Merciful and gracious, that he is long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth, that he forgives iniquity and transgression of sin. slow to anger, that he's compassionate, punishes the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and the children's children to the third and the fourth generation. And we can find a more complete list of these same kinds of things within Shorter Catechism number four. In shorter Catechism 4, we learn that God is a spiritual being who may be known by nine attributes. And I want to look up now each of those attributes. together. So let's start with him being infinite from Job chapter 11, verses 7 through 9. Yeah. Yep, go for it. Okay. Related to capacity and internal related to the time. Can you say what you mean by capacity? Well uh in some Vernacular those two would overlap probably. Which would make it work with each one of those. Yes, I'm capacity. There's no end to the capacity of the code Right. Or it's eternal. I'll just temple. Yes, that's what I think is going on. No. No. And I don't want to have this conversation. We can have the conversation. And it's important to have. Yeah. Yeah, so what I would like to do is I want to base I want to make a bunch of observations about the attributes from the scriptures, and I want us to draw conclusions about what these things mean from that, as opposed to pulling from wherever else we've pulled from. from. But yes, I think that the journal has to do with time. And that and historically I think that's what the church has meant in my research. Sheryl? Thinking of infinite? Could we understand um infinite being holding one, therefore the opposite Um so if he is powerful, that means a complete lack of weakness. Yes. Or um and I ask this because um It's just stuck in my mind that grab you preach over the solar. Okay. And I never I would say um gentleness is not um for gentleness to be gentleness there needed to be Um, you needed to know that there was possibility of power. I don't know that power is the opposite of Depends how you understand that word, but it could be cruelty. Gentleness in God, it would be a complete lack of harshness. But I think Bradley was saying in order to fully understand gentleness, there has to be be an understanding that there could be some form of power that is not necessarily harshness I don't know. I wasn't there. I was probably away, which is why he was preaching. Well let me know what you let me know what you come up with, but I'm a little concerned about taking the example that you're giving from Brad and using it in this conversation. Because you have to, there's a very special set of terms that we have to use when we're making attributions. of God and they are usually terms that are going to exemplify the negative way or the way of eminence. So your instinct on what you said at first, which I'm forgetting it, this moment was more in line with what we're what we're doing right now. Which was power and weakness. Yes. So it's like saying um he has no weakness. Or he has no limits. Yes, right. But see what we're doing is we're just saying what he doesn't have And we're and all we're trying to do, when you look at this conversation throughout the history of the church, you're going to see the brightest people that God has ever given to us to say, I'm not trying to do much here. I'm just trying to keep the church from falling off into error. So I'm going to say what he's not so that we so that we don't fall over into error. I'm not really trying to say So we we will want to say that he doesn't have any weakness, and that's what we mean by power. And that's what we mean by infinite also. He has no lack of capability For example, in his being, wisdom, power, and then depending on what the attribution is you could say he has no well take a look at job um eleven and see what it says here. Look at how look at uh the you have to see what does the scripture say And then what is the work that people in the church have done and and how have they spoken about it and how can we connect the two so that we can make sure we're We're getting the same reality. Remember, the the um confession is not our rule. It's the word of God, as Kate Okay. Who wants to read this one? This is a good one. Seven through nine. Okay, please. Can you search out the deep things of God? Can you find out the limits of the Almighty? They are higher than heaven. What can you do? Deeper than Sheol. What can you know? They're measurable is longer than the earth and broader than the sea. Okay. Go ahead and interact with the passage. What do you what do you think? Yes. Go for it. So I'm not omniscient. equivocal view of knowledge espoused by William of Occam at the end of the High Middle Ages. Okay. Okay. Go ahead and say a little bit more. Yep, so um so so so there's this question about the knowledge of God And and two schools of thought that were developed uh during the Middle Ages were one that God is the knowledge of God is considered as equivocal. Univocal says you know things the same way God does, and ultimately we can know what God knows, which is obviously confused by passages like this. Equivocal is the direction that the church went at the end of the High Middle Ages. that well we don't know as God knows and therefore God can do anything and we don't really know God. So how can we trust him? You know there's a third option. And you're gonna get to that? Yeah, right. Okay. Are you two friends? Okay. Okay. Therefore, though we do not know things the same way God knows them, we nevertheless have true knowledge of God and we can't trust him based on technology Okay. Dave. That's one meditation on this passage. How problem I have to keep it pragmatically who's saying it and what's the intention of saying it? What's the context of it? Yeah. I think there's some error to it because it's a large frame. to know from God why. Yeah he's doing this, you know what's going on. And his friends kind of say you can't have God. It it you know so So take that just as a table. Might not give the right intense given a source. Okay. Any other thoughts? Um can I just uh I I think I have a different translation uh over teaching, but It kind of illuminates something from me and says in Job eleven seven. Canst thou by searching find out God? Canst thou find out the Almighty unto profession? Yeah. So that sense of the limits of unto perfection. So you can know God truly, but not exhaustively in child Yeah. Right. And I think that's key for the opening, but we can never exhaust the knowledge of those objects and who is Right. Are there any okay, very good. And that summarizes uh well what John was saying about the analogical uh view. Yeah, very good. Can you think of any other scriptures that would allow us to see that this is Pushing us on the right track as to who God is. Can you think of any other scriptures that talk about him being beyond our searching him out or him being higher than the heavens or lower than the deeps? Or anything like that. Yes, there is that Anything else? Yeah, go ahead. Okay, Romans eleven thirty-three. Yeah. Okay. That sounds very close to what we have here in Job. Uh there's uh a few psalms, if I'm not mistaken, that would do the same thing. Psalm 104. Okay, Psalm 104 uh uh actually does and talks about his wisdom there and it gives a demonstration of his wisdom in the maintenance of the life of the entire earth. And that would show you what they would mean by infinite in wisdom. That's a great example for that. Okay. uh indeed these are the mere edges of the wave and how small it was permitters and but the thunder was powerful can understand. Okay, very good. Yeah. So it's um Elizabeth? I couldn't hear any of those. Can you say that again? Um joke twenty-six In these these are the mere edges of his waves and how small a whisper we hear. But the thunder of his power who can understand. Yeah, that's good. And then Psalm 139 let me read to you and think about the Job passage with that. Claire, are you familiar with 139? I see you nodding. I just turned there and then I decided to exhaust something I've got. Oh you did? Really? So I'm gonna read something that's irrelevant. Great. Okay. Okay. We'll see. Oh Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know my sitting down and my rising up. You understand my thought afar off. You comprehend my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways. For there is not a word on my tongue, but behold, O Lord, you know It altogether. You have hedged me behind and before, and I lay your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me, it is high, I cannot attain it. Where can I go from your spirit? Or where can I flee from your presence If I ascend into heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, you are there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the upper uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall fall on thee, even the night shall be light about me. Indeed, the darkness shall not hide from you, but the night shines as the day, the darkness and the light. And then he goes into a profound meditation in verse 13. For you formed my inward parts. You covered me in my mother's womb. And then he goes on. Just as an example of who he is and what he's looking for. like. Do you see any similarities in Psalm 139 and the Job passage? The Job passage is a is a uh admittedly a tough one because it's spoken by a friend, so you have to be very careful with whether we're supposed to supposed to accept it as the truth or there's some discernment needed. But I see it, do you see in other passages what we would be getting at with Can we connect more to the the passage where we um thought exodus when we're talking about the creator God and knowing us because created us. Yeah. Um the limitless mercy and forgiveness even though because you know that so well. Yeah. Um NRS Okay. Yeah, very good. Um do you see in the passages that were read though any unwillingness to place limits on God? Do you see in poetic language them trying to do that? In the sense that he talked about mercies of the television for the generations and uh I've seen it when he talks about Abraham's descendants seem like the hands and on the beach and stars in the sky, but you can't count it, you can't know it. Okay. It's sort of the way it's what about in one thirty nine? Oh Psalm one thirty nine Where can I go from your spirit or where can I flee from your presence? If I am if I if I ascend into heaven you are there. If I make my bed in hell or sheol, which is exactly what Job says, behold you are there. What do you think? Are there limits? Right. this morning. You guys really like to think abstractly about stuff. That's great. But here, when you look at it in context, look at what the Psalmist is doing by thinking about God. Having no limit limits. The end for the set the set the the for the sake of which he's meditating on all these things is to be strengthened in the end, and for the people of God to be strengthened. God not having these limits. Where would he go and God not be there? Now if God is your God, that's comforting. Imagine if you were not in literal Sheol, but you were in the darkness of depression. Now when you are in the darkness of depression, it can be quite difficult to hear anything that anybody has to say. Their words are meant to be light, but the darkness is so thick the light cannot shine. But the reality of the situation is still, though, that even in that place God is there. Let me give you another example. What about when your husband or your wife grows in age and they can't remember anything? God still be there? You see what I'm saying? You see the kind of mercy and grace that it is, and the comfort and the strength that we gain. uh as his bride, when we begin to meditate on who he is and the way that he's communicated it, there are purposes for talking about it abstractly. But when I see it in the scriptures, I see See it for the sake of his bride, who's on her pilgrimage, and for the sake of his glory in that regard. Look at his mercy and his kindness and his compassion. That's the glory of his that he revealed in Exodus 33. And all of that is starting to come out more and more as we look at his examples of his infinity, if you want to put it that way, in these other passages like Psalms. Where can I go where you would not be there. What does it also tell you about the importance of you dealing with your guilt and sin? Where can you go to escape his justice? You cannot hide. These are all implications of his infinity. So there's a lot of of profound meditation that needs to happen here, and I'm sorry that I only got to one of the uh attributes. Uh I was hoping for more. Uh but Darren really Mesposa He has he has plants in here. So what I would encourage you to do, because we have so many we have 107 questions that I want to get through. Okay. What I want you to do is take these attributes Look up the scriptures that are in the confession that are given for you. And when you're just doing your regular reading, ask the question, who does this reveal God to be? And look to the attributes, see if you can summarize it under one of those attributes that are given to us, and then meditate on it. And try to meditate on it and connect the dots with what's going on within your own life Does it seem like there are some people in your life that are the farthest away from God that they could ever possibly be? And that grieves you you well well they could be on their part but you know that God is there. And who's God? God's merciful. So call upon his mercy to meet that person until you die and you have no breath to pray. You could also look at some of the hymns that we have uh as the church to see his attribute. Reflected, immortal, invisible, God only wise. Right? Did I say that right? Yeah, so those are some things that we can do as homework and as practical explorations of this. Feel free to talk to me on your own time, but we're going to go on to question number five next week. Okay? Alright, let's pray. God, we thank you that you have revealed yourself to us It actually grieves us to know that we have become so d darkened and such so good at suppressing the truth and unrighteousness that you have to make special attempts over and over and over again to show us who you are. And it grieves us to think That even with all of the times that you have revealed yourself to us and enscripturated those times so that they could always be before us in the reading of them and in the hearing of the preaching of your word. From the office of pastor, that we nevertheless will not only forget you, but we will come up with evil thoughts about you that aren't you at all. We will think that you are miserly. We will think that you don't know best. That you're incompetent. There are all these evil thoughts that dwell within our hearts. But we thank you that you are merciful and you are compassionate, even while we are sinners. And that you have sent your Son Jesus Christ to be the perfect revelation of yourself to us. And we thank you that you do not dwell far off And nor are you just transcendent, but you have sent your Spirit into us as your church, and that you dwell with us and are present with us in a special way, writing your law and who you are upon our heart. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, as the only mediator between God and men, that you would continue to reveal yourself, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, to us. And we pray that we would grow in enjoying May you be our greatest delight in the name of Christ