Nope. No questions allowed. Alrighty, well let's start our time with a word of prayer. Morning, Ashley. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you've given us this time to reflect upon your word. Your word is a gift to us. given to us by way of your son and your spirit. And we thank you that you haven't just given us your word, but you Always have your spirit with your word. Teaching us, sculpting our hearts and our minds. For even if we had the words, we would get it wrong. We would, as our culture says, weaponize them. But Lord, though we we do attempt to do that sometimes, your spirit stops us. So we thank you that you really haven't left us as orphans, but that you are with us. We pray that you would help us to understand your word this morning. morning that through it we would come to know you in a way that leads to love of you and love of neighbor. In the name of Christ. Amen. All right. Here we are. Okay, well welcome to Sunday School. I have no idea what um how many times we've done this. But this week, you know, we're still on that question with regard to the first branch off of the decree, the execution of God's decrees. And so we're looking at the work of creation. And as I get used to the Sunday school, I notice that A lot of times I'll think in terms of your conscience. I'll think and I'll read your face. Is their conscience settled with this teaching from from the church. And uh sometimes I look at you and I think their conscience is not settled. There's all these little things buzzing around, keeping them from really embracing this. And so I've noticed, however, that if I spend more time in exegesis, meaning just looking at the passage, looking at passages closely, I notice that your conscience starts to become settled and you can see see this really is in the word of God. And that's comforting that you allow the word to bind your conscience and not other things. So that's good news. So we're this morning we're going to continue with the work of creation, and we're taking each comma. Last week we looked at God's making all things out of nothing. And I have some questions by way of review for you on that one. And then we're going to move in this week by the word of his power. Next week will be in the space of six days, and then the week after that will be end all very good All right, and then we'll go ahead and move on to the I think we're going to move on to the second work of uh execution of his decree which will be the work of providence. But many of you asked questions about angels last time and while we're talking about God creating things we might as well talk about his creation of angels. So We'll do a little angelology. That'll be fun, right? Okay. We can talk about guardian angels and Okay. My um by the way, just so you know more about me, my family named me after uh Michael the Archangel, Jesse Michael Crutchley. Just so you know. Mm-hmm. But before Christmas. But before Christ grabbed me, I was much more like Lucifer the angel. So I hear you. That was good. That's that's true. Man, that happened to me last night. Okay So the work of creation is God's making all things of nothing. So let's go ahead. I have a few questions for you. Let's see if you remember anything from last Sunday's Sunday school. Here's the first one. Is creation a Trinitarian work? And then if so, please provide support for your answer. Go ahead, Natalie. Yes. Support away. Okay. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth, so you're not only going to darkness and humanity. Spirit of God hovering over the face of the waters. Okay. Um, and then God said. So we have God the Father, God the Spirit, and God the Son in the Where do you get and you can have other people help you, but why do you all of a sudden move to another person of the Godhead when when When we see God said, um in the beginning was the word, and the word is with God and the word was God. Uh-huh. All things were made through him, and that's what that thing was made through Okay, that's a good enough answer. I like that you're just quoting a bunch of scripture to me. That's nice. Anyone have any other support for the work of creation being Trinitarian? So it's gonna it's gonna proceed it's going to proceed from the one eternal being of God, but the w the economy of it will be by way of the persons. That's the first lesson of the catechism. Any um what did you say, Marilyn? There was a plurality in the let us make man and then looking back that is fitting with uh what else we see, especially in the New Testament teaching. Natalie quoted Colossians for us. Oh you check you qu gave that one away. You quoted John. Thank you. Adam, you were uh saying the answers underneath your breath. Do you want to go ahead? This is Adam, everybody. And his wife Julie. And then that's my daughter Ellie. I don't know, you did you have an answer? You looked like you were answering. How would you support that the work of creation is Trinitarian? Yeah, I won't ask this for a dog and Okay. And uh Robert Bisco Very good. Uh Adam and Joy are from Canada. Forgive them. And uh I'm just kidding, Joy. I'm so sorry. They're visiting with us um last night and today Adam and I graduated seminary together and he's heading off to um his examination soon to be called to a church in Alberta, he and his family. So there's your little introduction Any other thoughts on the work of creation being Trinitarian? Dave, you look like you got thoughts. No? Yeah, that's a good one. Yeah, what made you think of that? What about it? Uh it would not look like uh through him and create all of things. Yeah, okay. Yep, very good. Okay, close enough. All right. Here's the second question. How did the church end up with the phrase ex nihila? Yes, careful. Uh huh. Yeah, Jerome's Uh translation of a Greek phrase that had to do with being. There being no being. Yeah, very good. Thank you for that. Okay, and then uh here's one Yes, Bob. Are you gonna answer the question that I haven't asked yet or are you gonna answer the one that we just Uh were you here last week? Does anybody remember how we the translation of that phrase? Out of nothing. Out of nothing. Yeah, yeah. If you uh also if you look on the website, we have an email, no, we had an email go out uh last week that has last week's lectures and this week it includes this week's lectures and last week's lectures. And in those lectures we we went through and defined all the terms and anything that was a foreign word, we made it into a non-foreign word. Yeah. If you want to look at that, you're welcome to. Right. Okay, very good. Out of nothing. And then what figure of speech is used in Genesis 1 in the phrase heavens and earth? A marism. Yeah, very good. What does that communicate to us? Yeah. very much a Hebrew uh tech uh literary device about whole test. Very good. Uh like bookends? Uh yeah, like bookends, but it's not just w doesn't just include this thing and this this thing. It's marking the boundaries of everything it includes. And so this phrase is meant to say everything. Which is um uh initially it's difficult to rest a lot on uh uh figure of speech, but after you go off and you see yes he did in fact create the angels, yes he did create, you can see he's including everything in that. Okay, and then here's a tough one for you. Is creation ex knee hello or out of nothing provide support for your answer? No. I mean maybe, but we were focused on a different aspect of those same verses. So how would you support it or would you not? How would we support that creation is out of nothing? That God made the worlds out of nothing. I can't think of the button. What? One for what? Okay. So that's a good one we can use for these purposes. That's Romans chapter four with reference to Sarah's barrenness. And so you can draw out some implications there that if he can do it there, then it's it's because there's a larger thing of it's flowing from a larger context of God calling those things which do not exist I think you can. What do you think? Yeah, that's okay. John One. John One. Yeah. Okay, so the the Okay, Michelle and then Marilyn. Uh huh. How's uh because it's gonna be on the job Right, but there's a question there that arises of whether that which was present was co eternal with God as a kind of primary matter, which I don't really want to get into this morning. But one but Marilyn? same place where she is, I'm gonna say hers. My question was gonna be what does that void word void mean? The easiest way to answer that is that elsewhere in scripture it just it gives us the picture of a barren wasteland. Right. It means that it was uh without form and void. Like a like a barren wasteland is the I think the closest picture we can get. Um the the context is usually that of farming. So you want to think, Natalie, about uh a land that's incapable of bringing any good. It's not uh and then some people would say it's not habitable space And then what you're going to see is it made habitable unto good. You'll notice that all of a sudden now everything is blessing everything else. And Psalm one oh four is a picture of something that's not formless and void Okay, and uh you know just in terms of implication, if you did, we're not going to dwell on this, but if you did want to say that there was a co-eternal primal matter, then you'd have to say then there is at least one thing that God does not cause. And that is a major problem. Major problem. It's something, but it's yeah, it's a problem. So so at any rate, but I think we have enough evidence to show that he all things that are made are made um by the Father, through the Son, through uh with his spirit. That would be one way to put the prepositions together. Okay. Great job on the review. That was the first part which had to do with the God's making all things out of nothing. The second one is by the word of his power. And here it is, Dave. Here is the Hebrews passage that You wanted to quit. Oh yeah, sure. Oh yeah, that's right. You we left off with you um asking a question. Is that would that create it as one in the six days or the P4? I take it as not including an additional day, if that's what you're asking. Are you are you thinking six days plus this day? Earth might have to be creative because it was in it. Right So is that part of the six phase that I described? I'm sorry I say the last part again. My ears are all clogged up. Do you have some some thoughts on that? No. Okay. Let me open it up to the room and see what they say. And then I have some thoughts too. Yes, Jen. Did first off, did everybody hear Dave? No. Can you say it louder? That referenced um was that created as part of the sixth phase of creation or was it created before? And then this Six page work with that. Okay. And uh Jen first and then Gary. And then Ashley. So the question, however, is something that Darren has said to me that's been very helpful. And where the Bible is silent, then I must be also. So sometimes like I would start asking the question and it's not a hundred percent But it's like we know like like you were saying, we know the character of God and God is over all things and I do believe we affirm that um all things that have been created are from him. So and like she said, there was no other thing coexistent eternal butterfly. So there Okay. That doesn't necessarily help that it but it helps me Well I'm looking at this and look. I can tell you this. Well it's a good reminder of what we said at the beginning of our lesson last week, which is we must end these discussions always remember our limitations and enter into these discussions with humility. If you don't, then you're on your road to heresy The next person we had up with Gary, and then we had Ashley, and then we had Mike, and then we had Marilyn. This is a hot topic, Gary. You better get this right. The uh structure of God said in such and such day doesn't begin in verse three. One and two appear to be backgrounds of what's happening Now EJ Yum points out that some people call that what's happening in verse 1 and 2 are dependent clauses verse 3, in which case you could already But he points out that then you lose the X menal with the Genesis one if you use the dependent Okay. Can you say that one more time and just a little bit louder? That's a that was a good summary of one of the positions. Okay, so first three starts the The repetitive structure of each day, right? God today. And verse one and two are narrative leading up to verse three, their background is verse three three which would mean that outside of day one. However, you know it's I'm misquoting EJ Young because he has more authority than I mean he says some people will say that those are really the clauses in verse one to make them part of what's happening in verse three. But his point was you lose exigilo creation, at least the genesis Sorry, if if you make those dependent clauses on those dependence of first three. How is it that a question is arising that you don't have to answer? It's just to the whole group. You can't answer it. How do we lose ex nihilo if we take those as dependent clauses? Uh because you're s no, if I understand this right, because in verse you're starting creation in verse three basically. You know, first one and two are just background to that. So verse one says God created uh borrow, which means creating out of nothing, creating a new. If you call that a dependent clause to verse 3, then you're saying that all this stuff is is already there when we're when creation begins. You're saying that if you say creation begins in the first three, all this matter that is used in creation is already there. Okay Don't say that. All right, and then we had Ashley. Don't say that. You can either build on Gary or you can You can start your own little foundation. Carrie started kind of speaking to what my train of thought was in summer preferences by saying I could have a misunderstanding of next ac mean a low. Um in the past I've I've put it to mean that what God created out of nothing, meaning He just he spoke and it existed. Um I don't know that that precludes something already there since we see in verse one or two, the earth is not formed uh form in void, so there was something and he hovered over the face of face of the waters So there was something, but that doesn't necessarily mean those something were used to create key. I don't know that that indicates that key level because God still created by the by his word. Yeah. So can we understand those verses to just indicate like Those were there, but they shouldn't be necessarily considered the start of creation. Creation started with God speaking light into existence Okay. That would be the that would be considered the first day of the six is when he's starting to turn uh form things like Light. Okay. And then we have Marilyn, and then we have Brian. I'll let it lie. You're gonna let it lie? Okay. Is that like um I felt like we were playing cards for a second. Okay. Brian and then Mike. Yeah. Yeah. But in the same sentence as it says um it was formless in the world. So it has to reference something that God created Yeah. Right? Or it wouldn't make any sense. Yeah. So formless and void to me says that it wouldn't be there. It just didn't exist. Okay. And then he made whatever this is that the spirit hovers over. Okay. Brian? Yeah, I mean when I agree the word in the beginning, I mean time began the took existence or creation before time, I don't think. And so I think it as one says created the heavens and the earth. That was part of creation even Make sure you're speaking up so everybody can hear you. So but also I don't think God is limited by having to speak to create or to take an action. You know, Jesus did regenerative things just without speaking. And so I think God is not limited by his voice and so I think we don't really know how things happen but I take it to be that things appeared when creation began in the beginning on that first day and then got speech probably for our benefit, our record afterwards and adding shape and order to it Okay. Very good. Ashley? What is your understanding of the wire system? What do you do believe the do we understand that they were uh like a literal Body of water? I Natalie, do you are you trying to answer this? No, I'm just getting in line. Okay, you're number tw I need to get like those um things at the deli. Were we all full of number? Okay, hold on to that question for one moment, because that's a sub question of that verse. Right now I was wondering if like there was some that had considered before the heavens and the earth is our present understanding of reality Does that mean that there was absolutely nothing before happy? I'm not saying there was. I'm I'm not making it. Yeah, that was the argument from last week that there was no there was no being but but God, which is a different now I'm equivocating on the term, but uh there was only God. And then out of his love He created heaven and earth, which I believe is a summary phrase for everything that is going to go forward. And then it speaks about a kind of primal, formless chaos. that he has created. This is my take on it. And then what he's going to do, that word bara that you mentioned, is if you look and do a word study of the whole thing, it can mean It can definitely be in context of creation out of nothing, but it can also be associated with making, so forming things So I think that's really what's going on with the formless and the void. From that point forward, we then have God making all of the various donations. Domains and then he's going to inhabit the domains with those creatures. So at the back of this conversation, we have to ask the question or we have to remember that he's speaking analogously that we are not going to understand how God creates in and of itself and then why is it that he's In speaking analogously, why is he going to use the images that he uses? And is it going to be primarily for our scientific questions, or will it be for our ethical questions? Which include knowing who God is. Those are the kind of things that need to be answered to get to nail this one down. I think that he creates the formless and the void. and then he's going to take and make all things or form all things by way of the spirit. The time element seems to be what you're focused on, Dave. That's probably jumping into next week, but to phrase all things in the space of six days. Yeah. If the position you're taking, that's not all things, in fact, a large thing that was used to create in terms of the other thing was created before it's a good idea. Yeah, I don't I I'll have to think about that. I mean Well whether we've taken the position I asked though, did that form the four year was that created zero just then or was that Oh you did? I mean I was trying to ask it as creative as possible. But that's where it comes down. What's the ulterior motive? Well I'm asking the question It seems to me that validates that all things are created in six in six days because again, the formless moving Earth is a thing that's outside of those six days. And it's a large thing that is the you know the the substance of many other things that were Yeah, so um I can't speak to all of that right now. What I mean by that is I can't speak to it personally right now, but I can I can tell you that one majority view throughout the church was that this was created instantaneously, not over time. Okay. Alright. Fair enough. But I think the question that you're putting into the class though is Since we see the cre if we see the creation of of this whatever this is, this primeval substance before the space of the six days, does that by necessity invalidate a six literal day view? Is that the question you're raising? No, I'm not in that one. That craze all things within the spaces and space. And to me it also opens up questions of whether other non-material things exist to be in the six-base. Such as angels and spirits and couldn't let us be part of the heavenly hosts. Uh-huh. Other than just the Trinity. Do you mind putting it into a couple of questions? That way as we get to different parts in the conversation we'll We'll see if we're better equipped to answer the question. Because all the questions that you're raising are a part of the conversation. In fact, uh I just w looked at I forget which church father it was, but he was was uh uh working through this and said some of the similar things that perhaps in this first uh part is when the angelic bodies are created. Yeah. Right. So do me a favor as the as the Sunday school guy and put it in in a couple questions that you think are important to answer. Can you do that right now? Yeah. What are the questions that you're trying to answer? I want to, even if you don't have them perfectly down, I'd like to hear them. Um number one is was there things that were created before the sixth phase of creation? Okay. Those things either being material or immaterial Okay. The material being uh one was uh weight earth but it's matching in the first two versions just And the non-material being the angelic bodies that show up after or within the six-phase of creation that button are not mentions being created from the case. Uh-huh. Yep, that's good. I got it. Alright, very good. Darren. Well I and this may also be a long time. the questions being asked. Can't help but notice and even in our conversation here that our that the cosmology that we're dealing with seems to be geocentric and and that and that's very It seems that that's exactly what's being dealt with is in these six days of creation, so what God has done on the earth. Right? And and so and and even medieval whoever is their idea of the earth being center, which leads to two questions. Were they right? Um and I think sometimes we rejected that they were right because, and yet when you think about although the cosmos the focus is here, right? So maybe it doesn't all revolve around the Earth in a material sense, but maybe it does in a a different sense, certainly in the biblical sense. And that's something that we have we disallow that because of our scientific approach to the nature of the cosmos and the any the rejection of geocentricity. Um and then secondly that possibly there are other bodies. So the other question would be what I mean this took along the day So it how long did it take to create Saturn? How long did it take to create future? Earth can focus on the six days. And I'm I'm cheating that, but at the same time You know we we we want we got the six days here for the earth but everything else just went blue time you know like that. Uh and maybe that's the case or maybe it's not or maybe it's not a time distinction which would be another question, right? Maybe six days it's not a time distinction but a literary distinction. And that's a whole other conversation. Okay, yeah. That's good. But certainly the one that fascinates me at this point is the geosystem just the uh the the the scriptures themselves it's all about the earth and we ought to we have to take that into great consideration when we have a tendency, especially for our own sake, right? We have tension go well just expect in the middle of the universe and that you know it it's smaller than that. No, it there's there's a sense in which this Okay. Very good. So I want to do something real quick. The main uh I wrote down those questions and I'll try to figure out a way to ease us into that. A lot of these some of these questions I have to set aside because the main purpose is to just look at the basics of the faith. Raise your hand if those questions that came up from Dave Dave and Darren, you find confusing. Anybody? Yeah, just like, wow, this seems really complicated. So we Uh-huh. Well th this is answering my question right now. Yeah, this is good. So what I'm gonna do what I'm doing here is see this is part of the the thing that keeps me up at night uh as I try to fall asleep and then I think of how Sunday school went. And uh and I and one of the things is that we have many different people in the class. Some folks are just trying to understand what the Bible says and they just want to see it. Other folks have been looking at these things for a while or not, and they have all of these questions. that are questions that are a part of the conversation. Maybe we'll get to some of those questions. Maybe we won't. My main goal is to just step through each one of these clauses on the catechism. But I do want to encourage you that every question that I've heard raised here this morning, I have read someplace else as also a question in the conversation. It seems like this is where we're supposed to go if you stick at it long enough. There are some dangers because you can start trying to answer this in a way that's illegitimate. But I I don't uh want people to be discouraged. Okay, these are some of the I think we have to talk it out though, Jesse, because we all think differently of that. You know? Or what it means to us. No, sir. Uh uh. That's not what we're doing here. No. No. I don't know exactly what you're trying to say. I just decided to assert myself so to make sure we don't go down a certain road. actually trying to do today. I would say just very quickly that depending on God's calling for you, there are certain sets of questions that you're going to have to answer. with regard to each of these theological topics. Right now we're on the act of creation. And depending on your vocation, you're going to need to answer uh different kinds of questions and have to go to a different different degree. I end up having to do a uh go a little bit further down the path because I got people like Dave and Darren in my life. And um and they want to ask me these questions. It is. Uh it is. Yeah, it is it is about the word about the word to say. Yeah, uh but we really don't want to think that we can all just interpret it however we want. Yeah, that's right. We're trying to have a conversation about it. But some of these things what I'm I'm doing to you all is I'm saying, wow, that's really interesting, but I cannot Do this right now. I would like to just set aside a whole other Sunday school class where we can consider the topic. Okay, I got it in my schedule. Okay. Okay, one type read this. Please. That was a subjunctive. Let us write it down. Let us write it. Let us write down our questions and then if you would like to, please send me those questions so I can see what's on your mind. Mind. That would be really helpful to me if you sent me your questions. That would be great. So what I want to do is I want to work through a pretty careful reading of Hebrews chapter 1, verses 1 through 5. for. Will you all let me do that? Those are great questions though, folks. Really good stuff. Thanks for those questions, Dave. Okay. So now by the word of his power, I th um I think is in here in our our shorter catechism because they're really just going back to something that was stated explicitly with And we find it here in Hebrews 1, 1 through 4, and upholding all things by the word of his power. I underlined it for you in the verse. But I want to read the whole verse and then I want to step through the whole verse looking at it in context, and I'm hoping that that will uh help to ground us a bit. Who would like to read Hebrews 1-1 through 4? Natalie, go for it. at various times and in various ways spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets, as in these last days spoken to us by his son, whom he had appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world, who being the brightness of his glory and the expressed image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power When he had by himself purged our sins, sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High, having become so much better than the angels, as he had by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. And it should be dot dot dot because it's then going to go on to talk about him purging Okay, so here's some questions for you. Verse one, I'm seeing as a comparison between uh two administrations. Or if you want to, you can talk about how God is going to govern his various economies through time. We've had that conversation, so I feel comfortable saying that phrase But my question to you is what are the similarities and the differences that we see within verse 1? This is just a matter of you giving back to me what's in the verse. Yes, Bob. He speaks to us In two different ways. One he's using the prophets to talk to the leadership. And then the second demonstration is Christ speaks to the leadership Okay, very good. Yeah, so it says did everybody notice that? And times passed uh to the fathers by the prophets. Okay, that and then uh now it's uh by the sun and we would say to the especially to the apostolic band. Okay, very good. Any other differences or s and similarities, Dave? There is also various methodologies by the way she spoke. Okay. I would assume dreams and dissipation. Yeah, um and are you thinking of numbers seventeen? Is that the verse? No this right here is the Right, those various or divers ways is listed. Um is it um I always forget, is it numbers twelve seven or number seventeen? Yeah, twelve six. So let's turn to twelve uh Numbers chapter twelve verse six. And who would like to read that for us six through eight? Go ahead, Ashley. Then who guys? Hear now my words. If there is a prophet among you, I, the Lord, make myself known to him in a vision. I speak to him in a dream. Not so my servant Moses. He is faithful in all my house. I speak with him face to face, even plainly, and not in dark things. And he sees the form of the Lord Why then were you not afraid to speak against my servant? Okay, so does everybody see the various ways there? Uh that's what I was thinking of, Dave, when you started mentioning the various methodologies. Did you have something different in mind? No, I just didn't say. Yep. Okay. And then what would be the uh the the the difference now Natalie? So like various ways and wise a lot of different ways, and that it's just the sun. Okay. Okay. Very good. Uh anything else? Well Jesus is the greater mode of the C Sort of the comparison is straightforward, right? Facebook might be better V is the greater V the mediator now. So it'll be better covered. Okay, very good. Thanks for quoting scripture there. Ashley? Um just um That's just the term that uh that that it that it has done which and I think you can understand that you leave that up with John was that the Sun is the word. The word that we understand is scripture. Scripture is God's word. So to understand that means now this is where we hear from the Lord and I'm not saying the prophet I'm not trying to get into that conversation that it kind of passed the primary ways of hearing from the Lord with the prophet. Now we have the sign, we have the word, and that is our primary revelation. That's what we're doing. Hmm, I heard that little intonation at the end that turned it into a question. Yeah. Yeah, there's some division there's some distinctions that need to be made in there. Um so let's go ahead and make them. Uh because we We won't want to overdo the point here that uh the author of Hebrews is making. Um in the person of Jesus Christ, is this the first time that the church has heard from the So the sun has been speaking all along. All right? And he's making himself and his ways known primarily by way of prophets in the methodologies. in Dave's terminology of vision, dream, face-to-face. And then we have the Son taking upon himself human nature and communicating primarily to the apostles. To preserve what the Son has been saying all along. So the apostles then are not just a new teaching. There's many things in there that we did not have as at least as clearly that the apostles make clear, but the apostles are also providing for us the way to understand all of the revelation of the sun from the beginning of the foundations of the earth. And really even before, because sometimes they led us into the councils of the inter-Trinitarian councils and that kind of stuff. Does does that make sense? Yeah, that's the same thing. Yeah. Yeah, no, that's good. And then we have uh the word who is the Lagos. who then also uh preserves the words that he gives to us, which is a lot of times we'll see in the scriptures a distinction between two words, lagas and rima or or Remah and and um or Debir and that and that's the Hebrew. But it's the difference between uh the word as a person and the word as that which is preserved Or in the his his uh s his revelation inscriptuated. Does that make sense? Okay. I want to make sure we get all those pieces together in this one. Any other uh any questions with with regard to what I just said. If you don't phrase it the way that I did, then you will start to put the New Testament against the old Okay. Um let me ask another question here. Uh what is the function of by whom in That's fine. I was looking for if to answer that question Yeah, so if you have another translation that's using a different preposition like through versus by, I'm still just focused on the fun you can you can use that, that's fine. But what's the function of it in this passage, Darren? Okay, say that again. So God spoke about the prophets and now God spoke with the speech. by Christ, the type by the Son. So by whom does God speak the Son. But still I think that the the function of the Bi is to point back to this God using the word Oh. I'm sorry. I misphrased that question. You're right. That is this the function of that buy. I mean right after the comma, it says whom. Yeah, what is the function of the whom? Whom he has appointed heir of all things. Okay, identification. That's pretty good. What do you think the function of the word whom is? Well what it's definitely doing is it's setting you up to talk more about the specific person of the Christ, right? So now we're going to have these, I think it's actually called an adverbial clause, where you're now going to see further descriptions of who he is. and what he does. Everybody down with that? When you look at the word whom, you see we're now going to talk more about the Son. We have more to say about him. So not only is it the person by whom God has spoken to us, but it is whom he has appointed heir. You see what I'm saying? You're saying that the Bible, by his son. No. I'm just saying whom is letting us know we're going to keep having a conversation about the sun. That's all. I just want us to track here. And and by the actual language. of the passage. It's telling us, let's keep talking about the sun. Okay, so then what are the four things which show the glory and preeminence of the sun? In this passage. What you're looking for is these hair wall things. I love that. What am I looking for I think I understand your question to me. Asking for this response. Only give one. Don't take all of the don't take all of the answer. That's like, you know, what's like when I tell my k you know, never mind, I'm gonna give an example. that disagrees with some of you. Okay. Uh you said error of all things? Okay, that's one Ellie. Or it just seems like a lot of things mean that's like he is the radiance of the words and other matrix and kind of showing it Yeah. So let's put it in a new way, based on the words that you just What are the ways in which the Sun, the superiority of the Sun is shown in the rest of these verses up to verse 4? What are the examples of his superiority? This house. Okay, where do you see that? Are we still in TV15? Yeah. This whole time. Okay, cause that's what I thought when you said that. Okay. Very good. Anything else that we're missing? So what do we have Hold hold on one second. Raquel. Okay, that's definitely showing his superiority. The right hand? Brian? Oh, I was gonna say his ascension. But also you decrease decreed as a world. Yeah. So let's go ahead and just step through 'em because they're given in an enumeration. Okay, so um number one, whom he has appointed heir of all things. Two, through whom also he made the worlds. And then three, who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person. Yeah. I th I think this shows him to be superior than all others because there is no other that is the express image of his glory. This is the declaration of the divinity of Jesus Christ. And then four, end up holding all things by the word of his power. And that's where I just wanted to stop. I didn't want to get into his other work. But you see, this is a list of how he's superior to all other things. Now look at verse 5 real quick, and you can see that this is on the mind of the author. For to which of the angels did he ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you? So we're really are, that's a good word, Ellie. We really are looking at the superiority of the sun to angels, to Moses, to Aaron, to whoever shows up in the in this book. And the main point ends up being, do not abandon the doctrine of the sun. Persevere. Run the race. Right? Yeah. And um and so um what do you think it means? Here's the next question. What do you think, before we get to the whole phrase, what does it mean for the son to uphold All thanks. Okay. Okay. So we'll say that there's an image that we use that he holds everything in his hand and that this is a depiction of his sovereignty. Okay, what else does it mean for him to uphold all things? Natalie? Um through whom we live and who have a half are being. Okay, that's a quote from uh from Acts. Very good. Marilyn? By whom all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrums or dominions or principalities or powers. All things were created through him and before him, and he is before all things and in him all things. specifically that in him all things consist. What does that mean? Right. Sustaining problems. So the pattern is good question, but that's that's what we need here, or all things are moment by moment Yeah. Dave. I think one of the things we get from it is the comfort of knowing that Christ isn't actively sustaining us. It's not a you know such a swirl of motion, it's like whatever comes from He's actively holding us, especially kind of the struggles that broke up and does. He has an active role in Yeah, that's very good. Now, what is the instrument, so to speak, by which he upholds all things? The word of his power. Right. So that's how the whole thing is laid out. First we see the differences between the two administrations. Then we're going to, and the main difference is the incarnation. Then we're going to look at who is this one who has taken upon himself human nature. It is the Son. What is it about the sun that makes him superior to all others? He help he um uh I just all dropped right out of my hand. He, good thing it's written down. How he's appointed heir of all things. The world uh It is through him that the Father makes the worlds. He is the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person. And last but not least He upholds all things. How does he uphold all things? This is even showing how much further his superiority is. He does so by the word of his power. Now I think that's a Hebraism, and you could say his powerful word. But there is some benefit in keeping retaining that original word order, the word of his power, because you're going to want to start thinking about our lessons on the Trinity of Um where does the efficiency of the of God come from? And it's going to come from that sufficiency or that that uh him in his in his eternality and power. And now we're seeing the expression of that, so to speak, and the way by which he does so is speaking. That is when it's when the the power is made manifest. And you really could think of um we don't want to get lost in the clouds here. You really can just think of that time, and I actually have this as a example of when the centurion recognizes the power of Christ and says, You're just like me. If I say go, then my soldiers go. See it's just by a word that things are done. And that's the same thing he's recognizing in Christ. And Christ looks at him and says, that really stops the whole scene and says, I tell you the truth, I haven't seen faith like this in Israel. Because there's a real profundity there as to the really the nature of who is standing before this centurion, who Christ is and how he is Okay, so now you can see that total context, at least with the author of Hebrews and what his purposes are. And you can see in his purposes, his purposes are being funded by an understanding of the incarnate Son and how He upholds the world, how he upholds the world Alrighty? There's still a question that is before us, and that is, is this how he creates the world? Because really we dropped, as soon as we said upholds or consists, we started talking about providence and we were not talking about creation. Now, if we start to look throughout the rest of the scriptures, we do see, however, God creating by the word of his power. So now we'll what we'll see is God creating by the word of his power and God upholding by the word of his power. And that's where I wanted to just show you a few of these verses, and then we'll need to end. Other scriptures showing the word of his power. Then God said, Let there be light, and there was light. What do you think? There's an example of it. And that is from Jerome's translation where we get the idea of the divine fiat. Okay? By the word of the Lord, the heavens were made, and all the host of them by the breath of his man. Now that's extra interesting, is it not? Because now we have the word spoken, but we can immediately, what what else do we see besides just the power, the word of his power? We see that there's if we're in tune with this Trinitarian revelation, we're going to see that the Spirit is doing the work upon the command of the Son. Alright, and that is in Psalm 33, 6. Then we have Psalm 148, verses 5 through 6. Let them praise the name of the Lord, for he commanded, and they were created. He also established them forever and ever. He made a decree which shall not pass away. You see, the decree is associated with the speaking of a king. He says it, and that's and then it's that's what's going to happen. It's really showing forth his power over and over and over and over and over again. Really, that's the main point. eternal attribute of God. Indeed, my hand has laid the foundation of the earth. I would encourage you to think of Irenaeus's two hands. in the economy. Indeed, my hand has laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand has stretched out the heavens. When I call to them, they stand up together. Isn't that beautiful? Stand up! Boom. Foundations. I'll show you a picture of Hebrew cosmology and you'll see. Yeah, the hand of the sun and the hand of the spirit. foundations of the earth. Bam. There you go. And then um that's Isaiah 48, 13. And then I already gave this one to you from Matthew 8, 8 through 9. The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that you should come under my roof, but only speak a word, and my servant will be healed. For I also am a man under authority, having soldiers under me, and I say to this one, Go And he goes, and to another, come, and he comes, and to my servant, do this, and he does it. That uh whether the centurion knew it or not, he was getting at the heart of the Revelation of God. Pretty cool stuff. Okay, we have to end. So there's the second clause in the shorter catechism. The work of creation is God's making all things of nothing. By the word of his power. Next week we're going to have a real fun and controlled conversation about in the space of six days, right? That would be really good. I might find a substitute. And then I wrote down those I wrote down those questions and I'll try to bring them up at another time when it fits. And then if you have other questions, please send them to me and I'll try to incorporate them. into the class. Adam. Let's make a comment. Yes. I was really encouraged by the level of biblical literacy and uh diligent study that the Thanks for saying something. We knew that you were coming, so we actually scripted this whole thing out to try to impress you. We're gonna have to talk. No. Okay, well let's pray. Oh God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. I do thank you for the teaching that you have given to your congregation here at Severn Run. I thank you, Lord, for their biblical literacy. I pray, Lord, that in the hearing of your word, that we would also be doers, that we wouldn't be lacking in that way, but that we would fill it out to its full intent for which you send it. I pray Lord that you'd help us to uh have clear teaching that we would have the the basics or the fundamentals that you have handed us from heaven And I pray that you would also walk along with us as rightfully by your Spirit you cause us to raise certain questions and to work out the implications. And I pray that when we do so you would Um keep us humble and help us to always recognize our limitations that we're not looking into things that we're not supposed to. We ask, Lord, that you be with us now as we enter into your worship. In the name of Christ, Amen.