For this time, then you can get to remember who you are and what you were doing. I think I'm gonna get her to read through the those again. My if she if she is vol if she can will be voluntold. The case studies in my mind I'm not trying to resolve them. I think they're really difficult ethical situations. I think it would be silly for us to try to resolve it here in this forum. I'm simply using them for you to have more familiarity with how the discussion is going in the world. A good discussion. and careful discussion. And I want you to get used to the terminology that's being used. And I want you to see how Christians that God has given see what resources God has given to us for us to render judgments on such matters. It is usually a surprise to see how much work God intends for the creation account to do in the Christian's life. I've tried to get that across by saying the creation account is useful for more than defending against evolution It is used for so much more. It is a treasure box full of treasure. And we are to bring it out and to use it. as um a gift that God has given to us. So let's go ahead and if Cheryl, if you don't mind, we love your reading voice. So if you could read case study one and case study two, then in the new notes you'll see I have questions and we'll step through these things. Together. Court case heard between November and December 1959 by the High Court of England and Wales, in which Arthur Forbitt saw annulment of his marriage to April April Ashley. Corbett, the husband, had known at the time of the wedding that Ashley, the wife, had been registered male at birth and had undertaken sex reassignment surgery. However, after the relationship had broken down, Corbett sought to end the marriage. His legal grounds for doing so being that the wedding had been invalid as Ashley was a male sex The court held that for the purpose of marriage, sex would be legally defined by three factors present at birth that the judge referred to as biological, namely cross- Chromosomal, gonadal, and genital. Any surgery or medical intervention was to be ignored, as were any psychological factors, which were in this case identified with abstract transsexual. Holding that Ashley had been born and continued to be a biological male, a fact that could not be changed by surgery, the judge held that the marriage which had to be between man and woman should be adults. Although the judgment was restricted to a consideration of legal steps specifically within marriage, its reasoning was later applied more widely with Yeah, so one one of the first things I want you to notice, do you see how the out of date this case is? So it's nineteen seventy, now uh there's been a legalization of marriage between So but it's still an important part of the discussion. The other thing, just very quickly for you to observe, is this was already happening in the 70s seventies. And then the third thing I'll have you observe is the reason why I know this is because of Anglican ethicists. They have been working on it since the seventies. So when it erupted in the church. They were able to address it very quickly and have been doing so for decades. We should have something set up where those who got gifts with these kinds of gifts can be thinking about these things from the start. So we're not floundering to figure it out, you know, after it's been around for a while. There's some real value in that. Okay, case study two. Case study two. This case is a nineteen seventy-six New Jersey Superior Court. Case, which affirmed the validity of the marriage of a trans woman to a man, and in particular legally recognized the woman's post-operative gender of the plaintiff. This case is considered to be the first legal case which specifically addresses transsexual marriage. In 1972, MT filed the lawsuit claiming spousal support after her husband of two years, JT abandoned her and ceased providing financial support. A three-bed panel of the Superior Court's Appellate Division approached The holding of the lower court that MT was female for the purposes of New Jersey law at the time of the marriage. And therefore the marriage was valid, and that MT was entitled to support. This opinion based its reasoning in part on the fact that MT had undergone sexual reassignment surgery. The courts considered but rejected the arguments of the earlier English case. Corbett versus Corbett, which had ruled that English marriage laws follow the verse act. Okay, so I'll make observation now that both of these have been read is that you can see that the legal issue before the courts in which this conversation is taking place is is it a valid marriage? May it or may it not be annulled. Transsexualism proper is not the proper issue before them, but only A subsidiary issue relative to determination of the marriage. But it nevertheless gives us the opportunity to discuss the concepts that are being used and to see if So I have a few questions here, but before I ask those questions, are there any general observations or questions of clarification on each of the cases We will get into it. Gary? We don't know what their reasoning was, and sometimes legally will agree with people outside the church but our our met our means of getting there are not necessarily the same. So I think that's an important distinction to make so I think what you're saying is that We see the conclusion in this clerk's report. This is the clerk of the court who's reporting to us, but we have not seen the reasoning that arrives at that conclusion, and we might actually find that as Christians we have to take a different path. Path to the same place. Yeah, okay. Very good. Great observation. Any other thoughts? We have at least two in two tra trained in law in this room. Natalie and Elizabeth. Sorry Elizabeth. Um because uh about like the my legal thoughts on the matter. What one is that the New Jersey, the American court had in no way, was in no way obligated to take what the um European court or the English court took into account. Correct. Correct. Um and the second thing is uh this was New Jersey Superior Court, so it obviously it wasn't before the Supreme Court and apparently in this case I don't I don't recall when when I was reading Oversfeld, whether or not this case was even referenced. Um but New Jersey Superior Court would have had no um legal standing on any other court other than all the courts under it. Right. So it wouldn't have been applicable to the if I'm under to the uh district, the federal district that they do Jersey Superior Court had. Um they could have used it as as kind of guidance, not even guidance, but they could have they could have referenced it, but it wasn't what would be considered Law for anything above it. Right. Only law for anything below it. Right. And again, the law is in quotes because only legislatures are really allowed to make law. Although we don't think about it that way. Yeah. So since then what has happened with these cases is this New Jersey one has been particularly used as an exemplary case and exemplary reason for to arrive at the same conclusions in several places in Canada, for example. And I'm not sure beyond that. I'm sure there's there's more to say, but that's as far as I've studied. Again, if these two cases had no fake had no binding on Canada. Correct. No, no, they this legally even they didn't have any bindings. They could use them in They can use the argument that it's flying, they can do whatever they want. Right, yeah. All right, so I'm not sure how that applies things. Yeah. Very good. So what um the main question that I'm asking is th foam When we look at these cases and the reason why I have them before you is it's actually uh a careful reasoning or care it's the beginning of careful reasonings about the matter. So it's a they're good Case studies. And we want to ask what ways does the world make sense of our sexuality? And I want to point out here in the case that the cases above differ in two main regards. The New Jersey case gave weight to the psychological and the post-surgical observations of the patient. Can somebody put that in their own words and tell me what I I mean by that. That the New Jersey case gave regard or weight to the psychological and the post-surgical, whereas the Corbett versus Corbett did not. Let's just try to figure out what are we talking about when we s when I say that. Yes. The New Jersey case is saying, well since you thought you were a woman and you took measures to change Yeah, very good. For the purposes of marriage So the the the thoughts that this person is having, um actually it's um a the male was having they took the court took that in consideration as to determine the reality for the purposes of marriage, the sex of the person. Secondarily, they also looked at the post surgical operation. You could look at the post-surgical operation and you could say that there is a semblance now of woman parts. And they took that into consideration to say, well then they're really for the purposes of marriage a w a um a woman or female. Okay what were you gonna say Jim and and versus um in the UK they were saying no we're still going back to your DNA and what what your makeup is that no matter what you've undergone or what you think, you can't change that. Yeah, could someone here, before we move on, could someone here make it help us to see the distinction between go natal and genitalia I looked it up while we were so uh gonatal would be ovaries and testicles. Yep, very good. I guess genitalia would be the The other parts that we think of when we think of male and female sex. Yes, okay. But we don't see the female goadass. We don't see the female goadass. We do see the male gods. Yep. And the course So I think we got it straight. It's the whole uh biological totality with that has traditionally been associated with male and female. The the gonadal agencies can be altered by man. Uh huh. But that's chromosome whole different stuff. Right. So then and so then as Jen was saying, when we look oh I'm sorry. Elizabeth, I'm sorry. Go ahead. No, I was just noticing that it seems like it takes into account the psychology of the spouse as well by saying that at the time of marriage she was putting Yes. Very good. So that's another component that I didn't want to get into this morning. No, no, no, uh not because it's not important, it is. That's a That's sort of going to be a social component that came up in the case also. Can we as society just affirm it for the sake of uh getting along with I think it's more like you can't um accept it and then not accept it when it's convenient. Alright, very good. So then when we look at the case across the pond, we see that the psychology was not considered to have the kind of weight to determine what the reality is, and nor was post-operative results. It had the remember what we're trying to do in these cases is determine what is real. And the case across the pond determined what was real was what was at what was the uh uh the birth sex, not the one that was reassigned, and not the one that they think that they have. So those are those are some major differences between the two, and it's an interesting question to ask about the New Jersey case. How all of a sudden were how is it that they were to give way to the psychological and the postoperative? That's a that's an interesting question. And I think again we're not trying I'm not here to resolve these cases for you. I just want you to see what's going on so you're not hearing it for the first time when you're having an important discussion with somebody Okay. So um here oh yes, please. Uh well we said they they're trying to determine if it's real, right? Yes. I was wondering if That's a big question of like what is the role of laws to determine what's real or what's legal. Like you can define define something like murder one way, it might be wrong. So that determining realism or is it determining a legal definition of it? I don't want to get too much into it. Yeah, I do it seemed to me that they were trying to deter find out what is the reality of the situation so that we can then uh have a law based on that kind of substance as opposed to it being, I think what they would call a positive law, which doesn't have to be connected to any particular reality. Yeah. Okay. I'm gonna I'm gonna I am gonna answer some questions but I want to get through this. Dwayne and then sure. All right, sure. I just kind of if it's helpful in this question, answer offer an answer to what ways does the world make sense of our sexuality and just saying that I think the world sees sexuality in an end in itself. Whether it's psychological or even in marriage because like love is love. So like what the desire, whether it's a feeling desire or different forms of desire that sexuality takes is meant, then that's the end. That there's not a greater purpose that is meant to comment from sexuality is I would say that the church would say this is the purpose of sexuality or something actually greater than just a met desire. And that's that until the desire comes up again, then you need it and we're done here. And then you need it and we're done here. And I think that also can keep you from when you can then and go on to answer those greater purposes of sexuality, I think it helps you stay on the track and not fall off the edges because that's when you then make room for well your feelings can change every day, therefore your sexuality can change every day. And I do think people actually struggle with that. Um But I that it helps keep guardrails on to say, no, sexuality is not ever meant to be an end in itself And it it sounds to me when you mean when you say N in itself, you mean that um we're all adults here So though there can be, let's say, pleasure in the in our acts of sexuality, that there may be an end That is further beyond that that for the sake of which we are supposed to be expressing our sexuality. And then if we look at that end, perhaps that could help us to see um for example, uh a true definition of marriage, the purposes of marriage, and uh and and which sexes belong together in a Union. You paid her to say all that, didn't you? No. Mike. Yeah, it just seems like law is so black and white with a lot of red. Okay. is and the moral side and relationship side is what was not revealed to the spouse prior to marriage. You know what I mean? It's like I guess Yeah. That could be another component also if it was was in fact hidden. Right. I'm not sure how they would do that because the post operatives Surgery isn't uh exactly perfect. Perfect. the parties were entered into this contractual they're treating it more like a contract it seems like that's great great observation I love that Alright, I'm gonna keep I'm gonna keep going. Are we all ready? Okay. I love the questions, I just wanna make sure I get through all of them. Uh especially when I get to the scripture. Okay. So so here's the first question then. Should the psychological be taken into account to determine sex? Darren says nope. Is there more to that answer? Okay. Well let me read out let me read to you some of the assumptions and perhaps we can start to wrestle with it. And even if we don't, I just want to present these things to you and then we can The assumption present in some cases is that the spirit belief or psychology of the person knows what sex it is immediately and without any help from anyone else. That's part of the assumption. Sorry, what? The assumption present person. If you think that you are, then they're giving credence to that that that deserves some kind of weight. That there doesn't need to be other criteria met. Understanding the grammar of the sentence, not Well yeah, just hear just hear my words. So they're have an assumption that if a person thinks of themselves a particular way, that they do not need uh other evidence or criteria. Okay. I think therefore I am I think I am. Okay, you could you could summarize you could see summarize it that way if you like. Well this is different though. If you think you're a duck, you're a duck. No, we have evidence other than your motion that you are indeed a duck because you walk like a duck and you caught like duck. Yeah, so we're asking I think underneath of this the question how do we know our authentic self? And then the our culture is giving answers to that that can be pretty sophisticated that are not represented here. But I'm just pointing out to you at the end of the day, there is a a feeling or belief belief that doesn't need to be substantiated by other criteria, but holds its own weight. So for example, in both of the cases in the US and in the and across the pond, both of them had the psychological component. But the judge across the pond did not allow the psychological component to have any weight relative to the biological. So why is it in America that the that this idea of the self and the authority that comes along with that, why is that given more authority than birth sex? That's really an interesting question. What is going on in our culture where people could do that? And do we see vestiges of that same mentality in other places in our culture that one discovers their authentic self by how they feel and believe about themselves rather than by an objective criteria. Do we or do we not? Give me some well give me some other examples wherein you would determine your authentic self subjectively with no objective criteria besides this. And we'll we'll start to get close to home. How about just heterosexual divorce? Okay. That's a possibility. Yeah, so like you you you you have these people who believe who were in love and they made these this commitment and then all of a sudden uh you know, I'm not talking about those actual biblical grounds, but also Yeah, they're they're now they're now in love with somebody else. So they have to divorce because, you know, that's what their authentic self said that they So we can use our feelings of love and give them authority that trumps objective reality. That's an that's an interesting case. Any other ones that are real clear? I'm a mom, I have kids, but oh I feel like I want to go out of the way. here in the field and so I'm gonna leave my God given role and pursue something else again Okay. So that could be an example also where you're turning to subjective feelings as a kind of authority to determine who you are and what you're supposed to be doing. Any other ones, Dwayne? I'm going to jump back to the beginning before we took the question to a different question. And the question was, is should we take into account the psychological and should that play into it? And I'm going to be bad and I'm gonna play it like case law like should have been done in this case. Okay. If someone committed murder because they in their mind were told by somebody that they needed to do this and it was the right thing to do, that didn't make it the right thing to do. Okay. So that's an interesting uh case to compare this one to feel like it was right, did that make it Right. So if someone a male feels like a woman, does that make him a woman? No. Yeah. So let me just stop for a moment and point out that this is a good way to approach the matter. that Duane just did. You can put a little you can put another case alongside of this one and then you can you can see kind of an absurdity and start to ask what are the similarities similarities and differences and there's a lot of light that can be shed. Christians have been reasoning that way for a really long time and it's actually how our scriptures are structured to where they are a collection and you should be comparing one thing with the next. You should see this all the time in the sermons, for example. When I say this evokes, and then we compare it to the interpreting scripture by scripture. We're interpreting moral cases by other moral cases, and you usually want to start with a case that's crystal clear. We all know what this is. And then we and then we compare it to the harder case to try to figure out how we're supposed to approach and frame this. So that's a great uh example that you just gave us. Thank you. What else did you want to say? The the legal system works that way. If we give them our biblical argument and we can show in scripture where this and this say that this is wrong, the legal system doesn't really care about that anymore. But they don't anymore. So you have to just give them a case law which is still anyhow that was fools making a different decision at a different time. But Okay, very good. And and just to go along with that, the word precedent used to mean the exemplary case by which we would be able to understand these more difficult cases. It still does. Okay, good. That's great. It still does but we play with it. Oh okay. Yeah, it still does you know, it's it becomes precedent if a higher court, you know said that and then that's supposed to be the exemplary case. Yeah. But you know the higher court, you know, like the Pope, changes its mind. Okay. And has figures, you know Alright, Darren. Well I just don't want to state the obvious buttons. Go for it, man. That's why I just want to know at some level what we were What we're dealing with is a a denial of objective reality. And if when that happens, then any internal experience that anybody has about anything is then warrant for whatever it is they say they want to believe. I'm not I talk to kids nowadays. They could hold contradictions, right? I'm I'm a Buddhist and a Christian and a this and a that. And that just all feels right to me and it doesn't matter if they're in if they're contradictory. And so and so that the problem culturally is the sub subjectivization of the truth, or Romans 1, the the non Of the truth, the suppression of the truth. And this is where we see all of the stuff that's going on. So if there if we have to say no to psychological realities when the objective reality is the primary reality if you will, and everything else needs to come in line with that. that kind of stuff where if a person keeps appealing to their conscience, but their conscience is out of accord with what the scriptures actually say, that authority can't hold the kind of authority that it would they would want to it to. Also, if you want to read about this more broadly, Carl Truman's book is all about this problem. What is that called, by the way? The rise of the modern self. Does anybody remember the two categories he gives of those who look to subjective reality for the authority of what is real and those who look to a created what is real I've actually said it from the pulpit and now I forget the two categories. Oh yeah, oh yeah, yeah. Speak up because you're speak you got it. You got it. Speak up. Oh and I just wanted the other one. Okay, speak up. Okay, so so you're wearing it both times, so we expect you to have the answers. The historical sort of the way the world's always more or less interpreted reality that is given by that there is an intrinsic meaning um in what has been given to us in terms of the created things like that. And that is our job. To act in accordance with that meaning. And that's a meg view. And then the foyer view says: actually, it's all this raw material with with no meaning to it whatsoever, and it's our job to like invent meaning out of that raw material. And so then work reality becomes So I just heard a a young uh university student uh uh put uh Um tried to answer the question of morality and they answered it by saying that every society uh should be able to get together and whatever they decide as a collective is true or whatever they feel to be true should be that which they all decide that they're going to submit themselves to Well, the person who was talking with this young lady then showed her, well, but if that's the case, like what if a society says we should kill anyone who's over 50 years old? Or thirty. Or thirty or whatever. And then they and then this was her reply. Well they get to do that. They get to live according to whatever truth they feel is true. And they had no problem saying it. So how is it that a person could get to there? And I think it's this thing that the mimetic versus the poetic I'm sorry about those words. Um But I think the one mimesis usually means I'm going to mimic something or act in accordance with something whereas poetic or the poaic means I'm going to make it. I have to take uh it's not already made. I have to make it. I think that That's kind of like the roots of the word. Yes. I just wanted to share an observation. I had um worked with a little boy who'd never worked with me before and he was about five years old. And he asked me, Are you a girl? And he said, I know I'm a boy. But I think he was just figuring it out. Yeah, yeah. So what I what I suggest The question that I have in my mind is why is it that any order of of creation below us there is no confusion at all? Yeah, that's a good question. I think that's a lovely that's a lovely question. And we s I think we start to get some of the answers in what happened with Adam. We in some way went below the animals. Joe? I want to say one thing on Carl Truman's book. Yeah. Uh The Rise and Triumph of the Modern Self is a good book, but it's very hard to read. There's a shorter version called Strange New World. Thanks, Joe. Yeah, thank you. So I'm gonna leave off of that, okay? And you all just read Strange New World. Okay, that's your homework. Okay, so but that's gonna be he'll give you the fuller picture of what's going on. Dave. This idea of the psychological factors reminds me of the thinking meters of judges. Yeah, thanks. Um and interestingly, I'm I really love that you say that, and I hate to give the climax away to the book, but the true fulfillment of the king of God's people is when they no longer obey the creative order of who a woman is, but instead treat her worse than an animal. At the very end the concubine will be cut will be raped and cut to pieces. Right? As if her life holds no value. They wouldn't even have done that to their oxen. And that that's how bad it's gotten. Not yet. Yeah, I know, right? But before that we already see them treat the they al we already see the men treating the women like the Canaanites treat their women. They don't really make a distinction between their cows and the and their women. And and you start to see well, um who was it that called his wife a heifer? That was Samson, yeah. There you go. Yeah. So that there you there you see it. Same kind of thing. Uh there's a degeneracy happening in the book of Judges that we're also seeing in the world today. In the beginning when God created male and female, and then later in the flood, when God brought them to the ark. Right. In God's original creation and his recreation of the world in the after the flood, it was And they were created male and female. And they came in male and female. That's good. Thank you. Anything that would have been confused would have been left on. Are you stretching or have your hand up? Both. seems to be that when the objective rule goes away and there are subjective rules, that the problem is when two collide and I think that people should only be murdered after they're seventy and you think it should be after forty. Then we're gonna have a little problem if I'm forty five. Um it's just you can't have a standard. Then whose whose reality would we go with? How has our culture answered that question? Because they have. You're more powerful. It's we've gone to will to power. We've given up on truth and we've just said, whoever is the most powerful and has the more powerful narrative is going to be able to make the the the um confused matter into what they think it should look like. So now every college so now college students when they hear us talk They hear it from this lens by the way. When I talk to college students, I have to be very careful that they're not just hearing me will to power all the time. That's why the language of oppression is present with us. That's why Marx is frameworks are of primary use right now to try to understand reality. That's where we've gone. So the answer to I think to your question is who's more powerful? That'll determine who dies. Does that make sense, Elizabeth? BT. I said last one, but I'm gonna let you go. uh power. Yeah. There is uh we all know the golden rule. Yeah. And in the golden rule there of course a lot of our brothers and our fellow men you know, more than ourselves, you know, we'll be reaching out. But in today's society it appears that the golden rule is the one who has the goal. If you if you have that influence, if you have that power, you have that money, it dictates. Yeah. That's not how Almighty God does things. Um I think you Again, going back to what we've learned in judges over the last few weeks, all comes around but the standard is is here and we're only here. you know, the world is over here somewhere. Yeah. So I mean just a just a a thought about who really rules the world. Yeah. It's those who have this I have the money. have the influence. I know so not. Right. And uh and and just to add to that, a pretty scary thought is that when the world starts to get in those places, Christ tends to interrupt And you can see that throughout history. So okay. Um so some things that we could say is number one, read the strange new strange new world Yeah, maybe we could talk about that together. Carl Truman. Yeah, Carl Truman. Yeah, he's out at Garova City. Okay. So I raised the question, can our desires or beliefs be wrong? Well yeah, they can And um and this is a really this might sound like too obvious of a question, but this is really capping into the actual experiences of people. Have you ever witnessed someone desire something and then once they have it realize it's not what they wanted? Okay, so that's happening to those who have the sexual reassignment and then they can't go back. They can't they have the assignment they think it's going to make them happy and then they can't they they still let's say it's a man they still can't figure out how to be like a woman in society society. And they still have attractions to the opposite sex to what they are biologically. So they end up in it just gets really confusing for them and doesn't end up actually helping I'm gonna I'm gonna keep going. I I'm sorry. I love you, but I'm gonna keep going. Okay. Hey. I'm a wimp. I'm a wimp. Now I know how I f that cat in that with the in those cartoons the big sad eyes with the big sad eyes and they sta See one way Struman explains this desire state of a man to be a woman and then when he Um so that's pretty insightful. I mean, obviously, through puberty and menstrual cycles and all that stuff. And that helps deform the way you think about reality when you're an adult. And that that person just wants to The the woman that meant to you is a cool woman. Yeah. Okay. That's great. They get there and they can't get it. That's not yeah. Glad you shared. Alright, so we have records of that happening with sex surgeries. Um this is one of the reasons why it is so critical that we fight against the uh sex transformations of children because they don't know what they think or feel yet. Childhood is marked by being malleable and they're not uh formed enough to be be able to make those kinds of decisions. So really thankful to see in the news that puberty blockers are being outlawed in certain places and that kind of stuff. That's what we want to see. That's Christ uh being I'm still sorry by last week's assignment because we went home last week and watched what is moving. Oh you did I didn't tell you to do that. No I did not. Prove it. Let's get the recording out. So uh there were several and one of them is uh there's a case in Catholic aware of the father is in jail time. Uh because he was trying through the legal court systems to stop his ex wife from letting the sixteen year old daughter do uh reassignment, uh hormone reassignment first and then surgery. The husband tried to, through the courts, block it. And then he ended up in jail for trying to stop what was natural to let this girl make her own decision, a sixteen year old. Right, yeah. So it was very sad. And plus, there was a case of a woman that had had the reassignment hormones and surgery and now is in much regret because of her life of her uh medical issues and also that even trying to go back it would even be worse. Yeah, there is no going back. Yeah, that's good. Well that's Yeah, I'm sorry to hear that. I hope that I brought you to prayer. Uh at the end we talked about it as a family and that was my uh what I wanted to do is pray for everybody, especially in a family situation. You know, you want to be angry at the mother for wanting the daughter to do whatever she wanted, but uh I don't believe that mother was a monster. She thought she was doing what was best. Yeah. Um so yeah, it was definitely uh leading prayer. Gave me an all new understanding I used to be so aggravated at those that want to call them non themselves non-binary. Okay, that's probably a better place because at least there they're admitting that they're confused and it helps us know how to pray for them in the person that's calling themselves non-binary. At least they're not going to make it as to what it may do to the body. Now we've already talked about that, but I just want to point that out. And we really want to watch that tendency even within ourselves. Now I'm going to have a quote for you and then we can discuss it just for a couple minutes. This is from my favorite uh ethicist outside of Jesus. Uh Oliver O'Donovan. Okay. Cheryl, do you mind reading this for us? Thanks. Is plasticity and openness to forces that mold in fashion. And this is what makes it possible for man to confer form upon matter while respecting the form that is there. But in more complex organic structures there is also a degree of systematic differentiation which runs counter to plasticity. Okay. Somebody put that in our own words real quick. What what are we what do we see? We see a contrast happening here between two things. We haven't gotten into the specifics of these things. Go ahead, Darren. Well the matter is malleable. We can make we can change But then there are certain systems that if you that are the system itself has a structure and to change it would be to complete the case. It's not there are things that are plastic and there are things that are not plastic. Living animal is susceptible to molding only at the cost of its systemic integrity. Seal skins make excellent coats, but the decision to make coats out of them is the decision to Good example, right? Keep going. Respect for natural born men must mean more than the exploitation of plastic possibilities. It implies something Sometimes the resolve not to exploit plasticity in order that more complex forms may retain their integrity. It is in this context that we can best appreciate the tradition Canon of medical practice would ruled against surgical intervention into a living human body, except to protect the functional integrity of that body when it was endangered by disease. The use of craft to manipulate matter had to be ruled by the inherent structural integrity of that matter. That's some good stuff right there. It gets me excited. So yeah, so the differentiation comes is when when when you have when you have fertilization. Okay. uh the the thing starts you know uh huh and there's a point in that process where those cells start to differentiate and become certain systems. Yes. So you have things that become the brain, you have things that become the heart. So if you try, after that's already started, or after that's completed, like when you're born, and now you're living in being if you try to take you're a living human being before birth. Yes, I'm sorry. You got it. I know you know that. I just have to we just have to be careful this year. Try to take the heart muscle to do and do anything else with it in the body, you are going to not be able to do it correctly. because it's it's the those are heart cells that have a specific function. And you're also going to destroy the heart and kill the kill the the in any organism, kill the organism. Yeah. So So so the plasticity, there is some plasticity to begin with, but it becomes systemic differentiation that you cannot meddle with without killing the seal. I'm glad to hear you say that because you just made a a moral claim that you ought not to. That's good. Okay, you ought not to mess with certain things. I like that summary. You should get a t shirt. You ought not to mess with certain things. That's pretty good. J Jen and then Brian. I work in the medical field, so it is interesting to me in medical ethics and we discussed them thirty plus years ago when I was in school. Yeah. Um yeah, they were aligned. We you it was the conversation was about preserving health, humanity, like this quote right the integrity of that body. Right. And that we have come to a place where medical professionals who take Hippocratic oaths and all that. They're kinda throwing all of that out the window and you're contemplating I mean we discuss these things in school, but now now medicine is actually doing Doing them. Yeah. Changing things that ought not to be changed. Taking a life when it ought not to be the skill that we have ought not to be used to take a life. Very good. Yeah, I'm glad you have that observation from your field. That's one of the major questions that are arising is how are doctors able to do this relative to their vocation? based on this based on this um ethical principle. Okay, so uh that's the first set I wanted you to set Now I hope that quote is helpful to you. I think it's really helpful to think about plasticity, which tends to be how we think about things as a culture. It's just there for us to do with what But as Christians we turn to the creation account and we see that God has made real things and we should not violate their integrity Uh now that's not an absolute statement because I don't have a problem with having a fur coat. Okay, so we ha we have to speak. Oh um Brian, you were first. Oh SKL that for me. Okay. You're okay with sealed codes, uh and you're okay with your ears. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, very good. Thanks for bringing that up. So we need to make some distinctions there. That's good. Marilyn? Well, this occurred to me last week also, but and it's much much more service level than where you guys are right now in the discussion. But um that going back to creation since you mentioned there you go. Um 126 God says let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Let them have dominion over the Of the sea, over the birds, the air, and over the cattle, over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So forth, so forth. Have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that lives on the earth. And you asked a question last week over the things we don't want to mess with. Yeah. And I see that we all and we were talking about um genetic engineering of plants and animals. Is a tomato a real tomato? Yeah, and those fall under the category of the things that God gave us dominion over. Okay. We want there is I would think we could make a difficult argument that we ought to be doing those things in order to have dominion over all of these things that God gave man dominion over. He hasn't mentioned Okay. And then even within what we have dominion over, a r a uh responsible dominion still I would think need there needs to be an argument that we would still respect the uh integrity of the thing that got You know there's some cautionary tales if you think about it in our culture about this kind of operation of man. Uh think about uh Frankenstein. For example. Now I understand that that is has a different point than than than that, but that monster is created because of man's technology and the on willingness to respect the integrity of certain things. The same thing interestingly I think is a Jurassic Park. They they start messing with that stuff and they all get eaten by dinosaurs. Yeah. Well that I'm just saying the point of the movie was a cautionary tale about man and his technology not respecting certain th things. You know? And uh same could be the case perhaps with uh viruses and l in labs and that kind of stuff. So I not that that would ever happen. Sorry Brian, just look right by that. Okay, let's keep going. Oh Dave, no, go ahead. Uh Dave. part of it. It this conversation something's been dagging at me and I think it's um it's our presuppositions, but I think we easily get in the wheeze of trying to And you know, rather than truth is revealed to us by scripture. And I think we can easily look at all these cases And all they have to operate on are those worldly systems of this model of accounting that was true. And it's based on logic or reason. Some kind of natural law thing. And I think fundamentally that's the problem. It's so easy to get In all these cases, you know exceptions to these rules come up and they keep coming up. Yeah. That's what we talked about already. Very good. And I think going along with this at this point in the class with question number 10 is I want folks to look at the creation account for the truth. Yeah, that's excellent. Thank you. Yeah. Uh that's good. Thanks. I didn't pay him to say that either. That's good. Okay, so the next point is should the post surgical body structure be taken into account to determine sex? Why or why not? We're not going to talk about that. I just want to look at the a hypothetical case that I think ends up clarifying some things for us. And then a quote, hypothetical case. Can we say that other pers post surgical body parts are the real me? Can we say that our artificial organs are my organs and the the way that we're using the word my here. What about your artificial teeth? Are they your teeth in the way that we're talking about here? Are they real organs or teeth in the way we're talking about I think we all would admit no they're artificial. Okay? So here's a a quote then for sure. are molded onto or into one's body do not cease to be not self and become self. They are properly called artificial because their reality is not congruent with the reality Alright, keep going. Whatever the surgeon may be able to do, he cannot turn an artificial into a human body, a human being's body. Transsexual can never say with justice, these organs are my bodily being and their sex is my sex. Yeah, I think that's a that's insightful. Okay. Sher Cheryl and then let Cheryl go real quick. Uh it makes sense that something like teeth or organs serve the inherent structural integrity of the matter. Yep. As opposed to like reproductive organs. Do changing that do not serve of the integrity of being a man if you have you know like it it undoes what was meant to be. Right. Like it serves that purpose of like being an end in itself of like now my self-actualized self or whatever has has found an end. Like now my feelings can also be seen out. So my end the end has been that we're going to have to do it. It is true to say that those so far in the accounts, those those things which have been artificially placed on people a sex reassignment they are not able to to do what the birth sex was able to do. At multiple levels. Yeah the uh The the Lysian that has sexual reaccionary surgery or that is transgender now. Halo gender. Yeah. Um I Bruce Jenner. Bruce Jenner. And like early on and on his interviews for all intents and purposes. I am a woman. And I was like like the Yeah, and I think as a woman you should be offended. And oh missing something pretty obvious here. Yeah, but I'm gonna let some other folks go that haven't raised their hand yet. Michelle. I was I saw an interview with Jim too and I was offended because he got he got that surgery and became a woman. And that year And he wasn't even woman I mean he wasn't even not a woman, so he wasn't even a moment for six months. And and people were celebrating it, like the media, everyone was celebrating it, had celebrated it, and it just like offended me so much like how you know, not even a wanna Yeah. Right. It's forward too. Mankind has an uneven uneasy tension with the created order. And some struggle with it more than others. So let me give you some scriptures to ponder. We can't look at them here, but I'll just read them to you and just want you to notice some of the talk about bodies. Therefore God also gave them up to uncleanness in the lust of their hearts to dishonor their bodies among them. themselves. Maybe once now that we have this idea of this that God has created things that should retain their integrity, maybe by trying to break down the order that He's given to us, as we see within the creation account, we're sinning against our bodies. Flea sexual immorality, every sin that a man does is outside the body, but he who commits sexual immorality sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own? For you were bought at a price, therefore, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit. That's really interesting because now we have a kind of an authoritative statement about that the God is the owner of it, and we can actually become a little thick in what we We're talking about there and saying even the form and the integrity in which he created it that is his, it's not for yours to change. Then um and I'll I'll leave off at that some of the things That we do still need to discuss, but not anymore in this class. But we will, right? Yes, yes. I can't make that promise. What is the difference between male and female and masculine and feminine? Okay, well we can talk about that. I mean is it well we can talk outside of this class. We can have coffee. We can do all kinds of stuff. Yeah. Okay. Masculinity and femininity are different than male and female. And a actually, it seems to me culturally with masculinity and femininity there's quite a spectrum. Okay, some things are going to be considered more feminine than others. But we have to be really careful about that, because sometimes those are just culturally conditioned matters. Like I have a very good friend who wears a skirt because he's got Scottish. And he and he has a and he has bagpipes and it's part of you know I think they call it a kilt. Yeah. Right. So there's some distinctions that have to be made there. Why is it dangerous, here's another one for you, why is it dangerous to say that two persons may marry instead of male and female may marry? As Christians, we want to be very careful about using the word person. Person is an abstraction that transcends sexual distinction. Now that you have to be really careful with that. That's especially used within feminist literature in order for us to become equal. Because if we're if we get off of the male or the female and essentially our most authentic selves are persons and not insexed persons, then that can end up being an argument for equality of the sexes. That argument lies behind, for example, the suffrage movements and many other things. I've seen the argument as early as the 15th century. Francis Turitan, who was a theologian, his nephew made the argument. So is that we're both people, right? Yeah, just know what's going on there. All right. There's really no such thing as persons. There's male and there's females. Because we are in s we are uh in instantiated or installed into a particular sex. If you talk about persons, I think it's more of a Gnostic idea outside of the body, but we're not outside of bodies. In the sense of male and female is not of race or of you know like ultimately you can't divorce it from race. You can't say you're a a black human therefore you and I'm a white human therefore we're not but we're not people. How do you do that? And it works with gender but not with other people. Okay, what do you can you help me understand where you're getting you're saying You can't look at two people and because you definitely can't argue about um I'm sorry, the quality of this Texas. Um but I I guess that's I I it just seems like that's a dangerous dichotomy with with racial uh it goes it I I guess because it triggers my memory of of of um the way it was argued in the past that other races aren't truly human or are I just thinking about it. Yeah you have to be super careful with that. There is obviously a way in which we can b both say that we're both human beings made in the image of God, and that there's a there is an equality in that. And that is true of men and women, and that is true of all of the races. That we're all equal in that way. But then in other discussions I'm saying that distinction is used and I don't think it should be used when we start to talk about male and female in particular. We don't want to all of a sudden go over into person because it's It's not any longer talking about what we're trying to discuss. But I'm glad you said that because that was a terrible mistake that many even universities made in determining that black men were not real men. That that's horrible. And it led to atrocious things in Germany also. Thank you for saying that. I think you beg the question. Um, what's the time to make gender? Is it forever? Is it eternal? Uh huh. Uh in in heaven, are we considered male or female? Yeah. And some things we don't know, but I think that it's not necessarily pure or But I mean Paul is very clear that in Christ there is these distinctions. I mean there's there's something about Yeah. Well you have to be really careful with that verse. Very transitive. It's a good question. And when we read the passage that Paul says there's no male and no female, those who want to make the transsexual or uh a um transsexual in the way that we're understanding in the seventies, but that um we transcend these uh dimorphic categories that we use that passage to support position. You have to look very carefully at what Paul is talking about there. In what way does the distinction between male and female and barbarian and scythian and Greek Greek and whatever, in what way do those things not separate? Like the culture wants to separate? I don't think he's having the conversation that we see here. No, no, I I'm not sure. Yeah. And then as catalogic How it plays out into a term extends you know it's Yeah, it's a good question. And you could start I think start to answer the question of do we see any of the new creation present now in this creation. Then you could say, well, in the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And then you could ask, well, was he resurrected male, female, or genderless? That could be a start to the discussion. I'm not saying it's Yeah, there you go. Yeah. So uh I mean obviously there is something there, but there is no marriage in heaven. Yep. So there's some You know, we get the body back that there's some sort of Yeah, there's some kind of discon continuity with our present order. Yeah, that's great. Very good. Yeah And um uh Calvert Upton sees it more clearly than we do. And he is rejoicing. Whatever whatever it is, he's rejoicing. That's good. Thanks, Chris. That's uh actually a really important part of the conversation that you just brought up. So and thank you, Elizabeth, for from saving us truly from racism. We we've got to go, guys. Okay. All right. Darren and Dave. Just real quick. Do we have to give a sense to the concept of the gender at all? Can't be just a male-female biological sex, that's what we're doing. We have to say that that that's a way of of of defining the humans is what I don't know, that's a good question. I'd have to spend some time defining the terms. Yeah, well you may want to just talk about sex and then leave the gender out of it. Dave. You missed it, man. Yeah. She quoted it. Yeah. Yeah, she quoted it. So um at any rate, that was under the question of just be careful on on using the word person. And I think you see how dangerous it can be. Okay, let's pray. Lord, I thank you uh so much that we've had the opportunity to at least consider in a a pretty thick mat manner The question number 10 of the shorter catechism that you have created man, male, and female. I pray, Lord, that uh our discussion today and the even to look at the scriptures, especially your creation and what it means for you to be the creator and what it means for you to that you own our bodies. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be able to use these things for the health of your church, the health of our culture, and your glory. In the name of Christ, Amen.