And knowledge of you that is distant from ourselves, but that we would just be filled up with the wonders of your Glory, that we would be filled up not only with the wonders of your glory in separation from us, but in relationship to us. And how you have poured out your grace on us. I pray, Lord, that you would give me energy and that you'd give me clarity of thought for the benefit of your people here this morning. In the name of Christ. Amen. Alrighty, so the next few lessons are going to be information heavy because we've hit we're still on questions four five and six which are the doctrine of God and uh so what I want to do is um a couple different things First, I want to ask for your patience. I have preached every Sunday for a while now, and I had an internship where I preached morning and evening for a while. while but Sunday school is something that I'm still getting used to. It feels like a different kind of animal to me in the teaching. So please be patient and prayerful with regard to me with that uh Lord willing I will be beneficial to you. The second thing is that uh I don't know how else to get across the doctrine of God than to To have an information heavy portion and then we can move into more discussion. One of the things I think that we struggle with with, and I don't know how to convince this, convince you in five minutes, but I'm hoping to convince you over time. One of the things we struggle with is the significance or the value of learning the doctrine of God. We tend to think if there's no immediate use to the thing that you're saying to me, then I can't see how that exactly fits. And the language that we tend to use in the doctrine of God says So perhaps you don't feel that way, but it's it's a temptation that we can have. And so I encourage you to just stick in there with me, even though it's information. information heavy and even though we have to get through some jargon. So I want to begin with a review and then I have you can see on the lecture I have just several lessons that I want us to go through. We can take a little breather after each lesson. We can ask some questions and talk about each of those lessons. Some of the lessons are going to be more difficult than others. Others, I'm really just trying to orient you to how to think about the doctrine of God based off of the thoughts of the church. You'll notice that once we get to page four, I'm going to start offering you some diagrams to for you to hopefully stick in your memory and to help you think about uh the implications of what going on here. I'm benefiting greatly from a professor of mine. His name is Fred Sanders. He lectured at Greystone Theological Institute. That's where I currently am And he wrote a book, I forget what it's called, but there's two that he wrote on the Trinity, one for popular usage and the other for scholars. I'm using the one for popular usage to help me develop these I'm actually using both, plus the lectures that he gave. If you're interested in the name of that book, let me know afterward. Uh let's just go ahead and start with a review then, and then I'll see if you have any questions with what we've covered so far in the catechist. The Westminster Confession, shorter and larger catechism, is used by this church and denomination as an aid to stay in touch with the apostolic faith passed down to the saints We had a discussion about the faith being passed down. Remember the wholesome words? Or the faith passed down? We had many passages to Point out that there is this there's something being handed down and um that's why we call ourselves apostolic the one holy apostolic Church. We begin in question one with the end. And that's interesting in and of itself that you would start at the end. Um it tells you that they've already worked out the whole system and they're starting you in a certain place, which is the end of the matter. And now they're going to unfold the whole thing for you as a kind of discovery. of how you would arrive at that conclusion. We said, what is the chief end of humanity? And we answered to glorify and enjoy God forever The second question is about the way that we would be able to do that. It seems reasonable to ask the question, well, if that's the end for which all things are done, to glorify Glorify and enjoy God, how is it that we could know how to glorify and enjoy Him? We disagree on that amongst the human race? Is there any rule that God gives to us that we may know how to glorify and enjoy him? And that's the heart of the second question. God has given us a rule by which we may glorify and enjoy Him, and it is the only rule of the Word of God contained in the scriptures of the Old and the New Testament. Well, when we turn to that written and preserved word, what is it that we find? If you had to summarize the entire Bible, have you noticed that there's more and more summaries of the scripture? Being presented to you for educational purposes. Sometimes it's summarized as creation, fall, redemption, or something along those lines. Tends to be the story arc summary. That's fine. Well, the way that the confession has decided to summarize it in terms of getting back to that first question on how to glorify Enjoy him is that we would know what to believe concerning God and what duties God requires of man. And we looked at that division itself within the scriptures, faith, and love. So in line with that division, we now begin questions four through six. And I do realize that for the past several weeks we've been asking the question What is God and having interesting discussion through the attributes? We can get back to that discussion. I want to move forward with five and six, which start to talk about the Trinity. And I think that's actually going to set us up to have a better discussion about question four of what is God, at least to know how to answer the question. And so that's what we'll do this morning. The questions are, what is God? Well we look at what is God, and then it's are there more gods than one? And then the next question after that is, how many persons are there in the Godhead? And these questions you can see, questions four through six, if you had to create a table of contents for the short Catechism, you'd see that these questions cover a certain there they could be entitled something in the table of contents, which I'm calling teaching about God. or the doctrine of God. We're going to s switch the doctrines here after these uh questions, and it'll be The doctrine of providence or the doctrine of creation or the doctrine of um salvation or the doctrine of the Holy Spirit or any of those things. We've already covered the doctrine of scripture in short in short form. So you can see that they're working topically here or what we have called the theological loci. Okay. So are there any questions before we move on to questions four through six, are there any questions on one through four that you've had? I'm hoping you're going home and thinking about these things and having experiences that deepen your understanding of the Christian faith passed down to us. Yeah. I just you know something cost Oh yeah. Yeah. Sort of like with without knowing what the goal is then how to get there really isn't important. So that's why it's sort of good or why I believe they put the goal first. What is what are you living for? What is your main purpose in life? And then the rest of the questions go on to say, here's how you get there. Yeah. Okay, that's great. Yeah. Like that. That's very good. Very good. Um I like that you're thinking through how are the questions ordered and how is their order significant. Yeah, they are. You're right. Very good. Any other questions on review? Alrighty, well let's go ahead into the first lesson then. Um and actually the first Lesson is on the order. That's funny. As we proceed, please remember that these catechism questions are not randomly asked. The order of the questions is as important to the study as the questions themselves. Take, for example, the fact that we are learning about God, and then the two main acts of God created What this should tell you is that if you really want to understand creation or the salvation which is part of that providence, then you need to back up all the way into the Godhead himself. The order of the questions, in fact, promotes a longstanding belief. A main purpose of creation and salvation is the revelation Revelation of who God is, not just how He's useful to you. To build up your faith, therefore, the first lesson today is please pay attention to the order of the questions. In fact, you could think of the catechism as setting up what we have read in Psalm 104, couldn't we? How is God depicted for us in Psalm 104 relative to the rest of creation? I'll give you a moment to look at that psalm. I know a lot has happened since we've spoken two weeks ago. The psalm begins on the Edenic mountain and the clouds above And shows its influence down into the valleys and into the storks and the perched birds. Yeah, but and how is God depicted in the in that psalm? What would you say he is like? What's that? He's the creator. That's yeah, he's overall. But the imagery is the imagery of water. That comes down from the heavens, comes down the mountain into the valley, feeds the grass, which feeds the cattle, etc. Is that present or am I just using my imagination here Yeah. Stephen? Is it present? Okay. Yeah, so um does this remind you of the way that God is characterized in Isaiah or in Jeremiah for example, that he is the well or spring of salvation. So here he is pictured as the the we sing this all the time. Praise him from whom all blessings flow. There's the picture of it in Psalm 104 for you. It's actually a picture of your life. It's a picture of the life of all of the world, but it's definitely a picture of your life. And so notice that the confession is set up like the Psalm. That at the headwall Waters of the confession or of the catechism is God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And it will be creation, providence, and his special providence in the act. of redemption, it is from him that all of those things flow. You could say even the being and life of the church is from the Godhead. And this is really important. You know, we use the word gospel a lot these days. I play gospel, I have I have a gospel living. and and um I'm on a gospel bike ride and I'm on a you know you know what I mean that we're gospel, that adjective is used to characterize things rightly or wrongly, uh but I still think That we need to ask the question, well, what is the gospel? A lot of the times people would answer, I think, too narrowly and only talk about the death of Jesus Christ. When we look at the confession or the catechism, the gospel is not actually located in only one person and his incarnation. The gospel is located in the Godhead himself that there is an act of grace among all the persons of the Trinity toward humanity to give them redemption. And so we're already saying that the gospel is Trinitarian if you Want to understand the real significance and the real grace of what's going on, you need to go back to God and all of his being, his uh infinite perfections, and how he He has expressed those towards us for our redemption. So that's captured within the order. I want to look at the order a little bit later so that you can see how it falls out to see the gospel is found within the Godhead. particularly within the actions of the members of the Godhead or the persons. So are there any questions about the order, insofar as I've talked about it? Okay. Lesson number two. It is important to start getting the categories and the divisions down, which the church has held for over 2,000 years. In the doctrine of God, we have been handed down two main categories, and I do apologize for this language. I hope that there's another way for us to start to talk about this Even if we can do it metaphorically or analogously. But I just want you to be aware of the terms. Just don't freak out on me when I say them. Okay, so there's two words that summarize Really, the major branches on the tree of the doctrine of God. And the first word is imminent. We know God eminently. Hey, look at me, because I'm saying what's on your paper, so you can just hear what I'm saying. And then if you need to remember what I said, look at this later, if you don't mind. Thank you so much. Sorry for the imperative this early. Um. If I wasn't looking down, I would not have noticed it Uh-huh. And then I had to look it up. Yeah, you would have to ask me a question and we'd have to have personal interaction. Okay. That's right. Yeah, that was the other way. That's the other way. I'm sorry. I'm just standing up here and everybody's looking down on their life. And I wanted to have personal contact with you. I tried that at Severn Run when I first showed up in a didn't work. It might work now. No, this is the danger of handing out notes. So I'm allowed to look down, you're not okay. Any exceptions to what I've said? Let's talk about them afterward. I love you. Okay, so there's two categories, uh God and his imminence, and then God and his economy Alrighty. So have any of you heard the these words before? You maybe you discussed them last week with Bradley? Who he saved me Did he that's uh that that's okay. It happened to me many times. I'm used to it. What would you say the word imminent means? What are they getting at when they're Using that of uh of God. Tate. Uh no. Mm-mm. No, it's not that Right. I'm gonna spend a lot of time on the word economy, but I just want to get through the word imminent. Already with him in um the ultimate um characteristics already we want to Yes. You got it, Raquel. Yeah, can you say it just a little bit? Yes, it is, because yours is derived from the Latin. So so that's why I'm Go ahead. Say it again louder. Dwayne Dane Dwayne didn't hear you. It makes itself right as a channel, like he was created and the current services became afterwards. Even that everything is the main thing Yeah. It's just Yeah, that's pretty good. That's really good. I'm glad that you have that still in your language. What's that? Okay. And what is that how would you use that in a sentence in Portuguese and then if you could translate it for me? Nick, don't laugh at me. I okay. I would I wish area I wish a sow immunity with the light of the sun, you know, and the Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah, that's good. The way we would talk about it sometimes is in and of himself This is what he's like. And what you can do is you can use counterfactual reasoning or like a hypothetical case, and you could say something like, okay, I want you to just imagine with me That there's nothing except this is be before the creation of time, space, giraffes, anything, and it's just God. What could we say about him before For anything. And that would be to talk about him and his imminence. And I'm not going to spend much time on this. I just want to try to give a little bit of clarity. Well I've also heard that distinction between with regards to God's nature, his ontological nature. Is that the same? Is that what you mean by that? Yes. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, that is another word, and that's just talking about his being being in and of himself. You'll also heard the word the the assayity of God. These are all terms that are I understand their theological jargon, but I I just want you to be aware of them. Yeah. So can you decide the difference between that and in it and not not this morning. I'm not ready to do that. I can discuss the difference between imminent and economic. And imminent is talking about God if He didn't do anything, if it was just the inner relationships of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, what could you predicate about him? What could you say? And we'll get to that. But that's what that means. And that's one thing that the Church Has done is it's spoken about God before He has done anything. Because the reason why they've done that is they found that the scriptures lead us back to God before the creation. For example, election before the foundations of the earth. There's that kind of language. Behold the Lamb who was sacrificed before the foundation There's that kind of language of before the earth, before the creation and providence existed, there he is. And and so we've we've we've had some we've been able to talk about Yeah doesn't deal with creation It deals with all this imminent with his eternity, with his power, with his justice, with his goodness. And all that is God before And outside of creation. Well, take away all that he did in creation in his wonderful works. And it doesn't change that answer of question number four. All of those answers are dealing with who God is even before creation. And start out with eternal things. So before all time. Okay Yeah. I have a question about that. I know that God is a spirit, infinite and eternal, and unchangeable in his being. But I have a question about whether the wisdom Truth, goodness, all of those things are discovered or our economic knowledge of him But they could be, but they were there present even before the discovery of that. So it would be another way it would be another way of asking the question if I'm understanding you is to say, okay, he hasn't done anything. Is he omnipresent? Well yeah. Is he all knowing? Yes. Is he spirit? Yeah. Is he is he just? Is he what yeah, some of those things can Well they all they all do. Because the purpose of the economy is to reveal who he is eternally. Right? That's the purpose. So uh thanks for bearing that with me. But that's that first term is what we're gonna do is we're gonna back up eventually when we're um what the what the confession wants you to do and we're not gonna spend a lot of time doing this is you want to back up into God himself uh before his creation or providence. Before any ex execution of any decree. So that's the first category, and it just means God and Himself. And I've given you that counterfactual or hypothetical situation. situation to say, okay, if he didn't do anything, then what could we say about God? And we would we just went through and Duane, thanks so much for pointing out question But there's another word, and it's the word economic or um God's economy. Economic is briefly knowing God as he reveals himself in his work. Economic is knowing God as He reveals Himself in His work. And the reason why I bring up this distinction is not to just have some kind of seminary conversation. I believe that the best way to proceed with questions four through six is to start with God economically. And in fact the whole confession is structured with God. economically the whole catechism. This morning let's do a few things. I want to first spend some time defining and illustrating economic. I really want to to try to get our heads around it. I'm going to try to give a personal example from my life. Then I want to show the purpose of the economy, the purpose of God's economy. And then if we have time, we'll show the form of the economy, but I'm suspecting that we'll be picking that up next week. Okay? So what do we mean by knowing God through His economy? Well, we've defined it as knowing God as he reveals himself in his work, but let's spend a little bit of time thinking about the word. Economy in our culture is used pretty strictly for financial consideration. It's located to that. But the word, however, is of ancient origin. Economy is derived from the Greek term oikonomos. Has anyone heard that word before? Yeah, you've it's a pretty popular word actually, because it's all over the scriptures. And this Greek word let me go ahead and put it up here for you since we have whiteboard. Nick is very um gracious and put this whiteboard up here so I really should use it. Okay. So we have you Economy and I'm trying to help you understand the word. Can everybody see that okay? No? Is it just blurry? Okay. You're gonna have to deal with it. I don't have another By one. How's that? Font size seventy two. Okay. And then this is taken from a Greek word oikonomos I think there's that. Okay? And it consists of two parts. Alright, and this and this Alright, so oikonomos it ends up having uh two parts. The oikos is house And eventually this means law. And just to get the ancient sense of what we're talking about here, it would be the law Of the household. An economy is the law that provides for orderly management of a household. That's the original sense of economy. You could think of a person who owns a large rant. Think of him as the poter familius, the head of the family. He now has the task of using all of his resources. to figure out a way to keep the ranch in good order, that the ranch can serve the ends for which God intends for that ranch. It could be if the ranch is large enough to feed the entire community. Not just the local family. So I wonder if some of you remember, I have to say do some of you remember because more and more my experiences for the younger generation And they have no idea what I'm talking about. It's a weird thing, because in my head I think I'm like twelve. Some of you know that based on my emotions. But when I was in the fifth grade over here in Arnold, I took a class called home economics. Did anybody ever take home ec? You remember that? Yeah. Any younger nope, no youngers. And we can tell you didn't take home ec, because your lives are a disaster. No, I'm just kidding. Just joking. Well I took home ec and in the home economics course what they do is they give you either hypothetically or in symbols or something, you're given resources that you have to steward or manage for the entire year. That's the little game. We had to figure out how to manage the homestead with those resources, if you want to put it that way. That way. And I remember having managed them well enough where I actually, to my surprise, had leftover fabric. And so as a treat for the family, I actually in the home ac room with the sewing machine made pillows. It was it was nice. Learned how to Yeah. Sorry. My softer side. Yeah, and each pillow has a skull and crossbones and flames and objects. And they're made out of leather. No. Just think of like a motorcycle cushion. No just kidding. No, I remember being you know, I was interested, I was like, how do you make a pillow? I'm gonna do that. So uh the the main question we were asked is how can we manage the whole estate for the good of the household and the larger community. And that was Homek. And that's the and they're tapping there, they're tapping in there to that ancient sense of that word with the oikonomia. Or oikonomos, the law or the stewardship of the whole household. You have to remember the ancient household is not like our household. Pretty much everybody worked at home. And the how and the business was in the home. Everybody pretty much had a small business. Sometimes you would take your business to the market. Jewish community, you can go into New York and to some of the neighborhoods and take tours of where they relocated uh in New York City, and you can see uh how they transfer their apartment buildings into workplaces where they slept but also tailored all of the clothes in that area of New York and all that. I I I think uh it's called the Tenement Museum. I believe. You may want to take a look at that and you can you can see even how the family would remove all of the the fabrics and stuff in order to have a central table for the Sabbath. And all that is pr pretty uh interesting. But what they were doing was they were building off of the notion that had been a part of their culture for a long time that they were to take care of the household and the community. So this is not a word, the oikonomia or the household is not a word that is invented by Theologians. Well, I guess you could say it is invented by theologians as long as you know that these theologians are sacred theologians that are inspired. Because it's the apostles themselves that we see introducing this word to us. And so I want us to consider a few examples. And you now have permission to look at your paper on page number two So that you can see the scripture verses pretty quickly. You're welcome to just use your own Bible if you wish. But what I've done is I've put the Greek word next to the word and have all of the words here just from Ephesians that have those oiko compounds You can see that he's playing on that word throughout the entire letter. And what you're going to end up witnessing is that Paul thinks about the work of God as like a great household owner. The whole world is his house. And he needs to manage it. He needs to manage its affairs. And then And the question or the mystery that is revealed at the right time is how, in fact, he's going to manage those affairs. And that's what And Paul's going to talk about the whole work as him doing a household work or like running a ranch. Okay, so the first one is Ephesians 1:10. And I'll go ahead and read that. That in the dispensation. Now that's the oiko word there. That's the how the household. In other translations you're going to see administration. You're going to see Here in the NKJV we have the word dispensation, but it's all getting back to that household concept. the dispensation and the fullness of the times, he might gather, that's a key word there. That's the word recapitulate. Alright, so you might want to He might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth. him does anybody know what the word recapitulate means now you're going to need to tap into your etymology there with the re and the the cap You want to help us out with your thing in the world. Well, I'm telling I'm telling you that a good translation of the word in Ephesians 1 ten that it is translated, he might gather together in one. That is the a good translation of that is he recapitulates. Yeah. Reheads. Rehead. Rehead. It's like redo. It has a sense of being redone. Yes, tape. And you think it has to do with taking the theme that you started with and going back to Yeah, we're gonna go back to it. Yeah, there's a reheading Uh uh a redoing. Now like a pattern. It can be a pattern. So what is the picture that you see here when it says that the f The the the Godhead recapitulates all things under him or in him. What do you think the picture is? Its origin is from him, and it is also talking about what he's doing with his creation. We've named it, we've said he's reheading it or recapitulating it, yeah. Retitling it. Retitling it? And what do you mean by that? Okay. Yeah, it could be you could talk about it under that uh that's like an analogy, retitling it What do you think this has to do with Jesus Christ? Like it brings everything back together? It does. But but I'm gonna tell you right now, this has to do with everything. So if you ask me, does this have to do with Oh yes. Thank you. So this means that the creation fall and then everything in between and then the reheading of everything and bringing it back to the original creation Yeah, under the head of Jesus Christ. Yes. for different purposes. I mean you can't be the main source, but you're gathering how you have the ingredients that you can use for cake sources company Okay. Well uh what he's talking about here is about how God has administered all of history to this particular point within history. And the context here is the incarnation. And it's talking, and it, so it, so the great mystery, a mystery in the scriptures is that which God has always known, but that we haven't known except mainly in shadows, that is now being revealed. Alright. And the great mystery that's revealed is that God is going to take care of of his household and administer it by way of the incarnation of the Son of God. And he's going to place everything under him. You see you see what I'm saying? That's what's going on here. And I want you to see that household back behind it. conversation and we're noticing that the primary way in which God is going to do that is by way of the Son. And his taking upon himself human nature. Yeah. Yes. That's another one. Exactly. And all of them need to be looking back. Yes. Very good. So um so please notice the household language that's going on here. God is building a house and he's administering Ministering things in such a way to where it can be built well, and he's placing a potter familius or a head over that house, and it's Christ Jesus. That's what Paul is doing. Now we can see this furthermore. In Ephesians 2, 19 through 22, I want you to notice the oik compounds here. Now therefore you are no longer strangers and foreigners. Now notice that the foreigners language there. The par oikoi. Yeah, very good. You picked that up from the word paragraph? Or do you know Greek? Yeah, right. Yeah, long yeah, so so you see how he's using the word stranger there? Is that there is this main house, but you have been beside it. And we would call that in this context a stranger or a foreigner based on the history of scripture. But now look at what has changed. Um but now we are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens. We've been brought into the house. We've been were fellow citizens with the saints and the members of the household of God. There's that oik compound again showing that we're still talking about that same thing, the economy. Having been built, all the building language is construction language, and it's talking about building a house. Having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone, in whom the whole building, oika dome, think of domicile Right? Okay, the the whole building being fitted together grows into a holy temple in the Lord, and whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of God. Now let me ask you, is there something in that passage that you should notice besides the word oik? Co. That is the larger part of our conversation with questions four through six. Jesus Christ is present. The whole Trinity is present. Yeah. Isn't that interesting? And that's what we're getting at with economy. That's why I'm giving you these verses is to say, we didn't make this up. God reveals Himself in the work of the Holy Trinity as they administer the rebuilding of the household, the gathering up into the household. See, the household of God. That's what's going on here. That's what that word economy means. We can notice it again with the same kind of language in Ephesians chapter 3. fourteen through fifteen. Now the word the oiko compound is not the oika compound is not present in three fourteen through fifteen, but it's so much a part of the context that you should be reading three fourteen and fifteen in relation For this reason I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, from whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named. There's that Paterfamilius idea of there being the father who is administering what is going on with his house and he is going to take action or execute The first reason why he sends the Son and the Spirit is the act or the execution All three persons of the Trinity are met are a part of the act of creation. Could you prove that from your knowledge of the Trinidad Scripture. Uh-huh. Right. How do you get the Son in there? Yeah, so you have the Father creating by way of the Spirit. Where do we get the sun? John one. And there's other passages also. You see this economic relationship to the to the household, how the Potter Familius is taking care of everything? That's what we mean by economy. So let me give you a quote here from the Fred Sanders. Um when Paul talks about God's economy, his point is that God is a supremely wise administrator who has arranged the elements of his plan with great care. To watch God carry out this economy is to be instructed in the mystery of His will and to gain insight into the eternal purpose of His divine wisdom. Even those angelic beings, the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places, are instructed in this manifold wisdom of God as they see it worked out now in God's household management of the church. Take a look at Ephesians chapter 3, verse 10. This is a fascinating conclusion or observation. So that through the church the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly place in the church. And to bring to light for everyone, what is the first thing? Sorry. To preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ and to bring the light for everyone, what is the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in God who created it? Alright, so what is Paul so Paul says that the content of his preaching is the preaching Of the plan, which has been revealed here as of late in a way that it had not been revealed before. Okay, what is the plan? That plan is is working off of a similar word, koinonia, that that's the word that he that they translated. plan that that is tying into those oik compounds. So what is the plan that has been revealed to Paul that he's now sharing with the Gentiles? That the angels are watching. What's that? Bringing everything back into order. And who are the primary means of doing so? The spirit and the sun. Exactly. That's exactly right. Right. So Paul if ha if Paul has a gospel, his gospel is Trinitarian. Do you see what he's see what I'm saying? Now we're going to get a little bit later and show that the sun is central Okay. But and and um and that's appropriate. But I want you to see if that Paul, when he preaches the full counsel of God, he's going to summarize everything he talks about under the economic work or administration of the persons of the Trinity. Now what I would like you to do before I forget is as you're doing your Bible reading, try to make a note when the Father and the Son and the Spirit are talked about, even implicitly. You will start to see throughout the New Testament that that's how each of the Letters are summarized. All of the work is placed into them because they are the fountain of all of the work. Okay? All right, very good. And you have that quote for you on the paper. You can read that later. It's a great way to summarize everything that we've just said. And then I have another quote for you from the same person, Fred Sanders. God has carried out the central events in the economy to make himself known. We learn the character of God's wisdom by studying the ways and the administration of the unfolding history of salvation We attend to His craftsmanship. In those decisions we see God's self revelation. things in order to make himself known to us. Now we're going to get to this a little bit later, but I just want you to think about the practical implication of that. Think about the power and the wisdom that must be present in our triune God, our God who is One person or one essence and three persons. Think about the power and wisdom that is present in him, and think of the fact that it is that selfsame one Is there anything to fear? Did he need Knowing His self-sufficiency, did he need to create? Knowing his self-sufficiency, did he need to create redeem you? Could he not have just existed in the blessed relations of the Trinity for eternity? So then why is it that he has related to you is not the word grace. So what do you have to worry about? Do you see what I'm saying? He is making decisions and relating To you out of the fullness of his grace and blessedness. And I think that it is a major morale booster and starts to begin to allow joy to well up within us. when we realize the salvation that we have received. But only if you realize the God who is behind the salvation. If you can begin to know get to know him, I think you you can have a little I'll skip in your step. Okay, are there any questions on lesson number two? Lesson number two was primarily for you to see two words imminent. and economic, and then we spent the majority of our time looking at what economic means and showing you that that's the biblical way to talk about the gospel. Okay. So we have uh a few more minutes and we'll just keep going and see how how far we can get Okay. I think we can actually uh move along uh pretty quickly on this. My assumption here, though this might not be fair, is that you are tr you believe. in the Trinity. That's my assumption here. Now you may not. I don't know. But that's my assumption which why which is why lesson three, I'm not gonna I didn't spend a lot of time. If you want to talk more about Proving that God is in fact triune, then let's just have that conversation. Okay? But I'm not going to spend any more time on it. But here's lesson number three Now, what becomes clear when we look at this economic self-revelation is that one God is three persons, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. The main question I think that you should ask, and that I want to provide the categories for that are actually present in the confession and catechisms if you look at it. through them. Here's the main question. What are the traditional lines of argument establishing that the Son and the Holy Spirit are God equal with the Father? I don't know many or any people who deny Okay, if they are theists of any sort. They believe in God. I don't know anybody that denies the divinity of the Father, but there are various various heresies that deny the divinity of the the Son or of the Holy Spirit. So what are the main lines of argumentation to establish that the Son and the Holy Spirit are persons in the Godhead. It falls under four main categories that you want to look for within the scriptures. What are the names that are used for the Son and the Holy Spirit? What are the attributes that are used for the Son and the Holy Spirit? What are the works that the Son and the Holy Spirit do? And do we find that people worship them? If they have names that are the names that same names for God, if they have attributes that only God can have, if they have works that only God can do, and if they're worship like God, then guess what they They are God. Okay? So yeah, right. So um those are the four categories you want to look for. Now let me give you just a couple examples very quickly of the use of names to establish that there are Here's one from Acts 5, 3 through 4. It's a very famous one. But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and keep back part of the price of the land for your yourself. While it remained, was it not your own? And after it was sold, was it not in your own control? Why have you conceived this thing in your heart? Why have you not lied to men, but to God? He just said that he lied to the Holy Spirit. Now he quit predicates God about the Holy Spirit. Okay. Then we have the attributes. Joshua, you quoted this for us earlier from John 1, 1 through 2. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God, he was in the beginning with God. Okay, and then if you were to keep reading that chapter, you're gonna actually see that the Son who has become incarnate is being equated with the one who revealed himself in Exodus chapter thir in the Exodus thirty-four. in the cleft of the rock. It's the same selfsame one who's revealing himself, but he's taken upon himself human nature and veiled his glory in that way. opposed to the cleft of a rock. So that's an example of the attributes. What is attributed to the sun is God, that he is God, okay? Or he has God-like characteristics. Okay, and then his the works. Listen to what is said about the Son who has taken upon him For by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth. This is your Colossians verse. Visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through Through him and for him, and he is before all things, and in him all things consist. Alright, you can't say that about anybody but God All right. So you can see the work that the Spirit and the Son do show that they're God. And then lastly, you'll see that they are worshipped. And And you can see this especially in 2 Corinthians 13, 14. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you. with you all. Amen. You cannot be the blessing agent in a benediction unless you were God Now, with just a few minutes left, if you if you want, there's plenty of work done out there for you to see the proofs for the divinity of the members of the Trinity and I. I'm happy to talk with you about it too. But I want to move on to lesson four. I want you to notice that in Second Corinthians thirteen through fourteen, here we have the economic trinity, and with each of them Paul wants the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ to be poured out on the people. Paul wants the love of God the Father. in the New Testament, though it is sometimes used of Christ, and those times are very important to show that he is God. But a lot of the times it's just the Father, and so here we have the grace, he wants that poured out from the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. He wants the love of God the Father to be poured out on his people, and he wants them to have the communion of the Holy Spirit. You see the three different economic results. This last verse helps us to transition from establishing that there is one God in three persons to the fact that each of the persons have a different office in the economy of the redemption. The Spirit is not going to do the work of the Son. The Spirit does not die for you on the cross. And neither does the Father. And the Father is not sent by the Son. The Spirit does not send the Father. Okay? All of these things are very particular and technical. And you can start to see that in 2 Corinthians 13, 14. Paul gives a benediction based upon the reality of the benefits given from each of the persons as they work out the administration of the household, of creation, and of the elect. They all have a different place. Now, this is where I want you to see more of the order. Will we be okay if we go like five minutes over? Yeah, you gotta ask Nick if he's like He's nowhere to be found. Let's ask for forgiveness instead of permission. What do you say? Okay. So I want you to see the order now. If you have your confession, please open, or your catechism, please open it. Because I now want you to see how all of the rest of the lessons are going to be structured. Nick, we're going five minutes late. Don't bother us He's just looking at his phone. Okay I know. Okay, so for the first part of this catechism, what we will now do is to look at the work of each of the persons whom the Father sends. That's how the rest of the catechism is set up. Because the way to know God is by way of the economic revelation. You see what I'm saying? And the way to understand your salvation is by way of the work, that administrative work of the Trinity. Okay, so the Father sends the Son and He sends the Spirit. I want you to look at how the confession is therefore structured. Question number nine, look down at your can your catechism. This is where God creates the heavens and the earth. We know that the members of the Trinity are all involved with that. upon the scripture references that you just gave, but the c the catechism is not interested in focusing in on the act of creation. We're going to be a little longer. As a part of that work, God creates humans, male and female, question number 10. You see where we're going with this story? Humans sin and fall into an estate of sin and misery. Questions 12 through 19. This sets up the problem of the household that God will now use his administrative wisdom to solve. And here is the key question when we get to two to question number 20. Take a look at question number 20 and somebody read it out loud, just the question, as loud as you can Question number twenty. Very important question. Did God leave all of mankind to perish in the estate of sin and misery? Now that's the question, isn't it? And And what we discover in the economic revelation of the Trinity is no. The Father sends. Go ahead and read the answer. God having out of his ear good pleasure from all eternity collected sound to everlasting life. Did God enter into covenant of grace to deliver them out of the state of sin and misery and to bring them to the estate of salvation by a redeemer. By a redeemer. You see it? And did you notice how the question already starts to push you back? into the eternal God. Why did he do it? His own good pleasure. That's a remark about him imminently, about what he's doing over there. Okay? And that yeah, and then he's gonna send he's gonna send the Redeemer. And we're gonna learn about the Redeemer. Is the Redeemer just anybody? Who does this Redeemer need to be in order to accomplish the kind of salvation that needs to happen? Must be the sending of the Sun. You see what I'm saying? Alright, so Questions 21 through 28, therefore, focus on the work of the eternal Son who takes upon himself human nature. Okay, that's questions twenty-one through twenty-eight. Then now look at question twenty-nine. From that question until question 38, we will see who as a which member of the Trinity? The Spirit. Now we're going to see the work of the Spirit. You see that? So the catechism is telling you that if you want to understand the gospel, you all you what you really need to do is you need to see what the Father has done through the Son and the Spirit. Isn't that great? See how the the order really matters here. Uh and this is the same counsel of God that Paul is preaching to the Gentiles. Isn't that nice? So we see the work of the s what's that? Yeah, sorry. We see the work of the Spirit in the economy of redemption. Now I have a little picture for you for our final minute. This is a picture that is supposed to demonstrate the economy of the two hands of the Father. This is just an illustration to get your heads around the fact. Having two hands that he accomplishes his administration by, the hand of the Son and the hand of the Spirit. Now this is obviously a metaphor, an illustration. And that's what's set up here. The top triangle in the diagram on page number four are the imminent relations between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. You see that? Then we see that they are going to enter into time and space as the incarnate Son and as the outpoured spirit in Pentecost, and that's called the economy of That's a summary of the of the entire lecture that we just that you just heard. This two hands, I want to introduce that to you because the church has used that image of the two hands of the Father for quite some time. Listen to this quote from Irenaeus, and we'll end on this note. You can read it with me if you'd like. You can look down. It was not angels, therefore, who made us, nor who formed us. Neither had angels power to make an image of God, nor anyone else except the word of the Lord, nor any power remotely distant from the Father of all things. For God did not stand in need of those beings in order to the accomplishing of what he had himself determined with himself beforehand should be done. You hear all that language that we've been talking about? As if he did not possess his own hands. See what he's getting at? For with him were always present the word and wisdom the Son and the Spirit, by whom and in whom freely and spontaneously He made all things, to whom also He speaks, saying, Let us make man after our image and likeness Isn't that beautiful? Let me give you one more quote to go out on. Okay, I can't help it. This Irenaeus guy is just too good. Okay. For never at any time did Adam escape the hands of God. To whom the Father speaking said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. And for this reason, in the last times, Not by the will of the flesh, nor by the will of man, but by the good pleasure of the Father, his hands formed a living man, in order that Adam might be created again and after the image. Do you see how we are recreated, as it says in John chapter 3 with the conversation of Nicodemus, you must be born from above. So those are the the the hand of the Son and the hand of the Spirit is what is creating the rebirth into the to sons of God. That it would be just like the first Adam was created with the same hands. Alright? Okay. So um what we'll do is we'll pick up on the other two diagrams next week to see the centrality of the sun and then I want to look at the relations And uh there's some further reading at the very end if you'd like to look at that. Okay, let's go ahead and pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you that you have sent your Spirit to us, that you would be our teacher. We thank you that you have used us as means in your administration. I pray, Lord, that your congregation would be filled with joy and a sense of security, knowing that it is in you alone that That their salvation resides. I ask, Lord, that they set aside their broken and earthly cisterns, and that they would drink from you alone the well of salvation. In the name of Christ. Amen.