I know. I know, we're late. For a very important date. Okay. Let's go ahead and open in prayer and we'll start with our next lesson. Lord, we thank you for this day that you've given to us as the great day of remembrance. Lord, we know that you are present with us. And that you will use your ordinary means to show us where we and your the rest of your creation is headed. It is under your power and your authority, and you are committed To glorifying the Father by way of the Spirit. We thank you that you are our great high priest. We thank you that you are our King, and that you alone are our teacher by the Spirit. We ask, Lord, that by your Spirit you would teach us this morning. Help us to see your kingdom. Separate us from the world. Take us Take the darkness away. Release us from the captivity of the devil. We ask these things in your name. Amen. All right. So this morning we're going to start with a review by way of questions. I'll get you to wake up. I hope you've gotten some coffee. Let's start back with just the very first question, with this question When we are using the language that includes ends, what kind of conversation are we in? What kind of what what conversation are we in if we're talking about the ends of humanity? What's that? Yeah, what is the end of something? Telos is a Greek word and it means ends or maturity or completion and the ology part of it is a study of what are the ends of things. And so we can see here within the first question. that were benefiting from the church's study of where things are going. And that would uh good morning, he was coming where was he going? He was going right for the pulpit. That was End. Thanks for the illustration. That's right. So this first question starts us off on what are the ends of of uh all humans. All right. Any other thing that you'd like to add that was a part of that conversation with ENS? It's an ethical discussion, isn't it? Has to do with your mo you being a moral being? Somebody say something? I was gonna say it it's a conversation that necessitates order. So going through the creation account. Okay, right. We went through the creation account and the reason why we did that is to see that there is an order uh to God's creation. Now that's a bit of a Redundancy, don't you think? What I just said? When you talk about something that's created, don't we already assume that there is an order? There was an end in mind. There's an end in mind. Yeah. So you can ponder that for a bit, but there is a created order. We looked at some of the different relationships that are in the creation. And this confession is inviting us into a discussion on the nature of the relationship between things and also between things and their creation. And so one of the goals of the confession is for you to be rightly ordered under Christ by His Spirit Which is nice. Okay, here's the second question, and this has to do with the second question in the shorter catechism. What is the rule of faith? Natalie, don't cheat. What's the rule yeah, that was the right way to put it. Uh the word of God. Right, very good. That's a good way to put it. Well, you could have said the scriptures, but then there would have been no rule of faith before the inscripturation of the word. So when you say the word of God, that could be orally transmitted or known by memory or written down, any of those things that God has communicated. To us. Throughout the ages, folks have mishandled scripture. Agreed? Okay. What image do the church fathers give the church to help her with her task of keeping it untangled? And can you explain that image? for the for everyone. Uh the straight edge is correct, but there's a famous image given by Irenaeus Yeah, the mosaic of the king. Can you go ahead and explain that to all of us, please? Thank you. Taking the same pieces of beauty in this conversation being the word of God, but um manipulating them into a different picture or a different narrative or a different belief than what it was intended to be. So the titles were intended to show a picture of the case But then they were each taken apart and reassembled into a dog or a wolf or whatever. Fox, yeah. Okay, very good. Yes, so he gave us the picture that there are the gems that make up a mosaic, and that's analogous to the pieces that belong to the canon. You could be at different levels of resolution for that. It could be sentences or paragraphs or entire books. And those gems are to be arranged a certain way. If you're going to truly understand the message of God, there are those that are in the church and out of the church that will use those gems but rearrange them. to where you're getting a different message than what God has given. That can be to a lesser or greater degree of severity or Did I say the same thing as you? I think so. Something to be mindful that doesn't have to be done in a school. Um I I think one purpose of that is to distort our um perception of beauty. So like we're still using because we talked about last week those same beautiful gests. And those people are beautiful. this picture that it distorts our perception of beauty and therefore dulls our love for truth because you have taken the same beautiful thing but you've manipulated it into something um less beautiful and just not true. It is not anymore a picture of a king as a boss or something. Yeah. Uh uh, I would keep going with I would keep going with that too, and then add in there uh the good also. Do that traditional triad of the Oh, for sure. Because it'll be they'll all be connected. Um okay. So then How do we know who has the gems arranged the right way Crickets. Right. God's word, but they're using God's word also. Remember everybody's using the gems in this conversation, anyway. So how do we know who has arranged the gems correctly? That is partially an answer. You should be able to ask the one who has been ordained to divide the word rightly and if you can't they should be removed rebu they should be rebuked and then If they continue down a series path removed. Yes. Hermeneutics. Hermeneutics. Okay. Yeah, very good. So there are some of these principles that we uh have buzzing around us, like scripture interprets scripture. The easier to understand passage interprets the harder to understand passage, but where do we get those principles? The apostles. Who said that? that Sheryl pointed to Shannon and Shannon pointed to Sheryl. So I'm not sure what's happening. Yeah, the apostles. Can you say some more about that, Shannon? Do you mind? Yeah. Right. And uh and Cheryl, what would you add to that? Anything? I I think she gave an example of it last week that I can't remember of It was the most important point. It was what the entire lecture was about. So we are we are one holy Catholic and apostolic church. What does it mean that we are apostolic if you assign yourself to the Nicene? Darren, you just keep smirking at me. based on your possible teaching. So we have an apples of it or whatever. However it is that they have few enough to uh and I don't know you know what here so I'm about how you can say that. Um their particular model for community is basically the model for us. Yeah, they're so yeah that's the right way to put it. The model that the apostles have is the model for us. Why? Because they got it right from God. Yeah. They were and they were clothed in the spirit to read it and have the right interpretation. So then what you end up seeing, especially within John, John is of always an interesting um writing because he is uh Even if he's talking about earthly things, he's mostly doing so in order to reference a divine perspective. Now that doesn't surprise you when you think of John's writings. in Revelation, does it? That you would have a heavenly perspective on something? It doesn't surprise you because he's taken into and enveloped within a heavenly vision. But John has not come down out of heaven in his uh gospel. He's still seeing, even in what we would consider earthly objects, he's seeing them as symbolic of a divine perspective. perspective. Look at his references to water and wind and um all just all all kinds of stuff. Okay, it's it's like every time you turn around, he's doing something like that. uh wine, the temple, the tables, uh everything ends up having a further uh divine perspective. perspective. So in that gospel, it shouldn't surprise us that we see John recording Jesus saying Things like, I was with the Father. And what the Father has, the Father has given to me. And I am taking what the Father has given to me, and I am giving it to you. So what what he's doing there is he's painting this picture of the one who was who is in heaven, who has heard the truth. Truth, the will of God for salvation, what he's doing with his creation, the decrees. He has come to earth and he is now giving it His message is true. That's what he means by all that kind of conversation. That's really what the conversation with Nicodemus is all about, for example. So what you end up seeing then is you see Jesus commissioning a certain group of people. uh namely the apostles to know how to have the right hermeneutic or model by which to read the entire scriptures. So it's not that Jesus comes down and then hands them the new Testament is that Jesus comes down and teaches them how to understand the Elder Testament while they're writing for the churches in the New Testament era. It's really an exposition of what the eternal Son has communicated, been communicating to the church from the beginning, to tell you the truth. So if you read the literature of the church that's not modern, if you go pre-modern, you will begin to see them exegeting, for example, in Genesis and seeing even in Genesis 1-1 that the Trinity is present there in that verse. That's not something that's just revealed later. The Son is present. The Son is doing the work. Now, where can you turn in the New Testament to see that the Son was present at creation? John 1. 1. John 1. 1. Right? Yeah. So the apostles what they're because of their instruction under Christ and being clothed in the spirit with a measure beyond us for them to be able to know how to read and understand what God has communicated to us. They will pick up on things in scripture that we would never pick up on. But then as we study the apostles, we learn how to handle the word wisely. under their their tutelage. So that's one one meaning of what it means for us to be apostolic and for us to practice the apostolicity of the church. That's the authoritative hermeneutic and interpretation of Scripture. We try recently within evangelicalism, we have I think substituted the word apostolicity with Christocentricity. And the apostles certainly do interpret the scriptures with Christ at the center. He is the key that unlocks the door of the scriptures. Because everything is about what the Father is doing through the Son by way of the of the spirit. So okay, any questions on that? That's all review. I hope that you hold on to that last little piece there. We need to recover the apostolicity of the church. You should be reading, not dividing the New Testament from the Old to the point where you no longer care about the Old Testament. You should be reading, letting the apostles help you to understand all of the scriptures. If you cut yourself off and only read the new, you are missing the bulk of what the eternal Son has communicated to you to the church. And that's bad news. So what you'll end up doing if you go down this path is then you'll start to look at the old and you'll say, well how am I supposed to know what they're saying here? And that's where you need to just come under some discipleship to learn how to, what's the meaning of the stories and that kind of stuff. Right? Because they're not just histories, they're theological histories. And that we're not used to that genre. Our historiography or way of looking at history as a modern person is different than the way they looked at it and how why the purpose is for which Which they wrote it and that kind of stuff. Same thing with lol. Yeah. I I do. If someone is using it who's informed, I think they'll end up qualifying themselves quite a bit. Uh I've always gotten closer with the idea of a kind of Trinitarian centricity. Um because that's when you look at how things are organized, it's ordered by the economy of the Trinity in the work of the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, not just the Son. So I do think so. I've been turned off by it. Uh I would love to find out why it first came up and if they were in a particular context fighting against something, but then it got pulled out of that context and They were trying to make it do something it was never built to do. That kind of language. Yeah. What's that? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So uh I like that. Yeah, I think so. I I haven't been drawn to the term. But I get what they're trying to do. And uh I do respect Luke 24 with all of the prophets and the law are about me. So Okay, so then um if you want to keep having conversation about what does it mean to be an apostolic church, what are you talking about with apostolic hermeneutics, how would I start to read it like the apostolic Apostles, just let me know. Let's just keep the conversation going. Bring it up with uh each other. Let's keep the conversation going and make the most of our time. Okay, so then the next question I'll read to you and then is there anybody that knows the answer for shorter Catechism question three. Okay. You all need to catch up with this because the children are learning All the questions and the answers. Well, they're learning all the answers. Jeff, you did raise your hand. Thank you. What do the scriptures principally teach? Go for it. Scriptures principally teach what man is to believe concerning God and what duties God requires of man. Right. The scriptures principally teach what man is to believe concerning God and what duties God requires of man. Okay. So notice there in that quest in the answer that it says the scriptures principally teach. What does that mean? It's an adverb, the word principally teach. What does it mean there, principally? The main thing, but not everything. That's a good summary. The main or the chief thing, but uh there's plenty more uh where that came from. Right? Okay. Very good. And actually I wrote down, admittedly, that scriptures teach many things. The principal thing, the first in order of importance, the main, is what man is to believe concerning God and what duty God requires of man. Now, where are those who wrote the Schwarter Catechism getting that division of things? That is what we would call a comprehensive summary. All of Scripture principally teaches what we're to believe concerning God and what duties God requires That's a comprehensive summary. It's like writing an outline and having a Roman numeral one and then everything is falling underneath of that, and then a Roman numeral number two and everything else is falling under that. To warm us up a little bit so you're not just staring at me, what other examples of comprehensive summaries do we have within the scriptures? Or within the confession that the confession picks up that are in the scriptures. Name another comprehensive scripture, a comprehensive summary that is in both Exodus and Okay, the law. And and how many points is the law summarily comprehended? Any other answers? Ten. Ten. Okay, right. So why can we say both ten and two? Okay, so there's a there's a Further reduction or condensing you're calling it. Okay. It's like the three commandments. How you know what we'll this will do with respect to God, loving God with all our heart, full, mind, and strength, and then the second Very good. So then the confession says that the moral will of God is summarily comprehended in the Ten Commandments. That's what it says. But then what we end up seeing, and they acknowledge this also, is that Christ Himself summarily comprehends that summary into two. And what that's the two Two tables, love God and love neighbor. Okay, so that's an example of summaries that we see within the scriptures. Do you recognize any summaries in the scriptures that would alert you To what we believe concerning God and the duties that God requires of man. That's a tough question. But I want to ask the question that way because the church is not supposed to be developing its own order. It is supposed to be discovering God's order and then making sure when it talks about it, it does so with the divisions that He Himself has given. Do you have that question? Yes. Where do you s do you see anything in the scriptures that suggests the division of what to believe can you Concerning God and what duties God requires of men, that that's how we should divide what the scriptures principally teach. So our world today, how do they divide the genders? Do it they do a good job? The answer is no. Right. Why is it that we know the correct division? Because God said so. Because God has given us the division. And He has not only done so in the Word, He has done so with pretty obvious parts. Right? So in the same way, can we discover this division that we see here in the confession? Because they're not trying to make up a division. That's not who they are. They're not modern people. They're trying to tap into the nature of the cosmos. I was just giving you an example with the Ten Commandments of what it means in the scriptures just that the scriptures summarize things comprehensively. They're picking up on some other comprehensive summary that it that they're picking up on in the scriptures, and it is what man is to believe concerning God and what duties God requires of man. Is there anywhere you see in the scriptures that suggest that division? Jeff, Tate, Darren, and you're next. Romans and Vegans and Cauchens uh um are kind of big examples where there's a big document. Not just about God in particular, but about God in terms of what we're supposed to believe. And then um very significant shift to just have to add based on what we believe. So so that's not That's a good example. So Jeff is bringing up that we see this division even within the way that the writings are structured. Um Bill, do you remember the name of that division that we see, especially within the Pauline epistles? Doctrine and practice? The indicative in the imperative structure of the epistles. So that that's something that you learn and end up learning in seminary, and you're noting that, that there's a this is who God is and what he doing with his creation and therefore we now have this. This is these are our duties that are required. So do you recognize with Jeff that kind of basic structure? within the writings. All right, is there another one? Tate. I was thinking about the thing that the law set up state really is a very I am the Lord, thy God has brought thee out of the land, each of thou father. Thou shalt have an order. That the second of the first command are that habit of setting before you've got it. At least the receiver and therefore you want to Yeah. That's a great observation, Tate. Thank you very much. Yeah. That is good. But I also find that one, Darren uh Darren. Thank Gary. Okay, Gary. Okay. Man, that's one to pull out of your pocket. Great, good for you. Yeah. Yeah, so walk humbly with your God, and then there's a a moral order that comes along with that. Okay, very good. So those are some examples. If you were to turn to what the guys in the confession who were writing the confession were reading, they had a stack of literature. of theologians who all recognize this division. Most of them have names I cannot pronounce, like uh Aksamalbuli I don't know how to do it. But the um they typically turn to 2 Timothy 113, so I wanted to show that to you. These these are meant um When you see a person in the confession or in that era proof texting something, they're not giving you this verse to say to you, this is the this is my main argument. What they're giving you the verse for is to tell you, well, what you would need to do is look at all the exegesis surrounding the kind of reality that is communicated in the And that's why we've made up our minds on it like this. Alright, they're they're not proof textures. They're just giving you a sample of the reality that they believe is present. the communication of the eternal sun. Are we doing okay this morning? Am I not making any sense? Everybody okay? Y'all seem a little uh Shannon just made This uh phase. And yeah, you all kinda seem like that. Is everybody doing okay? You alright? Am I being confusing? No, okay, good. Stick with me. I just thought I'd uh check. Okay, so 2 Timothy 113 We've spent a lot of time in 2 Timothy together. We know that it's Paul writing to Timothy concerned about handling the word well. And um encouraging him to stay within the sound words that have been passed down to him. Right? And I want you to notice 2 Timothy 1. 13, and I'll go ahead and read that just so it's on the the recording. Hold fast the pattern of sound words which you heard from me in faith and love which are in Christ Jesus. Okay, what are some observations you have about that verse just right off the bat, based on the conversation we've been having the last two Sundays? Anyone? Bueller? Okay. Oh. Yeah, there's a pattern. That's great. And that should bring up that image of the um The mosaic, right? There's a pattern of sound words. Isn't that great that they put that in the yes? It's like Irenaeus was reading the apostles. That's great. Yes, that's right. And if it's meant to be the and if it's meant to be the pattern of a king and you've got the pattern of a dog or a fox, then you've left the sound word. somehow the pattern of the sound words. Yeah, there you go. Very good. Okay, any other observations about this verse? What's that? Faith and love. Which I can't think of where it's found, so I think it's saying that's nothing. and then other elsewhere is explained with the article in the acting profession. So there's a faith and love, it's the distinction of Yeah. Right. So this is a representative verse then For the church on the division that is revealed throughout the scriptures by the Son. This is not supposed to seal the argument for you. It is supposed to sh it's a it's a breadcrumbs for you to walk down the path. to discover that this is the division that God wants us to have for how we think about his communication to us. To go one step further, this is the division for theology. And this is the one they adopted. That they would hold fast the pattern of sound words which you have heard from me in faith and love. So, for example, if you were to pick up a recently translated work from a So uh I think this ends up being a good example because this confession that we're dealing with is in England, okay, and it's we're see we're seeking to have also um reconciled fellowship with uh Scotland and uh this however is not on the island but all the way over in the continent where they're having a Dutch Reformation and his name is Petrus von Maastricht. No. I'm talking about during that time the continent is also having its own reformation. There's not just an English reformation. And the and what's interesting to me is to see those who want to reform Reform the Catholic Church, that's what I call myself a Reformed Catholic. They too are Reformed Catholics, and you see that whether it's in England or In the Netherlands, they're still adopting the same division of theology. It's neat to see the kind of unity that can go across Reformed confessions, for example. to see what the church is doing at that time. And um he points out Second Timothy one thirteen as the breadcrumb to lead you into the reality of how the scriptures should be divided. the belief concerning God and what duties God requires of man. When he talks about this verse, he says that in these words He expresses an exhortation concerning the sacred theology that Timothy must protect and observe according to its essential parts, namely faith and love. Three things must be considered here. First is the pattern of sound words. By this we understand what is common indicated by the term theology. Isn't that interesting? In the phrase itself, we see that there is a pattern, a sketch, a model. A form, that's all a translation of that word, but it is of sound words. And this is the subject matter of the system of theology. And then he says the distribution of that subject matter matter is in two parts, in faith and in love. And Timothy has the duty of holding it and having it. that so that's how he's going to unfold that that passage uh which is is nice. So um if you were to then turn uh back to some other work that was being done by a another um son of the reformers then you could could turn to Calvin and listen to what he says about the same verse. Paul has art added this as a mark of sound doctrine in order that we may know what it contains and what the summary of it is, the whole of which, according to his custom, he includes under faith and love. So that's the division that they're trying to alert us to in the confession. And then you would, as a breadcrumb, start going down that trail and you would discover a reality amongst God's communication. that this is a way that we want to summarize these things. We want to talk about belief concerning God and what duties God requires of man. So it wouldn't be unusual then if you started looking for that division to find it all over the place. So we have found it by way of Jeff in the division of the letters of the New Testament with what we believe concerning God and then therefore what are our duties. Or the indicative imperative is what they, those are fancy names. We see it within the announcement of who God is and then what he requires of us in the Ten Commandments. And we could go on and on and perhaps see the division in just about everything, if they're on to something. And I think that they are. If you wanted to look at some other verses, uh community Communicating the same reality. Let me just point out to you 1 Timothy 1. 19. And it says, having faith and a good conscience. There's the division there. Psalm 37, verse 3, trust in the Lord and do good. There's the division there. Titus 3. 8, this is a faithful saying, and these things I want to affirm constantly, that those who have believed in God should be careful to maintain good work. works. There it is there. Any questions on that part? On just seeing that we're not that we're not trying to make up a division for how to talk about these things. We're looking for an objective order. of reality and that uh this is the one uh that we have adopted as our as a church and uh most churches have any questions about this But Jesus when he summarizes what we can do with the command bar flow where you got Is that the same decision? Because it's love God, but loving God, I mean there's a relationship between loving God and knowing God. Yes, there is. Right? And so is that the same I think that you're picking up on the fact that even if it's not explicitly declared, it's implicitly present. There can't be any love of God if there's not first knowledge of him. Yeah, that's right. I mean so this these are like further confirm there's like another bread crumb where you're want to just keep going not to the gingerbread house where you're cooked but you know to the house of God where you can worship. God relied on these two uh things. Yeah, right. Right. It's just like the bread crumbs. So we need to be able to see what's right from us. Take an except see it Yeah. Yeah. And um right. Yeah, very good. And I'm gonna hammer on this because I think one of the the things we're talking about Like we were created to do so. And that we see the worlds raging and conspiring around us and they're out of order. So anytime we can get a bit of the order and see where the division should be, we can we can hold on. The Lord will preserve us through this, through the recognition of these divisions. I promise you. Okay, any other questions on that before I move on? Yes. that division it seems like what we're saying here is that there's what we believe about God and then the duty that God causes advantage. That duty is not just others, right? That duty accounts Right. Jesus already is more about the loving God more and more mindfulness, right? And then loving your neighbor as yourself Yeah. So you know which one are we emphasizing? We're emphasizing the the right one, which and the confession puts it this way: what duties does God require of men? And there are two duties, the worship of God and the love of neighbor, or the love of God and the love of neighbor. So that what we believe concerning God and what duties God requires of man, there's then a branch and it's going to be love of God, love of neighbor. So this is a bit different from pieces in summary than No, because um Jesus summarized the law as love of God and love of neighbor. And Jesus is only summarizing the law. The confession is trying to summarize all of the scriptures under two heads. Belief of in belief concerning God and duties God requires of men. Jesus was only do are you with are you getting the the way I'm dividing it? And then you can disagree or agree later, but uh And then Jesus is just doing a division of the law, not all of the scriptures. Any comments on that? Is that sticking together? Explicit all God requires the man's implicit in that I'm not sure what I said well interact with this. I said what seems right to me speaking here on the on the spot on the in this conversation. That to love God one must first know Him. I know that you're very good at organizing things, so if you see something out of order Please show me or help help me help me through it. What are you seeing? No, I think I think I understand what we're saying about the confession, I'll just struggle with how uh Jesus summary of the law properties within I think that there are rules there's a lot of rules around but not very small consistency there. In other words It wasn't necessarily trying to explain all the scripture for all the scripture. But that makes sense to me if he was just talking about you know summarizing the walls wide small. Yeah. Then then then that kind of fits in to the how is it versus the other way around. And that That first way you just articulate it is what I'm saying. Okay. And that that doesn't mean you have to agree with it, but that's what I'm saying, so now you know whether you want to agree or disagree with me. Yeah, I don't think Jesus is trying to summarize all the scriptures. I think he was just summarizing the um moral law. Yes. Exactly. Yeah, that's exactly right. It's a subdivision. Yeah, very good. Yeah, I'm paying real close attention to you because I know you have an engineering background and engineers are usually really good at this. Whereas I've I can be artsy fartsy and not do it not do a great job. So Darren says Right, it's on point two. Okay. But it it movements point one at some level because point one we see is point two. We got here because we actually have assumptions that we would And so I can uh maybe this isn't necessarily explicit in in performing the transcripts, but at the same time, implicit in the statement is another another assumption that he could work on. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, it does All right, very good. So okay, so then um do you all have a confession on you? Do you have a shorter catechism on your person? Concealed carry of the shorter catechism. Okay, can you open it real quick? I want to show you something That'll help you to continue studying. We officially announced, maybe to your sadness, that this is a theology. course. So I want to show you the division here within the the confec the shorter catechism itself so that you can follow along So we've just said that the division is what to believe concerning God and then what duties God requires of men. So I want you to turn in your shorter catechism to question number 39. Thirty eight, Okay? Now you've got 38. I actually meant 39. I was right the first time. Look at what you see in question 39 of the shorter catechism. Go ahead and r and someone read that real loud. What is the duty which God requires of man? There you go. So what does that tell you about the division of the catechism itself? That the f there it goes. So that first half, questions one through well, questions four through thirty-eight are what to believe concerning God. Questions 39 through 107 are what duties God requires of man. And that's going to include how to listen to the Word, how to partake of the sacrament, how to pray is the final set of set of questions. Alright, and I hope that that's helpful to you as you study and as you so you can see what's going on. Now what I want to do is I want to hand something out to you I don't want you to be discouraged by the abstract language that are or the difficult language that I'm using. If you feel a little bit in a fog, that's okay. The fog is going to clear as we go through the course. When I hand you this paper, it might just feel like flaw fog itself. Just ignore the words If you don't understand them, I just want you to see how one gentleman outlined the confession or what what ends up being the pretty much the same outline as the confession. His name was William Ames. I only have a So if you want to get a bidding tracking I only have to print out like So if you could just pass them around and take a look at the divisions. Oh, can I have one? Okay. That's not very What this is providing for you, therefore, if you were to if you were to go home and do this something similar with the confession. or with the catechism, what you would have be in front of your face is an analytical table of contents. When I graduated seminary Uh one member of the board stood up and he encouraged the whole graduating class to memorize the table of contents of the Westminster Confession. of faith so that you have all of the right categories in your head to think about everything. And I can testify to you from my own experience that having this Analytical outline ingrained in my head when I am evaluating situations, this comes up a lot. Yeah. Well I will I will do my best here. Some of these words are um going to be difficult to talk about here, but I just want you to note a few things. Note first that the very first subject matter is called theology. And it's going to have two parts. See how it is going to launch you in. into the next division. The first, now what we should expect, if everything I've said to you is correct, is we should expect William Ames to say belief concerning God and what duty God requires of man. And that is in fact what we do see. We see faith in God. And I love that he puts what may be known of God from the back, so to speak. Why does he say that? The cleft of the rock. Isn't that lovely? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. So this is out of a book and he's making references to where he's going to talk about those things in his book. Yes, it No. But it ends up following this basic same basically the same divisions as the catechism, which is just another evidence that this is an ex And then when you drop down, he doesn't say what duty God requires of man, but he does say observance. And he's talking about the same thing. So then what you'll notice if we go back up to belief in God or faith in God, notice that it is going to be talking about who God is. There's two different ways to talk about who he is and what he does. He is known in his decree and counsel, and then it says whose parts are, is everybody following me who has a paper? Whose parts are creation and providence? Then there's ordinary and extraordinary providence, and then there's special providence for his intelligent creatures. Under special intelligence for his intelligent creatures, there is man's fall, and then there is man's restoration. Under man's restoration is redemption by Christ and the application of that redemption, and then it keeps going. Okay, now look at your shorter catechism again, please. Let's just start at number question number four. Question number three is all about the distribution of theology. So we're looking at how it's distributed. How is it divided? That's all we're doing in today's class. I should probably announce my main point in the beginning. Notice number four, question number four of the shorter catechism is what is God? It then moves into the decrees of God, just like William Ames said it should And then it says, how does God execute his decrees? Because decrees are those the the eternal counsel of his will, whereby he has foreordained whatsoever comes to pass. But then there needs to be an execution of those decrees. In real time, if you will. It's really even the making of time. And there are two acts or two executions. There is the work of creation, which happens in the space of six days, and is all very good. But then there is, and then so then he talks about the work of creation and that he created man. But there is also the work of providence Then he's going to talk about the special act of providence, just like William Ames outlines. Then they're going to talk about did our first parents stay? In that estate. No. So now the story of salvation and redemption starts to unfold in the person of Christ. Then the work of the person of Christ will need to be applied by the Holy Spirit. Once there is an application of it, there is officially the church. And there is the power to do good works, which will move us into the second half of the confession. Do you see how that flows? I mean, I think it's nice. It's a pattern of sound words. That they picked up on the in the scriptures themselves. They're picking up in the confession on the pattern of sound words presented to us by the eternal Son throughout the entire canon of the Scriptures. And they are giving it to you in such a way where an eight or a nine-year-old should be able to pick up on the pattern and have it memorized. And then you can add understanding to your faith as you go along in your life. Remember the shorter catechism was meant for children. And then the um So that's that. So then um and then if we were to go down the second branch, what we're going to do is end up in the confession in an exposition of the Ten Commandments. and so on. But okay. Alright, do you have any questions for me on the distribution or the division or the pattern of sound words? Any thoughts, feedback, questions about terminology? If you feel totally confused, I can probe a little bit and we can try to get some clarity. We have a few minutes. If you feel a little foggy, that's okay. Just keep going forward and the fog is going to dissipate, especially if you ask questions Let me ask you a couple questions since you're not asking me any. Number one, what is the value of Coming to understand the pattern of sound words in the shorter catechism. Why would you want to spend your time doing it If you don't know that, then I expect a much thinner class next week. So we can know God and know the duties he requires of us. Very good. Alright, that's good. Anything else? Tate? Okay. Very good. Yes? Okay. Yeah, that's right. If you had a teacher who didn't know the path You could be in some trouble. You agree? Yeah. Yeah, you you need someone who knows the whole distribution and how the pieces fit together. Otherwise, you're gonna have the sun. contradicting himself. Mark. All right. If you know it. If what? If you could live in the way So happiness is forage. Yeah. Very good. What you just said, most in most people's minds will Shannon, were you raising your hand? Just stretching? Most people will connect that to the second part of the division. Of the scriptures, which will be what duty does God require of men? If I follow God's moral order, I will be happy. What about the first division? Do you think that happiness resides in the knowledge of God? And if so, how? Or how would you explain that? Or have some kind of, I don't know. If you could just say more. Well you can start to attack it, I think on all sorts of points, one of them being that the second part is not going to be able to do perfectly. then I'm s you know I'm sort of with the whole author's couple start. But if I understand something about what you guys like the then there is I would like to say very perfectly, but probably to a sufficient degree. Very s that that's sufficient somehow. Who I am, why I was making it, who loves me. Okay, say it this way, it's summary. Yeah. It's more important to know who loves me than the I'm not even sure I'm gonna stand behind it, but I'm just gonna throw it out. Then for me to be able to love the perfect difference. Okay. Yeah. Well what you may end up discovering in that conversation is maybe both are important and it's difficult to put them in some kind of hierarchical relationship, but we do know that when I go to try to fulfill my duties It is refreshing to have knowledge of a God of grace or some or something along those lines, or of uh one who forgives, uh one who wants to help me to be ordered and say Sends me his spirit to do so or something along those lines. That all can start to make a difference. I don't know. Thinking out loud with you. Yeah, Shannon. Yep. A lot of people that have a good knowledge of God but they have no action behind their words and it kind of seems empty. There's a lot of people who serve in duty Yeah. Yeah, that's right. Very good. So let me ask the question just a little bit of a different way and then we'll head out. What is the end of the first division of theology? Knowledge of God. To what end should that knowledge what is the end of the knowledge of God? To glorify him and enjoy him. Yeah. So what's that, Shannon? From the knowledge of who he is and your God through Yeah, it's it's love from a heart purified by faith. Yeah, that's right. And if you are a theologian who has knowledge of God but not love, then you don't really know him. What is the right to say that something has I mean obviously something has gone wrong in your doctrine if love does not flow from that NUV flow from the love. But like what we were looking at this morning with It but is it not right to say, well there's something off with this sadness? Yeah, you can you could construct the pattern of sound words in such a way to where love isn't possible. I guess maybe is what you're saying. God could be revealed in such a way where it makes it very difficult for you to love him. of um an image of what the box to the image of a key right and that would be due to a mis communication of the J the jewels. Let me say, don't forget the other word and the con the confession, the catechism that is most is like really important at this moment, and that is that you would enjoy him forever. I think that the knowledge of God does talk to that we are to glorify him. But there's that other part and enjoyment. The knowledge of God should lead to enjoyment of your God. Um, can you say with the psalmist, my heart pants after you, like a deer for water? Do you see? That's That's what we're after. And you could see how that kind of communion with God would lead to a very different person in what they do when they realize what is required of them. They may not even find it appropriate to use the word required. You know? So okay, I hope that's helpful. We're in just the beginnings. We're kind of clearing our throat, getting oriented to this thing. But I hope these things are helpful to you. That's my prayer. They have been more than helpful to me, so I know they can be helpful. And I pray they're helpful for you. Let me go ahead and close and pray. Father, we thank you that you have given us your canon of Scripture. You have given us authoritative interpreters of it, and even in their own writings we can see the way that you divide it. Just as you divided humanity according to male and female, and we see the reality of your order. there, so too are we beginning to see the reality of your communic the communication of yourself and what you require of us in your Word. We ask, Lord, that these things that you have given to us would be used to your glory, that we would enjoy you, and that from our love of you that we would love Those whom you have created in your image. May ask these things in your name. Amen.