You would teach us today. I pray that we would grow in our wonder and love and amazement at you, that this Sunday school would transition Quite neatly into our time of worship. Ask Lord that you'd give us clarity of thought, help us to see things as you see them, to think your thoughts after you. In the name of Christ. Amen. All right, I'd like to begin by a review, and we're going to do the review by I'm going to put up on the board some of these images we're using to communicate different things uh on on uh who God is and what God is. So I'll start with the first one here. Okay, we've had had a conversation about this image and what are some some uh truths that we realized in it. We're just doing a review, so fire off Yes, T. Triangle referred to the Okay. Yeah w one God and three persons. It's the Trinity. Okay. And then so then what are we doing with the other well for example the The square represents the incarnation and and what were we communicating via this illustration? Just talk. Ascending of the sun. And his intersection with humanity. He's the God man But the main point that we were and and you might want to make take some notes for yourself, uh because even if this stuff doesn't seem important right now, God will show you that it's very important. When you need it, it'll be there for you. Um like State Farm, who cares? I don't know why that just came to mind. But it did. Yeah. It's supposed to communicate. Remember uh It's important for us also to get down the descriptive terminology of the church. When we look at something like this, we're focused primarily on God's sufficiency Forgive me if I spell this wrong. That's okay. So small we can't go. Yeah, so this word here, for those of you who can't see it That says sufficiency. There's two main categories, his sufficiency and then his efficiency. We haven't even gotten to his efficiency yet. We're just focused so far on his Sufficiency and this was meant to illustrate that the life of the Trinity and what he's doing is not Apprehended in the sending of the Son and Atonement and Salvation. They have a lot going on besides just you. So this is proportionate because if we were to represent what the Trinity's up to in its inner in their inner life and also per elsewhere, who knows? I don't know. hasn't been revealed to me, uh the triangle would have to be infinite, you know, in in what they're doing, their activity. So it just puts Us in our place. But then again, remember the key term is sufficiency, and it shows you that God is certainly sufficient For your salvation. He can do it. He's got all the resources necessary to bring this thing to an end. You see what I'm saying? Okay, so that was the first one. Now here's the second illustration and the hint I'll give you on this one is that it is to it It is developed out of a paragraph from Irenaeus on the creation account These are meant to be hands. Okay, so now we have some more important descriptive theological vocabulary up here and you have it on your piece of paper if you can't read what I put up here. About what is this meant to illustrate? What are what's being communicated with this diagram. Okay. The economy of salvation is certainly a part of this. Wha how would you describe that if you had to uh describe that to somebody over coffee? So the the God said the sun incarnate Carlton, you have some harness, Holmes Beer you comes out for and they work together to um uh to to accomplish some salvation in it. Yeah, very good. That's a great Excellent. Yeah, we'll give her a round of applause. Yeah. She's smooth with her doctrine of the Trinity. Boom. Cheers. Yeah, cheers. Okay. Okay. Anything else? Anything else being communicated here that you want to point out? No, yeah. Any other vocabulary you'd like to put up here that you think is important as we try to describe what we see in the scriptures. You can always look on your paper. Gary, please. Okay. How so? So this this isn't a full explanation, but it limits it keeps us from going astray and I think it's Okay, yeah. That's good. Yeah, very good. Keeps us from saying what's wrong. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. Okay, a couple other terms you could put up here if you want, is that here We are dealing with the Missio, or let's just uh scrap the Latin this morning and let's just call it the mission There's a bunch of words that different people have used to try to describe what they're seeing in the uh in the revealed by God. And one is that this is the mission of the Son and the Spirit. They also will call it dispensatory grace Because the Son and the Spirit have been dispensed to the world. That's the great act of grace by the Father. Whenever our youngsters are taking their I always ask the question, what is his mercy? And then it leads you immediately into the second vowel, which is Jesus Christ. And then it leads you into the third vow and his Holy Spirit. That's the mercy. The mercy is the sending of the Son and the Spirit. It's that mission. I put these terms up here for you because In part, what my hope is is that we would start to reclaim some of these terms in our normal Christian speech We're supposed to be missional. We're on mission. Well, what does that word mean? Traditionally within the church, and I mean Flowing from the apostolic teaching. Mission is a term that is best understood or that refers first and foremost to the life of the Trinity and what they're doing. As we are then united to Christ, we are united. to that life of the Trinity and we will participate with them in their mission. So if you think mission is about fog machines and catching music Music, those are very small compared to the bigger picture of what's going on. I don't think I have a problem with catching music. I think we have catchy music here Uh fog machines, that's not appropriate Uh that's a little pretentious. But I want us to start connecting with these words again. Another thing that you could another set of terminology that is useful is we want to talk about the imminent work of the Trinity and then the the economical work of the Trinity. We already see these two and that's Between all of them that's communicated. In fact, I'll just drop up this little knowledge on you here because it was so helpful to me when I realized it is that when you're looking at prophecy. When a when a when we're looking at the scriptures and we see a prophet receiving a prophetic vision, the best way to think about the prophetic vision is that what has been going on within the life of the Trinity and the knowledge that they've had in and of themselves is being revealed to humanity. By way of the prophet. And that is what you see in the book of Revelation. The window or door is opened, and you can see how the Trinity has always It's also another way of just saying as his will is done in heaven, let it be done on earth. When we see prophecy, we're using the distinction of the inner life of the Trinity and their counsels with each other, and then the economic world. When we say your will be done on earth as it is in heaven, we're referring to the life of the Trinity, and then may the decree be executed here on earth. Okay, so uh hopefully that's helpful. And Irenaeus pointed out, well, let's do this. Why did I put two hands on there? Really they're they're meant to be Irenaeus always he uh says that the father Does everything he does through his two arms. Right. He does everything through the two arms everything is done by the two arms of the Father. Now that's an analogy. Jesus isn't an arm, but you get the picture. I hope. Okay, let's do one last one and we'll move on So the basic question with this illustration is when we look at the work of the Trinity, we see that all of them are important In the work of redemption. But nevertheless, so then let's go ahead and ask a question. Why is it that we always place the sun at the center? Go ahead and try to answer that. And that's what this is meant to illustrate, is that when we're studying God, we see that all of the persons have a role in in salvation, how can we explain, therefore, the preeminence of Christ in the way that we talk about things? Or the Son? Why does he tend to get the most attention. How would you answer that? Can you speak up? Okay Okay. Because you became human, that's pretty good. How how else would you answer the question, Brian? Well I mean if we're giving that the mini many to be gods for preventative and on our what are you saying about being human like you know we are supposed to be that's what we're gonna have to creation so Christ did that fulfill and ultimately great that's very good to Yes, Marilyn. at humans so it wouldn't actually be looking at him to receive from the office for the culture. Okay. Very good. He's the method or the way. She said he's the method or the way he is the word. Yeah. Let's speak up so we can all try to hear each other. Darren. I don't have any answer at all, but I do think I think This is why I love you. I'm gonna throw out something that I think is heading in the direction as to why GS is I'll don't do it very it does Oh yeah, right. I like that answer too though because no matter what's going on, you could all Mike. Uh I don't think this is said, but I have that. So Jesus Christ is the champ. for mankind to God. Yeah. Okay, that's good. So here's the here's the I know, listen. Mark, go ahead. Mark with a C. Come on. one caution that isn't right but very often people perceive the sun is fading us from the over something right and so we make sure we have something wrong Yeah, that would be a bad idea. Yeah, that would be the wrong way to put 'em in the center. And um and uh one argument would be well the sun is still Carol, please. Save this group of people. Yes. You have made him to have dominion over the works of your hands and have put all things under his feet and then first number 132 And when he says all things are put under a kid, it means evidence that we can put all things under except is now that all things are under Object. So it's been we're moving in that direction logically All things or everything point sound um Yeah, that's good. Yeah, that's good. Okay. Those are all good answers. If you wanted to summarize the answer that would include everything that you have said, is we would go back to the earlier questions and answers in the category. Catechism and remember what our task is. Our task is simply to describe what the apostles have taught us from the prophet It's a descriptive task. So the reason why we talk about the sun being in the center is because that's how the apostles talk about him. And that's what you have just You kept showing me scriptures where the sun ends up being exalted. Right? So that's all we're really trying to do. Remember what your rule is. The rule is scripture. We're not trying to cut we're not using our imaginations in here. We're trying to color within the lines what have they communicated to us. And we want to describe that accurately. And we believe that it's accurate to give preeminence to the sun. I mean, we don't see, we see the activity of the Holy Spirit wherever the sun is active. We saw that in the scriptures, but we don't see attention being drawn to the Holy Spirit like we do to the Son. And it's the same thing with the Father. And we can come Come up with reasons for that, but we're we're really trying to describe the um apostolic tradition that we want to continue to hand down. That's it. Yeah, we just want to be true scripture. And that's what you all were doing. And I gave you the broader answer. Okay. So so um let's go ahead now into the main lesson Now what I've done for the main lesson is I put together a main lesson and I was excited about the main lesson. And then I was doing a little bit more research and And um my former seminary president, Joseph Pfeiffer, he put together a study guide for the conf for the shorter catechism. I'm not sure if any of you have bought that, but it's Great. Yeah, Carol has a copy right there. The the uh 12 and up kids are going through it. And I looked at what he had put together and I liked it better than what I did. So I lifted his questions and I have asked him before in person if I may do so. And he said that's fine. So I lifted his questions. I thought it would be at least a good start for us on this next catechism question. And then we can see if we need to add to it. That will be the majority of the the lecture today is on the topic of God's decrees. We're really just going to talk about, well what is the decree? And then and then you can see by the time we get to number eight on page two, or th yeah, page two, we'll get into some practical, well, why is that why do we I care. Okay? And then the final page in your handout is just for fun. I don't need anybody freaking out on me. because I put that thing in there. This is a very famo this is a I don't need to say very famous because that's redundant. This is a famous diagram Created by a man who is an original reformer named William Perkins. It was to accompany his work entitled Predestination This chart is called the golden chain. If you look with a magnifying glass, At the top left hand corner, you will see that they created the chart to help students who are basically visual learners. And they would take their little teacher pointers. thing and they'd point at each of the parts so that they could then learn all of the heads of religion. So you'll you'll notice that straight down the center is the shorter catechism. Off on the left and the right are more specifically the doctrine of election The decrees, predestination, and the doctrine of election are all part of the same conversation. So before we begin the main lesson, let me ask you very quickly, just to try to get us warmed up a minute, when you hear the word election or predestination, What is it that you're usually thinking of or what kind of conversation are you in? God's sovereignty. Very good. And why do you end up in these conversations about God's sovereignty? when we're talking about election or predestination. And if you don't know, that's okay. People are taking bones of God. Choosing not choose them because we're wanting them to bring the free or control over there and Marilyn said that they are picking a bone with God choosing or not choosing individuals, and she makes the observation that they are usually frustrated with the teaching because they want to have control over their own destinies. Okay. Kara. Do you mean chosen in terms of salvation or chosen for a work you're talking about? Salvation, she whispers to me. Yeah, so what she's communicating is those are the kind of conversations sh she finds herself when these terms are being used. Any others? Yes, Brian. Yeah, the f the f the Yeah, so uh but that's still a question inside of the larger heading called um What's going on with man and his responsibility, free will, all that kind of stuff. Who's used the S word? Cheryl Bond. Welcome back from Tennessee. Yeah, so can you tell us what you meant by soteriology? That's what you said, right? Okay. I you mean like a definition Or an example or s I don't know, just uh some more information. Bring salvation to these people. Okay. How he saves. Yeah. Alright. Yeah, so uh so tear means save. In the Greek. There you go. Drop knowledge again. So just the you know these these terms they seem complicated, but they just mean things like S-O-T-E-R. How's that? Okay, so that just means save. Right? Okay, but then human responsibility And and the human will, or uh what faculties do human beings have? Do they have a soul and an intellect and a Will and uh you know those kinds of questions, they are obviously connected to the saving conversation, but they're usually under the heading of anthropology. So what we're doing right now is when you are having conversations in your real life You'll notice that those conversations and these terms are used under various theological loci. All right. Theological loci are the traditional topics or categories under which we place these different questions and conversations. If you were to open up any book of theology, you would see in the table of content Pneumatology, that would be a study of the spirit. Soteriology, you get it, you get what I'm saying, right? You're all experienced with this. So the theological loci, I'm not going to write it down. You can't see it anyway. The theological loci that we've talked about so far are soteriology, how God saves. Anthropology, who are humans? You can have another one. Angelology. Who or what are angels? But here's the interesting thing. Though those are the typical places, I expected you to say that this morning. Anthropology, soteriology. I expected you to say that's where I hear the word election. Traditionally speaking, however, though those terms are used in that conversation, they first and foremost flow from the doctrine of God. It is not first and foremost a conversation about how God saves. Predestination is first and foremost about the destiny of all things, not just The destiny of some human beings. It's about God ordering all things toward a particular end. That's how I'm letting you know how this conversation has unfolded throughout Time. Okay? You can agree or disagree. I don't I'm just telling you the facts here. Who is in control is another way to put it with the sovereignty language. Yes. Yes. Not just man, though that word in the literature is used for both conversations. Yeah, and and you'll notice on this chart even, if you had a magnifying glass. Yes, or you can do a Google search. Yeah. Is it called online? No, that was online. It's it's on the website. It's called the golden chain. And it's on the website. It is. It's tricky. But if you look into an interview if you look just below the Trinitarian distinctions between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, then you'll see predestination. Alright, now on the left and the right, it will get into the soteriological discussions of who saves and how. But notice that the main line. is really all every it's everything. It's all of history and its end. Every single molecule. Right So that's the larger discussion when we're talking about predestination. And then election, usually in the theological literature, is just a species of one way in which God predestines. And it has mostly to do with the question of who is saved and how, and the question of who is man. Those How you answer those questions matter. Okay? And uh people have given different answers to those things, and I'm gonna share with you with with what this church believes is the most faithful Alrighty, so that's the the conversation that you're in with me right now. I'm not trying to figure out at this moment how God God saves. Right now we're just talking about the purposes of everything. Okay? And that's what we're talking about with the decree. Now there's one other preliminary remark I wanted to make for you. But let me ask it in the form of a question. Natalie likes questions. Are you ready, Natalie? When we talk about the decrees of God, are we having a conversation about the imminent work of the Trinity or the economic work of the Trinity? There's the thousand dollar question. I don't have a thousand dollars. Hey. What do you think? Puzzle on that for a minute. Are we talking about the imminent work of the Trinity or the economic work of the Trinity when we talk about the decrees? I've never used the word eminent up here. Did I really? Yeah, that's why I was asked. Forgive me. Yeah. Yep, the inner life of the Trinity. Okay. Go ahead and share your rationale a little bit. We'd like And make sure you speak up. Um because everything is wrong Yeah. So the council um regarded models coming up in spirit. They have those conversations and then it is manifest which are coming into the world and just come Okay, that's pretty good. Everybody hear that? That was good theology right there. We are blessed. Alright, any other thoughts on how you would explain it? How would you answer the question? Is it the inner life of the Trinity or the outworking of salvation? What's that? Yeah, right. I heard no tell. What I think um make sure you speak up, please. I would really care up um because my yeah, initially my father yes both. Um but we could split the hair a little The decrease depending on how we're define them within the determination of eternity with the major imminent thing. But but because God isn't he's he can't decrease something and then it not have something So that's where it would would allow into the economy. Yeah. All right. Very good. So take a look at your shorter catechism. And I just want to point something out to you. Now, these are the kinds of things, this these kinds of things that we're thinking about should be thought about for a long time. Through uh I'll tell you the truth, before you even start thinking about them, you should be praying quite a bit. uh the church pulling together all of the scriptures to make these kinds of statements. And they did a lot of exegesis in the Hebrew and the Greek before they did so. Okay. So So if you think you're going to get this in five minutes, you got another thing coming. You need to meditate on these things. But I want to point out to you question number seven. Could someone please read that nice and loud? Because that's our question this morning. What are the decrees of God? Keep it going. You get to answer it too. The decrees of God are his eternal purpose according to the Council of His Okay, and who would like to read question number eight and the answer Nice and loud. God executes his degrees in the work of the re Okay. How does God execute his decrees? So just by looking at those questions you can see how they're thinking That this question number seven, though it has intimate connections with the economic work of the Son and the Father. Father and the Holy Spirit, you can see they've made a division here that the decrees are really happening in the determination and decisions of the Trinity among themselves, and then there is the execution of the plan. You see what I'm saying? So let's just kind of break this down a little more simply and then we'll look at the scriptures together. I just wanted us to get a picture. It's as if the Triune One God is an architect who's getting ready to build all things. They counsel together, meaning they put together the architectural plan, and then There is the decision at a particular moment to execute the plan and to build it. That's what's going on. So if we look at these questions, I hear what everybody here was saying, I thought they were great points. They're still looking at us, looking specifically at what is the Trinity doing among itself. And then when we get to question eight, we're going to start asking, okay, well then what are these works that he executes? Well, summarily speaking. Creation and providence. That covers everything. Then we're going to get into a little bit of a discussion on creation. And then we're going to get into a discussion on providence. And then we're going to go one lower and ask about a special providence that God enacts, which is called redemption. And then that then we're just going to take off. And that's it right there. It's all leading right to there. That's where the stream is leading. Okay. So let's then take a look at the decrees or the plan of God. And I want to do so by just considering some of these questions from my seminary president, Joseph Pipa. So we've already read the definition of the decree in shorter catechism number seven. And let's go ahead and list the things this definition says about the decree. You can see it's just listing one affirmation about the decree after So what are some things it says about the decree? This should be easy. It's his eternal purpose. It's according to the counsel of his will. It's for his own glory. And it's basically that thing wherein he has foreordained whatsoever. And that's the point I already made to you. See that word what so ever. We're not in a salvation discussion only. It's what so ever comes to pass. This is where these these terms flow out of it. It's a doctrine of God. Don't get that wrong. Okay, very good. So let's read Psalm 33, 10 through 11 together. This is just a sampling of some of the scriptures. There's lots of discussion to have. I just want to introduce to you the traditional doctrine. Who would like to read that nice and loud? Psalm thirty-three, verses ten and eleven The Lord brings the council of the nations to nothing. Man. Alright, very good. Thank you, Darren. Okay, so these are some pretty simple questions, but they're gonna continue to warm us up and get help us get our heads around these things. What is being contrasted in these two verses? It's good to put things in our own words, so let's do so. What is being contrasted in these two verses? Okay, very good. Thank you. Council of Nations and the Council of God. Does anyone disagree with Miss Lee? You better not. Do not do it. Okay. Looks like you're safe. All right, number two. What does the word counsel mean? Let's do our best to put it into our own words from Psalm 33. What do we mean here by the word council? Miss Tate and then Cheryl. Okay, is that what you were going to say? Plans? Plans and purposes. Alright. All right. What else would we say? Anything we want to add to this discussion of what we mean by the word or rather, what do the scriptures mean by the word? Ah conference, that's fancy. Yes. Uh-huh. Conference. Having a conference. Yes. Very good. Conference. Advice. Okay. Advice. That's interesting. Yes. Oh, to advise. Very good. Okay. I like that. Yep. Yes. So so when it when I think when I follow a council I'm thinking about, you know, a group of people coming together to make a decision. Uh-huh. So it's so men's decisions versus God's decisions versus the case. Right. Okay, so we then have uh a picture of two councils Meaning a body, a decision-making body. One is a council of men, and the other is a Trinitarian council. Okay. Very good. And if we were to keep teasing this out because of the analogy that's being drawn. And we could say, well, there's an ultimate goal intended, and we need to make sure that that's the goal that we really want, that it's good And we would need to reverse engineer to see, okay, well, how are we going to, what's the first step we're going to take towards accomplishing that goal? What are all the things that need to be in place? Right? That would be called wisdom or prudence. And that's what they actually that's where we get our idea of prudence is by looking at the prudence of God. and his planning. Right, okay, very good. That's pretty good. Okay. What's that? Yeah, Psalm 2. How does it remind you of Psalm 2? Okay. So that's another aspect is that we do have the two councils and we recognize the two councils. All the time within the world. Can anybody think of those who are getting together and coming up with a plan and trying to prudently outwork the plan that stands against God Very good. I like that. That's good. Yeah, it's not. Yeah. Right. So we see this same thing over and over and over again. And so we know the answer of C, which is who controls the plans of men, and that's God. That's God. Can anybody think of a biblical character who made the mistake of thinking That he was the reason why he was so great. Nebuchadnezzar. What's that Elizabeth? Oh yeah. Everybody but Jesus? Yeah. But especially Nebuchadnezzar, he was even pictured as a tree which fed the entire world And the birds found their refuge within him. And he got to thinking, Yeah, I really am great. Right? But we know that when we see from the divine perspective, when we are allowed into the shouldn't have gotten that wrong, and then God helped him get it right. Right? And at the end, he actually gives exaltation and worship to Yahweh. We will eventually, but can you specifically bring out what can what interests you about Ishmael? about Sarah more than Ishmael, but Sarah um trying to bring about what she thought was rather than her way. Uh-huh. Um God's plan is not toward it. Correct. But there is something that happened that um Um was it intended from that point of view? Is it used from that point of view? I that's closer to the question with that, but that's where Yeah, and I like that you're already trying to figure out the best word to describe what you see. Because remember, the main task is let's get the mosaic right. You know what I mean by that? Let's get the mosaic right and then we have to add sometimes to the best of our ability. And and I don't mean your ability as a person, I mean our ability as as a human race based on what's been revealed to us. It seems to me that we can get to a certain point where we've we're we're uh at our limit of speaking. You know. Um but but that's good. Um I think we'll eventually get to there, but could you just restate it for me one more time? Because I want to make sure that I'm really looking So in the context of this question, and I I was getting ahead, you're talking about the conhold. Uh huh. And so this is an example of the console of men. Right Is it an odds or is it a part of these oh or the question we're having, is it an odds with God decreed? I think there's a place where we would say yes Yeah. But then the rest of the question here, what what we're going to pass, is agreement that is council. Yes. So I believe the council of that And bring about something that students have said. So then at the same time, how can we also say that whatever what's going on from the past Right. That's the that's the question. How can we say both? But I think the first thing that I want to say is that we must say both because we see both. And then it seems to me, and and I would love to your your feedback on this. Then it seems to me that a third question is, or second question wherever we are, is, well then how can these two things find resolution? with each other? And that is the tougher question for me. But I usually start with just describing what I see and then leaving the resolution of it to a little bit later. And that that can be that can be tougher. Yeah, because I s I see evidence of both. I see evidence of men coming up with evil plans. And that Then I see evidence in the scriptures of God was even behind the dec the fact of those being there. And then we got to talk about how well how do we talk about that and still do justice to James, for example, where he says God does not sin nor lead people to sin. You know, all that kind of stuff. Yeah. You gotta figure out how all these little mosaic tiles go together. Yeah, those are great case studies. Also is the changing point where Maybe that'd be true. You can get rid of all those female people children by all that's compared to that, but I think it's a thing that those words that we have to can also not allow them to reuse it. Yeah, they do. And they're a difficult it's a difficult conversation. But it's really hard to uh to get to get rid of that people that we got, but it was just able to bring that validation and put it built, Pharaoh accountable. He holds Pharaoh accountable and then on the other hand he hardens his heart. Yeah. So those are the kind of things that we see throughout the scriptures and then we have to work at how do we talk about these things. So those are great questions. So the people were saying the words were Right. Yeah. And we're going to see an example, if we can get to the end of this lecture, we'll see an example of in Peter's pre Preaching, he he doesn't really resolve he does not resolve it for us, but he states what we're all talking about right now and the question that Cara's raising when he says by the determined foreknowledge of our God he was crucified. And then the whole crowd is held responsible for their actions and called to repentance for crucify. It's all over the place. Abimelech is a good one. Yeah. Thank you for remembering our sermon series. Okay, let's keep going though. Psalm 33 is bringing out. He says, the Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing. The counsel of the Lord is the thing that stands forever. You see that in 33 That's what we need to hear this morning. Okay. So then according to let's take a look at Isaiah 46, 10. We're still just looking at some representative screen Scriptures, certainly not all of them, representative scriptures on the decree of God. We see that it's his counsel It cannot be thwarted, not even by men, meaning humans. When we get to Isaiah 46, 10. Here we see another description of who God is and how He does His planning. Verse 10: declaring the end from the beginning And from ancient times, things that are not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure So it's a really big deal to say that you can uh declare the end from the beginning. And then we see a poetic parallelism with him talking about from ancient times things that are not yet done. amongst the reformers as eternal. So they they drive it all the way back into the plans that God had made, and then the plans that and then there's the execution of those plans. in the creation of temporal space and time and human history and angel history, the history of the angels. Now if we look at Ephesians chapter 3, which we're really starting to get familiar with, Ephesians. And the reason being is because there's so much there on the doctrine of God right there in the beginning. Well, we see a continuation of um Paul teaching us about God in Ephesians chapter three. Verse eleven. And I'll just read that again. Okay, so I'll start in uh whoa Okay. Let's start at verse 8. To me, who am less than the least of all the saints, this grace was given that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ and to make all see what is the fellowship of the mystery which from the beginning of the ages has been hidden in God. You see that kind of language? Who created all things through Jesus Christ And now what we could do is we could go to 1 John and see how all things were made through the Word, for example. Okay. To the intent That now the manifold wisdom of God might be made known by the church to the principalities and powers in the heavenly places. And then check this out, verse 11, according to the eternal purpose. Which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. So we're looking at that adjective as doing the work of showing us that this is a plan that That the Trinity counseled together to make. And that it involved all things. And then we keep going. Accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. Remember, what he's trying to accomplish is not just your individual salvation. Look at First Corinthians 15 another time and see that Christ is putting all things under the glory. Glory of the Father. Psalm eight is coming to be. Then we get into verse number twelve, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence through faith in him. And uh stuff there. Okay, that's good. And we've looked at some of the other verses around there. Okay, I'm just gonna keep plodding along here. We can see that um if you accept this Reading of the scriptures, then the plan is happening among the Trinity themselves, and then it is executed. Okay. So then if the decree of God is eternal and God is unchangeable, do you think God's plan can be changed? And this is this is meant to be a very encouraging I keep doing redundancies. This is meant to be a strengthening verse This should be on your refrigerator. Hebrews chapter 6, verses 13 through 18. Let's look at this together and look at the argument that it the authors make. And we'll note particularly verse seventeen. Sometimes we read over verses like this. Not really sure what to do with them, but when we get our theological categories down correctly, we know where to locate conversations like this. in talking about God's foreordination of whatsoever comes to pass. So I'll read this aloud. Hebrews 6, 13 through 18. For when God made a promise to Abraham, so the focus is the promise. Because he could swear by no one greater, he swore by himself, saying, Surely surely blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply you. And so, after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise. So the focus here so far is there's a promise. But, you know, our inclination would be to doubt that promise. But God's showing that He really means this by swearing by the greatest thing that He can So then we move into verse 15. And so after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise, speaking of Abraham. For men indeed swear by the greater, and an oath for confirmation is for them an end of all dispute. confidence in this in this promise. Thus God, determining to show more abundantly to the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel. He confirmed it by an oath that by two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, We might have strong consolation who have fled for refuge to lay hold of the hopes set before us. So what's he saying there? He's saying he has given you confidence. In two main ways. First main way, guess what? God does not lie. Second main way, the immutability of What he has set out to do will not be thwarted. What he had planned will come to be. And then you can see that now the author of Hebrews goes ahead and makes the application after the in uh verse eight in Uh final or I'm sorry, he says this we might have strong consolation who have fled for refuge to lay hold of the hopes set before us. That, you know, you're gonna run to him for refuge and you're gonna run to God for your hope. Well, what makes you what makes you know that you're not a sucker? Well these two main things. The immutability of God's counsels and God does not lie. I just I just love that. And if you don't love that the This morning. We've got some coffee in the Narth next for ya. And we're gonna pray for you during the service. Yes we do. We get tired, and when we get tired Tired, we think dumb thoughts. Especially about God. What's that? We get sloppy. We forget who he is We'll talk about that in the sermon. So um what we'll do is we'll pick up on this lesson. Uh Mark with a C, can we can I catch you next week? Because we're at time. Do you want to live in the You just want to leave it in the air? Go for it. Oh okay, okay, great. We'll okay, so we'll return to this lecture. We'll return to this lecture next week when we are gonna Oh, next week we are not returning to this lecture. There's no Sunday school next week. It'll be the week after that. We're going to go ahead and look at some of the questions you were that uh have been raised. With Romans 9 11, 13, 1134, is God's decree dependent on what he knew men would do? And then we'll go from there. uh some warnings on sin and evil and then we'll look at the practical part. And then once we're done with the decree you can see we're gonna hop right into the temporal manifestation of all things. That's fun, right? Yes. All right, let's pray.