So if there seems to be a little bit something strange in my delivery this morning, it's because of that. So uh I would ask your uh your encouragement in that regard. Matthew eight, picking up with verse twenty-eight, reading through the end of the chapter When he had come to the other side, to the country of the Gergasthenes, there met him two demon-possessed men coming out of the tombs, exceedingly fierce So that no one could pass that way. And suddenly they cried out, saying, What have we to do with you, Jesus, you Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time? Now, a good way off from there, there was a herd of many swine feeding. So the demons begged him, saying, if you cast us out, permit us to go away into the herd of swine. And he said to them, Go. And when they had come out, they went into the herd of swine. And suddenly the whole herd of swine ran violently down the sea place into the sea and perished in the water. And those who kept them fled, and they went away into the city and told everything, including what had happened to the demon-possessed men. And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus. And when they saw him, they begged him to depart from their region. And the Lord had his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. We have in these verses what I would like to define today as a divine appointment. It was about 30 years ago, I suppose, when evangelism explosion was still kind of the thing to do in Christian churches. And I was a member at Saverna Park Epi Church. And that was uh part of the way that evangelism was done there. In those days you could actually walk up to someone's house at 7 o'clock at night and bang on the door and not expect to get shot And so that's what we would do. Teams of people would go out and we would bang on doors and we would make what is called cold contacts. And talked to them about the gospel if they would give us permission to come in and speak with them. Now, before we went out on such a thing, we met for prayer at the church And during the prayer time, we would earnestly ask God to provide us with a divine appointment. We ask Hidden to arrange things so that just the right person would be prepared to open the door to us, that that person would have the events of their life so so uh subscribed or so uh uh guided such that when we showed up at the door they are not only inclined to hear us but had been prepared to hear the gospel from us to learn just what it is that they could do so that they would know that they have eternal life. Now that was the divine appointment that we asked God to make for us. Well, what we see in this passage is a divine appointment, all right, but it's a divine appointment of a different sort, a completely different sort. There is nothing random. There is nothing by chance that is happening in these verses Jesus has been led by the Holy Spirit. He is going through a series, Matthew is presenting to us, a series of things that are happening here. that Jesus is now being called upon to respond to in such a way as to reveal things about himself. Jesus is being led. He's being led by the Holy Spirit. And he is being led, I believe. Not knowing in his human nature what lies in front of him. He is learning obedience. He is learning what it means to live by faith and not by sight. So he sets off in a boat from that area where he is coming from, and he goes over to the other side of Galilee, uh the Sea of Galilee. We talked last week about the storm that happened while he was en route, and now he lands in the land of the Gergacenes. The Holy Spirit has left and led him there, and the Holy Spirit has gone before and has set up circumstances that he is going to encounter when he gets there. Like the storms on the lake, this didn't just happen. Jesus is being called upon to do mighty works Works that reveal who he is, so he could open the eyes of the disciples and he could open our eyes to see him for what he really is. Now the demons come out to greet him. It doesn't come through in the English versions as strongly, but what they do there, the words that are talking about, is that they come out to greet him. It's not where he just comes and and and encounters uh uh two guys that are demon possessed and they just are kind of there. But no, the demons drive these uh men out to greet to meet Jesus. The parallel, the word that is used there, is as if there is a city and an army is coming to besiege the city and this and the city sends out envoys or sends out ambassadors or sends out somebody to see if they can make peace with a guy who is coming to besiege the city. That's how this is presented. These demon-possessed men come out to greet Jesus because he is coming there. And they recognize he's coming there with deadly intent. They come out and they say, we know there's a reason why you're here. No ordinary man dares to come near us. None of them We are too strong. We're too vicious. No one just haphazardly walks into our region. Well, you are here. You son of God, why are you here? It's the questions that the demons ask that set up the whole Teaching of this passage is the key to understanding what it's all about. These questions reveal to us that this is in fact a divine appointment. But it's not a divine appointment so that someone can hear the gospel and be saved. This appointment is between Jesus and the demons. To show us, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that this man Jesus is the one who will judge all evil in this world. both men and demons, and that he is the one who, by his own authority, will cast them out of the world of men, the world And he will cast them into the sea of eternal torment where they will live, or where they will be subjected to God's judgment forever. Brothers and sisters, Matthew's gospel in talking about this particular passage is very significantly different than the past than the same event as it is pictured in Mark and Luke. Matthew, Matthew's version is virtually half of what Mark and Luke teach us. Matthew's version, look at it. Matthew's version here says virtually nothing about the two men after they were healed. It's not about the men out of whom the demons came. Matthew's focus is not on them and how their life was restored. He's not on the gospel of how God brings people out from under the control of demons. That's not his focus. It is certainly implied, but it's not the focus The focus is on Jesus, who he is, and what he has come to do. So the main players in this passage are Jesus and the demons. And that's the way the Holy Spirit set it up. That's what this divine appointment is all about. And that's what we must learn from it. Matthew is showing us here that Jesus is the one who is going to judge men and angels, and that he will come to execute judgment in a day that is coming, a day that is still in our future. And that when he does, he will do so, executing judgment by the word of his very own authority and not of someone else's. Now I'm going to develop this, and I'm going to ask that you pay very careful attention to what I say from here on out. For I hope to prove what I just said from Scripture. And I hope to prove it beyond any reasonable doubt, because it is just that important. And then what I hope to do is convince you how we should respond to this teaching. First. Brothers and sisters, let's nail it down. Jesus as being revealed here is not being revealed in his role as the suffering servant. He's not being revealed as the Messiah who comes with healing in his wings, as we've talked about earlier. He's not being revealed as the as the one who is the Son of God standing in the bow of a boat. calming and causing all of creation and all of the wind and the uh the seas, the waves to respond to his uh commands. That's not the picture we're getting of Jesus here Rather, we're seeing that Jesus is the one to whom all judgment in this world has been given. Look at how the demons recognize him. Look at how they speak to him. What have we to do with you, Jesus? How are we going to respond to this? What's going to happen to you? What's going to happen here? It's a colloquialism. You have to understand it the way it's written. But that's essentially what they're getting across. What's going on here, Jesus? You Son of God. That didn't come from the disciples. It's the first time these words have been spoken. You, Son of God. Have you come here to torment us before our time Now we will talk about the very last statement before our time in just a minute. But for now, recognize how Jesus, how the demons recognize Jesus as the Son of God, who will judge them? If you came, did you come to torment us now, before the time? These demons see Jesus as the Son of God as judge of all creation. Now Jesus himself affirms this in the Gospel of John, the beautiful Gospel of John, the John who speaks so pleasingly about Jesus in such soft and glowing terms, but which the entire Gospel is in fact a gospel of the judgment of God on this world. And there we see in John 5, 17 through 23, if you care to turn there and see that I'm going to basically give you what he says. Jesus is there talking and he talks about how the things I've spoken about earlier, that the only thing Jesus does is what he sees God the Father doing ahead of time. So Jesus is following and doing what God wants him to do in individual circumstances. And then he says there, very importantly, for as the Father raises the dead and gives life to them, even so the Son gives life to whomever he, the Son, wills to give it. Oh man. We like that. Jesus is the one who gives life. And he gives life to whomever he desires. Is that good news or what? And he does so by his own authority, whom he desires to do it. But then he goes on. But he says the Father judges no one. God the Father judges no one. You can imagine the Jews say, what? God the Father judges no one. Rather, he has given all judgment to the Son. So that all should honor the Son just as they honor the Father. Jesus is the great judge of all mankind, brothers and sisters. He is the one to whom every person will one day give an account for their life as they lived it. He is the one who will strike down all the powers and principalities that are currently in the spiritual world and who will, by his own authority, condemn them to eternal death forever. Even as the demons here in this passage acknowledge, have you come to torment us now It's no question of will you torment us? There's no question here of, you know, have we got some room to negotiate our future, you know? About this whole judgment thing. You know, can we put that beside us? Can't we just be friends? Have you come to torment us now? They ask. We know that this is our ultimate fate. We know that for all eternity we will be experiencing the full wrath of God laid upon us for the evil that is in us. We know this. And we know that as the Son of God, it will be your command, it will be your decision that will bring this about. And brothers and sisters, that's what this divine appointment is all about. To reveal to the disciples and to reveal to the whole world that this man, Jesus, is the judge of all the earth. earth. Now secondly, brothers and sisters, it is here being revealed In these words, that there is a definite day, a day that is yet to come, when this judgment on men and angels will come to pass. Have you come to torment us before the time Jesus in his first coming did not come to execute final judgment on the world. He came to save the world, as John 3 tells us. He came to establish salvation by grace in the very face of judgment. All the world now stands under a curse. It is under the sentence of condemnation, first delivered in the garden. Not everyone in the world, not every power that is in the world, but the cosmos itself will be saved in the day of judgment. And that's what Jesus came to do, was to save the world, to save God's creation, not everyone in it. Now these demons knew that such a day was ahead of them. That's why they're asking Jesus why he has been sent to encounter them at this point. And what they learn is that Jesus is in fact going to enact judgment on them now, not final judgment. But judgment nevertheless, and that's what we should see in the further actions of this passage. We see a metaphorical way that judgment is going to be enacted. He allows them to go into a herd of pigs. He allows them to go into unclean animals. He allows them to inhabit creatures who are, by God's word, designated to be, by nature, children of wrath. By nature, unworthy of being in the presence of God. But these demons find no relief there They find that they're not given animal hosts in which they could continue to infect the land there about. And perhaps one day, I don't know how it works, but perhaps depart from those demons to inhabit some other soul that existed there. They did not find hosts for their presence through whom they could work terrible deeds and bring fear into the neighborhood as they had done with the demon the demoniacs before. No, as these animals are infected, they go crazy and they rush headlong into the sea. They carry the demons with them. The demons are judged. They are cast away from the company of men, and they are sentenced to metaphorical death. Now this is a metaphor of what is going to happen to them on the day when the wrath of God falls on them forever. And brothers and sisters, that day is yet in our future. As we see specifically in the Jesus, in the John passage, that Jesus is the great pass, the great judge of all the earth. So I would invite you to turn to the writings of Paul in 2 Thessalonians 1, verses 6 through 10. And there we see the clear Complete and final statement, not final, but the complete statement that this day is yet to come. In that passage, Paul is teaching to the Thessalonians. These talking to Gentile Christians. The Greek city of Thessalonica. I've actually been there. It's quite a beautiful port. So he's talking to these Greek Gentile Christians, and perhaps some Jews who are among them, and he tells them that there will come a day When though they are Gentiles, they will be given rest. They will be given rest from the ones who are persecuting them now. They will be given rest as those who have uh who are uh serving demons and serving the power of demons have been driving them to inflict lives of misery on them, even as the demoniacs were uh were inflicting misery on the people and uh that surrounded them And he says that all of those people who are oppressing you and making you miserable, he is in effect saying these are people who are serving demons and doing so. And then Paul goes on to say, there will become a day when Jesus will be revealed from heaven. He will come with his mighty angels. His mighty angels Something that only God has been given in the Old Testament control of. And then he says, and on that day he will take vengeance on those who do not know Christ. who do not know God. Jesus will take vengeance on those who don't know God. And on those like the Jews who know God but have not obeyed the Lord Jesus Christ. And he makes a distinction there. He talks about two groups of people He says that on that day, these two groups of people, which essentially take up all of the people on the earth who are outside of Christ, Jews and Gentiles, He says that on that day they will be punished with everlasting destruction, cast away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. Paul tells us that these two groups of people will see a judgment come upon them. That is not a judgment just on the Jews, as happened in A. D. 70 in Jerusalem, but that will come upon all people, Jew and Gentile alike. And this is a judgment for the whole earth. It's a definite day that is coming. A person has to rip this passage out of its entire context to draw other conclusions than that. And this is a day that the Lord has made. It will be a terrible day. It is that day that is the subject of Old Testament prophecy. It is a day which is the subject of the teachings of our Lord Jesus Himself. And brothers and sisters, it's a day of which these demons knew. And as they knew it, so must we. This world and all who lived in it will not go on forever as it is. Paul told the philosophers in Athens, Paul told the philosophers in Athens that God has appointed a day, a specific day. When he will judge the world in righteousness, and he will do it through a man he has raised from the dead. Jesus, the resurrected Lord, is the judge of all the world, and he will judge the Greek philosophers who in Athens who still cling to the puny philosophy that they possess out of their own resources and who thereby deny Christ and the authority of God's word He will judge the wicked people in this world who terrorize God's people and persecute them and put them to death, whether they're doing it in a Roman arena or whether they're doing it in the hills of Iraq. And he will judge professing Christians Who have heard the word of truth, but suppress it in unrighteousness And he will judge Satan, and he will judge his legions, and he will do so in a manner similar to what we see in this passage. Brothers and sisters, we must believe this. Because that is what God reveals to us in this passage. And from many other passages that teach the same thing The last thing I want us to glean from this passage is this. A man who is both savior and judge is not the kind of Lord that the world wants. And this tells us just how deep in sin and just how powerful Satan's grip is on the world of darkness. Look at how the townspeople respond to what Jesus did. The shepherds run away in terror. I can't blame them. Pigs go nuts. They go rushing into the sea. They're probably thinking, oh my goodness, the guy who owns these pigs is going to cut me up like a little you know, something I don't know what. No, I didn't say that. People like pigs. But the shepherds run away in terror. They run back to the town. And Matthew tells us that these shepherds also told also told the people of the town not only what happened to the pigs, but what happened to the demon-possessed men. Now, brothers and sisters, you would think this would be good news. But that's not how the townspeople respond. Not in Matthew's version. Now think about it. These men were demon-possessed. They were so terrible that the people in the community wouldn't go near them. A whole section of the countryside was denied the people of the town to go walking through because of these men that were there. This land was controlled by the powers of darkness. You would think that they would rejoice when that evil had been lifted. How many of you have read uh uh some of those things about the present darkness. I forget the guy's name, the novels. Pardon? Frank Paretti. Yeah, Frank Peretti's novels. And boy, you see in visual, uh very graphic visual images there of how the oppressive presence of spirits, evil demons and stuff, can take over and can bring about so many evil things in a community, even in a church. It's probably Peretti's best uh advancement of the gospel. Some of his theology is a little suspect. But you would think that these townspeople would rejoice that this evil had been removed from a section of their land. Furthermore, you would think that they would rejoice that these two brothers, these two fellow citizens, these two people who probably had friends and relatives, were no longer under the controls of demons. A spiritual healing had happened Why are they not thinking, oh boy, it's good to get my son back. It's good to get my friend back. It's good to be able to sit down in peace with this brother that I have missed. You would think that even with the loss of the pigs, that they would say, Hey It's not that big a price to pay. There's awful there's always a lot of pigs. There's plenty of pigs. Well get more pigs. And if Jesus can cast out demons, then certainly we can appeal to him, and he's going to furnish us with something to replace the pigs. Here was a Savior and Lord who had revealed to them, though, that He was also the judge of all the earth. And you would think that they would rush to him and embrace him and bow before him and believe in him, but they didn't. They asked him to leave. Right now. You see, they knew the darkness. They knew what the darkness was like, and yet they preferred the darkness to the light. Sinful men, apart from a work of the Holy Spirit, Do not want a Savior who is both Lord and Judge of all the earth. So, brothers and sisters, we must recognize that what is true of these townfolk is true for many, perhaps the majority, who are in the world today. Do not expect the gospel of Jesus Christ to be well received by all. Do not expect that it will be well received by many. Do not respect that it will be well received by most. Do not think That all that stands in the way of a person embracing Jesus Christ is that they really just don't know who he is. These demons knew who Jesus was. He was the Son of God. They knew that he was the Savior and Judge of all mankind. Do not think that the only problem that stands before another person And keeping them from the faith is simply a matter of education, of instructing them in what is the truth of Christ. These people in that town knew who Jesus was at that point, but they didn't want him. And that great apostasy, that great sin, that great rebellion is the ground of their judgment. Brothers and sisters, we have to embrace the truth of Jesus as he is presented in the gospel. But we have to realize that the Jesus who is presented in the gospel is not a popular figure. He's not the man to whom the world will rush to embrace. This man, Jesus, as he is. The truly loving Lord who offers salvation to all who believe and who obey his gospel is also the great judge of the universe who can and who will sentence those who oppose him. Who reject Him as Lord, He will sentence them to outer darkness, for they will be subjected to eternal punishment forever So how do we respond to this? First of all, we have to embrace it and accept it as true We must not take Jesus for granted. Too often we presume upon the grace and love of God as shown to us in Christ And this leads us, by presuming upon it, to treat sin lightly, to make excuses for our own sin and the sins of others. Too often we think that repentance is merely saying, I'm sorry. And most of the time what we mean by that is I'm sorry I got caught. Too often we don't really realize just how disgraceful, just how shameful. And just how ungrateful it is to God for us to sin. When we do this, we lose sight of Jesus as he really is. We're quick to grab and to see Jesus as our sin bearer. But we do not see him often as he is pictured by John in the first chapter of the book of Revelation, where he is amidst a bright, shining, perfectly pure light. A light that is so holy that any who draw near perish in their sinful state. We presume upon his grace and we make light of his judgment, and that's not good. It's very dangerous. And if we persist in that, if it becomes synonymous with our life, Then, brothers and sisters, we need to perhaps consider whether we are Christian at all Secondly, we must be on guard against giving end to the world in its rejection of Christ. We must guard ourselves against toning down the gospel, making compromises with what the Bible clearly teaches. The world hates the idea of a Messiah who is Savior and Judge. It hates it. People can get red-faced when you talk about this. You see, the world wants to be saved. They like that idea. But they don't want to be saved in holiness. They want their sin and their salvation both. They want a God who does not get in the way of their own autonomy. They want a Lord who lets them call the shots in their life, lets them be the judge of right and wrong. And so therefore they want a savior, but they do not want a judge. And how we can resist how we can react to that? is we may be pressured, we may feel pressured to stop short of telling the full story. We may be tempted to timidity. We may be tempted to not blow the trumpet of warning. We may fall short of telling people that they must both repent. and believe. And we only tell them that they must believe. We hold out the offer of gospel But we have changed the gospel where it is not the gospel that Jesus preached or that Paul proclaimed. We do not tell people that God has reserved a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has raised from the dead. And we don't tell them that this man Jesus, who died on the cross, did not remain dead. He rose again from the dead. He ascended to heaven, and he sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty, complete the rest of it with me, from whence he shall come to judge. Who? The living and the dead. That is what we confess. That is the Apostles' Creed. And that is what the Church of Jesus Christ has confessed for 2,000 years. It is the earliest recorded nonscriptural confession. in our history. It dates back to approximately 100, shortly thereafter A. D. Jesus Christ is our great Savior and Lord. He is abounding in mercy and gracious to all who repent and believe. But he does not Allow injustice and sin to go unpunished. All of those for whom their sin in their life has not been imputed to Christ. And who are not subject to his saving work on the cross will certainly one day discover to their horror that the sin that is held to their account will lead to their judgment. And they will suffer the fate that these pigs metaphorically suffered in this passage. That is the gospel. Of judgment and salvation, in which we must believe. Let's pray.