Let us now turn in our scriptures to James chapter five, it's verse twelve. If you need a Bible, just raise your hand and I'll have one brought to you. I hope that the I pray that the Holy Spirit has taught you much from this book. We're coming to the end of this series. We have this sermon and then one more, and then we'll move into uh another evening series together. James chapter five verse twelve. other oath. But let your yes be yes and your no no, lest you fall into judgment. Let's pray. Father, I thank you. We thank you for these words that you have given to us and the promise that is implied that by your Spirit you are working these things into our very being, unselfing ourselves. From deception and making us into people that say what we mean and mean what we say. We pray that you would continue to do work in our hearts and transform us on the spot, that your kingdom would be on earth as as it is in heaven. In the name of Christ. Amen. We live within an age where flip-flops are thrown at political conventions. It tells you something of the flip flop nature of affirmation and denial. amongst leaders within our culture where they say one thing and then they say another thing that's the opposite. We can see that there's deception and lying running through as a kind of broad cultural stream. Don't think anyone would deny that. The question that we have before us tonight in this passage is, do you take truth seriously? Do you take truth seriously? I would bet you that you think you do. And yet I think there's a lot for us to learn here and to examine ourselves in terms of the truth James is coming to the end here of his letter. He's been talking to us about the tongue for quite some time. If you look back into chapter 3 within your scriptures, there are many verses there that are considering the tongue. If we then go to chapter 4, verse 11, and this is just some of the examples, he continues In terms of the tongue, by saying, do not speak evil of one another or slander. In again, in verse 13 of chapter 4, come now, you who say, again, a focus on the tongue expressing our arrogance and thinking that we're in control of the world. Or in five one, come now, you rich, weep and howl for your miseries that are coming upon you. Again an aspect of the tongue On how what they're saying should be reversed from the pride that they've developed. Or if you look at 5-9, do not grumble against one another, again, an instance of the tongue and how we would use our mouths And here we see in that list of instructions about the tongue, 5. 12, but above all, my brethren, do not swear. Or make unlawful oaths and vows. That's what we're focused on tonight. It's a continuation of the discussion of our communication And the main argument is that we as Christians should not wander into swearing, but instead we should tell the truth. It's part of being a disciple of Jesus Christ. Now the first question I want to ask is what is swearing? Depending on your age, you would think it's different things in different contexts. Here When it says, But above all, my brethren, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth, or with any other oath, you can see he's not speaking about profane language. That's one way that we talk about swearing. Don't swear at that person. But he's not speaking about foul language or profanity here. Swearing in this context is the taking of oaths or vows, like I remember one young man said Saying, I swear on my new bike that you can trust me with your new remote-controlled car. Those kind of things. That's actually a vow and an oath. And they're using the the power and the prestige of their new bike and the importance and solemnity that it has within their life to add weight to their words that the person with their remote control car would actually believe them. That's what all vows and oaths do. is to add solemnity and weight to your words. However, James is not forbidding here every kind of oath. There are in fact lawful oaths, and I do want to point out a couple instance of this to you. Please flip with me to Hebrews chapter 6, verse 16. It's right before James. For men indeed swear by the greater. And an oath for confirmation is for them an end of all dispute. Thus God, determining to show more abundantly to the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath So there are lawful oaths. You can also take a look at 2 Corinthians 1, verse 23. That's just a few Two books away. Moreover, I call God as witness against my soul, that to spare you I came no more to Corinth. Again, acting as a vow or an oath in what Paul is saying there. So he's not speaking against against all oaths. He's speaking against unlawful oaths. And what he has in mind here is particularly seen in Matthew 5, verses 33 through 37. Here, the religious leaders have misled the people. There's a particular kind of oath-taking that he's referring to, and he uses the exact language, except for a few parts, the exact language of Jesus. So let's turn to Matthew chapter 5. This is within the Sermon on the Mount, and it's verse 33. Speaking here against religious leaders that have led the entire nation astray, he begins in verse 33. Jesus. Again, you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not swear falsely, but shall perform your oaths to the Lord. But I say to you, do not swear at all, neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, nor by the earth, for it is his footstool, nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. Nor shall ye swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black. And then look at this, verse thirty-seven. But let your yes be yes. And your no no. For whatever is more than these is from the evil one. Here is an example of unlawful oaths, the religious leaders misleading the people. They had developed A philosophy of oaths that there were different degrees and rules for oaths. And Jesus is referring to all of the different kinds of oaths that you could take within that society. I know you're flipping around a great deal, but I do want you to turn to one more passage so that you can see how all of these teachings pull together. Turn to Matthew chapter 23. Beginning in verse sixteen, we see Jesus bringing this up again. And it becomes even more obvious that the religious leaders have become blind guides, leading people People into a ditch. And this is just another example of how they have done so with their philosophy of oaths and vows. Beginning in verse sixteen, Woe to you, blind guides, who say, Whoever swears by the temple it is nothing, but whoever swears by the gold of the temple, he is obliged to perform it. Fools and blind, which is greater, the gold or the temple that sanctifies the gold? And Jesus will begin to dismantle their case. So what's going on here, for example, is that some rabbis had begun to teach that an oath was not binding if it omitted God's name or did not imply it. All different kinds of oaths within the society. This is quite unfamiliar to us. Therefore, if you swore by your own life or someone else's life for the life of the king Or by your health or by some object, but avoided mentioning or alluding to the name of God, you were not strictly bound to that oath or that vow. You had room to leave the contract, so to speak. The Mishnah devotes one whole section to oaths It's an elaborate discussion of when oaths are binding and when they are not. In effect, the swearing of oaths, as one scholar says, has degenerated or degenerated into a system which indicated when a man could lie and when they could not. That's what was going on within the society, and so James is seeking to call back, just as Jesus was, his congregation from wandering. The Good Shepherd would do such a thing A vase of swearing became a fine art. The height of accomplishment was, while lying, to convince another you were telling the truth by bringing some person or eminent object into reference. Now here's another instance that I've learned from another scholar. One rabbi taught that if one swore by Jerusalem, one was not bound. But if one swore toward Jerusalem It was binding. Evidently, because that in some way implied the divine name. That's what was going on within their society. James warns them, of course, us, not to adopt the very same practices of those whom Christ himself rebuked, lest we also fall into the same judgment. into which those religious leaders fell. That's what you see there at the end of this passage with James, lest you fall into judgment. Instead, let your yes be yes and your no Interestingly, when Jay when when we connect James and Jesus, you can see the two wandering themes emerge. Remember the main point of James. The purpose statement is in chapter 5, verse 19 of James. Brethren, if any one among you wanders from the truth truth and someone turns him back, let him know that he turns a sinner from the error of his ways. Sermon on the Mount. Jesus is correcting the religious leaders, and James is joining Jesus in this correction. Don't wander into the wrong view of vows and oaths. In fact, in that in that section on the Sermon on the Mount, Now, and when Jesus says you have heard that it was says, but I tell you the truth, at every point he is contradicting a religious leader and how they have uh in their teaching Created a wandering within God's flock. Here, James, connected with Jesus, is also joining Jesus in that wandering theme that we as Christians would not have the wrong view of taking vows. Actually, it's silly to think that James only refers to vows here, though If we were to just locate vows and oaths as the only point that he's trying to make, I think we're missing the larger picture of what he's bringing out here in verse 12 for this community. He has a larger purpose. I want you to think of it this way. Let me read to you another passage that's a different ethical problem. Deuteronomy 22, 8. I'm not sure if you've heard this one before. It's quite Interesting. When you build a new house, then you shall make a parapet for your roof, that you may not bring guilt of bloodshed on your household if anyone falls from it. Does anyone know what a parapet is? It's a railing that would go around your roof so that when someone went up onto your roof, and this would have been very typical for Middle Eastern Homes where you could go up on the roof, and if if you fell off, you as the homeowner, or if someone fell off, you as the homeowner would be responsible for not putting a guardrail up so people would not fall into danger But the concern here is not just for ancient roofs and handrails. It is a concern in modern era, in our modern era, of uh handrails and guardrails, and that's in fact where all of those things came from. with us with building inspectors to make sure that guardrails were put up. But the concern is more broad within Deuteronomy. It's even more broad than handrails. You can see there the development through the scriptures. The fact is that you should not allow your property to be dangerous. So this would apply to a number of things that you would actually throw down salt and use a shovel when we have snow and ice on your sidewalk so that when the mailman comes in to He doesn't slip and fall and hurt himself, unable to then work for weeks. That principle from the parapet goes to things like that once we broaden it Clear entrances into our house so that people would not slip or trip in the dark. In the same way, James's concern about vows is simply one application of this. The Christian community is sanctified by the Spirit to speak truthfully in all that they do. Therefore, the illegitimate use of oaths and vows should not be a part of the Christian community. communicate. You don't find ways to be deceptive. We speak the truth in love When you say yes, mean what you say and say what you mean. When you say no, mean what you say and say what you mean. It's that simple. We don't need to get into all this casuistry. So the main question for you tonight is: do you speak truthfully? And I've already mentioned to you in the beginning of the sermon, I bet You think that you do. I want to share a few statistics with you. The um, I believe it's the univers it's the University of Massachusetts has done a study. To figure out how much lying is happening within our culture. So take this with a grain of salt, because I don't know anybody that was on that study board, but they're trying to approach this scientifically. The article that I read, citing the statistics here, said there are two things you can say for sure about human beings. Our opposable thumbs make us great at using tools, and we are all big fat liars By age four, ninety percent of children have grasped the concept of lying, and it just gets worse from there. That's how the article begins. And now let me quote a couple statistics. And this is for the purpose of you to uh shake up a little bit and do some self-examination in terms of your truthfulness. According to a 2002 study conducted by the University of Massachusetts, Massachusetts, 60% of adults, 60% of adults can have a 10-minute conver can not have a 10-minute conversation without lying at least once. So when you have ten minutes of a conversation, I want you to examine yourself and see if you have fudged the truth even just a little bit. And with some people it'll be worse than others. There are some people that that you really you're not so much concerned with communicating the truth, you more want to impress them. And you're willing to lie to do it. There are s here are some other uh statistics. Parents are lied to 86% of the time by children. Friends are lied to 75% of the time. You lie to your siblings 73% of the time. And your spouse 69% of the time. They continue in the article to say, but in general, we lie about things that aren't important, little things that we think will make us look better or more likable. In a survey by a British film rental company. 30% of respondents had lied about seeing the Godfather. They didn't want to admit that they hadn't seen it or if they had seen it. According to one estimate, 40% of people lie on their resumes. 90% of people looking for a date online lie in their profile. That's not really a surprise to us, is it? The biggest fib told by women is an obvious one. On average, ladies claim to weigh eight and a half pounds less than they actually do. Men, on the other hand, try to use their profile to convince potential partners that they are taller, richer, andor better educated than they actually are. And that's not a surprise either. These are all different examples of how we can fall into being deceptive and untruthful that this scientific study has discovered. And if these statistics are true, then perhaps you as a Christian Need to be honest with yourself. Maybe your yes is not yes all the time. And maybe you when you say no, that's actually not what you're saying. what you really mean. It's worth the exploration. Now, the perhaps the worst thing that could be done at this time is to basically just take James and Jesus and the Holy Spirit as a nitpicking angry person who is against you and just wants to point out Out your moral flaws. He is in fact raising this that you might do some self-examination, but that's not his posture towards us. I want you to consider this question, especially the youth. Have you liked it when someone has lied to you? What was the pain that was created within your life when they did so? Did you like it when someone lied about who you are and what you've done? I think the answer is a resounding no. And what is being communicated here goes along with the work that Jesus Christ is doing through his Holy Spirit. He said that he was coming to save this world from its corruption, from deceit, and from lying, and this is part of that. Do you really want to live in a world where there's lying? Where truth is not taken seriously? Do you really want to live in a world where people lie about you and make you look silly and embarrass you? Jesus Christ is dead set Against that, and he's renewing the world, beginning with the church. He's beginning to create the world, and lying is going out the window, just like every other kind of sin. In part now, but in full later. This earth will not have a lie on it when he returns. This is what it says in the beginning of James. Remember, this is what he's seeking to do, and he has begun with you in the recreation of this cosmos. He says in 118, of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we might be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. And therefore, he's not wagging his finger at us like Saturday Live church lady. He's saying these things to us because he's on our team and he's for us. He's seeking good for us, and lying is not good. Deceitful oaths and vows are not good. That's not what he wants for us. And so we can take him as his word in chapter 4 when he says, therefore we must submit to God. Let's together resist the devil so that he would flee from us. Let us draw near to God that he would draw near to you. Let us cleanse our hands. Let us purify our hearts and not be double-minded. Let our yes be yes and our no be no. Let us lament and mourn and weep. Let our laughter be turned to mourning and our joy to gloom. Let us humble ourselves in the sight of the Lord In terms of whether we're truthful or not, and he will lift us up. He will make us truth-bearers. Christ will, by his spirit and his truth, make you truthful. Please pray with faith. Father, the hidden recesses of the heart. Can all come out in this sermon. I pray, therefore, that you would send your Holy Spirit to us and that you would show us who we are. I pray that you would make Seven Run honest about themselves. Help them to humble themselves before you and to do true self-examination in terms of their I pray, Lord, that you would bring these words to mind when they're in that 10-minute con that 10-minute conversation where 90% of people lie. I pray that you would bring these things to mind when there are certain people in our lives that bring deceit out of us because we want to impress them. Or do we don't want to be a disappointment? Whatever it is, Father, I pray that you'd make us severely honest with ourselves to begin with. And that we'd be severely honest with you. I pray, Father, that this would be the beginning of the recreation of your world and that we would become a haven, a place where people know they are safe because we tell the truth. And we do so out of love. We ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen.