I ask that you rise and turn with me to Deuteronomy chapter twenty-three this morning. And I'll be reading a chapter twenty-three verses one through eight and then I'm going to skip a paragraph. You can read that on your own. It fits Within the things I'll say this morning, but I'm going to let you read that on your own, and perhaps we can talk about it again another time, and then I'll move into verses 17 and 18. 23, 1 through 8. And 17 and 18. He who has emasculated, is emasculated by crushing or mutilation shall not enter the assembly of the Lord. One of illegitimate birth shall not enter the assembly of the Lord. Even to the tenth generation, none of his descendants shall enter the assembly of the Lord. An Ammonite or Moabite shall not enter the assembly of the Lord. assembly of the Lord forever. Because they did not meet you with bread and water on the road when you came out of Egypt, and because they hired against you Balaam, the son of Baor, from Pethor of Mesopotamitamia, to curse you. Nevertheless, the Lord your God would not listen to Balaam. But the Lord your God turned the curse into a blessing for you, because the Lord your God loves you. You shall not seek their peace nor their prosperity all your days forever. You shall not abhor an Edomite, for he is your brother. You shall not abhor an Egyptian, because you were an alien in his land The children of the third generation born to them may enter the assembly of the Lord. And now moving into 17 and 18. There shall be no ritual harlots of the daughters of Israel, or a perverted one of the sons of Israel. You shall not bring the wages of a harlot or the price of a dog to the house of the Lord your God for any vowed offering. For both of these are abomination to the Lord your God. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we ask that through these words That you would, through your power, bring us into further and greater devotion to you, or perhaps devotion for the first time. We ask these things in your name. Amen. May be seated. Perhaps some of you are aware of uh a modern version of the the salty salt. If you grew up in the uh late eighties and the nineties and maybe even before you had some cassette tapes. For those of you who are really young, I'll explain what cassette tapes are later. Called uh salty, I think that was it. And he sang Bible songs, helps you to mem help children to memorize. These days we have some other record labels that are putting together things. One is called Rain for Roots And one of the songs that is often in our van, which Holly sings at the top of her lungs, is, and I'll shorten it, is Apples Don't Grow on Pear Trees. No apples there. It only grows pears. Or bananas don't grow on plum trees. No nanas come, they only grow plums. Your heart is where the words of your mouth grow. Your mouth is where the thoughts of your heart go. Jesus, change our hearts to bear, to bear good fruit. You see the point that's made, and you can see why we crank it up in the van. But if you looked at the fruit of your life or what comes out of your mouth, what kind of tree would you be? We've been learning in Deuteronomy that if you are a tree planted by God, by God's grace, that has been established, that's why we're calling this the Gospel of Moses. And if you are a tree planted by God, then you will grow over time, because we are developmental creatures. We will develop over time the fruit of righteousness, only righteousness. And devotion to his designs and the fruit of a thoughtful stewardship. Those are major concepts and motifs that run through. And you know this is repeated in a psalm. Can you think of the psalm that I'm thinking of? Just Psalm one verse three. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that brings forth its fruit in its season season, whose leaf also shall not wither, and whatever he does shall prosper. Must be a reflection upon Deuteronomy But maybe when I asked you the question, if you were a tree or if you had fruit, what kind of fruit would you bear? Maybe you didn't answer it with verse 3 of Psalm 1. Maybe you answered that question in a different way. Maybe by looking at your fruit, and I don't just mean in momentary lapses or momentary highlights, I mean throughout the course of your life looking at what kind of tree you would be. Maybe you are admitting to yourself that you are not a tree of righteousness, that you are not in fact planted by the Lord. Lord, that your roots are not by the rivers of water. And if so, then there is a difficult truth that comes through this morning in Deuteronomy which you cannot miss. I I tried to slow down and even in the way that I was saying it in the passage. Do you did you hear the repeated line? That we were not supposed to miss. That you shall not enter. the assembly of the Lord. These are difficult words, but they are true words. Those not devoted to Father, Son, and Holy Spirit shall not enter the assembly of Yahweh. Yahweh. That's the truth of the passage. Now there are case studies because that's the section that we're in, and it is in those case studies that we begin to flesh out if you will, exactly God's intention for his church. We have three case studies this morning. There's the case of disfigurement. There is the case of the illegitimate birth, and there is the case of inhospitality and hospitality, and all of those are revealing that same pattern: that those not devoted to Father, Son, and Holy Spirit shall not ascend So let's look at those together and seek to understand God's word for us. We begin in chapter 23 of verse 1, in the case of defigurement. Some of our translations have different words. Mine, for example, as you heard, says emasculated or mutilation. The disfigurement, if you were to look into this and to research it of what was going on within various cultures at this time, the disfigurement is performed by crushing In the first example, and can be performed by a kind of surgical procedure with a total removal. I'm being euphemistic on purpose this morning, so that you have the liberty to share what you want as parents. And furthermore, therefore, that this does not seem like the result of a construction accident. This is not the result of a birth defect or a castration as punishment which would happen during this time for adultery. adultery or a s uh a prisoner of war so that they could no longer build up their clan again. The research shows that the emasculation was actually a pagan religious act of total piety. And you need some background to understand these kind of things, although it's interesting that we never really moved beyond this. even in our own culture. During this time, religious devotion to different gods and goddesses were consummated through gender modification. we're hearing about this gender movement today, there is nothing new under the sun. Gods were thought to be genderless. And so a premier and consummate stage of humanity would be to be genderless also. Some gods were just thought to be uh gods of fertility and they were feminine, but they would have male devotees and those males also needed to resemble the feminine and so there was a surgical removal. The cases of disfigurement, therefore, were not the result of a construction accident or some kind of Other accident. This was the result of a personal and cultural religious choice. And I have lots of research to show you if you'd like on another time. In devotion to another God, in other words, they made this consummate decision. And all of this can sound a bit strange to us, although it doesn't sound as strange as perhaps it should. But gender modification or the elimination as an act of devotion has been around for a long time. Even today, and even amongst evangelical Christians, we see reasoning That seeks to remove gender from the person for pious devotion. Do you know what I'm talking about? There are arguments being littered throughout theological journals these days from Galatians chapter 3 verses 27 and 28. It says this, and I just want you to listen to this in terms of like a gender literary criticism. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek. You remember this one? There is neither slave nor free. There is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And they argue that since, as the children's catechism says, God is a spirit and does not have a body like men, in other words, our God is a genderless God. That to reach perfection is to place no significance on our genders. It is a flattening out of any kind even within our denomination. But this is a digression. If we get back to the point, those who are committed to other gods, verse 1, shall not enter the assembly. That's the refraining beat of the drum as we go through the passage. And if you want to, you can connect what's being said here. Throughout not being admitted into the assembly with chapter 22 of Deuteronomy, and the sermon that you heard last week from verses 13 through 29. You could summarize last week's sermon as laws of sexual sanctity. And if you were to see chapter 22, verses 13 through 29 flowing into the passage that we have before us this morning. In chapter 22, here is a main point. The marriage relationship is holy and unadulterated. And here in this passage, we see that likewise Yahweh will not commune with those who are married. To another God. In other words, God will not commit spiritual adultery. It's one metaphor, if you want, in order to try to understand what's going on here. what's behind the scenes. Now that's the first case that we have here, the case of the of emasculation. We have a second case, which is the case of illegitimate birth. And I read verses 17 and 18 because I believe that there are a controlling way in which we should look at all of these verses. And verse 2 contains a key word for understanding this. Take a look at this. It says, one of illegitimate birth, and then it goes on to repeat. We've repeated throughout the passage. Now the translate translators chose that word in NKJV. I'm not sure what's in your ESV or whatever, but the word is illegitimate and it's a Hebrew word manzir It could be a child from an illegitimate relationship like we see in chapter twenty-two, verse thirty, an incestuous relationship, uh uh uh something consane. Sanguinuity is the is a specific word for it. Or, and this is what I believe, it should be connected to 17 and 18, which are uh a controller for our interpretation. That this illegitimate child is a child born from the acts performed in verses 17 and 18. Verses 17 and 18 speak about temple prostitution, a harlot is my trans Translation in verse 17 for women, and then there's temple prostitution for men, which were in that time regularly called dogs. If you were to think of like a male dog and what he's like around the neighborhood, you get the picture The wages, therefore, were not permitted for temple tithes. The argument, therefore, is that the fruit or the children of their prostitution was not permitted. at least verse 2 to the tenth generation. And it's the same point if you really think about it. If you think about, if you don't get lost in the details, but if you see the connection and the logic that runs throughout This is really the general principle. Those devoted to someone besides Yahweh are not admitted into the assembly. And those who are the fruit of that devotion, a symbolic sign of that devotion, are not permitted. That's what we see within the second example. Now we move from this kind of devotion pattern expressed in these sexual case studies studies to a devotion expressed through inhospitality and hospitality, which is the final case study You see here in verse seven that it sa I'm sorry in uh starting in verse uh three an Ammonite or a Moabite shall not enter the assembly of the Lord, even to the tenth generation, none of his descendants shall enter the assembly of the And then we have more with this one in verse four. And because they hired against you Balaam, the son of Baor from Pethor of Mesopotamia to curse you. The examples are from the historical encounter with the Ammonites and the Moabites, and you should be familiar with this because it showed up earlier in Deuteronomy chapter 2. And this is historically considered in Numbers chapter 22. The reason why these two tribes may not enter the assembly is found in verse 4. First, they did not show hospitality to God's bride, the church. And then secondly, they openly sought to curse her through Balaam. There was not just a passivity to them, there was an active seeking of destruction in verse 4. Now you do end up seeing a contrast in verse 8. Now take a look at that with me. Or verse 7: you shall not abhor an Edomite, for he is your brother. You shall not abhor an Egyptian because you were an alien in his land. And then it talks about the third generation instead of the tenth. This is the contrast with those before. You have an in-hospitality and then you have a hospitality. Egypt for a time housed or were hospitable to Israel when they were aliens or foreigners or refugees or sojourners in the land. And thus, verse 8, the Egyptian children of the third generation may enter the assembly of the Lord. These contrasting cases can be put in terms of devotion also. to connect them with the the earlier case studies. The Ammonites and the Moabites demonstrated their lack of devotion by cursing Yahweh's people. The Egyptians are shown favor because, at least for a time, they show love to God's bride. And that bridal theme is major for the Exodus. The Exodus is pictured in the Hebrew language as a marriage between Yahweh and his people. And we see it is not until the Egyptians afflict them that God does not allow them in their assembly and brings judgment on them, but as they were showing hospitality. And because they did, and he remembers that, after the third generation they may enter into the assembly. Now you can see the kind of thing that these three case studies bring out. That the first three commandments would not maybe bring to mind if you just read them. About total devotion to Yahweh. You shall have no other gods before me. Even the fourth commandment, on the day in which we express that devotion, these three separate case studies bring out the details of that relationship. And the concern about belonging to Yahweh's assembly. Who's going to attend the worship? Who will be a part of the sacrifices and the atoning work of Christ? Who will be a part of the feasts during that day? The main pattern that is seen throughout these case studies that enlivens and brings color to the first four commandments of the Decalogue Is that those not devoted to Yahweh are excluded from His assembly. The exclusion is not based on accidental defects. That is not the emphasis of this passage. We could talk about other kinds of exclusion like leprosy and menstruation and that kind of things. That deserves its own conversation. They're not brought up in this context. The exclusion is consistent with the larger teaching of Deuteronomy here. Those who rebel against God's creative designs are excluded. God made man, male and female. God made man to worship him exclusively. And those who rebel against his redemptive plan are excluded here Those tribes should not have cursed through Balaam, God's people. It was to defy his special act of redemptive providence toward them. And since the Savior, Jesus Christ, would be born from Israel, they were an obstacle to the actual salvation of the entire world. That is how deep the offense goes. You think of the one offense against the eating, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and they were removed from the assembly, the garden, that inner sanctum Because they had lost their devotion. The same is reflected here. And the general principle that's brought out in these case studies is that those who are devoted Against righteousness only, righteousness, those who are devoted to subverting the designs of God Those who are devoted to an anti-stewardship of God's redemptive plans and his creation, they are excluded from the assembly. That's the overarching teaching. Now there's much more teaching that would happen in light of this passage. After Deuteronomy, and so I want to make a few observations based on the rest of God's revelation in light of this. The question always arises in Deuteronomy in people's minds: are these still really applicable for us? Was this just a certain time that God thought these things? Now it's true that God would put certain things into effect that were then meant to be fulfilled or removed. But here, interestingly enough, we see this same teaching and the same mentality running all the way to the end of the scriptures. If you are not devoted to Yahweh, to his designs, to his redemption, to his righteousness, you are excluded from the assembly. This shows up even in Revelation chapter 22, verses 14 through 15. Then I'll read it to you. Blessed are those who do his commandments, that they may have the right to the tree of life, and may enter through the gates into the city. It's very important to be able to enter into that holy city, that sacred space. But outside are dogs. You see that word? And sorcerers and sexually immoral, chapter 22, and murderers and idolaters, the rest of those chapters within Deuteronomy, and whoever loves and practices a lie. And that's a deceitful kind of life, not just a single lie. It goes all the way to the end, that there are insiders and there are outsiders. There are some that may enter the gate of the sim city or the assembly, and there are those who don't And you can see the list of those that are still on the outside that has not changed even from Deuteronomy. And this has to raise a question within everyone's mind. Are you outside of God's assembly? I can't think of a more important question to ask. The difficulty within religious America is that it can be really hard for people to know. Because you've grown up familiar with a lot of Christian things. And I know a lot of people they call themselves Christians, and I'm thinking. I'm not so sure about that because you don't seem devoted to Yahweh. At the least, you seem anti-Yahweh, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And so I think what we need also from this passage is for us to have some help in knowing whether we're devoted or not. To be included in the assembly. And this passage is really helpful in a new and a fresh way. At least it was for me. I want you to notice that certain actions here I gave you those actions of emasculation or mutilation, the actions that you see that arose within culture where they were going to curse the Israelites. The actions of the illegitimate birth and the choice of adulterous and incestuous relationships. Notice that those actions, listen very, very carefully, because I'm getting I'm starting to become a little more technical with my language at this point. Notice that certain actions are indicative or are evident of the fruition of a prior devotion. Do you see what I'm saying? Some actions are a consummate fruition of a prior devotion. The idea of a prof a professor of mine gave me this idea of seeing this theme of consummate In other words, let me put it this way. If you were male and you chose to disfigure yourself, then that disfigurement was an evidence of the your of the fruition of your prior devotion. to another God. Do you see that? It spoke as a symbol of what you were all about. And so this is really where I'm going with this. This is the question you need to ask yourself. What in your life is the fruition of your real devotion? Do you have any consummate acts within your life that mark out and show this is who I am and it is what I stand for? And then if you look at it that way, it's rather easy to apply in a thousand different ways, but you do have to be careful. So, for example, if you are gender modified, Then that act could be an evidence of your devotion not to Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, but to another order or understanding of the world and religion. But it can also be applied in other ways too. A tattoo in our culture tends to be a consummate act of what you stand for Clothing can be a consummate act. I've seen folks, as they've made decisions as to who they what they believe their identity to be, to switch wardrobes as a final act of coming out in that specific way. And perhaps trans uh transvestitism is a example of that. Finally, I feel free to be who I think I am, and I'm a man now dressing as a woman. woman. It's a consummate act. You could see this also in your activities. Your haircut could be a sign. How many How many times can we tell a person in the religion that they're a part of based on their haircut? If you're a Hani Krishna, there's a specific haircut. They could all be signs or evidences of your real devotion. And the general principle is that our lifestyle and all our choices May be the fruition of our devotion. And I keep saying may be because those same things could just be lapses in judgment. But I'm not talking about uh uh a long night with tequila and you end up in Tijuana with a tattoo. I'm saying a lifestyle and it's a consummate act of that. It it characterizes who you really are. I'm not talking about one crazy night in Mexico. Whatever the evidence or the act, it is consummate for a lifestyle and a life direction, a life order. It is characteristic Now, I want to show you another example of this just to be clear, because right now I've been real philosophical. I want you to take a look at James chapter 5. And I just want you to see how the Lord's mind works. And I'm going to look at James chapter 5, 2 and 3. And Joe, very if you want to talk about this later we can, I'll I'm gonna be rather quick with it. Come now, you rich, weep and howl for your miseries that are coming upon you. So the context is judgment. Now, when we enter into a court of law and there's judgment, there needs to be evidence and that kind of thing. So just take a look at this. Your riches are corrupted, and your garments are moth-eaten. Your gold and silver are corroded, and their corrosion will be a witness against you, and will eat your flesh like fire. You have heaped up treasure in the last days. Indeed, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud, cry out. And the cries of the reapers have reached the ears of the Lord of Sabayoth. Another evidence or another Do you see the main point though? And how James is reasoning and how the Lord reasons through these kinds of things. Just ask this question: why are the garments moth-eaten? Why is the gold and silver corroded? Because they're being stored and not being used. What does that tell you about this group of people who are surrounded by folks who are not able to even feed themselves some days? The garments sit around and the money remains in a heap. Why? Because the rich are hoarding their belongings instead of using it for the poor. They're actually defrauding people that need it. To satiate their greed. And this ends up becoming the point. It's the same point that we see within Deuteronomy. The garments and the money in this passage are witnesses or evidence against the hoarding rich. Their piles of clothing and money, here it is, are the consummate fruition of an overarching lifestyle Or an order or a devotion not to Yahweh but to money and to self. And when Jesus Christ brings his judgment to them, he will say What you say to me is betrayed by the heap of garments, moth-eaten, and the heap of money, and it matches the cries of those that you have defrauded. You are guilty. The consummate acts of their life will be the ultimate evidence and sign as to who they truly are and to whom they belong. If you wanted to give the name of who they belonged to a religion, it would be the god of Mammon, or Mammon the God, who is the god of money. And there are, and those examples were the fruition, there are these acts of fruition within our life that tell us our devotion. And that's that first question that you have to consider. Are you in the assembly of God? One way that you can begin to ask that as an American who can be confused. What in your life is the fruition of your real devotion? Are there signs as to whether you belong in the assembly? Now there's a second question that comes along with this, as we look not only at Deuteronomy, but at the rest of Scripture The good news is that God the Father, through Jesus Christ and the Spirit, are still gathering people into his assembly And Acts 8, as you saw within the bulletin, is very important in this regard to see how extreme What kind of people are being gathered into his kingdom? Now in Acts 8, there's a eunuch who was baptized into the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. And there could not be, in my mind at least, a more ultimate act of devotion than to become a eunuch, the crushing or the surgical removal. To me, you'd have to be pretty serious about your religion to do something like that. This guy showed the ultimate devotion to another God. And he consummated his devotion in the ultimate sacrifice through the removal of his genitalia. And yet, I want you to notice that even in that extreme case, notice what is happening. God is going throughout all of the earth and taking those who were devoted to other gods. Redeeming them from those gods, and he is making them his worshipers. Although the eunuch would still have the marks of his gender decision, he would have those marks for the rest of his life. Do you know what would be greater marks to mark his true identity? The marks of repentance and belief, which would be marked by baptism. The baptism of the eunuch would trump all other prior religious symbols, and although if someone were to see that he was mutilated or it was surgically removed, if he brought up the idea of baptism, we would see that despite his past, he is owned by Jesus Christ. That is his great profession. I cannot think of a more hopeful, good news passage for our culture I cannot think of a passage that balances out more who we are as Christians today living within this culture. Do you realize what this says about the grace of our God? Aren't you worried about those people that seem like they're the farthest removed from God you've ever seen? God is gathering those people. And it shouldn't be a surprise because we were just as far removed. Listen, this is amazing that I can with a clear conscience today. Declare this: that if you have been devoted to the LGBTQ plus religion, but God gives you repentance and faith in Him That he is gathering you into his assembly. And I will personally, upon hearing that with the elders, your repentance and your faith, I will baptize you right here in the name of the Father. The Son and the Holy Spirit, showing that you have been set aside and devoted by Jesus Christ and His grace. Despite what your marks may have been in the past. If you have had a gender modification, but then you are granted the grace of repentance to the gods of transgender, then like Philip, I will say: if you believe with all your heart that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, Then I baptize you in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, and we will stand and welcome you into this assembly. If there's an image I could leave you with that this passage, Deuteronomy chapter 23, the Gospel of Moses, says to us. As we considered in light of the rest of his revelation, the good news in Jesus Christ. I want you to imagine this. I want you to imagine this pulpit is a thousand feet tall. And I guess I would have to be a thousand feet tall too. Or on a giant stool. And whatever is said within this microphone, it can be heard throughout the entire world. This is the message that is going out. God, through Jesus Christ, has made a way to be in his assembly. Repent of your false devotions and be devoted to the only God, Father, Son, and Holy. Holy Spirit. And it is our prayer this morning, and I hope more often than that, that people across all the world, no matter what they've been a part of, no matter what devotions will be cut to the heart, and they will repent and they will believe, and many people will be gathered that day. Let's pray. Lord God, we thank you that you protect the sanctity of your people. And the sanctity of your assembly. And yet you do so in a way that makes you more gracious than ever. Lord, we thank you for this great hope that you've given to us. We remember the chapters in Isaiah, where hope was given to the eunuch. That those who were marked, even in that way, when you have given them the grace of faith and repentance, and they are devoted to your covenant, when they are devoted to your Sabbaths, that you will give them a name, that you will give them generations, that you will give them brothers and sisters and a family, that you will welcome them into your assembly, and we thank you for the example Another example of how your gospel is going out and gathering, all the while still retaining the holiness of Of your people. I pray, Lord, that you would send your Spirit to us, that you would help us to discern whether we are devoted to you or not, and whether we need to repent and believe. I do pray, Father, that as people repent and believe, that they would receive your great mark, the mark of baptism, and that they would be Welcomed into the assembly, and that they would show themselves to be yours through righteousness only righteousness and intelligent stewardship, all according to your designs. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen.