Psalm 34, if you have your Bibles with you, you can turn there. Psalm 34. This will be the scripture passage of a very, very short, I promise, meditation. Psalm thirty-four, verses four through ten. I sought the Lord and he heard me and delivered me from all my fears. They looked to him and were radiant, and their faces were not ashamed. This poor man cried out, and the Lord heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles. The angel of the Lord encamps all around those who fear him and delivers them. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who trusts in him. O fear the Lord, you his saints. There is no want to those who fear him. The young lions lack and suffer hunger, but those who seek the Lord shall not lack any good thing. The grass withers, the flowers fade, but the word of our God endures forever. Please be seated. Now I hope you guys enjoyed all that singing as much as I did. I can only hope. But I love I love going through all of those carols, especially those that we don't get to sing very often, uh simply because they're not quite as well known. But there are parts of Christmas that I love. One of them is the hymns and the carols that we sing. The other is the traditions that our families have. And there's one that I remember very vividly, even though uh Even though uh when I was very young, my uh my grandfather, my papa, he passed away when I was about four years old. But I remember, and I still remember it very clearly, we would always go to his house last on Christmas Day. And we would always be there for the longest amount of time. And as a child, I never understood why. And then as I got older, I started to learn. Pop-op had a really fantastic eggnog recipe. And so my parents would always be there last and be there for the longest. And uh even though um my papa passed away, my grandmother maintained the tradition of making his recipe for eggnog and serving it And a as a kid, I think I was about eleven years old when I first asked my dad if I could taste the eggnog. And he told me I wouldn't like it. He said it was gross. It was it was yucky And none of us believed them because they loved his eggnog. And it wasn't until I came of age and was given a taste of that eggnog myself that I learned the truth. That eggnog was disgusting. It was absolutely revolting. It was just impossible to bear. It wasn't even drinkable. Well, my parents have maintained that tradition. They keep ke have kept the same recipe. They've just changed the the ratio of ingredients. So now it's bearable So at that time when I was a kid, I didn't believe that what my parents told me was true. I didn't believe that it was gross until I experienced it for myself, until I tasted that that eggnog was disgusting. And the psalmist here is telling us a very similar truth. In fact, he's encouraging us here. He's saying that we can't just think that God is good. We shouldn't just assent to that truth or just merely believe it. We should taste and we should see and know without a shadow of a doubt. That this is true. Because those who trust and fear the Lord, they have their cry heard, are delivered from their troubles, and are provided with all that they need. Those who trust and fear the Lord have their cries heard, are delivered from all their troubles, and are provided with all that they need. And I'm going to look at this very quickly in three ways. We're going to see that God hears That God delivers and that God provides. Now, if you uh have the same version that I'm using, the New King James Version, there's a title with the Psalm, and the title is A Psalm of David when he pretended madness before Abimelech, who drove him away, and he departed. And if you're familiar with the book of 1 Samuel, in 1 Samuel chapter 21, David is fleeing from Saul. If you remember, Saul and David had a big falling out. And there was that troublesome spirit sent to Saul. Well, he was fleeing from Saul so readily, he was so afraid of Saul that he fled to one of Israel's uh greatest enemies, the king of Gath, which as I understand it is the Philistines. So he he flees to this king, uh Abimelech, which is maybe a title or something. But he flees to him, and the servants of the king Abimelech notice this guy, and they say, Wait a minute, that's David. That's the David, the giant slayer, Goliath's slayer. And when they warn the king against him, David uh is pretty afraid. And he begins to act like a madman. being crazy and he allows one of my favorite lines, he allows his spittle to flow into his beard. So he starts to act like somebody that they just wouldn't believe. This was the David, the slayer of Goliath. And eventually, David is kind of dismissed from the king. He's just kind of told, get away from here. Why should this madman be around me? Well, because of this title, by admission of the title, we can see that this was written by David as a response to that whole situation. And the first three verses, which we had as our call to worship, if you recognize, it's an obvious praise to God for what He'd done and how everything had come about, the wondrous work that saved David. David's heart is overflowing, and he urges all who hear to magnify the Lord with him. Well, then he gets into what happened. He takes us into the situation and he first shows us that God hears. We see in verses 4 and 5 and 6, if you look, they all start kind of the same way, right? I sought. They looked, this poor man cried out. We can understand that the third person aspect of this could be David talking about himself, but he's really relating it so that all of us can be part of this. It's not just David who's heard by God. It's those who love God that are heard by him. And this mighty David, this guy who beheaded Goliath with his own sword. Is so afraid in this situation that he cries out to God. God answers him. And David, like all others, is he's not all-powerful, right? He's just a man. He needs things, as we all need things, and we need to rely on God. Even those who deny God owe him their very existence. Every one of us owes every breath in our lungs to the Lord God. We owe the fact that gravity works and our body can stay together. We owe that to the Creator God. And God has heard David, and we see in verse 4 he delivers him from all his fears. And so we see that it starts not with just being zapped out of the situation, but the Lord relieves the fear of this worldly situation from David. This is the right perspective, isn't it? It's the perspective that Jesus gives us, that we should fear the one who has control over our bodies and our souls, not just the one who can kill us. Because the world can do what? The worst the world can do is kill us. But we should fear God, the one who has control over our everlasting soul. So we see that there's a common thread here. In all of these verses, God hears the cries. And so this is a physical act, this is a real action. We as God's children, if we're in a similar situation, we need to cry out to Him. We need to seek Him. I mean if your car breaks down on two ninety-five, are you just gonna sit there and just will Triple A to send a tow truck? If you don't call and call for someone to come and help There's no way for it to actually happen. We know that God sees all things, but if we just sit there and say to ourselves, God knows I hate this, why doesn't He just stop it? We're sinning. We're sinning if we do that. We know that God has reasons for allowing us to endure all sorts of difficulties. Sometimes it's the purifying of our faith, or it's the testing us for great works that He has in store. But wherever you are, seek him as David did. Cry out to him like the poor man. Trust and fear him like those saints in verse 9. Something will happen. Something will change. So our God hears those who trust and fear him when they cry out to him. And he doesn't do nothing. He doesn't just stay there. We learn that God delivers. Verses 4 to 7, the cries are answered, right? They're answered with deliverance. David was heard and delivered from his fears. The poor man cried out and was heard and saved from his troubles. It's a 360-degree solution when it comes from the Lord. There's never anything left out. We cry out and he delivers us 100%. Now in verse 7 we see something remarkable. We see that God is not powerless to effect change in this world. He's not some ethereal spirit that's just out there letting things kind of happen. He has angels encamped around those who fear him. For me that's very encouraging. There are times when I think I know what's best. And I don't really trust that God knows what's best for me. And that's the times when I'm not having his glory in mind. But God always has his glory in mind. So what he does is always for the best for his own glory. So we have verse 8. Verse 8 there, Taste and see that the Lord is good. Taste and see. Cry out to Him. Be delivered from your circumstances and see and know that God is good and He is caring and hearing the cries of His children How many times each day do we all take for granted the way that God protects and sustains us? I was very grateful for Brother Bandy's prayer request this morning. It's a reminder. Most of us, I would venture to say all of us here have some kind of means of supporting our families and supporting ourselves. And that's not the case for everyone. And I was thinking to myself as I read through these verses and studied them, I take my job for granted. I take my jobs for granted. And most of the time I'm just annoyed that I have to go to them instead of being grateful that God's provided them. Do any of you uh any of you drive automobiles here? No, not a single one. No automatic we're Amish, the Amish community of Millersville. We drive cars or we ride in cars Every time we s get inside a ve a vehicle like that, when we're traveling in a two-ton vehicle going seventy-five miles per hour We must we we just take it for granted that we're going to get from point A to point B. Well, as you might have noticed on your way here, there were clouds in the sky and little droplets of water falling. So People just became maniacs on the road and everything took twice as long. We take for granted that God really protects us and delivers us safely to all the things that we are going. As we approach this new year, we can make a commitment. We can make a commitment to each other and to our God that we will not forget that the Almighty God of the universe is responsible for every beat of our heart. That he's responsible for every firing neuron in our brains, for every cell of our body being together. It's because of God. Without him we're nothing. So we've seen that God hears the cries of his children. He can and does deliver them from their troubles and fears. But what about the most basic fundamentals of our life? It's not always about one single situation, is it? Sometimes, if you're like me I am most weary and closest to despair just about the everyday things of life. But we learn here in verses 9 through 10 that God provides. There's no want to those who fear him. Those who seek the Lord shall not lack any good thing. Does anything else need to be said? If we believe that the Bible is the true Word of God, those verses should fill us to overflowing with excitement and encouragement. But I'll be honest with you, as I studied this, I had to ask myself why that wasn't my case. Why am I, in reading those verses, not getting filled with the warm fuzzies? And just giving myself over, knowing that God has me covered 100%. The first thing that struck me is that term, any good thing. It's not a promise that we won't lack anything. It's a promise that we won't lack the good things that he knows we need. We have to trust that God knows better than we do about what we need, and that's a hard part. Now, I myself am not lacking for enough food to eat. Fairly obvious. I'm not lacking for shelter for my family. I'm not lacking any of these major things and yet I still feel like there are things I need. And I keep being brought to this. God keeps bringing me to this. And I keep wondering, what are these things? And where am I? And perhaps you're in a similar situation. The second thing that struck me was the flip side of that coin. Right? There is no want to those who fear him. And I wish I understood more what it meant to fear God. I'm learning every day, but I think I've always thought of it as being a reverence or a respect of God, respecting Him. And I started to think about this, and I realized that I fear my boss probably more than I fear God. Because I fear him. That I might lose my job that provides all these things that I'm not worried about. And because I fear my boss, I do what he tells me to do even when nobody's watching or following up. Nobody's staring over my shoulder 24 hours a day at my cubicle, and yet I'm doing my job. I'm doing the work that I'm given to do. And I wondered: why don't I do that with my own thoughts? Why am I not doing what I know God desires for me in my thought life? And I wonder if the same might apply to you Do you fear God? Do you keep your eyes and your mind in check? Ultimately I came to the conclusion that I don't fear God as I ought, because I have far too much confidence in my own abilities. So I'm really glad that David included verse 10. I'm really glad that the Holy Spirit through David included verse 10 We may think that we have all that we could need, we may think that our lives are for the most part complete because of our ability to provide for ourselves is good enough. But it's not the case. We must rely on the Lord to give us what we truly need, and we must rely on Him no matter what. Because even these ferocious lions Have you ever seen a lion? Huge claws, massive fangs. They have incredible senses. They're alpha predators. And yet those lions roam around hungry and unsatisfied. They suffer. Because even the food that they get, even despite the fact that they're these alpha predators, it has to be delivered to them from the Lord God. Our God is the abundant provider. He's the great God of creation who can feed millions with manna from heaven. Or he can quench their thirst, our thirst, from with water from a rock. This is the God who can shut up the mouths of starving lions when the world and the enemy throws us in their dungeon. Or this is the God, our God, who can nullify, nullify the flames of a giant furnace created to devour us. Our God is awesome. He's given himself to us in every way possible. This Christ that we read of. And that we sang all these hymns of, and that we just finished celebrating his birth with our family, this Christ has been given to us because our God knew our need. Provided what was necessary and the only thing that could free us and deliver us from that need, Jesus Christ. So I encourage you. That we embark on a new journey this year to fear and trust our God more and more than we ever have, to cry out to Him when we are in need, and to taste and see His goodness as He delivers it. As he provides all the good things that we need, please pray with me