As we continue our Colossians series, we're in chapter two, and we'll be going through the first five verses. Oh, Please follow along with me in your Bibles. Colossians chapter 2. For I want you to know what a great conflict I have for you and those in Laodicea. And for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh, that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, and attaining to all riches of the full assurance of understanding. Now this I say, lest any one should deceive you with persuasive words, for though I am absent in the flesh, yet I am with you in spirit. Rejoicing to see your good order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ. Let's pray. Lord Christ, as our great prophet, as our shepherd, we ask that you'd allow us not only to understand these words, but to personally appropriate them You are relating to us in speaking to us tonight. Please help us to relate to you in love, in confidence, not in confusion, wondering what you're word says. We ask these things in your name. Amen. She says her love for me could never die. But that'd change if she ever found out about you and I. I've got my main my mind made up. I'm gonna run to you. Anybody know what that is? I skipped some of the more provocative lyrics. Song from the 80s by Brian Adams Listen to it again. She says her, this is he's singing to a woman that he desires, and he has another woman in his life that he's in a relationship with, maybe his wife. She says her love for me could never die, but that'd change if she ever found out about you and I. I've got my mind made up. I'm gonna run to you. Do you see what's going on in his life? And what he struggled. Did you ever know that that song Run to You by Brian Adams was about that? If you've ever heard that on the radio? It's kind of like a Casey case on the top. 40 thing, if you know who that is. Um The question is this. What was going on in Brian Adams before his mind was made up? To run to her. The answer is temptation. Brian Adams, I don't think he's a Christian. I'm not sure. I'd have to Look and see. Not a follower of Jesus. However, whether you are a Christian or not a Christian, we all experience temptation. You could boil mankind down to three parts, and only some of mankind has all three. Saint, sinner, sufferer. But all mankind has sinner and sufferer Just some are saints. And so we see whether it's Brian Adams or us, we all struggle with temptation. He's struggling with this temptation. It's rolling around in his mind. And then it's over. I've got my mind That's really that lyric, although applied in a specific setting for him having to do with love relationships. It could be a lyric that all of us have for every single day, no matter what it is, no matter what the marshmallow is. What are your temptations? What is it that you make your mind up on? What are you getting ready to make your mind up on? What are the temptations of the people that you love? How will you resist temptation? And how will you help others to resist temptation? It's an excellent question, and it's actually it's addressed in a small way here within this passage. The main message of Colossians 2, 1 through 5 is that as a means of protection from temptation, the apostle prays for God. God's people. In a nutshell, prayer is the means that we may use to resist temptation in our own lives and to deliver temptation in the lives from temptation Temptation in the lives of others. As a means of protection from temptation, the Apostle prays for God's people. I want to put just look at this under two parts: prayer and temptation. Not hard to follow. So let's start off in the first three verses looking at prayer. The apostle prays for God's people. For I want you to know what a great conflict I have for you and those in Laodicea. And then he goes on. At first, it's difficult to see the apostle praying. When you look at that verse, can you see the apostle praying? It takes a little bit of work as looking around and different terminology. The terminology is odd for us, for I want you to know what a great conflict I have for you. What in the world is he talking about there? If you look, it contains the phrase, I want you to know what a great conflict I have for you. The word conflict is the same word that was just used in the prior passage. It's just a different form of speech. So for I want you to know what a great conflict I have. Conflict was just said in verse 29. To this end I also labor striving. Same word. Striving according to his working, which works in me mightily, is the same. And conflict is the same thing with a striving. In that context, the passage just before this, if you were to scan through it later, it meant all of the traveling that Paul did across the Mediterranean Sea. All of the preaching in those different cities, all of the persecution that he underwent with kangaroo courts that were raised up to hold false trials. He was speaking about his ministry as an ambassador and messenger of God, delivering the mystery of God to all of the Gentiles. He was speaking about it in a big, broad, Mediterranean way. And now, when we come to chapter two, he funnels down and he wants to say, I not only strive really for the whole world, I strive for you. Now, what does he mean by that when he says that he strives for them? We could understand it if he were talking about the other cities where he was truly in a great conflict with the mayor of that city. or whoever was in charge. But what would it mean for him to have a conflict for these Colossians because he's actually not present. Look at the verses. And for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh, they have never personally met him. So what is the conflict that we're talking about here? What is the striving for them specifically? How can he strive for the Colossians when he is absent and not being persecuted in their particular city? The key is to see the full range of the word strive or conflict. Now I want you to take a look in Colossians 4, verse 12, where the word is used again. Epaphras, who is one of you, a bondservant of Christ, greets you, also laboring fervently for you in prayers. That you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. Here, in some translations, you'll see that Epaphras was wrestling, or striving, or laboring. Or conflicting, if you wanted to keep the same translation, fervently in prayers. Interestingly, the same word is used in the context of prayer in Romans chapter 15, verse 30. Now I beg you, brethren, through the Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the Spirit, that you strive together with me in prayers to God for me. And so I honestly, looking at these different verses and the range of the use of this word, it makes sense to simply say that the apostle is saying I have had this conflict for the Mediterranean world. As for you, since I can't be with you physically to have a physical conflict, I am conflicting in the sense of striving for you in prayer. It actually makes sense because that's what he's been talking about, if you look at the letter, all the way through chapter 1. He's just saying, I pray to God the Father for all of these different reasons. And he's saying that again. I pray for you. He cannot be with them in person, and so he does what he can for them. He prays. Did you ever notice as thinking about him praying because he's absent, do you ever notice there's different kinds of absences? I was thinking about this at my desk this past week and made a little post-it note because I love when I find different kinds or specimens of things, specimens of graces, or specimens of absences. There's different kinds of absence. You can be absent geographically, you can be absent emotionally, you can be absent psychologically, you can be absent relationally. Paul was dealing with a geographical absence and distance. But it is a question that we can ask. What are the absences that you are encountering? What absence Are you experiencing with the is it a geographical absence of the people that are in your life where you would have to pray for them? Are people emotionally absent from you, relationally absent from you? you. These are all moments that are leading us to a time to be in conflict for them. That is to say, to be striving for them in prayer. When we turn to verse two, we see that he prays for a number of different things. That their hearts may be encouraged Being knit together in love and attaining to all of the riches of the full assurance of understanding to the knowledge of the mystery of God, both of the Father and of Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge He allows that last part to swell because I think he's on the verge of worship. First, he prays for their encouragement. We exhort you, brethren. In 1 Thessalonians 5. 14, Paul speaks about encouragement again. Let me just read it to you. Now we exhort you, brethren, warn those who are unruly, comfort the faint-hearted, uphold the weak, and be patient with them all. In some translations, 1 Thessalonians 5. 14 says, encourage the faint-hearted. And the fact that he is praying for the encouragement Of the Colossians tells us that if he's in the same frame of mind, that they must be faint-hearted over something. But he can't be there with them to conflict. Against those who would discourage them. They can't have private counseling sessions, and so he does what he can in absence. He prays. You see, he's not powerless. He has a prayer life in absence. He couldn't be there for them in person, but God could work encouragement in other ways, and so Paul prays. And he knows that, that Paul's that God's paths are different than human paths. He also says in two that he prays or conflicts for them that they would be knit together in love Knit together because I bet under their current situation they were beginning to fray like a fabric that's lost its edge stitching. And all of the strands that are holding the fabric together in one fabric are starting to separate. Some are starting to fall off. It's a picture of the community that used to be united, but is now under internal strife and division. You know, last week, after Sunday school, I and I was getting ready to get up here in the pulpit, I looked down, and my left pant leg was three inches longer than my right pant leg. My hand fell out. So I went to the office and I put some paper clips on my on my pants. What's going on with this group of people is that their hem fell out. The Colossians needed encouragement, and it was because they were faint-hearted. When they are faint, they fray They pray especially in love for each other. You ever notice that? You ever notice just within your family or trying to ride even with a single person on a prolonged car trip? How the way that they wipe their nose or drink their drink or eat their MMs annoys you It shows that you've become faint-hearted on the trip south, or whatever it is. And here, I'm sure the pressures are much higher than just having to deal with mouth breathers. The Colossians needed encouragement. They needed encouragement. They needed to be knitted to they needed to be knit together in love. And so Paul prays that Instead of them continuing the fray that there would be a surge placed at the top, it's a stitch that keeps everything from fraying so the fabric won't unravel. And he's absent, so what else is he going to do? The only thing he can do to be able to truly minister to them, to be able to fulfill his calling, is to be able to pray for them. He can't be with them in person. He says that their hearts may be encouraged, this is the last thing. That their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love and attaining to all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the knowledge of the mystery of God, both of the Father and of Christ. in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. This is admittedly a difficult sentence. The sentence swells with the vast glory and plan of God. That's why I think he had to write it that way He just couldn't stop. The full assurance of understanding to the knowledge of the mystery of God, quite simply, refers to verse 126. Let's just get back to basics. The mystery which has been hidden from ages. Notice the repetition of the word mystery. It is what Paul calls the message which he communicates to the churches That's what he wants them to understand. He wants them to treasure that message. He wants the Colossians to understand and have a full assurance of his message. And notice that the message is about especially the Father and Christ. Now tell me that's not the message that we hear every time we step In this building for Sunday service. We are a tri, we worship the triune God. We're always talking about God the Father, God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. The work of Christ through the Spirit. We're having the same kind of conversations and teachings because our conversations and teachings are apostolic conversations and teachings. And he wanted them, as we want you here, to be able to have a full assurance of what is being communicated. We don't want you confused We don't want you to wonder about it or to have doubts about it or to just be scratching your head all the time or talking about meaningless genealogies or something like that. That's what he's communicating here. Despite the difficulty of the sentence, when you get back to basics, that's what he's saying. And he ends on this note: In Christ are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And this is why he has to say that. He's trying to give a metaphor. You notice how he speaks here, Christ are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Not some of the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. All of the treasures. There is no treasure in the land outside of Christ, who is the giant treasure box or treasure chest. C. H. Furzon put it in terms of the granary, Joseph's granaries in Egypt. As they are full to be able to feed the whole land in a drought, so too is Christ God the Father's great granary for the world, full of graces. And that's what he's communicating here. Christ is like a treasure chest. A treasure chest. Any gift that God the Father wanted to give comes out of Christ. That was the whole point of chapter 1. That's why he spent so much time on Christ and who he is, showing that all of the fullness has been given to him. Christ is sufficient for everything. No need to turn anywhere else. I want you to think just for a moment, and I won't dwell on this, but think just for a moment, and if you were in the Sunday school class, you'll be able to answer this question. very quickly. Think of all the gifts that Christ has given to you just by sending you his Spirit. Just by sending you His Spirit. Spirit. Those are some examples of what Paul has in mind here. And thus Paul is focused on relationships. Surprise, surprise. He prays that God would encourage the Colossians. He prays that they would love one another, that they would be knit together, and he prays that they would treasure the gift that God the Father has provided. And his name is Jesus and in him everything is found. That's what he wants. Isn't that what you would want for anyone? Those same things? Isn't that what you hear around here that we want for you? Even though the sentence is difficult, that's what he's trying to communicate. Now, there's a main question that we have to ask as we end this first point. Why does Paul pray all these things, and especially the last? We see that the apostle prays for God's people, but why? You see that he prays, that's what it means by conflict. You see what he prays for, or for that which he Praise, but why does he do so? What is the urgency? The answer is temptation. The apostle prays for God's people as a means to protect this group of people from temptation. Take a look at the verses with me. We're now into verses four and five. Now this I say, lest anyone, notice how he's saying, this is why. I say these things to you, lest anyone should deceive you with persuasive words. Colossians 2, 4. Deception and persuasion both refer to a present temptation for God's people. I do not want to take away from the next I'll just point out to you that uh in in s verse let's see Eight. We're not sure exactly what's going on amongst this congregation, but you can see some of the temptation that's present. Beware lest anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit, according to the tradition of N And then he'll go on in some specific ways in which this was happening in this church. It's a little bit of a mystery as to what it is, but the answer as to why he's praying for them in this way is because they are under temptation and the prayer is a protection for them. And so notice the progression. The words that people use can be persuasive. These persuasive words deceive people. In other words, this is what he's saying. People make lies look like truth, and we may believe the lies. That's what he's worried about with this group of people. What the specific lies were for them, we're not sure historically. We can begin to speculate and guess. But what lies lie within the Christian life? There are millions. Millions that the world tells us every day. And that's what temptation is: a lie to which we may Say yes. It's that simple. And the persuasion and the deceit is just trying to tip you more and more over to eventually saying, I'm going to run to you. I've made up my mind. Yes. That's what temptation is. You know, Satan is the father of lies. That's why we had that first song about the the uh the devil, the world, and the flesh. Those are the three main enemies in terms of lies. We lie to ourself, the world lies to us, and Satan is behind all of Of that lying to us. When Adam and Eve broke covenant, they and all their descendants became like Satan. Lies became our natural environment. This is what makes this so difficult And I really need you to hear me here. Why is it that you have such a difficulty in your life as a Christian seeking to have loyal obedience to your Heavenly Father? Because you actually and secretly love the lies. You are more attuned with some things to believe the lie rather than the truth. It makes more sense to your heart. It is your natural environment. Even after becoming a Christian and being remade to accept the truth, you will still have the propensity to believe lies. That is your inclination. You lean into the falsehood. Now I just tried this this evening and it didn't work, I don't think, but I'm going to try it again another time. Some say that if you lift the lid of a piano and if you sing into it, then whatever string is the same pitch or note as your voice will start to vibrate. I don't know. I tried it. I stuck my head in the piano and nothing was vibrating but my head. I don't know what was I don't know. I'll I'll try it again. Maybe I need a stronger voice. I'll stick Brad's head in there and get him to sing. All the other strings, except for that one that matches you, remain silent. In our natural state, the pitch of a lie always gets our hearts vibrating Satan knows our tune. And this explains the power of temptation and it explains the urgency. It explains why Paul wants to use the word conflict. This is why he is wrestling with Epaphras. This is why he is striving. This is why he is conflicting in prayer. Because Paul is absent in body, and so he cannot help them physically in their temptations with a counseling session on the spot. He can't grab them physically by the collar to pull them out of harm's way. And so he turns to prayer, which is what you must do in your absence. He asked God to deliver them from temptation and the evil one. And that brings us to what about you? Do you take time to truly plead with God for those you know to for those that you know to be delivered from tation? And if you don't, why don't you? Is it because you don't think that temptation is real? That it's not really that important for a person to say yes or no, it doesn't make any difference what our answer is. These days? What is it within you where you don't pray for people to be delivered from temptation or yourself? I want to ensure you that if you begin to plead with God That others and yourself would be delivered from temptation. This will actually be one of the most satisfying ways that you will ever relate to God in your life. Because what you will see in his timing is you will watch him deliver people from temptation and from the evil one. He will intervene and you will see him in his providence take people out of the snare of the devil. I have watched it myself, and I witness and give testimony to what God does. You get to watch God in action, which is very exciting. We're all wondering where he is. You want to know where he is? He's delivering people from temptation. The same people that other people prayed for. You get to watch Christians continue, verse 5, in good order Like soldiers in rank, marching on loyally or steadfastly in their faith This is the message of Paul. As a means of protection from temptation, the Apostle Paul prays for God's people. What people do you have in your life? life. What lies are they tempted to believe? Will you request that God would deliver them? Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the means of prayer. It is perhaps the it's already difficult enough to relate to you. You are teaching us to do so, but prayer seems to be an advanced level thing w if it were to be truly meaningful. So I ask for your congregation. Here tonight, I ask that you would teach them the value, the significance of going to you and requesting that the people that they know would be delivered from temptation. I pray that you would make them care so much about people believing in lies, so much about them wanting to live in the truth That you would bring them to their knees in prayer. And that they would ask you, that they would request with all their heart for their friends and their family, and even strangers, to be delivered from temptation. And from the evil one. I ask, Lord, in essence, that your people would watch and pray. Please help us to evolve past the state of your disciples In the Garden of Gethsemane. In the name of Christ, Amen. Amen. Let's stay