Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus, to Timothy, a beloved son. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. I thank God whom I stir with a pure conscience, as my forefathers did. As without ceasing, I remember you in my prayers, night and day, greatly desiring to see you, being mindful of your tears, that I may be filled with joy. When I call to remembrance the genuine faith that is in you, which dwelt first in your grandmother, Lois, and your mother, Eunice, and I am persuaded is also in you. Let us pray. Oh Christ, we ask for ears to hear Pray that we would be convinced of what your word says from this one who is authorized by you, namely the Apostle Paul. And we pray that we would not just be hearers but doers. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. We're moving from the first letter that was written by Paul to Timothy to the second letter, which is why this is called 2 Timothy. We, if you remember, last week we had a quote that helped us out a bit from G. K. Chesterton. And it was this: the true soldier Guards or fights, not because he hates what is in front of him, but because he loves what is behind him And this was a way for us to get at what our scripture was teaching us, and it is this, that a healthy church guards What is committed to their trust. Now that can include a whole host of things, as you heard in the sermon last week. Well, we're going to continue this week, picking up here in 2 Timothy. So let's notice a few things, and then I have some applications. Take a look at verse number one. This is a very similar, if not exactly, like we saw within 1 Timothy. this greeting from the Apostle Paul to Timothy. And boy, it is is it a good reminder for us to remember that Paul is this is writing this letter with apostolic authority. It should really make you, if you understand what's going on here and the kind of authorization that he has. It should really s make you sit on the edge of your seat and make sure that you're getting down every word that he has said and and that you're you're really trying to wring it out in terms of understanding and making sure that that you're following along with this. Because he is authorized by Jesus Christ the Son. You can see that there in Verse 1, he says that he he's an apostle of Jesus Christ. That's the that's one who has has authorized him to do this. That's the office that he has, but it is also that this whole thing that he's doing, this commission, even his authority that's given to him by Jesus Christ, is according to God the Father and his will This is someone that we really need to listen to differently than we even listen to each other, differently than you listen to me. In fact, my authorization only comes from if I am consistent with what he says. Here, in this case, the Apostle Paul. All that you heard in 1 Timothy, for example, it was not some neat thoughts that some guy was sharing with you. um because he has a PhD from Berkeley or something. That's not what's going on here. He's not just some well meaning guy Paul has a special authorization when speaking to any church, whether it's the church of the past, whether it's the church of the present, or it's the church of the future. Christ has set Paul aside and the other apostles with a certain authority where you should really be sitting up and listening and ready to obey. That's the first thing I want you to notice just within that greeting here. The second thing is when we jump down to verses 3 through 5, which is the bulk of what we're looking at this morning. You'll notice that there are many different things that are being said here, and I'll just mention a few. You'll notice, for example, that the Apostle Paul expresses a deep fatherly love for Timothy. Now, this isn't Timothy's not his um l legal son, so to speak, uh but he is his son by way of conversion. He's his spiritual father, if you wanted to put it that way. Uh Timothy's father was a pagan, actually. And this comes out even in Paul's prayers. You notice Paul is praying for Timothy when he wakes up in the morning, perhaps throughout the day, and definitely in his nightly prayers. Paul has Timothy on his mind. Paul loves Timothy as a father would love a son. And besides his prayers and this love and this intimacy that he shares and being able to see how this This authorized one functions in the church. Besides his prayer, Paul means for verses 3 through 5 to let Timothy and the church know two main things. First, if you take a look at verse number 3, this will come up a little bit later on. He's dropping some seeds here. They're going to grow up in the full-blown trees throughout the letter. But here, the first thing you'll notice, the first seed, is that Paul himself serves God with a clear conscience. He's not embarrassed or ashamed of Jesus Christ. He knows that by serving Christ, he serves the same God as those who came before him, like Abraham Some people may be accusing Paul, for example, of idolatry because he is worshiping Jesus Christ. And he's saying to them, I'm not embarrassed about this. I'm worshiping Jesus Christ because he is the eternal Son of God in the flesh. And if you understood the faith, actually, you would have seen the eternal son from the beginning. I am actually the true son of Abraham. If you were speaking to a Jew who had not converted, I'm the true son of Abraham and you are a false one. That would be the kind of discourse that he would need to have with people. He knows that by serving Christ he serves the same God as those who came before him. He mentions forefathers here, like Abraham. And the second thing is that Paul is so pleased that Timothy has likewise kept the faith of the forefathers. In fact, this is where a lot of the energy for Paul is coming from. This is why Paul is so thankful. Because he hears a report that Timothy's making it by the grace of God. Paul is thankful that God has kept Timothy. We left off in 1 Timothy. Keep the deposit, Timothy. Don't be like those who were with us who fell away from us. And now he hears report that. Yes, Timothy has lasted. He's weathered at least this first storm over there in the Ephesian church. And Paul is thankful that God has kept him. Paul is thrilled that Timothy is still running the race despite all of the hardships. Timothy really is in his own way just like Paul. And that's the point of him bringing up Timothy's heritage, just as Paul follows the four fathers, Timothy's following his four mothers, if you will Paul keeps the faith of Abraham. Timothy keeps the faith of his mother and his grandmother. Well you know whose faith that they kept They kept Abraham's faith. So if you put this little syllogism together, you can see that there's a cloud of witnesses forming here in this passage where all the saints are united, and Timothy is among them, despite all that he had to face within this church. And that really brings us to our focus this morning, especially that last example of Paul being so thankful and encouraging Timothy. We get to follow this morning an apostolic example, and it can come out in this particular doctrine here. A healthy church is thankful for the grace of Christ that they see in their fellow Christians. A healthy church is thankful for the grace of Christ which they see in their fellow Christians. Now I want to unfold that in the context of thanks and in the questions of thanks. And we'll see where we go from there. Maybe I'll just keep adding stuff. A healthy church is thankful for the grace of Christ they see in their fellow Christians. Now I want to establish a context here so that we can understand a little bit more clearly of what Paul is doing here with Timothy and why he's so thankful and how that can transfer to us as a church. And I'm going to do so by way of sharing a story about myself. And I really am not looking for the attention. I just this was the only story I could think of at this time In 1996, which more and more every time I go into a church interview, somebody tells me when they were born and it was after 1996, which makes me feel weird. But in 1996, uh I don't know if you knew this about me, but I was sent to the Hickey School in Baltimore. Does anybody know what the Hickey School is? Yeah, the Hickey School is a juvenile detention facility. Uh and and I showed up there on their little in their little uh van in the middle of the day. So they took me to my room, or really it's like a cell, and then they uh took me into another room, they shaved my head, everybody has to have the same haircut And then everybody has to wear the same clothes. So I had a gym uniform, they gave me a pair of shorts, they gave me a pair of sweatpants, they gave me a t-shirt, and they gave me a sweatshirt. All of it has the same logos on it. Everybody looks the same. It's very m very s similar to like boot camp or something, which is kind of what I entered into. But curiously, when I arrived there off of that van from a Baltimore holding facility, there was no one else there. There was no one else in the fellowship hall where they ha played g had like a game night. There was no one else in the bathrooms. There was no one else in any of the cells or the little rooms uh that go all the way down this long hall. Uh and I was wondering where everybody was. And so I asked, and they said that everybody is at an Olympic Games that they hold uh once a year, which is a really big deal at the Hickey School. And what you can imagine is like all the youth of Baltimore, uh I was odd from uh not from Baltimore. All the youth of Baltimore with all of their energy and juvenile delinquency are uh able to spend that energy in a track meet essentially. And so they took me over to the track into the field and all of the other juveniles who were delinquent They were there and they were competing. And the counselors uh we each had their different halls, different buildings, and so you would belong to whatever hall. Think of dorms or you belong to one dorm versus another, so to speak. And they introduced me to the team, and the team was not excited to see me. Because They were in the middle of an event and they knew that I was going to be on their team and that the event was running and that I was white and that I was not going to be able to run very fast. Oh that's actually what they said to me. So I'm I'm not standing up here with um presuppositions or uh being racist or something. I'm repeating the facts. So everyone was angry. And they started yelling. They were furious that they brought me over to be a part of this meet. They uh immediately you could see on their faces that they had resigned, that they were going to lose They they knew they they were actually tied for first place so far through the whole meet, and there was one event that was left, and it was a relay race. And they placed me at the final leg of the race. So I'm going to be the last person to receive the baton, and I'm going to run across the finish line representing the entire team. And I'm either going to be last or I'm going to, you know, where am I going to land on this? And they were not happy about it. So they resigned themselves to losing. The starting gun goes off. You can see that they're still not happy, but they're going to try to finish this well. And the the race is coming around and is tied neck to neck. uh coming around to me and they they hand off the the baton to me. And and you know what happens? No, I didn't drop it. To their surprise they found out that I was the fastest white boy they'd ever seen. I'm being serious. I'm not trying to brag about myself. They didn't know that about me, but I was known for being fast back at school. It was why I was good at sports. And all of their jaws kind of dropped and I ran and we won the race Yes, yeah, amen. I crossed the finish line. They all ran to me exciting and they were cheering for our victory. And and that win was important to me. It was mostly important to me because Now, and this is getting a little off topic, I'm not going to pursue this, but it was important to me largely because I now had a lower probability of getting jumped when we get back. So this morning, why is it that I want to reveal that as a story? It could be a story about anybody. I don't care if it's about me or not. Why do I tell you that story? Children, for example, if you had to puzzle it out and I just told you that story, maybe you could see it as like a movie in front of you there. Why am I telling you that story? I'm telling you that story because this is the picture or the analogy that we have with Paul and we have with Timothy This is a way to look at what's going on and it's a way to understand why Paul is so thankful. Paul was in a race. You've heard this over and over again that Paul was in a race and he wanted to win the prize His race was to fulfill the commission Jesus Christ gave him to gather and perfect those people from every nation being called to eternal life. And you know Paul. You've seen him on the pages of Scripture. You know that he was relentless in doing what Christ commissioned him to do. But here's the big thing is that it you see in these letters That Paul has to hand the baton to Timothy. In fact, did you know that in this letter Paul is in prison? He's in a dungeon? How much can he do? A little bit later, you're going to read in this letter that though I am chained, the word of God is not chained. That's expressed partly in frustration because he's not able to continue in his commission in the way that he would like to, sailing to these different places, preaching in synagogues having all the liberties of many other humans that are on the face of the earth. Here he is stuck in the dungeon, and he has to pass this baton over to young Timothy, the same person that some people in the congregation despise because of his youth. That's the situation here. It's very similar to that group of guys that when they saw me were thinking, great, we've got to pass the baton to him. And I imagine that Paul had similar thoughts, though nothing negative about Timothy. They had questions about me in that story, and they wondered what would happen when I got the baton, and surely Paul had questions about Timothy, too. Paul knew that Timothy showed promise, and that is why he agreed. We read in 1 Timothy to lay hands on uh to lay hands on Timothy and his ordination. Certainly Paul didn't hastily lay his hands on him. But Paul had seen a lot of people. I'd encourage you to go through 1 and 2 Timothy and just gather up the names of the people that were supporting Paul and who were co-workers with Paul, but then who left the faith. For various reasons. So Paul had to be wondering, is the is he gonna make it? Or is he gonna be shipwrecked How's this going to turn out when I pass this baton over to Timothy? How's it going to turn out when I entrust the deposit to him? Is he going to be another person who twists the words and starts preaching against Jesus Christ? Paul sitting in a dungeon under arrest. This is what helps us understand it. Is that he hears the news that Timothy not only still has the baton, but that he is running the race well. And that's the same experience that they had gathering and cheering at the final, at the finish line of that race in that juvenile detention facility. It's analogous. And so what do we see Paul do? That's really the question that we have because I mentioned I really want to reflect on the apostolic example here. As as he follows Christ, so too we follow Paul, as he says elsewhere. What do we see Paul do? Paul sitting in prison, he gives thanks. That's enough to just think about right there. Sitting in prison giving thanks. But then the time that he does have, he uses to write a letter to make sure that Timothy knows that he gives thanks to God for him. also. Do you know how that must have felt for Timothy? Do you know how encouraging that must have been for the whole church to read this letter? Because this isn't just a private letter, this is a public letter. Paul sitting in prison gives thanks and even shares that thanks with Timothy so that, why? So that Timothy can be encouraged. Because we need that kind of encouragement when we're running the race. And that, my friends, and the whole point of that whole story, besides you getting a good laugh at me, which was important to do, it's important to laugh at your pastor. is to give you the context of thanks. I hope you can understand a little bit by way of the baton of what's going on with Paul and with Timothy. And this brings us to the second thing, which is the questions of thanks. I wonder if you view your life and the life of the Christians around you in this same way with the same kind of responsibility. The people sitting around you this morning have been brought into the same race. You're a part of the same cloud of witnesses as everybody else Sometime, somewhere, Christ sent the people that are around you. He sent them a preacher. And they were given the words to speak from the scriptures to the people that are around you, and the people around you were given ears to hear. Which is in and of itself a supernatural activity, illumination of mind and heart. And they repented and they believed in Jesus Christ. And they, at that moment, took the exit ramp right onto the race. And officially, they were in a different sense than the exact way in which the baton is used here with Timothy, but in a different sense, they too were handed the baton. Entering into the cloud of witnesses in the great race of the saints. And here they are, sitting next to you, still running the race. I wonder, I want you to be serious about this. I've been sobered by this next question that I'm going to ask you. Are you giving thanks for them to God? And are you giving thanks to God for them in a way that they can hear that you are thankful for the kind of work that they are doing in this race. I'm telling you right now, one of the worst things that happens to us as Christians is that we become discouraged. Do you know the great means that God has given to you for you to be encouraged? It is each other. And the encouragement that you will give to each other to say, hey, I noticed that you're still in the race. Thank God. For that. It may seem like a small thing that they just overcame, but I'm telling you right now, there are no small things in the kingdom of God. Any little bump could jar the faith of a person, and it is by the love of our Savior that we do not leave him, and the love of our Savior uses secondary means like yourself and encouragement. I want you to think for a moment of First Timothy as we as we consider those those kinds of questions. Have you given thanks to God for them? Have you shared with them that you thank God for them and their continued faithfulness? I want to you you could think for a moment about the letters. Think of all that Timothy went through. It wasn't just commands that Paul gave to Timothy. Timothy was going to, he was going to work those things out. You don't think that there were older women? Imagine being 30 years old, let's say And having to speak to women who are seventy, you know how difficult that can be if they're angry with you? You think it's scary to talk to men? It is way scarier in my experience to speak to a 70-year-old woman. Just let you know. And he had to do that over and over again, and these were Greek women. Even worse. So let me, instead of focusing on what Timothy had to struggle with, let me just let's just think for a moment about the people that are around us and the and the the the what they have to face and yet they're still in the race. Let me just bring up the example that there is a number of people here that have lost loved ones Do you have any idea how difficult it is to lose somebody who's close to you? There's different degrees of closeness that we've lost this year in the in the last few years But if you think about that, if you get the opportunity to sit and to see what human beings go through, do you have any idea how the evil one can use such experiences to chip away at a person's faith to where there would be nothing left. And yet, here they are this morning. They're still sitting with you. They're still sitting with you, they're still running the race. They had to figure out, in some cases, how how to do everything differently, and yet here they still are. And I'm wondering if we ever, so this is the first example, I'm wondering if we ever had the opportunity, with the way that we're conducting ourselves, to thank God for their faithfulness and the grace that Jesus Christ has given to them. And then I wonder if you had the opportunity to express that to them. I'm so thankful to God, and I want you to know that I have been praying for you night and day ever since I saw this tough providence you were going to enter into I've been praying for you night and day, and I've been watching you. You didn't slow down in the race, but actually started to excel, and I wanted you to know that I'm so thankful for the witness that you've given to me of what it looks like to be a mature Christian. I hope that I could be like you in that same kind of circumstance. That person of course will think of all of the mistakes that they made and how they haven't been running the race well. And part of that will be true. Because none of us are perfect, but it will be important for them. I believe that the Holy Spirit will take what you say and will lodge it into their hearts. that they might it might aid them like a fresh cup of water on the race so that they could keep running even into the future Through their level of loss, they are still running with the baton. They still have it. They haven't given up the faith. They have the baton in their hand, and they are demonstrating themselves over and over again to be the children of Abraham Now, I imagine that you could multiply the problems, couldn't you? I just gave you one example of those who have deep loss within their lives. I want you to know that in my position I hear of tons and tons of temptations and pressures that are on our students. Whether they are in middle school, whether they are in high school, whether they in college, whether they're in graduate school, there are tremendous pressures on them, and I don't want to embarrass anybody, so I can't share this with you right now But you would not believe the faith that he has given to our students and how they have stood up against professors The things that they've had to say in their papers or not do papers and take a poor grade. I'd encourage you to try to get to know the students around here so that maybe one of those stories will leak out So that you get the opportunity to be thankful and then to express your thankfulness to them. That's another example that we could multiply. Or what about this? What about the challenges of singleness? Sometimes the first problem that I gave you and this third problem are together because you lose your husband or you lose your wife and now you're single. Now you're a widow. Sometimes you've never been married. But I've noticed as I've listened that there are great challenges that come along with singleness. And what about them? Let me just ask you for a moment. Let's just think of the widow. Let me just ask you, how would it go for you if you had to drive home? To an empty driveway every single night and go in and have dinner by yourself every single night. Some of you right now are saying Well, I would praise God because I'm so sick and tired of hearing people in my house. Okay, fine. But let that go on. Now let's go ahead and say this is your second year of driving into the driveway There's no one else there, and you're going to have dinner by yourself. How's it going the second year? Do you have any idea of the kind of temptations and the struggles that enter into a person's life just in terms of loneliness Or w what if you don't feel like you have any protection in your home and you hear a bump in the night? You know how different that is. And yet here they are this morning, still showing up to church, still carrying the baton. And actually doing some of the greatest good works among us by the power of Jesus Christ in the congregation. And there is another example where we get to be thankful to God And I hope we have been praying for them already, day and night. And maybe it's about time that we start expressing that thanks to the people around us that we've been thanking God for them. And take the apostolic authoritative example in this I hear of many things, including that all of these people have the baton and they are still running the race. And you know who you are this morning, and I want you to know that this morning when I was praying, I gave thanks to God for you. Let me ask this again. This point is called questions. So here's all the questions. Let me ask you another question. What is keeping you from giving thanks to God and encouraging each other today? What's keeping you from doing that? One thing among many, and I'll list a couple more, that can keep you from giving thanks for the saints around you. Is that you haven't given two thoughts about the saints about you around you to begin with? One of the reasons why Paul is able to say what he has said and why he's so filled with thankfulness Is because this was building for Paul. Paul has invested in Timothy, especially in his prayer life. He prays for Timothy every morning and every night He is concerned for Timothy's welfare. So when he hears a report, you better believe that he is thankful to finally hear the report and the answer to his prayers. So, one of the reasons that may be keeping you from giving thanks to God and encouraging each other today is that you haven't really been taking concern for each other, even in prayer. And I would encourage you to look at Paul's zeal in prayer in this passage And to consider this a high calling to know each other well enough to be in prayer for each other. That is worth your time. Sometimes we can make the mistake that it's not worth our time. We can make the mistake about only getting excited about, let's say, like a building program here at the church. And that we're going to sink all of this time and this money into this huge sanctuary so that we can have more people. But I want you to know right now, there's nothing wrong with a building program, but I want you to know I don't want to be a part of a giant building with a bunch of people that don't even pray for each other. I would rather be with a smaller group of people who actually care It is so worth your time to become zealous for each other in prayer so that when you do hear news about them and you say, how's it going? How did that specific thing go and they say, actually it went well. I can't believe the Lord really showed up and I gotta tell you about the grace that He poured out on me in that particular moment. And then you get the opportunity to say, well thank God. Because I've been praying for you day and night. And our prayers will be more zealous for some than others based upon the providence of God and the way that He puts different kinds of people in our life, and some are closer and some are further away. I get that. But there should be some level of that here in this congregation. So is it your prayer life? That would be one cause. You could not You may be what may be keeping you from giving thanks to God and encouraging us each other today could just be your prayer life. Maybe it's time to revisit that. And you can look at Paul here and you can start to ask the question, why is this guy so committed to prayer? I don't understand it. And now you need to work that out. Here's another one, and Brad brought this up for us. Is it jealousy? You will not give thanks. For the people around you, if you're just jealous that they get to do things and be things that you can't and don't get to do Jealousy is a great killer of congregations. It's really a great killer of any institution. And the church has, in fact, been instituted by God Himself. And I wonder if some of that is getting in the way for you. What Christ calls us to is instead to look, as we just read in the ninth commandment. is to look on the gifts and the graces of those that are around you and to be happy for them and to be happy to the Lord for them. That we would be thrilled that other people are succeeding. That we would tell them, I'm so astonished at how you can handle the word in Bible study, or that would be a gift. Or I'm so, you know, I could barely uh keep one event on my calendar straight, but you are super gifted in administration. And that is so I can see how that's so helpful in different areas of people's lives. Praise God Instead of you just being jealous and growing in bitterness that you don't get to do those kinds of things. That's not from the spirit. That comes from below, it is from the devil, and it is not wisdom from above, as we read in James. So is it jealousy? Here's another one. Are you too busy? One tactic that I believe that Satan has, especially for Western society, is that you will not be able to give thanks to God or encourage each other. Because you're just too busy to really know what's going on with anybody else but your hectic schedule. And you certainly don't have any time to talk to God about it. So are you too busy? Do you need to stop and smell the flowers And really the question is, if you were to take all of these and kind of get underneath of them, the question is this. And this is something that I'm going to be focusing on. In this letter, I'll be focusing in on this on the officer retreat. This is a question that we need to really consider as a congregation. Do you need to stop and to take more time to see the continual grace of God being poured out all around us? Do you need to stop and take the time to see that God is pouring out His grace all around us? We're going to get to a part in chapter 2 where Paul tells Timothy, you need to be strong in the grace of the Lord. What does that even mean? What does that look like? Are you aware of the grace of the Lord in your life? Or has he kind of pushed you off the ship and you've got to figure out your way to land? Those are different views than the way that Paul views this here. He sees even in prison, and these prisons were not nice. Even in these dungeons, Paul is seeing the continual grace of God being poured out If we could become a congregation that can see that, we will begin to see that God's graces and his gifts are being poured out not in general but on particular people around us, including ourselves And we have got a lot to be thankful for as we give thanks to God in prayer and as we encourage the people that are around us. Now I understand that all of life is not perfect, and I also understand that there's plenty to grieve over. I'm not trying to say that you know life is just one big party. But we need to remember this. Paul is writing from a dungeon, and he still sees the grace of God. And still overflows with thankfulness for the grace shown to his beloved son Timothy. In the grace of Christ, may we be a congregation that does the same. No matter what dungeons you are currently in, and I know that you are in some May we be a healthy church giving thanks for the grace of Christ that we see in each other. Amen. Let us pray.