Paul and Timothy, bondservants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with the bishops or overseers and deacons Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine, making requests for you all with joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now, and being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Just as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers with me of grace. For God is my witness, how greatly I long for you all with the affection of Jesus Christ. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, we thank you that you have preserved this letter for us, that we might See the warmth of the gospel and the warmth that we are to show to one another as we are on this pilgrimage together. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would use the preached word to work mightily among your congregation, and that we would be a witness that your kingdom has come, and that your will is now to be done on earth as it is in heaven. Ask these things in your name on them. You may be seated. Obviously today, well if this is your first time here, welcome. Up to this day we have not been in this letter, so you've arrived on a very exciting day. We are beginning a new series on a letter from Paul to the Philippians. And if I were sitting in a Bible study with you, Uh uh I would probably say why do you think this letter is called the letter to the Philippians It it tends to be a way to kind of jump right into the discussion. I wonder what you would say. Uh sometimes when I ask that at a a high school Bible study, folks Some of the high schoolers just kind of have a blank stare. And other times I can see that the high schoolers have caught on that the reason why this is called the letter to the Philippians is because it was in the church at Philippi uh which is uh in northern Greece, even to this day, that city exists. And that is uh interesting to high school students where they realize wait there's These things are in the Bible or in the real world? Yes, they are. They are. You can find them on a map. And you can hear about different leaders. uh in history books that are also mentioned in the scriptures. And that's the geography, but then there's also the history. The city was founded by Rome by Philip II of Macedonia. I don't think many people here I've been at a few get togethers where we had uh buffalo chicken dip and that kind of stuff stuff and I didn't hear anybody talk about Philip II of Macedon. uh or Macedonia. But I do sometimes hear uh statistics that men think about Rome a lot, and when they do They think about Alexander the Great, and Alexander the Great was the founder of Philippi, Philip II's son. And you can find that, therefore, the city on the map, and you can read about the founders in history books But for our purposes, really all you need to do is turn to Acts chapter 16, which we've started to introduce to you in the bulletin if you want to understand a little bit about Philippi. This letter is written to those who are you can see there in this book, to Paul and Timothy, bondservants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi together with those who are overseers and the deacons. Well, I imagine that some of you are familiar with Philippi from Acts chapter 16. Do you remember any of the details of the Philippian church and how it got started. Do you remember that the Apostle Paul received a night vision? Anybody remember that? And there was a a Macedonian who appeared to him in that vision saying, Come and we need your help. So unable to enter into Asia, they decided to head that way, setting foot in what we would consider to be Europe now. There when they entered in. I wonder if you remember some of the the stories where Paul beginning to preach there, he went to the riverside as we read in the bulletin and met with uh the women there and Lydia was given grace from the Lord to have faith in Jesus Christ. A little bit later, Paul is going to cast out a spirit of divination from a young girl, and because that spirit was then lost within that girl, the guys who owned her lost their ability to make money. You'll have to read about the story. It's kind of a crazy story. So they brought Paul before the judges and the judges decided to beat him with rods and then send him to prison, which then brings us to perhaps a story that you've heard of Paul in that prison Singing hymns after being beaten with rides. There's an example for you of endeavoring and endurance But right in the middle of the hymns, God decides that we're not going to stop Paul just yet from the preaching. So he causes an earthquake to shake all of the jail doors open. And the jailer, quite surprised by this, because this doesn't happen every day, the jailer, having lost all of the prisoners and therefore not having fulfilled his duty, drew his sword to pierce himself. To kill himself, but Paul says, don't do that. Paul ends up sharing the gospel with him, and the jailer and all of his household are baptized into Christ. And then if we were to turn back to our bulletin, of course we would remember Lydia. I think I mentioned her already. And that is the city And those are some of the people when we look at this letter that is to the Philippians. It's a little bit of the background But background can only get you so far. So far, you could have heard everything that I have said in one way or another at Anna Rummel Community College with some information about Philippi. But this we have to go further than just a basic introduction that you could read of in any old book. And we've got to back up the story. And think about Paul singing those hymns in jails in jail after he was beaten with rods. Well let's let's just speculate for a moment, because the answer is not in the scriptures, but he's a human being. We can see different things that are in the letter. Why do you think after being beaten with rods he was singing hymns? And let's go ahead and say they were hymns of joy and rejoicing, and not hymns where he was asking God to bring fire down on their heads. Maybe it was a mix. But let's just say at least they were hymns of rejoicing. Why would he be doing that? Well, if the if the if the letter to the Philippians holds any clues, and it does, He actually repeats the word rejoicing through this throughout this letter. Then the answer is that Paul was singing hymns out of thanksgiving and joy for what God was doing in this group of people. And I started off the series here just with a prayer and just saying how warm this letter is. It's not primarily the letter that we just finished with 2 Timothy where we hear warnings. about the struggle of life and all of the wolves that are going to enter in and devour the people that we love. This is a letter where Paul's heart is filled with joy for what God is doing in this group of people and what these people are actually doing in partnership with him in the spreading of the gospel. That's the letter that is in front of you. And so you're going to be called upon to ask yourself some pretty serious questions as a church. You could begin by just, before we even get into looking at the particulars of the passage, you could begin by just asking yourselves, are you thankful? Are you a thankful person? Not when all of the packages arrive be from Prime Day. I'm talking about are you thankful for what you see God doing? Are you thankful for what you see God doing not just in you but in the Christians that are around you? And not even anything that benefits you directly, but just because you see That Jesus Christ really is doing what he said he was going to do all throughout the scriptures. Does that mark you as a person? That's something I want you to think about throughout the whole letter. Do you primarily treat your brothers and sisters as obstacles? Competition? To the things that you want to be able to do, that you want to be able to accomplish, do you justify doing it because the things you want to do are ministry, but you still treat people like they're just your competitors and they're just obstacles? That's what you've reduced them to. That is a real problem if that is the case. When is the last time you had real joy because of what God is continually doing all around you, especially for other people? Those are great questions for the book of Philippians, the letter to Philippians. And that is a real problem. some temptations to be competitive, to view each other uh as something we just use and then we dispose of them And so Paul is going to be working on all of those different things. Those are the purposes of the Holy Spirit, really, throughout the entire age of the church. The church often loses so much good work And the church often loses its reputation and its credibility because of the infighting that can happen among its members. So Paul is very interested in making sure that this group of believers, oh sweet Lydia by the river, and the jailer in his household, that they would not chew each other up. I remember uh hearing a story of um a woman who uh she was a single mom and she worked very, very hard in order to be able to make ends meet. And um one day she received an extra tip. She was a waitress, and it was particularly high. And so she decided that uh for the first time since she had children, her children were in elementary school at this point For the first time since her her children were born, uh she was going to buy herself a new pair of tennis shoes to where her feet didn't hurt when she served tables. Uh well she did. And um uh she wore them, they felt great. She she uh zoomed from table to table, she came home and she took off those shoes and uh spent time with the kids and she fell asleep and then she woke up the next morning and the puppy that she had just gotten the boys and the girls chewed the shoes up. And she sat there trying to get ready for work with her restaurant shirt on, getting ready to put her shoes on. She sees her shoes and she says, Can't I ever have anything nice? Do you hear the humanity in that? And the struggle that she was facing? I think a similar question can be asked among the church. There are so many good things that Jesus Christ is doing, but there is still this compulsion within us to chew each other up like a puppy does a parachute. I can't tell you how many times I have been so excited for different ministries arising among the saints, only to find out within a few days people are already bickering over who gets what role. That is a common occurrence in our church. It's a common occurrence in all of the letters that we see within the New Testament. And that's part of the purpose, and it's really the flavor of this Philippians letter that Paul is going to seek to address. The Spirit is aware that we struggle with these kinds of sins, and so he is going to encourage us. actually to look at the Apostle Paul and how he encourages this group of people. And here's the first thing that he does. This is what the whole sermon about the sermon is about this morning. The very first step, if you don't want to be that puppy that destroys that woman's shoes, is that we must learn to be thankful Thankfulness, thankfulness, thankfulness, thankfulness. Thankfulness to God, and thankfulness for what God is doing in other people If you really listen today and the Spirit is going to work in you, one of the results may be that you are going to see that God is working in the people around you. And when you sing a hymn in your private time, which you should be doing, you should be worshiping throughout the week and not just here on Sunday, when you sing a hymn, you will choose a hymn of thanksgiving. to thank God for what he is doing in that person. That's where we're looking ahead. That's part of what the Spirit would like to see from you. as you hear about thankful this this morning. Now, the very first thing, there's two main things that I want you to see here about thankfulness. The first thing is that I want you to be aware that you are to be thankful first and foremost for what God is doing. And then we'll we'll um I'll announce the second one in just a little bit. You can see, go ahead and and uh look down at the epistle of Paul to the Philippians. You can see in verse number two, Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. That's a part of his greeting, and then he moves immediately into verse number three, and this permeates and trickles down through the rest of the letter. And you gotta hear these words, I thank my God. I thank my God. And I've already told you that the main theme of our passage is thankfulness, and you can see it right there in verse number three. The first thing that I want to point out though is that There are two main things that Paul is thankful for, and I want to point out the second thing that he's thankful for, which can be found in verse number six. Verse number six says this. Being confident of this very thing that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Now you can break that up into two parts. You can be thankful for what God has begun to do, and you can be thankful that God is going to finish it. We all talk about what the we will talk about what the good work was specifically in the second point. But generally speaking, Paul is drawing us to see God beginning his plan of salvation now. He's not waiting until Jesus Christ returns to do everything. He is actually beginning it now. He's not just forgiving you of your sins and then leaving you that way. He's actually progressing you forward now And Paul is intimately aware of that and is experiencing that as he go ins-goes into each city, even if he is thrown into prison. He can see that when Lydia accepts the name of Jesus Christ as her Lord, when he sees her face soften, There on the riverside, and that she accepts Jesus Christ as a result of the preaching of the gospel. He knows that Jesus Christ is there by way of his spirit, fulfilling what he said he would do. And the same thing is true of what happened to the keeper of the prison. If we were to turn uh to Acts 16, or if you want to read that over lunch, it says, and the keeper of the prison. Awaking from sleep and seeing the prison doors open, supposing the prisoners had fled, they drew his sword and he was about to kill himself. But Paul called with a loud voice, saying, Do yourself no harm, for we are all here. Then he called for a light, ran in, and fell down trembling before Paul and Silas. And he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? I mean, at that moment, you know Paul is, you know Jesus Christ is there, right? Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And so they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household. Then they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in the house. Now what we witness is the Lord granting to salvation to this man at the least. And so what does it end up looking like when this begins to happen? You originally have a Gentile who was a part of of uh the the rods on Paul of torturing Paul, of punishing Paul, according to that court. Here we have him Turning to Jesus Christ for salvation. If you were to keep reading that passage, I only read up to verse 32. If you read verse 33, you already begin to see Jesus Christ working in this man. Listen to what it says about him. And he took them the same hour of the night and he washed their stripes. It was that quick. that he had entered into the kingdom and rather than beating Paul, he was going to treat his wounds. And then the passage goes on, and it says, and immediately he and all his family were baptized. And now when he had brought them into his house, and now he's showing hospitality already. He set food before them. I like to think that it's buffalo wings, just because that's what I would want if I'd been preaching the gospel all day and beaten. And he rejoiced, having believed in God with all his household. That's a real switch. And it didn't start later. It started now. And that's why Paul says in this late this letter that what he had begun in you. And he gives thanks to God for that. He's singing it right in front of his face. Now think about this more broadly and look at what God is doing, therefore, in pagan nations. Barbaric human beings that were just treating each other like animals. And here Christ is showing up, having not given up on the human race. And he has begun the great work inside of them. But Paul was not just thankful that God began a work in the jail or any other Christian. He's thankful also in verse six because he knows that God is not a God that starts something and then s and then doesn't finish the work, but that God what he has begun he'll finish And that should be comforting to you. And it really draws us into the larger picture that God has not left you in your sin and in your misery, even though I understand that it can feel experientially like that because there's so much for us to work on all the time. But we know instead that God has sent you a Savior in restoring you to the glory always meant for the human race. God has got his eye on the goal. He has drawn the bow and he has let the arrow fly for the target. And the target is not that you would remain unrestored in your sins, but that you would be restored to the glory that He has always intended for the human race. If you look at Revelation 21, oftentimes people are comforted and strengthened by Revelation 21, especially the part which I know you've heard where it says, God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Man, can you imagine a world like that? There shall be no more death, there's no sorrow, there's no crying There's not going to be any more pain. Why? Well, it says in the next verse, because the former things have passed away So let me th the tears are wiped away. There's no more death, there's no more sorrow, there's no more crying. Do you know what that implies? It means human beings have officially been changed. It means human beings have officially been changed because in s in my experience, human beings are the ones that make people cry Human beings are the ones that like to kill each other. Human beings make each other sad. And sorrowful. So something by the end has changed fundamentally within the human race at the working of God that he began and he saw it all the way through to the end to where this world may be restored to a world like that It is no wonder that Paul is singing hymns if you start to catch that vision. I see us around here wringing our hands. I just saw uh at the misery of the human race and the things that we want to do to each other. I just saw um I don't know what things are called anymore. I don't know if it's a gif or a meme or a what you know. There's these things all over And there's this British guy who's trying to have a nice British meal. Britons like to do things nicely. And he's just trying to have a nice thing of soup and a glass of wine. And um and he's he's sitting there trying to calmly do that while there's like acid rain coming down on him and there's an alien that walks by from a UFO that landed on the earth and Uh there's uh an attempted assassination over on the side and there's um you know whatever it is. There's like all these things and he's just trying to and it says on the top uh what it's like to live in the world right now And I thought, wow, that's pretty much a universal little social media thing that we all get. But Paul is saying to you here that though that is an accurate picture of what the human race will do to itself, that God has not left you. in that plate and in that situation, but has sent Jesus Christ to solve it all. And that he's not just going to start something In the first century, and then let it peter out because of university professors, he's going to see it all the way to the end. So as followers of Jesus Christ, just like the jailer and just like Lydia, you know that let's just talk about your inner person, your interiority. You're aware of the struggles that you have inside of you and how dark it can get. Jesus Christ has begun to work in you and He's going to finish it. There's going to be a time when it's not even possible for you to sin. That is the end of his work. Some of you are supremely aware of your sin, and here you need to see what God is doing in you. I'm trying to cast out some seeds to where you could see the grandeur of the vision. I started pretty broad there with him saving the world And then I went into you because whether it's at this end or it's down into you as an individual, the whole point of this passage is that you need to be thankful. Because of what God is doing. If you really could see what He is doing, you would drop into hymns with the Apostle Paul. What he has begun, he will finish. I'd encourage you as his followers to meditate on this and rejoice giving thanks to God for his salvation. Now that's the first thing. So we're we're learning how is it what does Paul give to us? What does the Spirit give to us so that we don't chew each other up like a puppy with those shoes? That's the first thing is that we must be thankful for what God is doing. Are you having trouble with that? It's going to take you a minute to go ahead and catch your breath. Push the distractions that are a part of your life aside and really take some time to focus on God. Maybe you need to take a hike. Maybe you need to get away for a minute. Maybe you need to turn the TV off, stop reading the book, whatever it is. You need to focus on God. And see all the great things that he is doing and express your thanksgiving to him. There are some people in this room who have not talked to God for some time. I'd encourage you to get back in there, recognize who he is, and give him thanks. Now the second thing. The Spirit encourages you not only to imitate Paul and his thankfulness to God, but that you are even to share this thankfulness to other Christians so that they may be encouraged. Paul saw all of these things of what Jesus Christ is doing in the world and what he's doing in this particular church, but he put it in a letter. So that they could see what he was thinking about them and what God was doing in them, that they would be encouraged. And we need to do the same thing for each other Now, what did Paul have specifically in mind in verse number five when he does this? We see that he is thankful to God And he makes these uh requests before God, which will come in the next sermon in verse nine, with all joy. I told you it's because he began a work and he'll finish it. But the first reason in verse number five is for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. Now what does that mean? They fellowshipped with Paul, not that they had coffee hour together in the Narthex. They became fellow workers with him in the ways that they could in the ministry of the gospel. If you take a look at Philippians chapter 2, 25, it would be good for you to become familiar with this book. I'm not asking too much of you to turn a page here. But if you look at Philippians 2. 25, pay attention to the word fellow that is also in fellowship. Yet I considered it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, fellow worker and fellow soldier, but your messenger and the one who ministered to my need. Do you see what's going on here? The Philippians sent Apaphroditus to minister to Paul in his need. So Epaphroditus and that congregation became Paul's fellow worker. They were officially in fellowship. They were fellow soldiers in the army of Jesus Christ. And Paul Is extremely thankful that the churches did not just let him rot in jail. They did not have a government program where you showed up and then you got your aluminum tray of food every day. Family members would need to bring you food. Family members would need to bring you clothes. And it was the Philippian church that became his family in the Lord. and therefore had fellowship and were fellow workers with him in the gospel. The Philippians and Epaphroditus gave Paul necessities like food and clothing and maybe some books, like we heard about in Second Timothy. The Philippians, according to chapter 4, you can read this over lunch, were in fact the only church who kept caring for Paul while he was in prison. Paul was moved by this. And of course, if you were in that situation, what would be the first thing that you would do when you had not eaten all week, and then all of a sudden someone shows up from a church that you planted, and they have got Mission barbecue with them. The very first thing you do would do is you would give thanks to God. And the second second thing you would do is you would tell that person, I thank God for you. And I thank God for that church. Not forgetting me here, but becoming a fellow worker with me in the gospel. And we can learn from Paul in this. Paul is thankful and he rejoices for their practical and useful fellowship. Fellowship is not an abstraction. It is feet-on-the-ground ministry. And the main point here is that he didn't keep that just between him and God. Paul decided to share his thankfulness to God with those people. Now, why does he do that? I believe when you look at the purpose of the letter, if you spend time reading the letter over and over and over and over again, what you find is that what I gave to you in the beginning is that Paul wants them to be encouraged. Paul wants them to be strengthened, and he's trying to set an example for them on how they're supposed to relate to each other. And that is we need to be thankful not just to God, but for each other. And we need to share that with each other. Now, why would I say that? Don't just take my word for it. You ought to desire the same thing. God is doing great work in the people around you. He is actually changing them. The change is evident in some of the choices that they make. And you are to rejoice when you see it even in their face. Imagine someone telling you at worship the other night we sang a hymn of thankfulness to God because of the God given changes and God given good works that we see you doing. Can you imagine somebody saying that to you? Imagine the little kids who they just had a family worship and they came up to you and said, We thank God for you in our worship the other night. How encouraging would that be? How much do you need that right now? We're encouraged to do this kind of thing not just as uh me trying to be positive-minded, but we see that this is exactly what Paul is getting at within Philippians. Let's turn to Philippians chapter 4 verse 8 real quick. So I can show you that these are the purposes that he has in mind. I need you to keep this in mind for the whole series. He's not just thanking them to be nice. He's thanking them because he's always trying to build up churches and he knows that they can be chewed up and and torn down. If you look at a Philippians 4. 8, how many of you are familiar with Philippians 4. 8? Go ahead and look at it right there. How many of you have heard that? Finally, brethren, whatever things are true, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report, If there is any virtue and if there is anything praiseworthy, meditate on these things Have you heard that before? Did any of you try to apply this by saying, wow, these flowers are beautiful and praiseworthy? I should praise the flowers. That's not Paul's focus. If you go back a paragraph, Paul is focused on two women that are fighting in the church. Philippians chapter 4, verse 2, I implore Euodia and I implore Senecdoche. Syntheti to be of the same mind in the Lord. If you study this letter long enough, you'll see being of the same mind in the Lord is brought up in chapter 2, and there's conflict that is happening between these two women. And what what you need to do is you need to make Philippians 4. 8 more personal. Finally, brethren, whatever things are true of each other. Whatever you see that is noble in each other. What things are just in each other? Whatever things you see that God is doing in making people pure, and He's making whatever He makes them lovely and of good report. And they are growing to be virtuous. Would you meditate on those things instead of on the negative things about each other? Paul is helping us, even he having that in mind, he's helping us all the way in the beginning by setting an example for us. that we are to be expressing thanks for each other and not just being critical of each other Now I say that furthermore, that we are to imitate Paul because of Philippians chapter 4 verse 9. He says, the things which you learned and received and heard and saw in me, these do, and the God of peace will be with you. You see, peace is a problem in churches. And he's showing you the way forward. And that's what I'm pushing on you this morning by way of the word And it has been my prayer that you would receive it, that you would start to open your hearts up to being the kind of people that give thanks to God for what He is doing. And he's not just doing things abstractly. He's doing things in the people that are around you. And you need to let them know that you see it and that you take great joy in what God is doing in them. I am preaching to you, admonishing you to see how Paul is not consumed with selfish ambition. He's not consumed with conceit. He's not consumed with envy. He does not see people as competitors and as obstacles. Not this group of people. Not the fellow saints. And we, it says in verse 9 of chapter 4, what we see in him, we must do, that the God of peace would be with us. How does Paul see them? If you are to imitate him, how does Paul see the precious saints of the Lord? The people that Jesus Christ died for How does he see that? How is it that you see the people around you? Are they meant to be used as steps to the top To the top of your business, to the top of ministry. Paul first sees God in the amazing work he has begun and will complete. That is the foundation of Paul's thoughts and actions. And Paul therefore took the time to see the great work of God in the congregation and to give thanks openly for it. That everybody could be encouraged, that God really hasn't left us and he has not forsaken us. He let them know that the good works they were doing in the Lord brought him exceptional joy and a full stomach. And some clothes to wear when he was cold. And he's really thankful. Because he knows that this is the fruit of the gospel. It is the fruit of the ministry of Jesus Christ. And now it is your turn. The message was not meant to end in Philippi. It is meant to continue down through the ages to all of the different nations. When do you plan on sincerely stopping and thanking God? Who will you encourage mentioning specific good things, not in general? You're doing great. Specifically, you need to notice. That's how things happen in the world. They happen specifically. Who will you encourage mentioning specific good things which you see in the Christians around you? And can you begin today? Would you go ahead and tap into your memory and remember the great things that God is doing in the people that are around you? And when you do so, do you notice that you have been pretty bitter and contentious for a while? And that it's got to stop. That it must be replaced as Jesus Christ has replaced your heart and moving you in a different direction. Now, I'm going to go ahead and begin. I'll take the first step, and I encourage you to follow my lead. We saw in the letter that the Philippian church sent Epaphroditus to Paul to help him when he was in need. And I want to thank the congregation for sending me Brad I was in a very difficult spot and really struggling in the ministry. And I appreciate you seeing my need and sending him to me. But I also want to say that it has gone beyond that now. It has no longer it is no longer about me and my needs. I'm doing quite well. I feel very refreshed. I'm arriving, if you remember, from two weeks ago. I've got a lot of work ahead of me and I have a ton of energy. Just ask my children and my wife. Now, Brad must be commended for the great works that he is doing among you and meeting you and your needs. And Brad, I just want to commend you this morning. You should not doubt your calling. You're meant to be a teaching elder. And I hope that this congregation has the wisdom to call you themselves. Welcome to being an example in my sermon. Uh but the Lord brought this to my mind that I need to express publicly my joy that I find in you in the work of the Lord. We've been together since twenty ten. And uh you and I have seen the the Lord work in a lot of people, including ourselves. So I thank the Lord for you. And I will be singing uh a hymn of thanksgiving for you and for your family. So thank you. And um Bradley. And um let us pray.