We're we're gonna actually uh hear the uh the sermon right now, and then we're going to after the sermon move into a time of thanksgiving, which is obvious that we should do that because I'm giving a ser So we'll move into a time of you giving thanks to God for the many things that He's done in you as well as others and what is laid up for you. In the future, and then we'll sing our final hymn, which is in Christ alone, and we'll be doing that acapello. So tonight we're looking at Colossians chapter one, and it's verses three through eight. Turn there with me, please. And I should have, well, I made you sit down, and now I'm going to make you stand again. But that's okay. So let's stand for the reading of God's Word. And the prayer of illumination. This is Colossians one three through eight. We give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ praying always for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of your love for all the saints, because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven. Of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel, which has come to you, as it has also in all the world, and is bringing forth fruit as it is also among you since the day you heard and knew the grace of God in truth. As you also learned from Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who was a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf, who also declared to us your love in the Spirit. Please pray with me. Father, we are without hope and in darkness, especially in relationship with you and your word, unless you illuminate our hearts and our minds. And so we ask for that here, that you would uh lay these truths upon our hearts. In the name of Christ, Amen. Please be seated. This morning, uh since it is the Lord's Day, the first day of the week, uh the kids Start off their morning, the children start off their morning in reading the scriptures. They have a little bit of toast or whatever they're gonna have, yogurt. And they and then they read their scriptures, and the youngest of them will read the Jesus Storybook Bible, which we also have as a part of our children's church program. And usually uh Ellie will be reading her regular scriptures and then Jack We'll read to Nora. And this morning they read the story of David and Goliath. Now everyone here knows the story of David and Goliath, is my assumption. And in this I caught them reading the tail end of the story, and because Christ has given me a pastoral heart, I asked them, why Was David victorious? And I and in the background of the picture on the page is a little stone behind Goliath's head. And Jack pointed to it, say signifying it was the stone that killed. And I think Nora then said, the slingshot. Now I'll tell you the rest of it. that story uh at the end. Uh but what immediately um went about in my mind, I started nerding out, I guess you could say, and being philosophical about the whole thing while they were just And I thought, you know, if our society got a hold of this and I asked them the question, how did how did David have the victory over the nine? foot or more Goliath with a foot size uh greater than Shaquille O'Neal what would our society answer or how would they answer? What would they do In order to find out the answer, wouldn't they have on the Discovery Channel, wouldn't they submit the question to the Mythbusters? Isn't everybody is everyone here familiar with Myth Mythbusters? The tale of David and Goliath Mythbusters version. They would they would have a slingshot, they would work out a mechanical device that threw the stone with the slingshot. shot the same amount of times. They would measure the density of a person's cranium of that size in order to figure out exactly at what spot the stone would have to hit hit and would they in fact die. And in the end they would give you some kind of probability that there's a 30% chance that this could have worked and only a thirty percent chance if it hit this part of his cranium in the temple, but it was probably if it didn't hit that part there would be no probability whatsoever for David to beat Goliath. Now what this points out, this thought about mythbusters, is our preoccupation with the power and efficacy of natural causes. Jack points to the stone. Nora says, slingshot. And in that culture of David and Goliath, perhaps maybe if they were if if they were like us and preoccupied with natural causes, not supernatural causes for a Victory. But in natural causes, anybody that did something that was seemingly impossible within their culture would get the slingshot award. That would be Do you know what a celebration of natural causes automatically does within the human soul? It causes us to degrade and de-emphasize Supernatural causes. Which means that instead of being excited about the majesty and the victory and the glory and the efficacy of God and his Work, instead you will be excited about things that are not the creator, but instead the creature. It slowly trickles in and it causes you to doubt whether God is really doing anything. Anything, because everything can be explained with natural causes and modern medicine, and then you begin to doubt whether or not you really have anything to be thankful for toward God. You could be standing in a hospital, and some people would be thankful to God, and some other people would be thankful to modern medicine. And which one is it? Over time, within this culture, you start to give more credit and Thought and credence to modern medicine than to supernatural causes, because you are a person that celebrates natural causes. In the story of Goliath, you point out the stone. Or you point out the slingshot. Does anybody here recognize the struggle amongst our culture? Recognize the struggle amongst your children. Or recognize the struggle within yourself. I think that you do, and by God's grace, He gives us this passage this evening in order to begin to combat that, to reestablish Who really beat Goliath? Who really gives us truth and love and mercy and beautiful and beauty? Who really should be praised? And we'll find that that's God Himself. If I wanted to summarize this passage, you could say basically this is what it's teaching you. Don't allow God and His use of instruments to detract from His power and His above Abundance. Just because he uses natural causes, don't allow those natural causes to cover up his beauty. Don't allow those natural causes to gain the glory instead of him. this evening and it's going to be under three parts causes, abundance, and then we're going to respond with thanksgiving. We'll even have a time of thanksgiving in praise. So let's turn to the scripture. Take a look at verses five and six with me. I want to show you some causes first and foremost. I want to see show you some causes and Well we see in verses five and six, let me read that for you. Because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you heard before in uh the word Of the truth of the gospel. So here's the first character that arrives on the scene. It's the word of the truth of the gospel. This is seen as a cause that is affecting people. We see that it's broken down into basically this uh this long uh phrase, I don't think any of you would ever speak this way, the word of the truth of the gospel. I don't think has anybody's ever maybe said that if somebody asked you what you're reading today, I'm reading the word of the truth of the gospel. I don't think you would do that. But if we were to break it down, basically the word is referring to the message that the apostles give. The truth is referring to this message that they're giving is a historical fact, but it is not just a historical It's a historical fact that has meaning, very specific meaning. And then lastly, the gospel can be literally translated good news But it's not just any good news in this particular context when the apostles are speaking about the word or the truth of the gospel. Many people have grabbed the word gospel because it's ambiguous. Figure out a way to get the gospel on their side and they turn what they're doing into the good news that the gospel was talking about. But that is unacceptable and it's not what Paul Paul is laying down here. What Paul is referring to as good news, you can tap into it, the word of the truth of the gospel, the true gospel you can tap into by just considering the The angel Gabriel has shown up only a few times within scripture. Actually two. Now when when da when he shows up to Daniel, Daniel wants to know when the Messiah will come and begin his salvation and redemption of humans and all the time. All of the cosmos. An angel did anybody know what the angel Gabriel says to him? Not yet. It's not now. I know that for sure. But we'll show you some signs as Then there's silence. There's no more message from the angel. But then the angel Gabriel shows up again in the beginning of the gospel. Gospel of Luke, and you know what he says to Mary and the others at this time? When will the Messiah be? Could be their implicit question, and what is his answer? Now I bring you glad tidings, peace, and good will to men. Emmanuel is arriving. He's being born. God God is with us. That is the good news. And then the good news ends up being his life and his words and his actions and his sacrificial Atonement for us. All of what we're getting ready to celebrate from Christmas all the way through to Easter. And then if we were to continue with the church calendar, his ascension, that is the good news that Paul would relate to them. And do you see how the other component Are a part of that, that the it is a message, and that it is truth, and that he has to refer to historical facts, otherwise, there is no gospel. Someone had to be born at a specific specific place and time at fifteen hundred Nazareth Street or whatever it was. At some specific barn, at some specific manger. The Messiah had to be born. There had to be specific historical facts when he walked through specific streets or he died on a specific Golgotha. But do you know there had to be More than facts, there had to be interpretive meaning of the particular facts. There were those in leadership that did not see the death of Jesus Christ as meaningful, except in that they rid the world of scum. But Paul doesn't give a message of Jesus being scum. He has interpreted it differently. This is the word of the truth of the gospel, and this has come to the Colossians just as it has arrived in the And that's why we say it's a cause of great change and transformation in people's lives. But when I say that, let me get back to point here because I'm trying To destroy a misunderstanding of natural causes. Do we really mean that the gospel, the words, the message on the pages of this book are actually transforming you? I know it's kind of a trick question, but the answer is actually no. There are a couple books in American narratives that have inherent magical powers. One would be the book from the never ending story, which tends to change and take people into far off lands with foul Kor the Dragon. And there are other books that I can't think of that I had thought of earlier that I can't remember that have a kind of inherent magical power. In and of itself, it has no efficacy. In and of itself. There has to be something else back behind it. What we would call this in literary studies is that when he says the word of the truth of the gospel and the and attributes to it causation, he's referring to per a personification of the word. He's taking something that is inanimate and he is describing it with animation. Animate and rational and and causative properties, which is called personification. C. S. Lewis does it does it with animals. There's a personification there. In Beauty and the Beast, there's a personification of a candlestick and other inanimate objects that don't normally speak or sing. In a musical. That's the first. So you can't just attribute a magical power to this word that then is doing all of the work to where you would begin worshiping and thanking The Bible. Here's a second one, verse number seven, second cause. Verse number seven, take a look. As you also learn from Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who is a faithful minister of Christ. on your behalf. So you move from the message to the messenger. Is everyone following me? We doing okay? Okay. Verse 7, we've moved from the message Here's a brief biography. If you were to look through this this um uh prison epistle, you'd find that Epaphras is a fellow prisoner with Paul in either Rome or Ephesus There's a bit of a debate as to where Paul is in prison at this point, Rome or Ephesus. He is a missionary and church planter, which is obvious here because he's the one that brought the He is called a fellow servant, and then he is given the title that only Paul gives himself, which is a bond servant of Christ. This is definitely a mark. Of his credence, his credibility, and his honor among Christian communities. But here's the thing: is it a Paphris that has caused these things within the Colossians? We've determined that it can't be in and of itself the message, because it has no inherent power. Can it be Epaphras that is causing this as a natural cause? Within the Colossians. Did they just finally need a really good rhetorician? They needed somebody with a new angle to be able to get them to truly understand. The wisdom and the knowledge in the mind of God. And they finally got the guy with the new angle. Someone fresh. Someone with some youthful vigor in his speech and lots of metaphors. That can't be true because it would certainly contradict, I'm sure, what a Paphors thought of himself, but especially actually Acts chapter 14, when we consider a more prominent preacher than a Papyrus who is Paul, that's a tongue twister there, he never would put himself in such a position as thinking that He caused anything. And so therefore neither would have happened. Does everybody remember of uh Acts chapter 14? The Apostle Paul goes to, I believe it's called Lystra, and he go he sees a So the crowd sees this, they run off and they grab a bullocks in order to sacrifice to Paul because they think Paul is Hermes, the messenger from The God, and that Barnabas is Zeus. And Paul tries to stop them and get them to understand that he's just a Messenger, he doesn't cause anything. He didn't cause the healing. He would not cause the word to effectually work within their hearts. He's just a delivery boy. And Jesus does his That actually changes something. So it can't be the word, because that's just a personification, has no effectual power in and of itself. And it can't be epaphras. And so we let we're left here with only three other characters in the Passage. Do you see the three other characters? They had faith in Christ Jesus. They gave thanks to God the Father. And in verse number 8, it says, it is the Spirit that calls them Look at that. Look at verse 8, especially. Who also declared to us your love in or by the Spirit. We have finally arrived at the true cause of change within the Colossians. It was not a message, although it seems to have been used, right? It was not a paphris, although he seems to have been used, but it was definitely the Trinity, particularly God the Father and the Spirit, as they're called out, as supreme causes here. It is no wonder that he is giving God the Father the praise and not praising Epaphras and not praising the Word of God. What you see here is beautiful because you see all of the different causes and how they can line up and how God uses them. But do you see how if you were to focus on the scriptures or focus on a paphris and How you could get caught up. And when God is using an instrument, that instrument takes on a certain glow. It takes on a certain beauty and a certain truth because God is using it. And you can be tricked because Of your idolatrous heart, and start giving credit to the natural cause, and you can forget all about the supernatural cause. But we shouldn't do that because lying back behind all of this is the Trinity Making everything work. If you want to read more about this from our forefathers from the 15th and 16th century, you can read about secondary causes. In our confession. But here's a quick metaphor that I think all of us are familiar with. If you have a pool table, There are different causes happening on the table. You have the white cue ball, and that white cue ball is going to go hit another ball. And if you're me. It's not going to go in any of the pockets. Maybe if it's you, it will go in one of the pockets. Is it right for me to say that the reason at the end of the game that the eight ball went into the pocket pocket is because the cue ball hit it. Yes. But did the cue ball have some inner power to be able to do that? Or did it need a power value Back beyond it with a pool stick and rationality and a will and the freedom of movement. It's exactly what we see here, but not on a pool stick table, but in actual life, back behind every good thing that happens is the great good giver of gifts, the Trinity. Do not mistake that Or you'll get the story of Goliath and David all wrong. Now here's the second thing that I want you to see. And that is a continu. Continuation of this argument and getting rid of giving credit to natural causes and forgetting about God, not seeing how God uses them and allowing them to overshadow his glory, please Don't do that. We can continue to work our way out of this problem, this mythbuster problem, by seeing the kingdom abundance that He gives to us. And there is no way that anyone could give these things Look at the kingdom of Bund. That he has given his people in verse four of Colossians. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, that's the very first piece of abundance there. Now I I say this because I'm I'm doing a little deduction here. That if it's in verse 8 said that the Spirit gave them love, then I'm going to say because of other scriptures that the Spirit also gave them faith. Faith. And so he should be accredited that. This faith would include the embracing of those historical facts that I talked about earlier, but it would also include embracing the meaning, which if you have a If you are a child of God, you already recognize that embracing the meaning that the apostles lay upon those historical facts, it's absolutely impossible for you to embrace that meaning. I want you to think about some of these. I mean if you were to look for instance at at first Corinthians chapter two, the rulers there are said the ones who crucified Jesus are said to to have missed his meaning. They didn't miss the historical fact. They're the ones that crucified him in history. But they missed the meaning of it. And I think I've told you this before. And this ends up being from Paul, a Mikey likes it argument. And that's from that book, Marilyn. The Mikey likes it argument. And this is the argument. If those who had studied the scriptures and grew up in the cultural and historical moment were if they because of their cultural and historical moment and their knowledge in the scriptures, if anyone was going to recognize the Messiah when he had come. It was going to be the Jewish leaders. But the Jewish leaders didn't recognize it. And so how in the world would you ever? It shows how just impossible it would be for you to recognize the significance of Jesus' crosswork, the significance of his incarnation in general. You don't have that possibility. It's the same thing as Mikey Light Does anybody everybody remember Mikey Lycate with life cereal? Mikey doesn't like anything is the point. Mikey hates everything. So when they slide a bowl of life cereal in front of them And he takes the bite and he says he likes it. If Mikey doesn't like anything, but he likes this, then how good must life cereal be? Is the point. And we're doing the reverse here. If those who have studied the scriptures And knew them in their original languages couldn't get it, how in the world would you, the leaders of Israel, if they couldn't get it, how would you? And so here's a second, here's a second way to look at this second Same thing to recognize that it's only the Spirit that could have caused this kind of thing. You should be surprised that you are a Christian. You absolutely should be. If someone ever asks you, are you surprised that you became a Christian? And say, Yeah. Yes, I'm absolutely surprised that I became a Christian because uh it all sounded really crazy to me. But but the spirit worked on my heart and became convincing things I never thought I would be convinced of. You are telling me that you acknowledge that you are a sinner before you do anything, and that little baby infants are not innocent? How could you ever And yet you do. I hope. If you're going to be consistent, you will. I'll talk to you later. You acknowledge the wrath of God, one of the most unpopular popular beliefs today, but you acknowledge it and you see the necessity of it in order for the glorification of his justice. You acknowledge Jesus as a representative, a federal representative who substitutes his righteousness for your sin so that he can then pay for your sin by being crucified for you. I mean what a story. And you embrace it and you have worked your entire life around it. You raise Raise your children in it. Who could cause that? Apaphras? A word without interpretation and illumination? From the Holy Spirit, there's no way. There's no way to explain this except as it is a gift from Jesus Christ. The second thing that you see in verse 4 in his abolition Is not just faith that is given to you, but is love. What explains this love for all the saints? A natural cause or a supernatural cause? What explains the union of Jew and Gentile? Who had never gotten along, who had been killing each other since their birth in throughout history, what explains them joining together and being in a single church? United What would explain something like that? What would explain the sharing of property that we see in Acts? What would explain dying for one another? Having your head cut off? Giving up your children for them? Some people would say that there are a lot of explanations for that. But I'm telling you, one rule that you have to have, if you're going to give an explanation as to what is causing what, you have to have a sufficient cause. So let me put it this way. Here's a declaration that I want to make to you. A monkey from the Baltimore Zoo has been discovered to have written all Is that legitimate or is it not legitimate? Why isn't it legitimate? Why would we never believe such a thing? It's because I must Monkey is not sufficient, doesn't have the rational, etc. abilities in order to produce great literary works of art. And we're making the same kind of argument here. What could create faith and love in human beings if you have a biblical understanding of a human being? It has to be a supernatural cause. There is nothing in this created order. There's nothing in this world except when God enters into this world that would change And allow you to have these kind of attributes. This abundance of faith and love is only from God, and therefore he deserves all of the credit, although he uses other instruments. It's the whole point. But don't allow the instruments to shroud his glory. So we've seen the kingdom causes, and we've seen the kingdom Only God and not get confused by His instruments. But there's not only the present abundance that He's given to us, there's a future abundance, and I'm not going to dwell long on that because I'm going to talk about it in order to fuel our research. response for a second. But look at verse 5. Not only has he given you faith now, raise your hand if you have faith in Jesus Christ. That's a dangerous question. But He's given it to you now. This is a present tense thing. Love for all the saints. Most of the time, raise your hand for that one. It's a now. It's a present thing. But look at this next thing with verse 5. Now we're talking about the future abundance because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven. And I just want to point out one thing about this so that you don't misunderstand it. He's not talking about an affection that lies within your heart. Heart there. It's in heaven. This is not subjective hope that you feel, although you may feel hope toward this, but that's not what he's saying. He's talking about An objective hope that lives someplace else. It's stored up for you like a retirement fund or like a bank account. It's someplace else. And those things that are awaiting for you at a future time that are not present here are only things that the Trinity could give to you. No more tears. A new body with no corruption. A soul with no corruption. No sin. Perfection in our environment. The whole cosmos. Renewed. Perfection in our relationships. No more conflict. The lion will lay down with the lamb. The infant will play with the cobra. That's what those things mean. Waiting for you. You've received some things now, but you're waiting for other things. And those things may only be given by the Trinity. Do not attribute the giving of that to secondary Causes. Now let me bring this home and tie everything together for our response, and then we'll move into a time of prayer of Thanksgiving. I hope that you have Thanksgiving welling up in your heart. This has been a little intellectual, I don't know. There's two facts that I want you to consider to wrap all of this information that I've given to you. The two facts are that Jesus Christ has ascended into heaven, and that there is a heavenly Jerusalem, as we see in Revelation chapter 5. twenty and following. If you look through the rest of this letter, it talks about setting your mind on things above and not the things on this earth. There's a preoccupation in this letter with Heaven. Now we have just seen that there are some things waiting for us in heaven, but there are other things that we have received from heaven. And I want to play on that image with you. And get you to realize just how important this is, so that you can begin giving thanks to Jesus Christ for these things that have been given to you I want you to think of heaven as a city, and from that city, Jesus Christ knows certain things that you need that he's willing to give you now, and other things that he's not willing to give you until later. One of the very first things that you needed is for someone to call you to himself. You were not looking for Jesus Jesus was looking for you. He's the one that initiated the activity. So he began to work within you. And he began to change your affections and your mind and your heart. This is already happening inside of you. You. Each of you have particular moments in one way or another to be able to relate to this in your testimony. Eventually he uh in in this new person that you have become You realize that you stood as guilty before God because of the life that you had lived. And therefore you deserved the wrath of God. But maybe even instantaneously you You realize that in order to escape that, there was a solution offered in Jesus Christ. And you saw that as the only solution, and you therefore had Faith and you embrace Jesus Christ. This is a gift from heaven. It was sent from the heavenly city, and it descended upon you like a dove in the illumination of the Holy Spirit. And then as your faith began to grow, there was something else that was sent from the heavenly city, and it was love. You had a childlike love for God. And you had a childlike love for those who were sitting around you to where now you could describe yourself as someone who was being sanctified. Sanctification Had been sent to you, to where you were loving the Lord your God in a way that you had never done so before, and you were loving your neighbor. Another gift from heaven. And those gifts will continue to come to you You from heaven as he continues to sanctify you. You struggle with very particular sins right now, and one day you will not struggle with them as much, even in this life Because he's sending you gifts now to purify you actually. All of these things coming from heaven, your faith, your love, any of the good things, any And one day, either upon his return or upon your death and going to see the Lord, you will be glorified in so many other ways. These gifts that won't need to be sent to you. That's the way that the Bible pictures this for us, in order for us to truly understand the real connection between All of the abundance and the gifts that have been given to us now and in the future, and the way that Jesus chooses to give them to us. How did You hear in order to have faith, except through a preacher and through his word, a Paphros and the Word. But never attribute the glory to the secondary means or to the instrument. Instruments, thereby neglecting what God has done and giving thanks to Him. Look, here's the last verse I want you to look at, and then we'll end. In verse 3, we give thanks to God the Father. Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. He hits the nail right on the head. He knows exactly who to give thanks to because he recognized where all the gifts come from. So how would you have answered Jack and Nora when they said the stone and the slingshot? How did I answer them? I raised my fist and I said, and the power of the Lord. And they said, Yes, and the power of the Lord. Because that was what was missing. That was the only thing 100% because God controls whatsoever And let's not us let uh let us not allow all of the different things that he So what I would like to do now I went a little long, I apologize. What I'd like to do now is I'd like