Returning to Philippians, in chapter two, look at the first four verses. The theme that we'll be discussing or that you'll hear preach this morning and next week is uh it's beyond a single sermon. Uh These are things that you and I need to ponder for the rest of our lives. Let's please stand in for the reading of God's Word. Philippians chapter two Therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, if any consolation Let nothing be done through selfishness Heavenly Father, this cuts deep, it's only four verses, and yet it will take us our whole lives to meditate upon, and perhaps even Even throughout eternity. We pray that you would illuminate our hearts and that we be doers and not just hearers of your word. Help us as human beings. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen We are in a series on partnership. It's about not acting like an employee, but a true partner, a business partner with Jesus Christ, so to speak. It means that we take things More serious than the other person. It means it's not just a hobby in our life. It means that it is our life. With the sermons that have gone by, we are looking at different aspects of it. That's the center of the series. And so the very first thing we saw was the destiny of partnership. That we, although it may not seem like it because we're not excellent at it uh that our destiny really is if in Jesus Christ to be like an acorn that can can bust through a several ton marble slab. It's our destiny destiny. It's the destiny of partnership that we have. We also have seen that there is a life of partnership. There's a philosophy of a philosophy of life that we have to have. It's still really advanced to have a philosophy of life in partnership. It means that you understand that life is full of suffering, but that even in the midst of suffering, God is The great alchemist who takes the things that look useless and he turns those things into gold. We also saw uh last week that to be a partner means to have a public faith. It means that our faith is not just kept in a closet, but that rather we would walk worthy in the public eye of the gospel. We would live Our lives in a way that honor Jesus Christ and the way the things that He taught us and the things that He did. It means particularly, last week we learned, being unified in our conviction Now that conviction was not just that you would know the truth, but that you would know the excellence of it. I quoted 1 Peter to you last week and told you that you were to give an account, not just an account. But that you're to give an account of the hope. The hope, the joy, the love, the excellence, the incomparable glory of the kingdom of God. You should see it on people should see it on your face. That's what it would mean to be a partner, to have a shared conviction, a shared love, a shared heart with one another, even against the terror of secularism. Human resources Are all that we need. We can accomplish everything ourselves. That was last week's sermon. And it really continues this week. We're still looking at public faith in a sense. And we're actually still looking at uh an act of terror that is in our lives. Last week we looked at an external terror, and for the Philippians it was one thing. For us it's it's secularism, it's American culture Uh but this week we're looking at the internal internal flight that we have. There's an internal cause of breaking apart. If walking worthy of the gospel, as we see at the In verse 27 is the goal. And that walking worthy is defined as being unified in our convictions and loves. Then there are external forces that Seek to break us apart in our love. And there are internal forces that seek to break us apart in our love. And this morning we're looking at the internal force. In other words, we're looking at fighting We're gonna talk about human fighting today. You're fighting. Not just human fighting, you're your fighting. Now I hope that sounds relevant to you, because I think all of us here have been in a fight in one way or another. In fact it tends to be a great lit uh literary theme. I thought of George Orwell who in nineteen eighty four his book wrote that The um history of the human race is a boot stomping on a human face forever. His writing of totalitarianism. And then I also thought of uh one of my favorite books Which is the Lord of the Flies. And I thought it was interesting that in 1954, can you believe this? In 1954, the Lord of the Flies only sold 3,000 copies. But something happened, I think, to the human race and their realization and their optimism. And by today, fourteen point five million copies Uh I think the book was so popular and it it's w one of my favorite books in in a certain sense, because it portrays The young, who are supposed to still be innocent. It portrays the young from a British school system, and so they're supposed to be educated and have manners, and yet they end on the island fighting in war and in death. And in fact in chapter twelve um you you you see them preparing for this ultimate end and com uh on on human fighting. Do you remember this quote, kill the pig, cut her throat, spill the blood? Kill the pig, cut her throat, spill the blood. By the time you get to chapter 12, we see this the author has played with the term pig, because there is a young man named Piggy. And listen to these final Some of these final words from the novel, his voice rose under the black smoke burning uh before the burning wreckage of the island. And infected by that emotion, the other little boys began And in the middle of them with filthy body, matted hair, and unwiped nose, Ralph wept for the end of innocence. Darkness of man's heart and the fall through the air of the true wise friend called Kiddy, who dies in the book, at the hands of these young innocent And that's a picture, that novel, or for in George Orwell, it's a picture of the life that you live. It is a universal True statement that human beings fight. Now, whether you sit here as a Christian or you don't sit here as a Christian, it doesn't matter to me at this point because you experience fighting. Either way. Either category. a person ends up experiencing fighting. And I I think the the trick is why do people fight? What's your explanation? As to why people fight, you will then come up with certain solutions. The world for a long time has believed that if we just educate people, they would not fight. They would become civil In fact, in Colombia there are still bumper stickers that talk about civility as the main virtue of that area, and yet we never No that that is a fool's hope to think that through education we would stop being fighting. I mean come on. Really? You think that's a sufficient cause? Well, I want to look at the scriptures this morning, and the Apostle Paul lays out a totally different cause. He doesn't say that it's education, he says that it's other things. And what First, what we have to do in order to understand human fighting, so that we can understand how not to be broken apart in our convictions, so that we can walk worthy of the gospel and therefore be partners in the gospel of Jesus Christ We need to understand the underlying causes of this. We need to see the selfishness of fighting. We need to see the glory of fighting, and we need to see the remedy to the fighting. It's all here in this passage. So take a look with me, beginning here uh in verse three. You can sp well in verse two, let me just point out to you that he's continuing his uh discussion or his letter writing to them very concerned about unity. Notice that that hasn't stopped. Fulfill my joy by being like minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. And you can see he He ends the verse that way also. Let each of you look out not only for his own interest, but also the interests of others. He sees that as a way by which the unity would be maintained. So unity is the way in which we walk worthy of the gospel. is what is the opposite of the unity. There's a contrast with verse two as we go into verse three. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or Conceit. Now I see these two words, selfish ambition or conceit. Depending on what translation you have, you're going to have different words there. These are really rich words that can be translated in different ways. And I'm going to try to bring some of that out for you. But I really believe that the second word is the motivation for why you would do the first thing. It really helps you understand an ultimate reason why you do That first set of actions. So the selfishness of fighting, what he's bringing out here is that fighting is caused, human fighting. The reason why Piggy is killed in The Lord of the Flies, so to speak, is this thing called selfish ambition. Now if you were to get a little dictionary and just look up the word in the original language, you're going to get the idea first and foremost Of a laborer who was working for a wage. That sounds strange. A laborer working for a wage, and it evolves to mean someone who is working For a wage that is not the natural reward for the thing that he's doing. Now let me explain that to you. with the word selfish ambition. It's another way of him saying that you're they're you're being mercenary. Do you know what I mean by mercenary? Let me try one let me just try one more I'm going to keep trying to explain this. Mercenary, it's gaining a reward that has no natural connection with the task. Now, in the weight of glory, it is an essay by C. S. Lewis, it's totally worth your time. You can find it online, it's PDF. He talks about this same kind of idea of selfish ambition under the idea of mercenary and he gives the He says, marriage is the proper reward of the true of those truly in love. Your proper reward is marriage. Money is not the proper reward. In other words, it's If you see someone marry her for her money, we have a problem. Money being a reward, but it's not natural. It's a mercenary Affair there. Victory is the proper reward for the general. If the general fights with all of his might and is courageous, the proper reward would be victory, not fain. So so the word what's going on here is that there's an ulterior motive. That there is uh someone looking like they're doing something for one reason but really un Underneath of it, there is this motive that is illegitimate. You can see this throughout the scriptures. For instance, if you were to just flip back one chapter in Philippians in verse 17 in chapter 1, Paul says that some are preaching Christ for their own selfish ambition or gain, and others are preaching Christ out of love. Alright, that's one example. Another example you'd see in the scriptures is from James, and he says, for instance, in James chapter 4, you claw to get what you want But you don't. You ask God for it, but he won't answer your prayers because what you ask for is really just to spend on your own pleasures. We see that That's the that's the selfish ambition. You look on the surface like you want the right things, but you really want them for the wrong reason You look like you want to marry the girl because you love her, but really you just want her money. You see that? That's what this word means. It means selfish But all you want is fame, free dinners And your face on the wall. You see this also in 2 Corinthians, where it talks about the difference between worldly sorrow and godly sorrow. It looks like you are truly repentant, but all you're really sorry about is that you got caught. That's another example here of selfish ambition. Now this selfish ambition ambition this this thing that we see within human beings that we recognize all of these surface behaviors for oneself It really needs to be particularized, and he does. He shows you the underlying motivation for this in this next word, which is conceit, through selfish ambition or Conceit. And conceit is the ultimate motive, I believe. I've been pondering this for a while, and I'm seeing it now as perhaps the sin that I underlies every other sin. It's possible that we found the center of our sinful core. I think it's that's still debatable in my mind a little bit, but we might have found the ultimate motive for why a person would only look at Look out for themselves. Why a person would be a mercenary, why a person would have ulterior motives is conceit, and this is what he means by that. He means that the it's the ultimate motive. What's interesting about this word is we'll learn more about it next next week. Have you heard of kinosis? Hypnosis theory has to do with this next passage that we'll look at next week where Jesus takes off his glory, so to speak. He lays it aside. Here, this word that we're looking at conceit is a form of that word, but it attached to it is this word doxas. Have you ever heard that word before? We sing a doxology. And the word is really uh trying to he what he's trying to say is that the person is constantly yearning and craving for truth Glory. That's what conceit means. And he doesn't really have the glory. He's just getting it in as much any way, or she is getting it in any way that they possibly could Seeking preeminence in all things. I remember hearing a story from a pastor, I think I read it in a book, and there were was uh a time when he was in university and when he was there he met a young man who who took his glory and his main identity from being able to um he was a ladies man. I'm I'm speaking euphylistically, you can fill in the lines. He was a ladies' man and he He they were seen as trophies to him, that he could have whoever he wanted. And out of the blue, he became a Christian. And he started He stopped all that. Stopped it all. And then he started going to Bible study. And when in Bible study, he always had to be right So you can see whether it was in that re you see how the thing remained in the personality. The thing remained within the man that still needed to work out. It just changed places that he wanted glory in the This one area which was obviously wrong, but then when he went to the Bible the Bible study, this preacher was able to have enough insight to see, you know what, your craving for glory is still present. It's just a part of the And I think you know we can see that in ourselves. And what Paul is saying here, this is my proposal to you, is that underneath Of the sins that you're you're having, underneath of the good deeds that are external, underneath of it may be just a bald craving for you to be the greatest thing in the universe. It may be behind more than you actually realize. I'm in one sense dying up here. Because I've been pondering this And I'm seeing so much sin and pride in my life. So many illegitimate motives. I would encourage you to start to do some self-examination for this, the proof that can be born from this consideration of truly being able to understand why there's so much fighting in human life within our lives may lie in this very proposal that I'm giving to you That you would have a face that people would know who you are. Actually in Vanity Fair interview in nineteen ninety one, Madonna everyone knows who Madonna is. There's a Vanity Fair I'd look at the interview. I'd love it if you read the whole interview. Vanity Fair interview, nineteen ninety one, you can find it online. Madonna is asked about her significance and why does she work as hard as she does. And she says, I have an iron will. And she's eating a Caesar salad apparently. And all of my will has always been to conquer some horrible feeling of an Inadequacy. You hear that? And all of my will has always been to conquer some horrible feeling of inadequacy. She does not feel like she has glory She feels inadequate around other people. I'm always struggling with that fear. I push past one spell of it and discover myself as a special human being. And then I get to another stage and I think I'm mediocre and uninteresting. And I find a way to get myself out of that again and again. My drive in life is from this horrible fear. Of being mediocre, and that's always pushing me, pushing me. Because even though I've become somebody, I still have to prove that somebody. My struggle has never ended and will and probably never will. That could have been our interview, according to Paul. That we're seeking significance that we're seeking a face. We're seeking to not come across as mediocre but to be special in the ways that we want to. It could explain The obsession in our culture with beauty or wisdom or whatever it is, all of these things that are supposed to be good could be motivated of just you trying to gain some kind of significance I just watched last night Dracula Untold. It was an interesting spin on how Dracula was formed. There was a kind of nobility about him on why he became a vampire, which is interesting. But one of the things is is when he f when he first regains the power to be able to defeat the Turks, which is why he became Dracula. The warning is is that if he can resist drinking Taking a human's blood, then he'll be returned back to his normality. But the problem is he has an insatiable desire for human blood. And all I'm trying to say is this the point Is that you have an insatiable desire for glory, according to Paul. And you have to watch yourself. Think of think of that. Think of the the craving that you see within the vampire's face. And even if it was This is an old whatever year movie where you could barely see their face because of the TV resolution. Think of the insatiable desire that you see in their face And that's what Paul's saying. He's saying you have that same insatiable desire for glory, and yet you make it look like you're doing good things. You're ambitious. You've got good goals, but they're really selfish. You know why? Because underneath of it, you're motivated by glory. You just want to glorify yourself. It's the exact trap that we see within Satan himself, actually. And so you have last week in the sermon an external fight with secularism's grab for all of the attention. This is what I said last week. I said secularism Promises to free us from value judgments, narrow-mindedness, prejudice, offers moral support for equality, human rights, and the betterment of humankind, and promises a life of Personal meaning, freedom, and peace of mind, all based on human resources, so that we may be glorified as an American human race with no help from God whatsoever. And this week we're seeing that it's actually the external form of it that we see is coming all from the human heart. Our grab for all of the attention I want to be praised for my wisdom. That's why I'm getting a bachelor's degree. That's why I'm getting a master's. I want to be praised for my honor, my kindness, my love, my beauty, and I'm willing to do anything for it. It's at the core and the center of my being. That's what we have as human beings. Wow, what a difficult situation we find ourselves in. I mean, how is education going to stop that That's why we need Jesus Christ. We have this grab for all of this attention. And so you end up seeing here Paul laying out for us this Problem. We have this selfishness which consists really of selfish ambition. And we have this glory that's a false glory that's he's saying causing and is opposite to unity It's the glory for ourselves. It's having our own glory. But he also lays out here for us the remedy to this glory. And you can see it in the first couple verses of this book. passage. Therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, what he's doing here in this list is he's trying to motivate you. He's trying to get you to see that there's something lovely out there. If there's any consolation in Christ, if there's any comfort of love, if any fellowship with the Spirit, if any affection and mercy, actually I usually think the list is supposed to be Trinitarian. Because look at what you have there. Take a look at verse 1. Look at what you have. You have Christ, love, spirit. I mean, who are we missing? And if you and if you were to take a look At 1 Corinthians 13, 4 and 5, the same list is given, and the Father is in the Senate. So I think it's the consolation in Christ, the comfort of love from the Father, and he felt So he's bringing the whole Trinity to bear, and he's mentioning things to you that are excellent, that have been done for you. You could think of each person in the latter part of the phrase as the one who's trying to Trying to persuade you with what they've done in your life. Think of how Christ has consoled you, how he has comforted you. Think of how the Father has loved you. Feel his love. Think of what it means to be partners with the Spirit, all the power and the glory that comes along with that. That's the motivation. And it's interesting because really what he's doing then Is he saying that it's not wrong for you to want to have glory? It's wrong for you to make your own glory. You may have glory by being in Jesus Christ. You just may not have an unlawful or illegitimate glory. That does nothing but breaks the human race apart into wars and factions I think some of us think that we should forget about our glory. However, if you were to just look through the scriptures, how many times does glory promise to us? We in Psalm 8, let me just read this to you, O Lord our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth who have set your glory above the heavens. Out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants you have ordained strength because of your enemies, that you may silence the enemy and the Avenger. Now listen to this. When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have ordained, what is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you visit him For you have made him a little lower than the angels. Now listen to this. And you have crowned him with glory and honor. Glory in itself cannot be wrong. Now some of you will say, well, you know, that's Really about Jesus. Yeah, but Jesus was a human. Also God, I know. But he elevated the nature. We were created with glory. We were the crown of creation. We fell from our glory, and it's Jesus who comes in glory to restore our nature to glory. That's the whole that's our story. It's a story of glory. But we not wanting to See Jesus as God's wisdom, but rather his foolishness. And we don't want to see Jesus as God's strength, but rather his weakness. We choose to get our own glory in our own ways. Glory is not illegitimate. It's just illegitimate. Glory is illegitimate. The New Testament, it says here C. S. Lewis on the same map. He says the New Testament has lots to say about self-denial, but not self-denial as an end in itself. We are told to deny ourselves and to take up our crosses in order that we may follow Christ and nearly every description of what we see, ultimately, we find if we do so, if we take up our park, our cross, there is an appeal to our desire. He appeals to our desire, and he says, if there works in most modern minds the notion that to desire our own good and earnestly to hope for the enjoyment of it is a bad thing It's from the philosophers. It's not from Christianity. If indeed we consider the unblushing promises of reward and the staggering nature of the rewards promised in the Gospels, it would seem that our Lord finds our We are half hearted creatures fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered Us. Like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea, we are far too easily pleased. That's the picture that we have here. That's the way in which we combat it. It's not for you to say, well, I guess I just don't get any glory. God is just saying it is true. Through Jesus Christ that you may have your glory. It can't be any other way, otherwise you'll turn into a monster. You will become a monster. You will break the human or race even further apart if you try to get gain your glory in your way. It has to be the way that He chooses to glorify you. It has to be His pronouncement of you, His thinking of you, His love, the love of the Father, the consolation of Christ. So you can obviously see the problem that he has here. The goal is for us to be unified, to be of one heart, and to be of one mind, because that's what it means to walk worthy of Jesus Christ. That's what it means to be as part of the Christ. But you can see the great issue that we have in being able to do that is that our hearts are full of wanting an illegitimate glory Now if you're not a Christian, there is no solution that I can think of in any of your books that can solve that. Selfishness, the glory, and then the true remedy is not to become self-abasing for its own sake, but to realize that you can have glory through Jesus Christ. You may have beauty. He became look he started to look like a fool in order for you to become wise He became like the trash and the refuse of the world so that you could be the glory of the world. This is what he's seeking to accomplish. Although we are selfish, although underneath of all of this we seek glory, there is a remedy, and it is through Jesus Christ. Now let me wrap up with this Who is the most glorious human being ever to live? It's Jesus Christ. How did he become so glorious? This is the trick here. This is where it becomes really difficult. How did he become so glorious? We'll learn about that next week. He gave up his glory for you, and instead he lived for the glory of God. He found his great His glory by giving up his glory and setting it aside. And the same thing is for you. You can't just think about yourself and your own glory. You'll never be glorified in that way. You see, that's the way that it is in the kingdom. The way up is actually down. You can only have glory through humility. Let me let me give you this final story. This is from C. H. Spurgeon. I think I've told you this before But once upon a I'm just gonna read it. Once upon a time there was a king who ruled over everything in a land. One day there was a gardener who grew in a Enormous carrot. He took it to his king and said, My lord, this is the greatest carrot I've ever grown or ever will grow. Therefore I want to present it to you as a token of my love and respect for you. Wait, you are clearly a good steward of the earth. I want to give you a plot of land I want to give a plot of land to you freely as a gift, so you can garden it all. The gardener was amazed and delighted and went home rejoicing. But there was a nobleman at the king's court who overheard all this, and he said If that is what you could get for a carrot, what would I get if I The next day the nobleman came before the king and he was leading a handsome black stallion. He he bowed low and said, My lord, I breed horses and And this is the greatest horse I've ever bred or ever will breed. Therefore I want to present it to you as a token of my love and respect for you. But the king discerned his heart and said, Thank you. And he took the horse and simply dismissed it. The nobleman was perplexed, so the king said, Let me explain. That gardener was giving me the carrot, but you were giving yourself the horse On the surface, as human beings. Here at Severn Run, you, on the surface, it It may look like you are one mind, just as it looked like both of these men, the gardener and the nobleman, were simply presenting gifts to a king. But the The question is, were they truly unified? Actually, the two men were never further apart. And that's the question that we have to ask here at Seven Run. Are you on the Surface unified in your convictions, but underneath in your soul, you're miles apart. Can our conviction be the one love, the one faith, the one God and Father? Overall, the one spirit who joins us together, and our love for Him, that He is truly the center of both our minds and our hearts, and not just this the the search Center, but really our hearts are someplace else. If there is any fighting going on amongst you right now, then you should take a look as to whether or not your center is actually off somewhere else for your own glory. On the surface we can be unified underneath not. We can be ununified on the inside, but look like we're unified on the outside. I pray that the Lord Jesus Christ would convict us as a church of our pride and that we would live for others. Let's pray.