As you can see, we'll be continuing in the series on James. We're in James chapter three tonight, verses one through twelve, and the topic is the tongue. This is always a scary topic because I'm the only one talking for the next half an hour. We've moved from ants, rock badgers, to the tongue. Quite an eventful day. Elder Jeremiah thinks that our the Severn Run rock band should be called the Rock Badgers. Do not encourage him. Let's go ahead and read together chapter three of James, the first twelve verses My brethren, let not many of you become teachers, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgment, for we all stumble in many things. If any one does not stumble in word, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle the whole body. Indeed, we put bits in horses' mouths, that they may obey us, and we turn their whole body. Look also at ships. Although they are so large and driven by fierce winds, they are turned by a very small rudder wherever the pilot desires. Even so the tongue is a little member and boasts great things. See how great a forest a little fire kindles? And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. The tongue is so set among our members that it defiles the whole body and sets on fire the course of nature, and it is set on fire by hell. For every kind of beast and bird, of reptile, and creature of the sea is tamed and has been tamed by mankind, but no man can tame the tongue. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. With it we bless our God and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceed blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not to be so Does a spring send forth fresh water and bitter from the same opening? Can a fig tree, my brethren, bear olives or grapevine bear figs? Thus no spring yields both salt water and fresh. Let's ask For the Lord's illumination. Father, we do ask for you to enlighten our hearts and our minds and to sanctify our mouths here on the spot. Pray that you give us deep conviction on the importance and significance. Of this powerful capacity that you've given to us. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Chapter 3 is about the tongue, if you missed it. It's a figure of speech for speech itself, for thoughts inside your own head, imaginations of the heart. Daydreaming? Arguments while on the road with that person that wasn't nice to you? Not just out loud physical speech. But all of the above, the thoughts that are barely formed that you're beginning to respond emotionally to. You know, we should have anticipated that this was coming because he mentioned it in chapter one Take a look at chapter 1, verse 26. It's important that you can see this just for the sake of the structure of the letter. If anyone among you, 126, thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue But deceives his own heart, this one's religious religion is useless. That's really strong to say that if you don't bridle the tongue, then your whole religious existence is useless. But he really means it. That's how significant the tongue is. Now turning back to that 126 What we end up noticing is that chapter one really did set the stage and anticipate that we were going to talk about the tongue in chapter 3. And this is what I mean, I want to show it to you. So stay in chapter 1 just for a second. You see in 126 where it talks about the tongue. Notice how in 127 then it moves on to visit orphans and widows in their trouble. And then the third thing is to keep oneself unspotted from the world. Now there's an interesting pattern that emerges once we see those three things and then move into chapter 2. In chapter 2, we have beginning In chapter 2, verses 1 through 13, it contrasts the way that the world judges and the way that a Christian should judge in matters of arbitration and that kind of kind of thing. And so we're really picking up from the last item in the list from chapter 127, and we're seeing that as the first item in chapter two. And so what we end up seeing going all the way through chapter 2 and chapter 3 is that those three points that we saw in chapter 1 are being filled out by James. That's all I wanted to point out to you. So 2, 1 through 13 contrast the way of judging for Christians versus the world. And then If you go one up, you would see from chapter two, verses fourteen through twenty-six, it's about helping the poor, such as orphans and widows, like you see in chapter. Chapter 1, in their trouble. And so it's like a ladder. We're working our way back up the ladder as we go through chapter 2 and into chapter 3. And if we're right about this, then we would expect, based on the list in chapter one, that we would land after talking about separating ourselves from the world and helping the widows and the poor, that we would land upon a discussion on the tongue. And that's exactly what we do find, is that when we get to chapter 3, the last rung in the latter from the list at the end of chapter 1 is in fact speaking about the tongue. And so that is what we find in 3, 1 through 12. For following the same outline that James has given to us in his letter from chapter 1, we land now upon the importance of speaking. and how it could make your whole life useless if you're not watching your tongue. So quickly in verse 1, turning now to chapter 3, It says, My brethren, let not many of you become teachers, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgment. Here, the topic, strictly speaking, is about teaching. But you can obviously see that teaching and the tongue are intimately related. It's only mentioned, James quickly moves on to discuss the tongue, and our focus is going to be on the tongue. That's how he develops this passage. I won't really be saying much about teachers, but it certainly is applicable to an occupation that uses their mouth all day long. Right? And so and in fact you could think about your own life, I guarantee that you're In a teaching position of some sort, where you're instructing others in life. And so no matter who you are here, sitting here today, this passage is relevant to you. If you have a tongue, Then it's relevant to you. So the first thing I want us to see is that James lays out for us, not just for teachers, but for us all, about the tongue, both how it allows us to master life and also destroy life That's really the whole point of the first section, that uh that the tongue can uh lead us into mastery of life or destruction of life So let's take a first look at the tongue leads to masterful control of our lives. And that's what all of verse 2 and these images are. That's what they're driving us to. For we all stumble in many things, verse 2. If anyone does not stumble in word, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle the whole body. And then he goes on with giving different illustrations of this The point is that we all sin in many ways. Our experience is in fact full of sin. However, if you can control the tongue, then you have become a person who can bridle any other sin. If you can rein this in, then you can rein in all the others, is his point. In other words, control of the tongue is not only the evidence of Christian maturity. I think we accept that. That is the evidence of Christian maturity, but it is also the means to Christianity. maturity. If you want to grow in your sanctification as a Christian, James here instructs us, well, work on the mouth. For if you can bridle that, then you can bridle anything. In fact, in bridling it, you bridle many other things. In verses 3 through 5, James illustrates his points, and I love the way that he illustrates his points. It's really a whole letter of illustrations, is it And especially here, this is such a lovely passage to be able to teach children. I hope you get an opportunity to do that. Do you what child doesn't want to think about ships or horses or fire or reptiles? So this is the perfect passage for you to be able to teach them. The first illustration that we have, whether you're a child or an adult, is the horse. These are so on the surface and understandable. I don't really need to explain them very much, but let's at least go through them so that we can keep making his point. We use a very small item. called a bit to control the inner power and compulsion of a horse. That's his point. The second illustration is the ship Although the ship is subject to great gales, these outward forces, notice that the horse is an inward force of compulsion of the horse And that the ship is an outward force covering all the forces that could affect you. Although the ship is subject to great gales and changing tides The small rudder, keep all well and back to safe harbor. And the whole point is that like the bit and like the rudder, the tongue is also small, but it can control Your whole life. It could give mastery over your whole life and the lives of others. Verse 5 You could take this negatively. Take a look at verse 5. Even so, this is his point, the tongue is a little member and boasts great things. Now, because it uses the word boasts, within our culture we think of that as that it's arrogant. That's not what's going on at this point. He's still focused on the positive aspects of the tongue. Mastery of life are verses 2 through 5. So he's still focused on the positive aspects of life or on the tongue. Verse 5, because of the word both, sounds negative, but it's not. The tongue really is powerful, and it really does accomplish great things, including mastery over our life. So if you'd like to, you can think of it like this You could think of your whole life as like a circuit breaker. Do you know what I mean by a circuit breaker? There's one in the room back there by Ryan, right in front of the computer. You open up the panel and there's all the different circuits that you can switch. Those are all the different aspects of your life. Some of you have them switched on and some you need to switch on. What this is saying is that the tongue is like the giant switch at the top that controls all the other aspects of your life. That's the kind of power that the tongue has. has and controlling your speech and your inward thoughts. If you're a person that can do that, you have mastery over life. That's his point here, that the tongue can lead to mastery of life. But he also then moves on in verse 6 that the tongue can also lead to the destruction of our lives. It is a power that can be wielded for good or evil. The image is given of a spark of fire. Like the bit or like the rudder, a spark is small. There, see how great a forest a little fire kindles? And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. Very strong language. Like a bit or like the rudder, a spark is small. All these small things are powerful despite their size. Likewise, the tongue, it can, like a spark, burn down your whole life. And the life It's a world of iniquity, it says in verse 6. There are some strange phrases that go throughout here. I hope that you don't miss the point based on the syntax. But let me try to explain some of the phrasing. He says in verse 6 that it is a world of iniquity. Well, what does that mean? The point of this and the other sayings Really, is that you've got to see this as a progression here as he speaks about the fire. The tongue is a fire. A fire, although small, is a whole world of flaming iniquity. It is small, but it within it lies the latent potential to light a whole forest It could and and that's his point. He's he's bringing moving from the metaphor of the fire, of uh a forest fire, to the latent potentiality of the tongue holding an entire world or cosmos of that which is set against God It's like having a whole world before your face, but then representing it in a snow globe. The snow globe is like the tongue. Now all this latent potential belongs in this one spark. And now you can see if you follow the progression in the passage, you can ask this question. What happens when you let the atom split in the Fire catch, and you're going to see it tear through life, the tongue and speech and our inward thoughts when they're left for destructive purposes First in verse 6 we see that it affects our personal life. That's where it all begins. The tongue is so set among our members that it defiles the whole body. This is a very personal discussion that he's having. It defiles you personally everywhere in the personal life, the tongue, speech, self talk, imagination, inner arguments and thoughts. It makes its presence felt and it leaves its stain everywhere in your personal life. That's the extent of the power of the tongue. But it moves on from verse 6, and it mentions not only that it defiles all the members, but it sets on fire the course of nature. Now what that means is that it not only sets on fire your whole personal life, but for all of life. The course of your existence would be another translation. Time rolls on, we say, and James takes this into account in relation to the tongue. Here's what one commentator says, namely John Calvin. Other vices are corrected by age or by process of time. Certain lusts die down when you get older, but not so with the evil of the tongue. It destroys the whole course of your existence. It will go on. They drop off from our lives, but from earliest to latest days, the baneful influence of the tongue remains, and this is its continuum. This is what you're dealing with. Your speech and your thoughts, the kind of power that has been given to you as a human being. Will this ever stop? Will the power of the evil tongue ever stop? And then the answer, James, to even heighten the the power of this tongue and its indestructibility as it's moving forward as a rolling fire He says that it's set on fire by hell itself. And I think what he's saying here is that not for the tongue, because the tongue is supplied by hell itself. Hell has inexhaustible and inextinguishable Inextinguishable flame to supply your heart and then therefore your tongue. It's an unending realm of fuel. For it to continue and then he keeps going on here and he says another way to say the same thing is that the tongue is untamable. That's the thought. See that the ton Hell makes it inextinguishable if you were to change the metaphor to reptiles and birds and what men have been able to tame, what we find is that men have not been able to tame the tongue. Because it's continually supplied and has an unending amount of evil. Now here's the interesting thing before we move on to the next point. James in the first part gives us the positive aspects of the tongue And says that we can have mastery over life. And then it says in the second part, in the negative aspect of our speech, that it's not tameable I mean, it really sounds like he's playing games with us. But you've got to pay attention to the specifics of what he's saying. He says no man can tame the tongue. He didn't say that Jesus Christ can't tame it. And that's really, remember this whole context, it's God who works within us, new creation. God can surely tame it And that's what's going on here, is that God does in fact tame the tongue of these Christians. And therefore it's possible because of the indwelling ministry of the Holy Spirit, although the tongue, let me put it this way, although the tongue is fueled by the fires of hell. Christians are fueled by a greater fire which has descended from above on the day of Pentecost, and it's the Holy Spirit. You see what I'm saying? One might be from Gehenna or hell, but the other one is from heaven, and heaven always wins. So the tongue leads to masterful control of our lives, and the tongue leads to destruction of our lives. That's what he's saying. Now, to confirm that this is what James is really after in this passage, look at verses 9 and 10. He shows the dual nature of the tongue, the duplicity of it, of our speech life With it we bless our God and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in the image of our Father, is one way you could put that, or in the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceed blessing and cursing. Those are the nine and ten are just summary verses of what he wanted to teach you in those first units. It can bring blessing and it can bring cursing. That's the nature and the character of your tongue. But he wants to show, remember, the whole purpose of James is stated in the last two verses of chapter. 5 of James. And he wants, he sees his congregations, multiple congregations, where Christians are wandering away from the true life in Jesus Christ. True loyalty to Jesus, and they have wandered in understanding how serious they should be taking their speech. And so to convince them, to move them back onto the path of taking Christian speech seriously, he's now going to move into the arguments about what's natural and what's not natural. And that's the rest of the passage. James speaks directly to Christians with moral force. Notice what he says here, starting in verse 10, the verse 10b. My brethren, he's speaking specifically to the church here, these things ought not to be so. If you have not been taking your mouth seriously for whatever reason, you have wandered. From following Jesus Christ the way he wants you to follow him. That's what he's saying. If you haven't been taking your mouth seriously, then you don't understand what your mouth can do. It can bring life or it can bring death. Don't you know that? That's really the force. It's the moral force of what he's saying here. And he speaks to his brethren, to the Christian church. Now, to support his case, James points out that nowhere in nature do we see such a crazy mixture of things, and that we also therefore shouldn't have it in ourselves. We shouldn't be so unnatural as his point. Does a spring send forth fresh water and bitter water from the same opening? And he should you should be saying, No, of course not, James. That's ridiculous. And you should keep saying, this is absurd. Why do you keep giving these illustrations? And you'll land on Well, what about the tongue? Should it bless and curse? And you'd say, you're right, James. That's absurd too. I need to repent. Does a spring send forth fresh water and bitter from the same opening? Can a fig tree, my brethren, bear olives or a grapevine bear friggs figs? Thus no spring yields both salt water and fresh He's relying on your understanding of the natural world and how things work based on the governance of God and his laws. The laws of creation. God's world and his unending governing laws do not work that way. There is a regularity of expression. You do not plant a tomato plant and scratch your head as to what will sprout. A tomato plant will sprout. And that's his point. Well, neither should it be neither should it be with the law of the Christian religion. God does not plant, and this is from chapter 1, verse 21. God does not plant the blessed seed of the word, the implanted word, verse 121, in order to reap a cursed evil plant. That's not the way that he governs this world. My brethren, it should not be so. This is unnatural. It is unsupernatural. It is monstrous. It is grotesque. It is a deformity of the new nature. And that's his message. The tongue is powerful, and training your speech and thoughts by the grace of the Holy Spirit results in spiritual maturity. However, oftentimes Christians wander and they become monstrous with their mouth. They become unnatural. They use it for cursing instead of blessing. The mouth that was made to bless is allowed to curse. And therefore we wander. We wander with our speech. And he just, I think that the overarching message really here, I don't think I think it's real complicated. I think he wants us first and foremost to just take it seriously. And I'll get to this in a minute, but let me s let me just label as I close a couple things that we should really take seriously. Based on this passage that come right out of here. This being true, everything that I've said so far, expos uh expositing the passage, therefore, we wonder as Christians if we don't take our words seriously. This is what I mean. Sometimes I hear people say, oh, he's just talk. Or I say, or they say, uh you're all talk and you're no action. Now you know what people mean when they mean that, right? Is that you shouldn't just be talk, you should have action. But at the same time that that's happening, I've noticed that in saying that, we also begin to disparage and and uh language itself or the role of speech within the human life as if Talking doesn't matter at all. Let's just stop talking. Who cares if we're being precise or not? Let's just get to work. And that's that can't be the case here because of the power of speech that he talks about here. Speech should be taken seriously. The unintended denigration of precise speaking, I believe, has resulted in pretty much all of media being taken over by pagans because Christians don't know how to speak anymore. But here's the argument. The pen is still mightier than the sword. And having mastery of language if the Lord has given you those kind of gifts. That you might be able to use it for powerful purposes. Think of any great movement across the land in any of your generations and tell me it didn't start with Somebody that knew how to talk. It did. Somebody that knew how to write. That's his whole point here. You've got to take speech seriously as Christians. Therefore, we wander. Here's number two, something for us to think about also from implications from this passage. Therefore, we wander if we don't think of our tongues with sober realism and carefulness. Think, I want you to, he's telling you here, this is the main message. I've already brought out one implication, but the main message is: listen, folks, this thing is that you have is powerful. Don't play around with it. Take it seriously. I want you to think about other powerful things in your life and how you handle it. them. Okay? Here are a couple things for you to think of. Do you have a table saw? I do in my basement. And I know how I handle that thing. What about propane tanks? Are you careful with those? Do you like to just leave them sitting out in the sun? You like putting them next to your wood stove? What about water in your pipes when it's four degrees outside? Hose bibs outside. Are you careful with that? Here's one. I think this one hits home. What about guns in your house? Are you careful with guns in your house Do you understand the power of a gun and how it can change life very quickly for everybody? The point is that aren't you careful with things that you think are powerful? Aren't you careful with how you use them and how you take care of them? Don't you have a sobriety and realism about those things? The way that you think of them, the extents that you go to make sure that no harm would come from them, but only good? So that's his point. Don't you set up your life to make sure that they don't cause harm. And how much more, therefore, should we be careful with our thoughts and with our speech based on the description that was just given here? Here's one last one for you. Just a I didn't give this, I gave a gun, I gave guns, I gave propane tanks, table saws. Here's one more, and this one drives me crazy. People that like to walk their pit bulls without leashes on them. When I see a person do that, if you've got a pit bull and you like to walk them without a lease, just talk to me afterward. Alright, I'm not gonna change what I say here. I I don't care. what you think. If you have a pit bull, it should be on a leash when you're walking it in public, especially around children based on its history. But there are people that just want to wander around with a pit bull in a park with no leash on it. And now you know, I I hope that you can viscerally feel what it's like to be in the presence of a pit bull without the leash on and how you think of that owner. And do you not do the same thing when you do not take your mouth? seriously. You see how powerful your mouth is, but you don't want to put a leash on it? You just want it to be able, you don't want to take it seriously? I mean for goodness sake That's what I would say. That's what I say inside my mind when I see people with the pit bull. I say, for goodness sake, take the dog seriously, take the breed seriously. And James is saying the same thing here. For goodness sake, would you take your tongue seriously? Take it seriously for good and what it can accomplish. Do you know that Abraham Lincoln in speaking was able to at least impart Part of the progress for the release of slaves. That was just his mouth. And then on the other hand, Adolf Hitler killed millions with his mouth Take it seriously. I'll leave you with this. Proverbs 12, 18, chapter 12, verse 18. The words of the reckless pierce like swords, but the tongue of the wise, it brings healing. Amen. pray. No man can tame the tongue, Father, but you have not left us to ourselves. This isn't a man's business You have, in fact, through your Son Jesus Christ, we thank you, Lord Jesus, for being present with us now and teaching us through your word. We thank you for your mouth for your speech. Everything was elegant, beautiful, and life-giving. And we thank you that you have sent your spirit and a tongue of flame to give us tongues that can be sanctified. And we pray, Lord, that you would help the beginning of that, just the start, by helping us to take these things seriously. That we wouldn't pierce each other with swords, the sword of our tongue any longer, but that we'd Bring healing in everything that we do, whether it be in the Christian or the non-Christian community. We ask these things in your name. Amen.