I I um I'm going to read the section of our scripture this morning that we'll be uh hearing preached. It's Luke nineteen, twenty-eight through forty four, and I'd like you to have your bowl down at the same time. That's what I'm having. sit. Otherwise you'll feel like a one-armed uh wallpaper hanger trying to hold everything. You'll see the divisions there on the bulletin. As I'm reading the text See if you can see the same divisions. That's the goal, is for you to see the same thing. Should be no invention We're looking at Luke 19, 28 through 44. If you need a Bible, you can raise your hand. I'll have one brought to you. We all right. 1928 through 44. before. When he had said this, he went on ahead going up to Jerusalem, and it came to pass when he drew near to Beth and Bethany at the mountain called Olivet, that he sent two of his disciples, saying, Go into the village opposite you, where you enter, where as you enter you will find a colt tied on which no one has ever sat Loose it and bring it here. And if any one asks you why are you loosing it, thus you shall say to him, Because the Lord has need of it. So those who were sent went their way and found it just as he had said to them But as they were loosing the colt, the owners of it said to them, Why are you losing the colt? And they said, The Lord has need of him. Then they brought him to Jesus And they threw their own clothes on the colt, and they set Jesus on him. And as he went many spread their clothes on the road. Then as he was now drawing near the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and Praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works they had seen, saying, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees called to him from the crowd, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. But he answered and said to them, I tell you the truth that if these should keep silent, the stones would immediately cry out Now as he drew near, he saw the city and wept over it, saying, If you had known, even you, especially in this your day, the things that make for your peace But now they're hidden from your eyes. For days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embarkment around you, surround you, and close you in on every side, and they're going to level you, and your children within you to the ground. And they will not leave in you one stone upon another, because you did not know the time of your visitation. Let's pray. Lord Christ, these are very serious words. Lord, if you were to portray these words to our faith to where they captured our imagination. Lord, we would not place palms on the ground. We would place our faces. You are worthy of glory, and we are but worms. But you are raising us up. You are lifting our chins, and we pray that you would do so even more so. Through the preaching of your word today, illuminate our minds, Holy Spirit, by the grace of Christ and the love of the Father. Amen. The the passage ends with a note of judgment. Did you notice that? On a less serious note, one company that I think should be judged perhaps above all others is Verizon. Not speaking about the employees there. I know you're making an honest living, but it when anyone monopolizes the mark the market uh and they can have internet the cost internet the cost that it is or etc. It unnerves me. The the worst part about it is this. When there is something that goes wrong at the house, we will be there between 6 a. m. and 6 p. m. And and has this happened to you? You decide that, well, it looks like they've not only monopolized the market on communication, but now of my time Time completely, and so uh you sit around, you wait, lunch goes by, he's gonna show up at 559. But you don't know, so you take a shower while you're in the shower, he knocked on the door. And you missed them and now you have to go through the other, you know, hour and a half of pushing through the numbers to get to something to where you could then set up another appointment. It's a familiar experience that we have with Verizon, and it's it's familiar enough to these folks here in this passage also, in that Jesus brings up what happens when we miss it when people visit us. This was an annoying example. This is a very serious example. In other words, have you ever neglected or missed out on something? uh because uh you neglected or because you weren't uh paying attention uh uh or or diligently attending in the way that you should have Have you missed out on something? Do you do you go to a class reunion and and you think if I had only done this I would have ended up this way, so that I could have worn a more expensive suit during the class reunion? Or whatever it is. I think all of us have thoughts that at least go through our mind like that, wondering what it would have been like if we had not neglected Certain visitations that were given to us. That's the focus here. The big idea of the passage is stated right at the end by Jesus. It is grievous to lose your day of visitation. You could feel that with Verizon a little bit. That's trivial. He's serious. It is grievous to lose your day of visitation. It was grievous enough for Jesus to cry in this morning. passage. Look, let's look at it under three parts. You can see those in your bulletins and you and you can take notes there. So you can talk about this all afternoon. There's the drama There's the response and there's the grief. And so we're first looking at the drama of visitation. The point here I want you to see is that Jesus does not speak. I mean he does. He says a few words, right? But the overarching message is communicated through a dramatization, a real life dramatization. Arch used to call these living parables. Jesus does not speak, he dramatizes. You can see here in the passage that he's drawing near to Bethage and Bethany. Jesus gives instructions to his disciples to find the cult and Notice the details of what's going on here. Don't miss it. The cult is obviously pre-arranged by Jesus in order to be able to pull off the drama. He knows where the c this is not the first time that he had been to the town where the cult is going to be He had made pre-arrangements. The cult will be tied, he says. He remarks that it's never been ridden before, which means it's been sanctified or consecrated for him to be the only one that would ride it. The narrative is not portraying some kind of omniscience in Jesus where he can be standing on the Mount of Olives and see uh like Spider-Man seeing other towns and the details of where all the donkeys are I don't know that he'd waste his omniscience on knowing where all the donkeys are in this moment. The demonstration instead is a portraying of the pre-arrangement that Jesus had planned this one moment In order to dramatize a very important truth for these people and for us, you can see this in that the owners concede to the request of the disciples. I don't know why else they would. I don't think they were in the habit of just giving away their profits or their animals because they say the Lord said so. You go ahead and try that in your own life. Try taking somebody's stuff and then say the Lord said so. I guarantee they won't give it to you. Well, if they do, please report back to me. That's that would be the story in and of itself. But all doubt is removed when Jesus sits on the cult at C O L T and immediately the truth is dramatized. You can see it in the response of the people that are watching. They they see the image. It's right before 'em. You wonder if their mouths were opened b because they didn't realize how it was unfolding. They just saw a donkey at first and then they see Jesus and and And then the two come together and they go, there it is. Everything that was promised to us. The truth. Jesus doesn't need to say a word, he dramatizes it, and a picture says a thousand words You know, we have things like this to happen in our lives too. I I am a little bit of a a Netflix junkie, particularly the documentaries. This was more of a movie, Steve Prefontaine. Anyone He's a nineteen seventies runner. So those of you who were really living it up in the seventies, you remember Steve Prefontaine? He uh w excellent runner, st track star in the seventies. He died in a car accident in nineteen seventy five. I'm bored in nineteen seventy. seven. Excellent. Movie, a little corny, but interestingly, both in the movie and in the story written, at his funeral You think of funerals as filled with words, right? At his funeral, it wasn't filled with words. Of course there were words spoken, but there was a drama that played out At the funeral, instead of filling the whole time with speeches, what they did was they set the clock at Hayward Field to roughly 13 minutes, which is where he ran three miles. And at the Bell Mile, they had a hearse drive pre-fontaine around the track doing those laps. And the people in the stands they knew what was happening. No one needed to say anything. They all stood and they began cheering him on to the finish line, like they had done in the Olympics and the and That's the same thing that's going on here. That picture for Prefontain spoke a thousand words. The crowd got the picture, began chanting. So too here the crowd gets the picture. They see the drama and they begin chanting Psalm 118 as as pilgrims. What is the picture that they saw? If you want to, you can turn to Zechariah chapter 14, and then we'll turn to Zechariah 9. Or you can just make a note of those passages. This is the picture that they saw. Here's the first thing that must have occurred to them Then the Lord, this is Zechariah 14, 3 and 4, then the Lord will go forth and fight against those nations as he fights in the day of battle. This is the new exodus that's being promised here. And it continues, and he says, and in that day, his feet, speaking of this Lord, this Messiah, will stand on the Mount of Olives, which is exactly where this was taking place. You'd have to climb to the top. Those of you who have been to Covenant Village, you know how you climb to the top? You finally make it to the top of the mountain, and you can look out over all the Pennsylvanian valley. Remember that some of you camped up there in the years past. That would be about the same height that you would be if you were on the top of the Mount of Olives. And you're standing there and you're looking out over Jerusalem, if you can see it through the olive trees at that time, and there he is. Standing on the Mount of Olives. Zechariah 14 had to come to mind, and if it didn't, then Zechariah 9 did, because it says, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you. He is just in having salvation, lowly and riding on a donkey, a cult, the foal of a donkey. That's what they're responding to. That's the drama. The crowd confirms it with their chanting. They see the Messiah before them on the Mount of Olives standing there. The kingdom is being ushered in, and so they begin to quote Psalm eighteen as pilgrims. Would do at this time, having worked through some of the very psalms that you heard Brad preach on in last week. But there's a response that's different depending on who you are in the crowd, and that brings us to the second point. here in the passage. You can see the pre-arrangement for the sake of the drama in the first point, and you couldn't miss it. Now here's the response, because maybe you could miss it. In 37 through 40, there's a response to the visitation, and you can see two groups of people enter into the drama with two very different responses. Now you need to think about yourself here also. Because by the very fact of this preaching happening this morning, you are entering into this drama and you will be held responsible for your response this morning. How will you respond to Jesus mounting the colt? Well, there's two groups here with two different responses. The group of the pilgrims respond to Jesus in faith, and I mentioned that they're working their way through Psalm 118. It's typical of pilgrims to do this. Down they would go, down the steep path to the Kidron Valley, and the crowds would start to sing part of the great psalm of praise, which is Psalm 118. The pilgrims always sang that song on the way to Jerusalem, whether this had happened there or not, but they see Jesus taking all the details of the song. It's most beautiful, a song of victory, a hymn of praise to the God who defeats all his foes and establishes his kingdom. Jesus will himself, if you want to look forward, he'll quote from this psalm in one of his debates when he reaches Jerusalem in chapter 20, verse 17. The pilgrims sing of Jesus as the fulfillment of the nation's hopes. That's why they're so excited. Their hopes, their aspirations, their longings Are coming to life right before them. This is how the pill one chooses to enter into the drama, seeing Jesus fulfill all their hopes and their longings for a king who would bring peace to earth from heaven itself. The group of the Pharisees, you notice, when you look again, they respond with no faith And I tried to dramatize that a little bit as I was reading of the passage, when they asked Jesus to rebuke his disciples. Can you imagine the Pharisees? What what were they like to get them to that point? They're traveling with the pilgrims, just like anyone would have traveled with the pilgrims. They probably did it every, you know, every year. And then something started to happen. The drama started to form. They began to make the connections and connect the dots. And I bet you their faces turned red. And they realized what was going on. Will they think that we're involved with this? Will we be removed from the synagogue? Will we be given thirty-nine slash m forty lashes minus one? Whatever the number was? What would the authorities say about them being a part of a messianic demonstration with the Jesus of Nazareth? Can you imagine that? There are certain demonstrations you would not want to be a part of, right? Some of you who grew up in the 60s, some of you wanted to be a part of those demonstrations, and some of you didn't, depending on the kind of demonstration that it was I imagine they had some of the same feelings. They became anxious and they called out to Jesus from the crowd and they say, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. They should not be saying these things about you. You should not be receiving the words of this psalm. You are not the Messiah, and for you to receive those truths as such is blasphemy. Worthy of death. Now that's the way that they chose to engage it, and that's not too much of a surprise if you've been following along with the story. Brad, I think while I was gone, preached on the parable of the vineyard or the wicked vine dressers. Same situation. It's actually just a few paragraphs down from this passage. Jesus really gets to the point with them. Yet if you were to look at either one of the characters in the story and how they choose to respond at this moment With the purple, because of his regality and the royal messianic overtones that are going throughout the whole thing They all respond, the pilgrims respond in faith, the Pharisees don't. But will the pilgrims hang on for what awaits them when they hit Jerusalem? Or will their faith shipwreck? It's an important question. Despite the faith or the non-faith of the pilgrims or the Pharisees, we can wonder if any faith will truly remain when they get to what Jesus will actually go through as the king. Both groups see Jesus on a cult as a kingly messianic drama. Power will be given back to the people from the Romans. That's how both would have seen it. One denies that he's that person, the other affirms it, but both would see it in those lights, military power. However, Jesus is coming to bring God's salvation, God's great exodus through his own Passover action on the cross, first and foremost. He will of course return again. In kingly power, but here we're looking at Passover actions. Had the crowds known this, they would have been puzzled and distressed, as indeed they soon will be. Imagine them knowing it on the Mount of Olives. I don't think it'd be the same tone of celebration There'd be a lot of questions and a lot of confusion. It really makes us ask some questions, doesn't it? As we arrive at Jerusalem, this upcoming week with Jesus, the questions press upon us Are we going along for the trip in the hope that Jesus will fulfill some of our hopes and our desires? Why do you follow Jesus? If you're in the crowd, whether let's say you're part of the pilgrims, And you're laying down the palms and you're quoting messianic psalms. Why are you following him? What are your hopes and your aspirations for following him? Are you ready to sing a psalm of praise, but only as long as Jesus seems to be doing what you want? What's going to happen when the events turn? And it requires great tragedy and trial. Are you ready not only to spread out your cloak on the road in front of you to do the showy and the flamboyant thing, get caught up in the crowd? Are you also willing to follow him into trouble, into controversy, into trial, and to death? When you receive the Palm today, the Palm speaks out to you in all those things. The poem speaks of trial and death that is to come, speaks of course messianic glory and kingship, but don't for don't forget Forget what it means. Count the cost as a disciple, which is several paragraphs before this passage. So those are the characters, those are the responses, and we can identify with one of them, and we know folks that fit within those characteristics. And it's a good opportunity for us to be able to evaluate. As he dramatizes, as we saw on the first point, we end up being able to group ourselves with the pilgrims or the Pharisees in the response And here now we move into a third point, which is the grief of the visitation, where we see Jesus' response, and not those who are there. Finally, Jesus says a lot. He's been dramatizing up to this point, but now he has a lot to say. And it is most grievous. It is most serious. The grief of Jesus was most serious. Did you pick that up when you've read through this section before with the palms? Or when you thought when you woke up this morning, today's Palm Sunday. We're going to get palms. Did you remember that Jesus weeps or laments in this passage? I didn't remember that. He wept over Jerusalem. He's on Mount of Olives. He can see Jerusalem. He can see the city. He weeps, and the and the word used here is really deep sobs of lamentation. I don't mean for this to be trivial, but it it communicates in our culture. He ugly cried. He ugly cried. There are three times that Jesus does this. When he was this Lazarus, heard of his death, he wept. Here he weeps. And also in the Garden of Gethsemane, he weeps. And that's also picked up in the book of Hebrews, where it talks about the kind of suffering as he contemplated it, the anguish that he was going through. That's one of the ways to see how serious this is on what's going on. Also, there's the manner of expression. Besides his weeping, notice the manner of expression, the emphasis emphasis that's gained here. He says, you, even you, in this your day, you, even you in this your day. That's meant to be emphatic. And to point out the seriousness of what's going on within the heart and the emotional life of Jesus Christ as he looks out on his people. The grief of Jesus was very serious as we consider the really the whole gospel or all the gospels, but then in particular some of the things that have gone on recently with him. Though the light shone over and over again to this group of people, they rejected the light for darkness. You could look at just look in a few A few paragraphs before and after this passage, flip through the gospel, look at all the ways in which he revealed himself and how they chose to ignore it. A light Yet when he was sent, they did not recognize him. God sent prophets before to prepare the people for hundreds of years. Consider just John the Baptist himself. He announced the coming of the Christ. The forerunner had come. Every opportunity had been given this group of people to see the light, to see the nature and the identity of Jesus Christ. John the Baptist announced his coming. Jesus' ministry was accompanied with extraordinary acts of providence. When that happens, you should pay attention. When there's extraordinary acts of providence, don't go on about your day. Jesus brought people back from the dead. He healed lepers. He cast out demons. He allowed people to walk on water, controlling nature. Jesus was blessed with the Spirit in full measure. The gospel of God was never more clear to the Jewish people than when Jesus was there. Of course, it's made clear now through the Spirit. But they continued not being able to say, rejecting him, having other psychological and sociological influence That had built up to where they had become blind. Their own responsibility. Their hypocrisy, then Jesus points out, has been exposed, and now they'll be removed. It had come to that point. The day had come, the sun lasted for so long, but now the night has appeared. The day is over for them. Can you imagine as Jesus imagine that going through his mind where he would have to say I gave them the day for so long, but now night has come. Do you feel the emotional power of those words? Night has come. Night has come. Jesus speaks in particular in here of the sack of Jerusalem in 70 AD. You can read about it in your history book if you'd like to see the kind of horror that happened. It did involve children. It involves people being burnt alive. Read about it. No wonder he cried. The sack of Jerusalem is the fulfillment of the words of John the Baptist, too. From the beginning they had been warned. Every word and every action that came from Jesus, the revelation of his person and the message from the love of the Father. was a dividing point. It was like a chemical added to other chemicals and it and they respond differently depending on This is what I mean. When the word goes out, depending on how you respond, you're already showing, you're already being separated out into categories. Very scary. And John talked about this in terms of winnowing. Has anyone had the opportunity to winnow? Have you winnowed? His winnowing fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clean out his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. Winnowing can be done in different ways. You basically, let's say you have a crop of grain, you're going to beat that grain to where the the heavy or dense clusters of grain will fall out from the stem. But as you're beating it, the stuff that surrounds the the dense grain just becomes like a dust. So you can use there's something called a winnowing shovel. You could shovel, toss it up into the air, and if there's a fan or if there's wind, the lightweight chaff will blow away and the heavier grain will come back down into the basket or the shovel. Thus you keep that which is good and profitable and productive. Think of all the parables going on around this. And those which became useless to you and are good for nothing but to be burnt up are now separated And that widowing, that process of tossing up and allowing the dents to fall and the light to blow away, that is the process that happens when there is any revelation of the sun. You can see the winnowing has taken place on the Mount of Olives between two groups of people. Jesus tossed them all into the air by the word, and some came down with density, and others are blowing away into hypocrisy. Claiming themselves to be the His own religious leaders. And likewise, preaching here with this with us, the the drama that is going forth as you're considering, perhaps you're being separated. out into groups also. There's a real seriousness about this as we consider this group of people and ourselves in the midst of the drama. They lost their day of visitation. He came, he preached, he showed who he was, and the night has come, the winnowing has taken place, as John the Baptist had forespoken, and now they have lost their day of visitation. It's the ending of this section. He states it as the as the premier point that he's bringing out, that they have lost their visitation. The Messiah stood before them and then they could not see him because of the suppression of the truth. They became so narrow in full responsibility. They became so narrow in their sight that they're unable to see him. Have you ever had that experience where your sight starts to come in? I see one military guy saying that. I wonder if that happened in training. I I watched uh uh Navy SEAL documentary, another Netflix show And one of the training there for the SEALs is to do tasks while underwater. But the tasks are meant to never be able to be completed. So the whole point of the task is for the Navy SEAL to jump in and when he drowns to learn to not take in too much water because it takes his brothers longer to revive him. And they could get shot while trying to revive him after he drowns. So really the whole point of the the the test is to drown well. Which sounds remark sounds like remarkable people. But they describe that as they're doing the task and they know that it's coming, to prepare themselves to drown well, they can see the full spectrum. Their periphery goes out, they see the task that needs to be done and then it starts to come. And it just ends up as a little hole that they can only see through for their task and then black out. I think the same thing can be said of this group. Time after again after time and time again, prophet after profit, truth after truth, supernatural event after supernatural event They chose to push down and suppress the truth as to not have their authority interrupted. And at every time there was a push down, there was a collapsing in a vision. A first a loss of periphery not being able to see the kingdom of God and of heaven in its full glory to the point where they could not see the Messiah. Not even a a hole was left. Complete darkness arise here in this moment to where now they will feel fully justified. And betraying him over to the Romans and for him to be crucified. No remorse. Crucify him, crucify him. That's the psychology and the sociology of what's going on here. Has your vision narrowed? Great opportunity for self-reflection. What spirituality or psychology or sociology is narrowing your vision to blind you from the truth of Jesus? You had all the faith in the world in Jesus, and then you read some blog, and now you're less sure. That's a narrowing of vision. How much is our vision being narrowed? There's the drama. There's the response that we see, and we can enter into that drama with the response of praise and giving glory to the Messiah. Or rejecting him. And we see the grief, the grief at the loss of the visitation that Jesus has. It is grievous to lose your day of visitation. You can see how those parts come together. Now, let's talk about the use of this for the remaining time. It's irresponsible to think that this passage is just written to you sitting here. He's specifically speaking to the Jewish nation. And we have to honor that, otherwise, we get no truth. It would be irresponsible. To be sure, the Jews had a special day of visitation from the incarnate Christ Jesus. And what he's speaking about here happens in 70 A. D. for them. Now, we can ask the question: do we, as Gentiles, have a day of visitation? What would you say? Have you missed your day of visitation? Do you have a day of visitation still. I think just from going through the Hebrew series where the author is saying, as long as it is called today, we know that there's still a visit a visitation That our day is still here? The answer is yes. The Jews were visited by the incarnate Messiah physically. We, the Gentiles, are visited by the Messiah through the Messiah's Spirit. And now you should, from the quorum Deo series and the small groups, this should start to really ring true. You shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in all Judea, Samaria. and to the end of the earth, we being the end of the earth. Witnesses to Jesus. Witnesses to the all of the pronouncements, all of the miracles, all of the grace that had been given to him and revealed in his messianic glory. The Spirit of Christ and His presence is a continual visitation on his church and on the culture. Where the Holy Spirit chooses to descend until he has gathered all of his own. We are in a continual time of visitation. But we do know that in the scriptures it says night will come And the books will be closed. And Jesus will return. All that will be gathered will be gathered, will have been gathered. The Spirit is Christ's presence and his continual visitation with his church until he has gathered all his own. The Spirit takes the word And the effects of the word and the evidences, and he speaks it to you and to your heart, and he captures your imagination. just as we prayed during the pastoral prayer. He captures your imagination and your faith, and he makes an event like this that we read in the scriptures real to you like it's happening now. The truths of it capture your heart as if you were a pilgrim standing there and you have the opportunity to respond. It'll happen this Thursday, too. And it will happen Friday, and it will happen Sunday, and it happens every Sunday that the word is preached. Every time you're having a conversation and the word is proclaimed, any type of discussion or counseling, it's the ministry of the Spirit by the Word, giving you another day of visitation. And giving this culture another day of visitation. The Spirit takes the Word, and He takes the effects of the Word. And they become evidences. It wasn't just what Jesus said, it was what Jesus dramatized. It was the supernatural effects of the ministry of Jesus also. These real stories are meant to be present before your eyes and my eyes. The real stories affect people. The effect is a visitation of the work of the Spirit, and it should lead to a decision In the same way that Jesus did supernatural things, and people were meant to respond and knowing the identity of Jesus, and that was their day. They took advantage of the day and they utilized it. So too are we today. Now, what are the effects of the preached word that we can see today? One, it's everyone sitting around you. It's the members of Severn Run. Every one of you is a supernatural supernatural act of the Holy Spirit. The fact that you're able to see that Jesus is the Christ and to be able to trust in Him for salvation. Now what else besides us? You know, the difficulty with us, you think about yourself and supernatural acts, and then you think about them back then, and you think, oh my goodness, can you imagine 5,000 people uh joining the church in a day? We would have to defy the fire marshal. We'd have to start meeting outside and fill the field. We had a hundred kids in the backfield yesterday And it seemed filled. Imagine 5,000. Those kind of supernatural acts. And so you we kind of excuse ourselves. And thinking that we don't need to make the most of this day because we don't see much happening today. But uh then again, if you were to just check the news, maybe there is. Can I quote a couple statistics? Of course. I can. Korea in the past 100 years has gone from 0% Christian to 40% Christian. Now I want you to think of how many people exist within that culture. We're talking about a dense population. 40%. And now just take one of those Koreans, Pastor Kim, and think of the work that he has done. They have an entire Presbytery in South America now. They have planted a university and a hospital. That is the kind of work that they are doing. That is the work of the Holy Spirit because it's still the day of visitation. Respond to that. Respond to the effects of the Spirit and His Word working in people. In Africa, from 1900 to 2000, it went from 9% to about 50% Christian. There are many attestations to that, and some are saying that now China is probably because of what's already happening Trending upward is on a one hundred year trajectory to do about the same. They will probably go from two to three percent to maybe thirty percent here soon Just seeing how the Spirit is working within those countries. The Spirit is at work. The day of visitation is amongst the Gentiles. And it is our job to respond to that. Now, interestingly, Christianity is growing in these non-Western places at seven to ten times the rate of the population in many cases. And they, guess what they're doing? Those in Africa or those in China or those in Korea? They are coming here. They're coming to they're coming to Western states And they are planting churches and their churches are growing. Let me tell you one last statistic. The biggest churches by far in London right now are African churches. Isn't that lovely? The day of visitation is still here. The palms are are being laid down, and there are people throughout the world at an enormous number. Responding and saying, He's my Christ, against African spirituality taught in their tribes, turning their back on that and seeing Jesus filling the hope of every aspiration. that their tribe ever hoped for. Anyone in China or North Korea or South Korea, any hope or aspiration they're seeing in the face of Jesus Christ, the glory of God and the love of the Father. And we have the opportunity to continue to see those signs Because it's still the day of our visitation, and we can respond. It would be grievous for us not to. Let's pray Oh my god. Father, as we sit here and we look at the culture around us, reject you time and time again, as we move into what is called a post-Christian society, or we complete it, it fills our hearts with joy. To hear the percentages and the statistics of non-Western countries. Holy Spirit, we thank you for working through your word And gathering your people. Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for dwelling in heaven and loving us here on earth. We thank you for saving 40% of the population. Korea. We thank you for the movement within China. We thank you for the movement within Africa. Father, we ask that we would respond. Lord, may those signs, may these providences that you've given to us across the globe become signs to us And may we respond to you in faith. May you be portrayed to us throughout this week and Easter. May we truly celebrate your Resurrection every Sunday. Pray these things in your name, amen