Our awesome God, you who forgive our sins, you who have no limit to your mercy. We come before you now, seeking you in your word, seeking to know you, to trust you. To understand you better. We know that this is only possible through your condescension to us. We are but creatures and can never fully But Lord, we trust in your word. We trust in your goodwill toward your people. And we trust, Father, that you You have revealed yourself truly to us and preserve that revelation for us. So as we go to your word tonight, Father, we ask that you would open our ears, that we would hear you speaking to us. That we would have open eyes to see the words on the page and to understand that these are from you, and not merely from man. And Father, I pray that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. Our Lord, our strength and It's in his name that we pray. Amen. Psalm 111. Praise the Lord. I will praise the Lord with my whole heart in the assembly of the upright and in the congregation. The works of the Lord are great, studied by all who have pleasure in them. His work is honorable and glorious, and his righteousness endures forever. He has made his wonderful works to be remembered. The Lord is gracious and full of compassion. He has given food to those who fear him. He will ever be mindful of his covenant He has declared to his people the power of his works in giving them the heritage of the nations. The works of his hands are verity and justice All his precepts are sure. They stand fast forever and ever, and are done in truth and uprightness. He has sent redemption to his people. Holy and awesome. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. A good understanding have all those who do his commandments, his praise endure Forever. The flowers fade, the grass perishes, but the word of the Lord endures forever This is God's word for God's people. It's important for us to pay attention to it. It's important for us to know what it's talking about. And this psalm here is no different. Now I want you all to realize that this psalm answers a very important question for us. And it may be a question that you've never been asked before. So I'll just ask you right now, what are you doing here? Why are you here right now? This is a worship service for Yahweh. We are here to worship the great God Jehovah. So I ask you why. Well, this psalm begins with a possible answer. It begins with the most famous word in all of the Hebrew language: hallelujah. And that word itself is actually a command. I don't know if you realize that, but it's an imperative. And it means: all of you people, praise Jehovah. So that's a possible answer to the question: why do we worship God? Why are we here? Well, the psalm, as I said, gives us a much fuller answer to that question. Now the song itself is a pretty ingenious poem. It's what we call an acrostic. And an acrostic, if you remember, is a mnemonic device, a very powerful mnemonic device. That helps us to remember what it is we're talking about. Now the authorship of this particular psalm, it's not given to us, it doesn't say a psalm of David in these scriptures. But most scholars uh agree that this was written at some point during the post-exile period. Of Israel's history. And if you remember, in the exile, Judah and Israel were sent into Babylon by God's judgment. And there they stayed for a generation. And while they were there, many terrible things happened in their homeland. And yet the Lord, in his sovereign mercy, Decreed through Cyrus the king that they should return to Israel, that they should return to Jerusalem, and that they should rebuild the temple of Jehovah. Well, it's really a if we think about this, wouldn't it be important for the people of God to have a song that's easily memorized, that answers a very important question? Why do you worship God? Yahweh? Why do you worship Jehovah? It would be very important for those children who had been born in this exiled land and did not know all of the history of their people. Perhaps Perhaps they didn't even know where they were headed in this caravan from Babylon. Well, I hope that you and I, brothers and sisters, will see at the end of our study tonight After we have gone through in great detail this Psalm 111, that the Lord Jehovah has made himself known to his people, and so his people must worship him. Brothers and sisters, the Lord has made himself known to you. And so you must worship him. And we're going to look at this in two sections. We'll look first at Jehovah Revealed, and this is going to be in verses 2 through 9. And then we'll look at the bookends of this song and see Jehovah worship. So we have Jehovah revealed, verses two through nine, and then verses one and ten act as bookends on either side of that content showing us Jehovah's Word. Let's start right now in verse 2 and see how our God reveals Himself. And we see that He reveals Himself in all that He does. He reveals Himself through His works. Verses 2 through 6. And the first thing that the psalmist tells us about the works of God is he shows us the quality of his works. And we see right there in verse 2: his works are excellent. They are great. They are eminently good. There is magnificence in everything that God has designed and created. Simply look at the pictures of the universe If you've ever seen that Hubble Deep Field picture with the thousands of galaxies, if that doesn't fill you with awe at what our God is capable of, Then I don't know what will. The grandeur of God's fingerprint is present on all of his mighty works in creation. Verse 2 also says that these mighty works, these great works, these excellent, eminently good works, are studied by those who have pleasure in them. And studied may uh may throw us off just a little bit because sometimes we think of study and we go, oh, homework, this is boring. It's not studied, it's really the idea of sought-out Someone who delights in the Lord God seeks out the Lord God in his works. There's a famous scientist named James Clark Maxwell, a Scottish man I wonder if you realize that James Clark Maxwell, the father of electromagnetism, was a Presbyterian. He was even a Presbyterian elder in the Church of Scotland. He founded a very famous laboratory, the Cavendish Laboratories. And over the archway of the main entrance to that laboratory when it was built, do you know what James Clark Maxwell had inscribed there Psalm 111, verse 2. Great are the works of the Lord, studied by those who delight in them. Of course it was probably in Latin back then. It was not very long ago that those men who were making incredible discoveries In the scientific world and incredible observations about this universe that have changed our lives even now. I mean, without electromagnetism, do you think we'd have computers and cell phones and lights and all those things if we didn't know what the Lord had given to Mr Maxwell. It was not that long ago that those people were not simply trying to uh To find a universe devoid of God, but they were trying to understand the universe made by God. And we as Christians should not abandon that realm of life. But we should understand, as our elder pointed out for us, as Jeremiah said, this is God's world. Well, not only do we see that his works are excellent, but we also see that his works are divine. That is, they are consistent with the nature and character of God. And we see that in verse 3. His work is honorable and glorious, and his righteousness endures forever. Honorable and glorious. This is a curious phrase. Literally, in the Hebrew, it reads, Majesty adorns his deeds. And basically, what we're to take from that is that every single thing God does Is more majestic than anything we could ever imagine. Yet the wondrous thing is that there are some things that God does that are even more majestic, aren't there? When we go back and we think about all that God does, and we think about an episode like in Exodus, when the Lord freed his people, as we read Jeremiah talking about in In our scripture reading, that is a majestic work. The wonders that he sent to Egypt that freed his people, these are things that we can think about. And that when we look at them, we see the majesty. And yet we're told that his righteousness endures forever. In the same way, all that God does is in that same righteousness. And that means that what God has called clean, we cannot call unclean. What God has called good, we cannot call not good. And he has made this creation, and though sin has befouled it, the Lord has not given it over entirely to destruction yet. And that's a We can thank him for. It's an example of his graces and his compassion. Well, the psalmist has shown us the quality of God's works, and now he's going to show us the result. of these great and majestic works. And by seeing the results of this works, this is how God's people know what God is like. It says here, he has made his wonderful works to be remembered. The Lord is gracious and full of compassion. God knows our fickle minds and our fickle memories. He knows that his people will forget things about what he has done, and yet he has provided for it. He has given concrete reminders of his presence and of his purposes. He has given to Israel festivals and feasts and rituals I mean, just remember the Passover. It was a ritual that was specifically designed so that the people would never forget what occurred on that faithful day. And to us, on this side of the cross, the Lord has given us things that are even more powerful. We had one of them this morning. We experienced it this morning as we broke bread and drank the wine of the Lord's Supper. Brothers and sisters, it was two weeks ago, I believe, that we had a baptism. When this happens here in our church Does it stir up your heart? Does it stir up thoughts about your God and all that He's done for you? Does it remind you of your own baptism, of your betrothal to the Lord? When we were observing the Lord's Supper today and enjoying the sacrament, did you remember all of the wonderful things that Christ has done on your behalf As we are to do that. These are things that God has given us, so that we can remember the wonderful things He has done and remember His grace and his compassion, because it's out of his grace and compassion that he gives those signs and seals to us. Well not only do we see his grace and compassion, but the psalmist shows us That the result of God's works is we will see his covenant faithfulness. Look there, it says, He has given food to those who fear him. He will ever be mindful of his covenant. The Lord will never disregard his covenant promises, even to stiff-necked, stubborn people like you and like me, like those Israelites. Do you remember how stiff-necked and and stubborn they were? How long had it been since they were released by these miraculous works of God that they started complaining about how little food they had, how they wished they had leaks and Onions. And what did God do for them? He sent manna from the heavens. He sent quail. So much quail it was coming out of their ears, and they had no idea what to do with it. They got sick of quail. And God did this for a people who were grumbling against him and complaining against him. And brothers and sisters, I would just encourage you to see that this is true for us, even now. Though we were enemies to God, rebels to his holy will, every single one of you here, if you believe that Jesus is the Christ, The Son of God, and that your sins have been atoned for by His death, then God gave you His holy food while you were an enemy of Him. His word was preached to your ears, and his Holy Spirit awakened you and gave you a new life in Jesus Christ. He gave you faith that what you heard preached was true. He reconciled you to himself through the life, death, resurrection, and ascension of our great and awesome Savior, Jesus Christ. What a miraculous God we serve. What a faithful God we serve, who will never, ever forget his covenant. Not only do we see the grace and compassion of our God, not only do we see his covenant faithfulness, but through his works we see his mighty power. Look there with me at verse 6. He has declared to his people the power of his works in giving them the heritage of the nations. Now heritage is a it can be a strange word for us. Sometimes when we think heritage, we think tradition, right? We think ethnic heritage or family heritage. But really the Hebrew word here is a word that means inheritance. It really means it's used most often in reference to the inheritance of an individual from their parents when they pass away. And so if we are to take it that way, that the Lord has given an inheritance to his people, it's easy for us to see what he's talking about. To Abraham, he promised a land flowing with milk and honey, to Abraham's Offspring, he promised the land flowing with milk and honey. He brought them up out of the bondage of Egypt. And when he did, do you remember how he sent those Israelites out of Egypt? They weren't paupers. They left with the wealth of Egypt. They were burdened by all the treasures that these people had put upon them when they left. God shows his power as he gives to his people and provides for them. Yet now you and I have even greater power Are you familiar with Romans chapter 8, verses 16 to 17? It says, the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with Him, that we may also be glorified together. Is there any more impressive demonstration of the power of our God than that He has conquered death? That he vanquishes sin forever? Do you realize That if the Lord were to return now and call us up to meet him, that we would be in a state of no longer being capable of sin. When you are in glory with Christ Jesus, you will not have the ability to sin, and that should be impressive to you. Because if you're like me, you know yourself. You know your own mind. You know how many times a day you have a thought that you wish you didn't have. You know how many times a day you say words in a way you wish you didn't say it. You know how many times a day you have a terrible thought about another human being. And if we're honest with ourselves, we will see that God making you and I into Christians, into his beloved children, is a miracle. And it demonstrates his mighty power. The works of Yahweh are excellent. All that he does, he has done in a way that's consistent with the reality of his nature. And these magnificent works, they show us his attributes, that he is mighty, that he's powerful. It shows us God. Jehovah's revealed in all of his works, in all that he does. And this is called general, or we call it natural, revelation. But there's a flip side to that coin, isn't there? It's called special revelation or supernatural revelation. And this is the other way that God reveals himself. He reveals himself in all he does, and he reveals himself in all that he says in his word. We'll see this in verses seven through nine. The first thing the psalmist shows us here is that his word is definitive. The works of his hands are verity and justice. All his precepts are sure. The word defines God's works. As Jeremiah pointed out, we don't just look at the world around us, hear what scientists or worldly men tell us about it, and then just take that as truth. We have to verify whatever we think against what God has said in His Word. And by His Word, we know exactly how we're to understand the mighty works. They're extensions of God's truth and justice. That means that we can rely on them. And if you doubt that, I ask you, did the sun come up this morning? Has it already gone down tonight? It's truth. It's reliable. God's works. But he also defines his scriptures, his word, his speaking to us as one of those mighty works. And we know this when he's talking about this term precepts. It refers to verbal revelation. It's used most often in scriptures when talking about the commands of a general to his troops. But this helps us to see something about God and especially about His Word. And it's there's a doctrine that we hold to that's called the doctrine of the perspicuity of Scripture. It's a great scrabble word, perspicuity. Love it. What it means is that God's word is a reasonable communication from a reasonable, rational God to reasonable, rational creatures. Us. It means you don't have to have a thousand letters behind your name to understand what's in this word. In fact, if you go to our very own confession of faith, the Westminster Confession of Faith. Chapter 1, Section 7, it says, All things in Scripture are not alike plain in themselves, nor alike clear unto all. Yet those things which are necessary to be known, believed, and observed for salvation, are so clearly propounded and opened in some place of Scripture or other, that not only the learned, but the unlearned, in a due use of the ordinary means, may attain unto a self. Efficient understanding of them. Right? So it doesn't mean that you're going to open up to any random page of scripture and know exactly what's going on there. But what it does mean Is that those things that God requires you to know from His Word, you can know. You absolutely can simply by reading His Word They are sure. God's word is sure. You can trust what He says. You can trust His commands. God is not trying to trick you. Obedience to what God says you must do, or should do, or should be, or should act, and should think, is the best possible life you can have, even if you don't fully understand it. That's why he's given us his word so we would know these truths and that they would impact us and change us. Well, his word is definitive. It's defined as works, it defines his scripture as works, but it also defines the essence of both his works and his word. And it says in verse 8, they stand fast forever and ever and are done in truth. Think about this. The term stands fast. It means that they are upheld. It means that God is actively upholding his commandments and his word and his works. The word has power because God has given it power. And he continues to give it power. And how long will he continue to do that and uphold his commands? Well it says right there, forever. And ever. Forever and ever his God has commanded his covenant. Now this is a little different than God being mindful of his covenant, right? He's mindful of his covenant. He remembers what he does. No, this is God commanded his covenant, his command that will last forever, that is done in truth and uprightness. The Lord has commanded that you would be reconciled to him by Jesus Christ. That's what he commands. That's what his will is, and there is nothing that can get in the way of his will and his commands. Remember what it says in Matthew 24, verse 35: Heaven and earth may pass away, but the words of God will never pass away. And then it says that they are done in truth and uprightness. It's the exact same words that are used whenever Moses is talking about God. You can see it in Deuteronomy chapter 32 if you wanted to look there for yourself. God's word, his special revelation to us, is his voice speaking to us, communicating to us all that we need to know for our salvation. And it's imperative that we know what he says. In this Bible, and that we understand it as being reliable. We need to know this so that we can defend it to those who try to make claims again. But the word is not only definitive, it is also descriptive. It describes God's special plan. What does it say there right at the beginning of verse 9? He has sent redemption to his people. God's plan from the very beginning was to redeem his people. You can see it there in Genesis 3:15, the promised seed And then you see it moving throughout the scriptures through Noah and Abraham, through God preserving his people through the Exodus and the exile, and now to us, Gentiles. We who were once afar off have been brought near. We've been made part of the family of God. And the redemption that God has sent. Don't ever forget this, brothers and sisters. That redemption, it's not a list of things we must do to be redeemed. It's not a list of things we must think to be redeemed. That redemption is a person And his name is Jesus. His name means our God saves. He is the Messiah He is the purpose for all things being created. In fact, through him all things have been created. Our God has given us Christ, and our only hope of forgiveness is in Jesus. Christ. Well, his word is not only descriptive in describing his plan, it also describes his will. And as I said, he's commanded this covenant. It's what God wants Does that not encourage you? What God wants is for you to be saved from your sin. Does God ever not get what he wants? That's a good question, and one we should probably put our minds to throughout this week. Well finally, it describes his nature. Holy and awesome is his name. If you want to hear a funny story about the word awesome, ask Marcy. She's got a good one. God is awesome. All of God is awesome. Everything about him is holy and awesome. And all that he does is done in the same way that he is His creation is good. His works are good. His word is good and trustworthy. So, what is the natural conclusion to this? If you've seen God in his mighty works, and you have heard his voice in his mighty word, what is the only rational response? Well, it's the reason that the psalmist has bracketed all of this. These two verses. We must worship Him. God's great and excellent works are the means by which He teaches and reminds His people of His trustworthy and everlasting covenant. And he specifically gives us his word, a mighty work in itself, to deliver the truth to us of what we should believe concerning him and what duty he requires of us. But this command that the psalm started with helps us remember the whole reason why he has any works or any word, it's that he would And so we have seen Jehovah revealed in his works and his word, and now we must look at what the psalmist says about our God Jehovah worshiped. And the first thing that we see after that command, hallelujah, is we see the manner of God's worship. It says, I will praise the Lord. So, in conjunction with that command that you all praise the Lord, I must praise the Lord. Who's left out of that equation? No one. So, God's worship, the manner of his worship, is that it is comprehensive. Everyone must worship the Lord. Not only is it comprehensive, it's complete. He says, with my whole heart. Remember the Hebrew Uh the idea of the heart was not an organ that pumps blood. That is your soul. That is your personhood. That is everything that you are is your heart. So we hold nothing back in the worship of God We worship him, all of us must worship him, and we must all worship him with every bit of ourselves. We cannot be split in this. We cannot be double-minded. And we see in the manner of worship that it's corporate. It says here, in the assembly of the upright and in the congregation And it's a little strange for us to think assembly of the upright. If we look at other uses of that term in the scriptures and how it's been translated, we really see what it means as a close and intimate group It's used for David and Solomon for their war councils. Basically, what this is saying is: if there's a group of people in your life who know you better than anyone else, These are those people that when they come over to your house, you don't scramble to clean everything up. Because they've seen it, and they've seen it far worse. You worship God with them Those people who know the deepest and darkest parts of your life. You worship them with them. But then it says, in the congregation. And that word is always used when referring to the entire congregation, the entire assembly of Israel. Like in 1 Kings chapter 8, when Solomon is is dedicating the temple. It's that word that indicates the entire nation is present. Everyone must praise Jehovah. You must praise him. I must praise him. I must praise him with all of myself. You must praise him with all of yourself. And no matter where you are or who you're with, you must worship and praise God. But that's not the only thing that the psalmist talks about, is it? Not just the manner of his worship, but the motivation. And we see this in verse 10. It says: the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. When we encounter God's mighty works and we encounter his perfect and righteous word, we see his covenant faithfulness and his plan of redemption for his people. It should lead us to something. To reverence, to fear. In Jeremiah chapter 32, verses 38 through 40, it says this: They shall be my people, and I will be their God, then I will give them one heart And one way, that they may fear me for ever, for the good of them and their children after them. And I will make an everlasting covenant with them, that I will not turn away from them from doing them good, but I will put my fear in their hearts. So that they will not depart from me. The fear of the Lord is a gift from God to his people And when the the scripture here says that that fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, remember this is not an American sequential kind of beginning, right? Where uh if you're like me, you think of it in these terms. You start at the beginning and then you move to step two. You begin with diapers, and when you're done with diapers, you never go back to diapers, Lord willing. But that's not how the Hebrew mind conceives of this kind of Of a equation. It's not sequential. It was built one upon another. And so the fear of the Lord is not the First thing you do, then you give it up when you move on. It is the foundation for all of your understanding of God and all of your worship of God. You must fear the Lord, and it's a gift from Him. So don't be afraid of fearing him. Well, so we're motivated by the fear of the Lord, and then we're also motivated By the wisdom from the Lord. A good understanding have all those who do his commandments. Good understanding can be translated blessed insight. And I just want to point out here too It's what the people of God do have, not what you will have. Not something that you'll have in heaven. This blessed insight, this good understanding, when we worship God, this is what God's people. Half. And it's so important because what is more significant than praising God? He tells us right there how significant praise of Yahweh is. You see the very last bit of this psalm? His praise endures forever. Is there anything else in your life that endures forever? Will your marriages endure forever? They won't. Scripture says that there is no giving or being given in marriage in eternity What we engage in that will last forever is the worship of the living God. Praising his holy name is never a waste of time. In fact, it's more important than anything you'll do at any other time throughout this week. And that doesn't matter if you're a president or a neurosurgeon or an emergency room lifesaver. What you do worshiping God in Endures forever. It is the most important thing we can do in our lives and in our weeks. And so I want to ask you, brothers and sisters Do you see how important it is to understand the works of God and to see this whole world around us as being a way that God reveals Himself? Do you see the significance of His Word and knowing what His Word says because it defines His works? It's how we understand the world around us, and how we understand the God that we serve, the God that we seek to praise. And do you see that praise and worshiping God is such an important part of our lives that it should not be an afterthought? It should not be something that happens only if we have time. It should be the most important. And the most significant part of our lives. So I want to encourage you: when you're at home with your families, worship God. When you're out at work, worship God When you're pumping gas at the gas station, praise God. When you step outside of your house in the morning to go to a job you may not necessarily like Praise God. Look at the beautiful colors on the trees. And remember that this is what God has given for us. That we would see it and we would know and worship Him. And lastly, brothers and sisters, do you see the mightiest work that God has ever done? The incarnation of His Word. Jesus Christ. Christ, the Son of God in flesh, dying on the cross to atone for your sins, not his own, for yours and for mine. Our God has done marvelous things. And so, brothers and sisters, I hope that if somebody ever asks you Why do you worship God? You can answer them. How can I not? Let's pray. Great God in heaven, you are awesome. And because we will be having a time of prayer right after this, I don't want to take up a lot of time except to thank you for giving us your word. Thank you for giving us your word. Thank you for decreeing that we should be reconciled to you through Jesus Christ. And thank you, Father, for opening our eyes, softening our hearts, regenerating us that we can understand These things to love you and to love your people. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen