That new temple that's not made by human hands. We are bricks in the temple of God. If you look at Ephesians chapter 2, it says, Now therefore you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and members of the in the Lord, in whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit. We can see that God is restoring His presence to And through his people in these verses, and he does this by way of dwelling among them, and he dwells among his people in the temple. Well, now we move on to verses 10 and 11. Verses 10 and 11 show us that this is not a small thing. This is a huge deal. The presence of God dwelling among his people. The whole event of the beginning of the rebuilding of the temple is accompanied by a planned and organized worship service, one that is executed in such a way as to show us. That God is not only restoring his presence in the rebuilding of the temple, but God is restoring his worship to his covenant people in the rebuilding of the Temple. Almost everything about this passage, about these two verses, lines up with the very first worship service at the dedication of Solomon's temple in the Second Chronicles five. Here it says that these people worshipped according to the ordinance of David the king. And this makes perfect sense when we look at other scriptures that show what David instituted. 1 Chronicles 25, for example. David appointed people to lead the worship. Levites, musicians, singers, even the sons of Asaph. You may not realize this, but Asaph was present at the dedication. of the first temple, or sons of Asaph in the same way. Levites were specifically gifted for the task of this worship. And at as it was at the first temple, it was here. There were trumpeters, there were symbolists, there was an antiphonal, responsive singing. To God's praise. And they not only worshiped in the same way, they worshiped with the same content. Content that we worshiped with just a few minutes ago. The same content, for he is good. His mercy endures forever toward us. Israel. This is just like Psalm 136 that we read responsively. It is thanksgiving and praise given to God for who he is and his unwavering, unchanging character. His forever-enduring loving kindness and mercy. This is a worship service that's reminiscent of all the zealous and awesome worship that God has established for his people throughout all the ages. And God has always regulated This worship through the king. Following the Exodus, God was the King. He reigned and He ruled Israel, and He did so through a mediator, Moses, and through future mediators. Mediators and judges. But Moses was given the ordinances for worship directly from God. And Moses gave them directly to Aaron and to the priests. And when the people demanded a king, do you remember this? And 1 Samuel, when they demanded a king, Samuel was hurt. But God said, Samuel, they're not rejecting you, their prophet, they're rejecting me. God is the true King of Israel, and He has always regulated their worship When David becomes king, we we are told he's the king after God's own heart. And he uh uh ordains and regulates the worship in a way that is pleasing to God and that is maintained. And again God came as the true king, didn't he? He came and he was rejected. He was crucified as the mocked king of The Jews, but when he arose from the grave, he arose the true King of all the nations. He arose the true King of all that exists, the true King by whom and through whom all things were created. And Christ our King appoints and regulates new worship, which is actually the same worship, isn't it? He appoints a priesthood, as God had appointed a priesthood, a new Levitical tribe here on earth. And this is us, all the believers. We are the new priesthood. We are all priests in God's temple. 1 Peter 2 says, we are chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, God's own special people, that you may proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness. into his marvelous light, who once were not a people, but are now the people of God, who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. So this this cry of worship, the mercy of the Lord endures forever, this is our cry now No. You don't have to be Jewish in order to be able to say that. Christ is the King, and he restores his true worship. And when that worship, that true worship, is no longer tied to a building or to a specific location or place or to a specific race of people, but it is no less regulated. The sacrificial system, for instance, may have been fulfilled, it has been fulfilled, rather, and is no longer necessary for us to worship God by sacrifices, but we still worship God according to His commandments. We call this the blessed regulative principle of worship. And we derive this from the second commandment that says we should not worship God by images. Well, we still don't worship God by images. do we? But the regulative principle that we're given says that we worship God as He has commanded in His Word to be worshipped. So we worship in thanksgiving, and you can find that in Psalm 100. We praise God, Psalm 150. We confess our faith and remember the covenant He has made with us from Hebrews 10. 23. We confess our sin, 1 John 1. 9. And we worship God with singing, with the reading and the proclaiming of His Word, Colossians 3. 16. If you're paying attention, you notice some of the elements of this worship as the same elements of the worship service that we take part in every Sunday here at Severn Run. Not all churches are like this, though. Not all churches love the ARPAW, as I call it, regulative principle of worship. You can find all kinds of strange things in various places that call themselves the Church of Christ. Well, I tell you, brothers and sisters, if you ever come into this church and you sit down and you're looking at the bulletin and you see in big bold letters indicating a set Of our worship service that there will be snake handling and poison drinking by Elder Jeremiah Horner. I'm going to tell you right now, you should stand up from your seats and walk out of the building. Because something has gone horribly, horribly wrong. And the sad thing is that things really can go wrong. Right? When people are involved, I would say things have a tendency to go wrong. So I want to make sure we're all on the same page here. Okay? God is restoring his worship to and through his people by means of dwelling With them in the temple. God is restoring his his uh that he's restoring his presence, rather. He's now he's restored his worship, and he's brought these people back into a land where they will worship him as his people. And he has done the same for us as Christians. He's given us true worship through Christ. But I want you to notice something here in this passage. Though everything about this kind of lines up side by side with what happened at the first temple, there's one thing, one thing in this worship service that didn't happen there. I wonder if you can guess what that is. In this worship service that's not in 2 Chronicles 5, there are people weeping. There are elders, Levites, priests, heads of households, and they are weeping. And do you know why? It's because restoration of this kind, restoration of God's dwelling presence and his true worship, comes at a great, great Cost. So what caused this? What caused this weeping? What is the great cost that they're seeing? Well, the great cost all started in the Garden of Eden It started where there was perfect communion and fellowship with God that was shattered and ripped apart by the first sin. And sin has tainted all mankind such that we cannot dwell in God's presence without immediately being consumed. God has been restoring communion to him by his mercy and through his covenant presence ever since then And this is perhaps what is so sad to those elders of the remnant who are loudly weeping as the others are shouting for joy. The chosen people of God had so rejected him. They were so wicked that they had to be destroyed leading to this restoration. This restoration was necessary. The first temple, the one that they had seen, these the scripture tells us that they they were elders. They had seen that first temple. That first temple was so glorious. And yet It was demolished. And it had to be demolished because of their wickedness. And what was that wickedness? The wickedness of those people. They stopped worshiping God. They stopped worshiping their God, their covenant God. They worshiped other gods, and they worshiped God, quote unquote, in the way that they felt like worshiping. And because of this, they were judged, and they had to be judged. God raised up a nation to scourge them, to whip them, to punish them, to destroy his own house. Many people were killed, and the survivors were carried away into the exile in a foreign land. They were carried away into an evil land, a land where God did not choose to dwell, a land where God had not covenanted to be there. God, or for them to be his people. And to have witnessed that foundation of the Second Temple laid, to have remembered even just the former glory of the first temple. Well, that would have been enough to cause these elders of the people to pause, wouldn't it? It would have been enough to cause them to stop in the midst of their shouting and their praising. They would have stopped And thought, boy, what a glorious temple that was. Well, then to have thought about what that temple meant, that the temple meant that God had chosen to be their people, or God had chosen to dwell among his people in that place. The great confidence that came from knowing that God was for them, so no one could be against them. Well, this would be enough to bring a tear to the eye of those elders, wouldn't it? But to then think about how disgusting, how vile, and how malignant their sin had become. To think that they were so foul and so putrid to God that he had to cut them out and cast them away as refuse. Well, that would have been enough to bring forth the wail that's described here, the wail of a wounded infant, one that cannot be suppressed, one that wells up from the very depths of our souls. It's a cry of sorrow because of the great costs that had to be paid. And what paid that cost? Well for these people, that cost was prey was paid by their exile. God withdrew his presence and his protection from them. He reached out with his judgment through Babylon and through the people of his covenant. They were thrown out, cast away like He wiped them away and now he had reset them. He had had to restore them to their land, and he was now building them back up. He has started with that dwelling place, the second temple, and it's now being rebuilt. True covenant worship is now being established again for his people. Well, for us Us Christians, that great cost is still there. Well it's not it's not still there, it has been paid, but the great cost of our sin exists. And that great cost has been paid by exile again. has been paid by the exile of our sin. Our sin was exiled from God's presence. Our foul wickedness was exiled from God's presence. All of our shortcomings were exiled from God's presence. But the joy that That we have, brothers and sisters, is that that our sin was not on us when it was exiled. It was on Christ. It was exiled on the cross. He was forsaken on the cross for our sin. And Jesus Christ paid the great exile, the great price for our wickedness. And we too have been restored to God's dwelling presence with us. And in that re restoration we have been restored to true covenant worship. Worship that is now in spirit and in truth. And this is what we have been restored to, and what we are being restored by. So as I wrap things up, I want to ask you: do you buy that? Do you do you buy that God has restored his covenant people to true worship? Do you buy that true worship is the top priority of what has been restored to his people? The people here did. They were rebuilding the temple before they even had homes. Do we buy that? When God restores his presence to his people, he restores his worship to his people. So I ask you, where do you put that on the priority list of things that God is restoring, that Christ is restoring in you? Does worship really rank anywhere up there? If you're like me, you get excited when you start to think about what it is that Christ is restoring. Lions laying down with lambs. There will be no more weapons, no more war. No more pain. We will have perfected bodies. Perfect bodies. We will have perfect work that will never be hindered by weeds or by thorns. All this is what awaits the completion of this temple, the church, when all the saints have been gathered and perfected. But do you get excited about the true worship of God that has been restored already? The true worship of God that is present and restored to us now. In this passage, the worship is restored from the very beginning of the building of the temple. Right? This is they've just laid the foundation, and they're worshiping in this way. Are you ready to take part in that kind of worship? Don't we all get distracted by the physical side of things. Maybe we look at this foundation and we're like those people, something about it just isn't as glorious as it once was. Or even as glorious as we know it will be. Perhaps in your lifetime, the worship of God has become sort of second rate. When you were younger, maybe it was taken more seriously by the church and by the culture around the church. We live in a country where there was a time when no businesses were open on a Sunday. Sabbath observance was real. Sabbath observance was important. I don't have to tell you it's not like that anymore. And I wonder if this causes the wail of mourning to mingle with your shouts of joy in our our Sunday worship school. services. Or perhaps you're someone who longs for worship that stimulates your soul with with seriously charged emotional worship. Music and dramatic elements that really take you away. We want to be captivated. We want to be swept away from this world and taken to this frenzied ecstasy of worship. Maybe it's something that you've experienced in the past and and everything else that you do in worship is just trying to lead back to that kind of feeling. So everything else that has Happens just this kind of flat, leaves you leaves you lacking. You don't really feel fulfilled by worship because it hasn't been that kind of experience. Well, unfortunately, as I said before, there are a plethora of places that call themselves churches that you can go to that would cater to every single one of man's desires when it comes to God's will. You can go there and get the frenzy. You can go there and get the ecstasy. You can go there and get the emotionalism. You can go there and you can get coffee. And there are even places you can go to have that pomp and ritual ceremony like we see in the worship of the Old Testament. But here, at this point Church and in the faith that we are a part of, we praise God for His restoration, specifically in the restoration of this true worship that was brought about by the Protestant Reformation. This is why we worship the way that we do. We follow God's word and the worship that He describes. We give thanks, we give praise, we confess our faith and our utter reliance upon God's sovereign mercy. We sing and we read and we pray, He is good. His mercy endures forever. We sing songs based on His Word and the doctrines that it contains. We confess our sin. We give tithes and offerings. To be used for the work of His temple and of His kingdom. We pray for ourselves and for others, and we trust that the Lord hears us and is pleased to answer our prayers according to His His will. We take very seriously this thing called worship. We take very seriously that our God is worshipped by his covenant. So brothers and sisters, as I close, I want to exhort you not to be like my younger self. Don't be like my roommate. Don't be excited about new air conditioners or video games while you're dwelling in darkness. Let our priorities be like those of the remnant here in Ezra 3. Let us be driven by the restoration of God's dwelling presence within us. Let us be committed to the restored true worship that is so important to our God. And let us never forget the great price that our Lord Jesus Christ Christ paid so that you and I can dwell in the house of the Lord forever. May God richly bless you. Let's pray.