Let us now open our scriptures to the Gospel of Mark. We'll be reading two sections beginning in chapter eleven. We're reading chapter 11, verses 1 through 11, and chapter 12, verses 38 through 44. I will comment briefly on the section that's between those two passages. But I don't have to have time to exposit all of it. This is Mark chapter 11, verses 1 through 11. Now when they drew near Jerusalem to Bethfej and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples, and he said to them, Go into the village opposite you, and as soon as you have entered it, you will And if anyone says to you, Why are you doing this? Say the Lord has need of it, and immediately he will send it here. So they went their way and found the colt tied by the door outside the street, and they loosed it. But some of those who stood there said to them, What are you doing, loosing the colt? And they spoke to them just as Jesus had commanded. So they let them go. Then they brought the cult to Jesus and threw their clothes on it. Then he sat on it. And then he spread their clothes on the road, and others cut down leafy branches from the trees and spread them on the road. Then those who went before and those who curr followed cried out, saying, Hosanna, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the kingdom of our Father David, that comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. And Jesus went into Jerusalem and into the temple. So when he had looked around at all things, as the hour was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve. Turn to chapter twelve, verses thirty-eight through forty-four. Then he said to them in his teaching Beware of the scribes who desire to go around in long robes, love greetings in the marketplaces, the best seats in the synagogues, and the best places Now Jesus sat opposite the treasury and he saw how the people put money. Then one poor widow came and threw in two mites, which makes a quadrant or a Roman Coin. So he called his disciples to himself and said to them, Assuredly, I say to you that this poor widow has put in more than all those who have given to the treasury. For they all put in out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty put in all that she had, her whole livelihood. Let's pray. Father, judgment begins at your house. We ask, Lord, that through your Spirit you would illuminate our hearts, that we would have ears to hear and eyes to see, and that the truth here that you teach us, Lord Jesus Christ, would not be I pray for repentance. I pray for transformation on the spot. I pray for heart religion at Severn Run in the name of the Is everyone here familiar with who Elon Musk is? I don't know that I admire him as a man. I actually don't know anything about him as a man except that he's worth fifteen point nine billion dollars or something along those lines. uh if the statistics are right online. If you don't know who he is, Elon Reeve Musk is a South African border Canadian American Investor and engineer. He's the founder, CEO, and lead designer of SpaceX, co-founder, CEO, and product architect of Tesla. Perhaps you've heard of Tesla. Cars and the the engines that they make. And he's co-founder and CEO of Neuralink, a major mobile within the business industry. Top. Top. He, like other business executives, are saying interesting things these days. And I think it goes along with some of the grit movement that I've communicated to you, when they are going out to hire people, they're saying things like this. Listen to this quote from this article from Elon Musk. He says, My biggest mistake is probably weighing too much on someone's talent and not someone's personality. Quote, I think it matters when whether someone has has a good heart. That's very interesting as there, and you see this, you could just type this in hiring, does the heart matter, or something along those lines, and you'll Here even Elon H uh Musk is saying, I think it matters whether someone has a good heart. Let me ask you, do you think that the heart matters? That's a resounding yes. This is what this passage is about. It's a matter of the heart. Doesn't just have to do with your work, ethic, and business, although that's pr truly applicable here. That's what Jesus is raising to the surface, actually, in all of this gospel of Mark. It's a matter of the heart. That's what he is teaching us. We haven't gone through this whole gospel. I hope to begin it in September. It's a training manual for Christ's disciples, and I would love to step through all the pieces for you, but we're kind of jumping here just past the middle. We're jumping in. But one major purpose that Mark writes this gospel is as a training manual for disciples. He says this in the beginning, perhaps you've heard him put it like this follow me and become Fishers of men. I don't know what you thought that meant, but it means be trained as my disciple. That's how Mark means it. And here he's going to teach us, and Christ and his Spirit will teach us. The main thing in being a disciple of Christ has to do with your heart. Here's what's revealed to us by the Spirit in this passage. King Jesus discloses the secrets of the religious in order to train two true disciples that the heart matters Let me say it one more time. King Jesus discloses the secrets of the religious in order to train true disciples that the heart matters. And now we're going to look at that with King Jesus arrives, King Jesus discloses, and King Jesus trains His disciples. So let's begin now looking at King Jesus arrives. I think we're very familiar with the triumphant arrival of Jesus. We've got palms waiting for you, leafy branches. is it says here within this translation. The context is that Mark and the other gospel writers are not just relaying this, the triumphal entrance or any of these other things within the gospel as just historical facts in chronological order. That's not what they're after with you. They are in fact relaying historical facts. But they are grouping the facts and revealing more and sometimes less in order to prove prove significant points about Jesus, about who he is and what he's accomplished. So such a thing is being done, particularly here in this context. This section is called the triumphal entry. It's probably labeled like that. uh in your script in your Bibles, but this is uh showing up in the middle of um a point that Mark is trying to make. So I want to show you some context briefly. So that you can see really what is Mark doing here? What is he teaching us? The section before the triumphal entry, take a look. The section before the triumphal entry actually begins in chapter 18. I'm not going to read all of that for you. You probably have as a heading in your Bible that there's a blind man. And that the blind man is able to see partially. You remember the This story. His blindness is healed in part, and then men seem like trees, and then he's healed in whole. Well, the way that Mark arranges his material is that just before the triumphal entry, is another blind man, Bartimus. And you can see that in 1046 through 52. These two accounts of blind men are on purpose. They're bookends. to the three predictions that Jesus gives of his death. There's a lot of artistic skill that's going on to the arrangement of this material. There's three predictions of Jesus' death in between. The first blind man goes through stages of sight. He sees men as if If they're trees because it's so blurry. If you all took off some of you here, if you took off your glasses, would I look just like a tree? Some of you have s your slides Like that, yeah. That's then you relate. But then he gains full sight. And if you continue to read that narrative and you see why did Mark place that there by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, it relates to the partial understanding of who Jesus is. Jesus was and who Jesus is. You could see that the disciples were it was starting to dawn on them. They confessed that he was the Christ, but then right after that, Peter tried to stop him from doing His Messiah work. They were getting it, but not fully yet. The second blind man sees fully and makes a full declaration with full clarity as to who Jesus is: Son of David. That's what's going on here. And it's leading now into a time where it makes sense that the son of David would be praised as a king, Hosanna, in the highest. The same these things being praised of him. Of course, Jesus is planning all of this. He understands what's happening. and he's staging the whole thing as a kind of living metaphor. Look at verses 1 through 5 in chapter 11. In verses 1 through 5, Jesus sent two of his disciples. He said, Go to a village, find a cult, bring the cult. With the pronouncement of blind Bartiamus, Jesus is clearly staging a moment for his disciples. Sometimes Jesus teaches with words, other times he teaches with his actions, and here it's with his words and his actions. His actions with the cult are an obvious allusion to Zechariah 9: nine. Jesus is coming out and using this blind man and saying, Son of David, heal me. He's using this as a moment to confirm for everyone, in full sight and in full purpose of day. I am in fact the coming Messiah. Just as I was predicted to come in Zechariah 9:9, rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you. He is just and has salvation. Lowly and riding on a donkey, a cult, the foal of a donkey. He's staging and playing the whole thing out for these people. The crowd recognizes the illusion and what Jesus is doing, and therefore they cry out from Psalm 118. You can see there in verses 9 and 10. Then those who went before and those who followed cried out, saying, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the kingdom of our Father David that comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna and the highest. They got it. They knew what Jesus was trying to communicate. Just as the blind man Bartemus could see, now everybody could see, and the song followed. The truth You can notice as they say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, that their their sights are even higher than just a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little Notice the difference between verses nine and ten. There is in fact a pronouncement from Psalm 118, but then they leave off Psalm 118 and verse 10 and they extend it to the entire kingdom being This is not just a king riding in, but he's bringing his whole kingdom to overcome and stomp out all other kingdoms. Kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. Mark compiles and tells the historical reality with a clear message. Jesus is the king, and his kingdom has arrived. If you have sight like Bartemus, that is what you see here at this moment. And that's triumphant. And that's why we say this is Palm Sunday, and it's the triumphant entry. into Jerusalem and were full of joy and gladness. The blind man announces the son of David and gains sight Jesus stages the message with the cult. The crowd cries out to the king for his kingdom, all evidence as to what the message is here, between words and actions. This is the triumphal entry. But I have a question for you. When we look at Mark, does the triumphal entry or the triumphal note of the song, is that what continues? If you have studied or heard about Jesus' triumphal entry, then it's triumphal. But is that really the predominant emphasis in this gospel? There are shouts of triumph on the lips of the people, but I want you to look at how Mark brings out not only the triumph of entering into Jerusalem, but truly and more truly More emphatically, the tragedy. Just a couple pages in your Bible away, it's nothing but discussion of judgment. And actually, we're now going to get into judgment all the way through to chapter 12 and then it's just going to continue in chapter 13, judgment. Judgment. This should be called judgment of Jerusalem. And the entry of judgment. I would say that fits the context way better. Dark clouds of judgment form overhead Jesus will disclose the secrets of this ancient city that will lead to her demise. That's really what's happening here. We have a king that is arriving, but now we have a king as our second. The king has arrived, but now King Jesus discloses. And I want to I want you to see this, and we're going to move through this somewhat quickly. I can't get into all of the details. I just want to point out a couple things for you. This disclosure, Jesus exposing people, is brought out when we see him and the way that he looks at people. I want you to flip in Mark. This is just one. Read, read the Gospel of Mark and just watch at what Jesus watches. Look at Mark chapter 3, verse 5, and then I'll show you another one. This is the penetrating look of the Christ And when he had looked around at them with anger, being grieved by the hardness of their hearts, he said to the man, Do you remember this scene? Do you know how penetrating the look of Jesus must be? And when he sees he has the perfect measure of evaluation of Everything? The perfect vantage point? That's what we see through the Gospel of Mark. And that's in 3. 5. Now go back to chapter 11 and look at verse 11. And Jesus went into Jerusalem and into the temple, so when he had looked around at all things, the hour's already late, so he's not going to do anything at this point. But look at what he does next. Based on his piercing look, he will move into a metaphor dealing with the fig tree that will then have to do with the cleansing of the temple. And the destruction of Jerusalem. On the outside, everything looked religious and beautiful, but then entered the piercing look of the Christ. And we now move from a triumphal entry to an entry of doom and gloom and judgment over the City. That's really the context here, the penetrating look. In verse 13, he sees the fig tree. He's still continuing, and he's now going to work that out, and he curses it. In verses 11 and 15, he cleanses the temple. Verse 11 picks up there at 15. So they came through Jerusalem and then Jesus went into the temple. and began to drive out all those who bought and sold in the temple and overturned the tables of the money changers. It's all in this context of judgment and him seeing And then when we continue, we see incident after incident of the religious leaders thinking that they see Jesus truly and that they're gonna put him They're gonna that they're going to testify against him and put him on trial, but he always reverses it on them and in his evaluation he sheds the light on what's actually happening and he puts them on trial. Have you heard of an essay by CS? Louis, where he says God in the dock. It means God is on trial. God, why do you allow so many people to suffer? How could you be good and allow such evil to happen in this world? Well, they're trying to put Jesus in the dock. But he puts them in the dock because it's their judgment, not his. Jesus is putting them on trial and the fig tree is a symbol for the judgment on Jerusalem. The religious leaders, take a look at verses fifteen through nineteen, and you can just mark these out in your Bibles. They're probably already paragraphed for you within headings. In 15 through, and I'm going to work through this pretty quickly because this isn't my point. In verses 15 through 19, when he cleanses the temple, he's basically telling the religious leader that they're thieves and crooks. In 27 through 33, he tells them that they're double-minded. In chapter 12, verses 1 through 12, he tells the religious leaders that they are wicked. And that their vineyard will be taken from them after they kill the son of the owner of the vineyard. In verses thirteen and seventeen, the Pharisees are deceitful enemies of the Messiah. Which means they are enemies of God. And in chapter 12, verse 18 through 27, he tells the Sadducees, you do not know the scriptures, and you mislead people with your teachings. The very people who said that they were experts in the law. They were lawyers. And he's telling them they don't know the law. And to summarize, to all of those who are present listening to him teach in the temple, you have verses 38 through 40, which brings us to that. passage that I had read to you. And that establishes the context for you as to what's happening here. If you were to turn to chapter 13, Jesus foretells the destruction of the temple. And it goes on to talk about the judgment. So that's really the context. And in 38 through 40, he summarizes, then he said in his teaching, and this is to everyone. That's listening, not just a closed group of people. Beware of the scribes who desire to go around in long robes, love greetings in the marketplaces. You see that? It's the consummation of all of the interactions and conflicts that he just had from chapter 11 all the way through chapter 12 to this point with the religious leaders in the temple. And he's summarizing and he's saying, Beware of these men for all of these different reasons The evidence is overwhelming that the main emphasis of the triumphal entry is the tragedy and judgment of Jerusalem. Of the religious leadership and look at their secrets. For Jesus the King is living and powerful And sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart, and there is no creature hidden from his sight But all things are naked and open to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. But his arrival may be different than you've seen past. The king has disclosed. Everyone is being subjected to his evaluation and piercing look who sees all things. Jesus the King will now pull his disciples aside and he will privately train them. And this is our last point. King Jesus trains, that it's a matter of the heart. It is not surprising that Jesus trains his disciples. This is a major theme throughout the Gospel of Mark. In chapter 1, verse 16, he says, Follow me and become fishers of men. This is what he's going to do. He's going to work with these men all the way up to and some of the women all the way up to the very end that they would be trained disciples. I want you to take a look at this theme in chapter 4, verse 11, just so you can see this as you're continuing to read the gospel on your own. And we'll stay in the Gospel of Mark for the whole Easter season. Chapter four, verse eleven. He tells these parables And then he says in verse 11, and he said to them, his disciples, To you it has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God, but to those who are outside, all things come in parable. And then he begins in verse 13 to work with them privately. So he's teaching publicly, but he has disciples that he's training privately. And I want I want you to notice that the same thing happens here in this passage. Take a look at verse 43. We've been speaking, Jesus has been speaking to the scribes and the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Sadducees that have been challenging him in the temple. He then summarizes all of this by placing his judgment on them and telling everything that is wrong with them. And now look at verse 43. He pulls his disciples close to him. So he called his disciples to himself and said to them, Now we're going to have some private training, which is why I said Say he's now going to train the disciples. The king arrives, he discloses, and now he trains. And this is where you really want to listen. I want you to pull yourself up to the Christ. And listen to what he has to say. trained the disciples. The two mini portraits are the scribe and the widow. That's why they're placed next to each other. There's meant to be a comparison and a contrast. The scribes, they go around in long robes. They love greetings in the marketplace Best seats in the synagogue, best places at feasts. They devour widows' houses for a pretense they have long prayers. That's 38 through 40. Now, I want to ask you a question as we come to this point. Let's say the scribes, Pharisees, and Sadducees are still there. Do you think that they would agree with Jesus with the events to which he's referring. Not the description, but the events. Think about it, those are events, but it's Jesus' evaluation of their events. I'm gonna let me pull this out for you. This is how we could say this if we were scribes and Pharisees. We wear religious robes. We have community involvement. We attend church. That's what synagogue was. We celebrate religious holidays like Palm Sunday. We work with widows. And like Last but not least, the cap on all of our ministry is that we pray. Those are the events that are present in the passage. But when we see Jesus' description of them, his evaluation of all of those events, we can see that Jesus is pointing out a main thing about these people. Notice how most of the things in the list, if not all, explicitly deal with these good items corrupted through social ambition. Love from the praise of men and love of money. Good things corrupted by bad things. All of the items in the list were meant. Every item in the list. Including the religious robe, could be a sign of a love for God and His people. But they corrupted all of it. And it was no longer a sign of anything that was interior. It was just exterior at that point. And that's what Jesus is pointing out. All of the items in the list were meant to be signs of love for God. But Jesus' question is: were they? Were the signs a sign of love for God within the Sadducees and the Pharisees and the Scribes? Did they have any love of God and neighbor left in them, or were they like whitewashed tombs that look good on the inside? Inside everything was dead. That's another way that Jesus teaches this. And then comes the widow, who he sees. Notice that he sees her. Do you see See that there? Jesus sat opposite of the treasury and he saw. There he is with his evaluative and piercing look again between marrow and bone. Here is where Jesus pulls the disciples in closely The look theme is there in verse 41, and now you're getting ready to hear something important. The rich and the widow. You've got to be careful how you read this. He's not just giving you a a uh chronological history. It's true that this is history, but he there's significance to this. You have to be careful how you read it. When you read this, do you focus on the money? Was that the problem? You could focus on the money, I guess. I think that's just the setting. It's what unfolded for Jesus to have a teaching moment with his disciples privately. You could focus if you want, you could focus on the money, and you could do this. You could say, well, there's a literal amount that the rich give, but then if you were to transfer that and do math by percentages Then she gave a greater percentage than the literal amount. And that would be true that she did. Her percentage was greater. Paradoxically, the widow has given more, the rich gave literally more, but the widow gave a greater percentage. Jesus says she gave her whole livelihood. So if the rich gave a hundred thousand made $100,000 a year and he gave $10,000 and the widow only made $5,000 a year, she gave $5,000. So she gave more of the percentage. But is that the focus? Does that make sense with the narrative flow that we've been seeing and the judgment on the scribes and the Pharisees? and why Jesus is so upset with what he sees, what he describes by his evaluation. Mark is coherently stitching a narrative together. And therefore, just as the scribes were not really giving their heart, but only dressing and acting the part, so too the rich were not giving from the heart. The widow, however, was giving God her whole, and I'm going to change the word here, life, leaved. I think there's a play on the word. Here. Her whole livelihood, total commitment from the heart, total devotion, because she knows that the heart matters. Because she is a true disciple of Jesus Christ That's the point that he's bringing out. These disciples are getting ready to take over. They're going to be the new religious leadership, and what if they just put on their religious robes and Started saying long prayers again because that's what they've been taught from childhood. To be a leader means to exploit other people for your own benefit. And Jesus is nipping that in the bud The training lesson is that Mark highlights this teaching from Jesus through the gospel. This whole gospel is teaching that same thing that we just heard. It's repeated. Sometimes it sounds like this. Give up your life. If you try to save your life, you will lose it. If you give up your life for me and my kingdom, you will save it. Saying the same message in chapter twelve, twenty-nine, and thirty-four says the same thing. The disciples always come back and they say, Can we have a conversation? Who will be the greatest And Jesus has to say, you're still not getting it. You're only seeing the kingdom like that guy who, when I uh lifted some sight, he saw everything as if it were a tree Barnabas sees better than you. Like the widow gave up her livelihood. You must give up your life for me and my kingdom, and that is a heart matter That is total commitment. Youth group. He's saying, burn your boats. Burn your boats. King Jesus discloses the secrets of the religious in order to train true disciples that it is a matter of the heart. That's what this whole narrative text is doing. You could argue with The training lesson through too many portraits of the scribe contrasted with the widow, a true disciple, does not play or dress the part, but with real loyalty. Commits to King Jesus. A true disciple does not play or dress the part, but with real loyalty commits to King Jesus When Jesus rose up on the hill and he looked out over Jerusalem, that's what he wanted to see. A church of true disciples But what he found were whitewashed tunes with dead bones inside. But he pulls you in close so that you could know better, and by the power of of the Holy Spirit be a true disciple. There's a lot going on here for us. I have some questions for you as we come to an end. The most frightening thing about this is that it's the church. Isn't that scary? The official religious leaders are the ones Being most condemned in the passage. Those that everyone turned to to find out what God thought. Those who shaped the whole religious culture of Jerusalem were found out to be wrong. Jesus said, you are blind and you're leading the blind, you the blind are leading the blind into a ditch. That's how much he thought of what they knew. That is scary. And what it does for us, as I imagine it did here, as Jesus was looking at the widow and he pulled his disciples in close, do you think that they had a heart check? At some point, we've got more of a story we've got to go through here with Holy Week. We're gonna find that they totally desert him. Everyone deserts. Even one man flees naked, he's so quick to get away from Jesus. And Jesus will die alone. But he will restore them, and we can begin to be restored Now in our commission. Let me ask you a couple of questions. And this is particularly to you, O religious ones. Why do you wear nice clothes to church? I'm just going to ask the question because I don't know your heart. I don't have that piercing look that Jesus does. But if he were here, and when I asked the question, and then he heard your answer in your heart, would he say, wait a second, you should think about that a little bit more, because you're not answering totally on Honestly, as to where you why you wore that today. And it can be for different reasons, but you're the only one that can do this before God. I ask that you would before God answer this question. Why do you wear nice clothes to sh church. It's not wrong to wear nice clothes. Why are you involved in community? Here's a tough one. Why is it that you attended church today? Why are you attending church Not a bad thing. Why do you celebrate religious holidays like Palm Sunday and Easter? What's actually going on within your heart when you're Severely honest about these things. Here's one. Why do you pray? When you're in public Like in a small group, why do you pray the way that you pray? Are you thinking more about how people are hearing you as opposed to the one person that you're praying to hearing you. These are things to search our hearts. I can't help but to think as we ask these questions of Genesis Do you know that's right after our motto, rest yourself in the Lord, where Abraham offering hospitality to his to strangers was Osphora? Offering hospitality to his own Lord. You know what happens right after that? The pre-incarnate Lord stands with his judging angels and overlooks a city. And it's Sodom and Gomorrah. It's very reminiscent of this scene of Jesus overlooking the city. In Genesis 18:16, Jesus looked down on Sodom in preparation for judgment. And the major sins are multiple, but one of the major sins present there was homosexuality. And you think, absolutely, there should be judgment. Because that is unnatural and perverse and profane and against God's design. But I'm telling you, as you're evaluating your heart, Jesus rises up On another mountain and he looks down over the city and he doesn't judge them for homosexuality. He judges them for hypocrisy It is to be taken just as seriously to have an ex a religious exterior and no heart is not what Jesus is looking for in his disciples. And he's not. saying that to you because he hates you or he's against you or he wants to rub your face in the dirt. He's pulling you in close today so that you can repent. He knows that Peter will deny him three times after this story. But he will restore him. Today is the day of your restoration. But it must begin with being severely honest about yourself as As a religious person, you must confess your hypocrisy if you have that. The major sins of pretending to be a disciple, but no real love for God and others. Just an outward religion when it's convenient. I will stop arguing with my wife or with my children when I get into the church building. But on the way here and on the way home, I'll let out that I'm in a terrible mood today. If Jesus observed you as he observed others in the passage, what would he say? How would he need to work with you? He's not telling you to do this on your own. You and Jesus need to sit down in prayer and by the power of the Holy Spirit be transformed by the The renewing of your mind. And it begins with confession. Here's what I'm saying. What I want to do this year is I want to celebrate Palm Sunday by being Honest with God about ourselves. And when you receive the palm after the service, I want that to be a true sign, a truly religious sign that you are laying your heart before Jesus on the cult and not just a plant because everybody else is doing it. He wants your heart laid down before him. Your heart is the palm that would pave his way into the city. The palms are just a sign that you, as a true disciple, must lay down your whole heart and all your mind and to love your neighbor as yourself. Let's pray. Even when you announce judgment, it is for the purpose of Of us to be able to repent. We think of all of those who could not hear your words and yelled, crucify him. And then you sent Peter. after you were exalted in the heaven to give a sermon and you collected 5,000 of those same people that day because they were broken in their hearts and ready to give We pray as your disciples that you would humble us, help us to be severely honest about who we are, and we pray that you would repair us. That you would not bruise a broken reed, that you would take care of us, that you would tenderly chasten us, and that we would not despise your chastening. We pray these things in your holy name. You are our great King, and we celebrate you today. You are triumphant in so many ways. Thank you for saving us from tragedy. Amen. Amen.