Yeah. And I'm going to read one through uh fifteen. Colossians 3:1 through 15. If then you are raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth. For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Therefore, put to death your members which are on the earth. Fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. Because of these things, the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience, in which you yourselves once walked when you lived in them, but now you yourselves are to put off all these Anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language out of your mouth. Do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old man with his deeds, and put on the new man who is renewed in knowledge according to the image of him who created him Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcised nor uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave nor free, but Christ is all and end all Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, long-suffering, bearing with one another and forgiving one another If anyone has a complaint against another, even as Christ forgave, so you also must do. But above all these things, put on love, which is the bond of perfection. And we'll stop there. Please join me in prayer. Father, these are weighty words, and we ask that the weight of them would be felt. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that by your power, through your Spirit, you would accomplish the things that we read here within us. We pray that we would become like you, particularly in love. We ask these things in your name. Amen. I remember when the and maybe you have this experience also, but I remember when the children were smaller. And we would have a snowstorm and we would begin preparing them to play in the snow. Long underwear, jeans, socks, two pairs of socks, three pairs of socks. sometimes t-shirt, long sleeve shirt, turtleneck, sweater, jacket, fleece, then another jacket. Then you would have their overall snowsuit zipping it all in so that they would remain contained. We would uh put their snow cap on them, buckle their boots, and send them out like this I remember that scene in the Christmas story with uh young Ralphie's brother when they tried to push his arms down, they would have come right back up. Same situation had happened in in our house. When they would come back in from playing, and I would try to keep the snow from melting all over the hardwood floor. Should have seen me trying to peel off the boots, or yank them off, or peeling off the clothes, putting my foot on the bottom of the snowsuit and trying not to yank them out of it from up top Dragging them across the floor to get this boot off or that boot off. It was an ordeal. Putting on and taking off was quite the ordeal We could say that the same thing is true also here within this passage. That provides us a little bit of an image, the same kind of imagery and metaphors that Paul is using in the passage of putting clothing on or certain garments and taking them off. They can be quite the ordeal. It doesn't really come across that way, which is why I give this metaphor. When we see these lists in chapter three, which we studied two weeks ago, it can come across a bit matter-of-fact. There's two groups of five in verse eight and in verse twelve, and when you read the lists and they're in the the force of a command, The impression can be that we should just change and be able to do this. It's a different impression that you would get than the snowsuit scene that I just painted for you. But uh let me reassure you that Paul does not have that in mind. He has more of the snowsuit scene in mind. When he thinks about us putting on or taking off. He doesn't have things running through his mind, such as, well, you just need to change. I hope you never read chapter 3 that way. You know, you have an anger problem. You just need to fix it. Paul doesn't think that way. He understands that anger is very, very difficult, that it's a lifelong pursuit to get rid of such a thing It's a lifelong pursuit to put on something like tender mercies and humility also. I know this because I elsewhere Paul says in Romans chapter 7, verses 18 and 19, For I know that in me, that is my flesh, nothing good dwells. For me to will is present with me, but how to perform what is good, I do not find. For the good I will to do, I do not do, but the evil I will not to do, that is what I practice. It's a long obedience in the same direction. He understands that. It's difficult. It's difficult. Paul had that long journey Putting on and taking off were lifelong pursuits. So please don't get the impression, as we look at chapter 3, that he's just telling you to get your act straight. It's no big deal. What's wrong with you? It is difficult. But you know it's not impossible. Not with Jesus Christ. It's not futile. In fact, in that same passage in Romans, Paul says or rather asks, O wretched man that I am, who will deliver you from this body of death? And then he gives the answer. He says, I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then with the mind I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh the law of sin. Jesus takes on the sinful and dies the sinner's death, and thus freeing all his sheep from condemnation. That's a continuation of Paul's argument in Romans. But Jesus also starts to strip us of our sin progressively in real-time and specific life situations, which is why Paul writes this in Colossians 3, because it is possible through Jesus. Jesus Christ, who is the author and the finisher of our faith. But here's the big question. The question is, especially for tonight, how? If we understand that it's difficult, but it is still possible through Jesus Christ, how will we put it on and how will we take it off? These things that we see last two weeks ago, these things that we've seen in this passage. How can we make progress in putting on and taking off? We know that it's not impossible with Christ and His Spirit. We know that it will be difficult. Are there some seeds in the passage which we can scatter that will help us by God's grace to grow strong and fruitful? And there is, of course. God's word is filled with such seeds, but here in Colossians 3, the one that I want to focus on is particularly Colossians 3:14. Put on love, which is the bond of perfection. So the one verse I left out two weeks ago, we worked our way all the way up to that point, and I never spoke about forgive as Christ forgives, and put on love, which is the bond of Perfection. And I'm going to bring those two together. I believe this is Christ's love that we're talking about, and not just his forgiveness, that the two tie together. And then I'm sorry, I didn't write that down. The bond of perfection and then the model of love. So let's look at the bond and then the model. We see here just within this verse, we're just looking at this verse 314 that there is a bond that is mentioned, the bond which is the bond of perfection, which is love. Bond is an ordinary household term within the scriptures. This is not a special term. It's used for all kinds of ordinary things. You would have been familiar with it if you were a fisherman or a carpenter or whatever. Let me give you an example from Acts 12, 8, where it's used for shoelaces Or sandal ties, the leather that would tie together a sandal. Acts 12, 8. Then the angel said to him, Gird yourself and bind or tie your sandals. And so he did. And he said to him, Put on your garment and follow me. It's also used in Mark 6, 8 through 9. He commanded them to take nothing for the journey except a staff, no bag, no bread, no copper in their money belts, but to tie up their sandals And not to put on two tunics. It's just a normal word that we would have for shoelace or you or or um Or something that you would use, a piece of leather, to tie a sandal. I think you get the picture. But don't think of shoes that you could wear whether they have laces or not. We're not talking about velcro shoes And we're not talking about tennis shoes that you could wear and you could run, whether there were laces or not. Think of sandals that if not tied would just fall off. That's the point here. Whatever this is, this thing binds it to where it doesn't fall off of your foot or or binds together and things can't fall apart. And that's the point that Paul is making here with the bond of perfection. The bond is that which holds it all together. The picture, then, is a patchwork of virtues that must be laced or bound together within this church context. Remember, we're speaking about life in the church. But it's not just a bond, it's a bond of perfection. The meaning is the same that we find in our reading from earlier in the bulletin. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I have become sounding brass or a clanging cymbal. And you know the rest. We've already read it once in the service. I'll look at love in the next main point. For now, I just want to point out that it's the perfecting quality of love that is the perfection of the bond. It's what love adds to the situation. You could have many spiritual gifts, Paul says, but if they are not in love, they are not ready or ripe. That's the sense of perfection here within this context. It's not ready. It's not useful for anything. You can fill in the list from Colossians. You can try to take off. You can try to put on. All you want, but if you have not love, these virtues will not ripen for use by your fellow church members, nor for any congregation. About a month ago, I had a strange situation in my kitchen. We bought a bunch of bananas and they sat there for weeks, green. It was as if they were being rebellious to me, saying, you'll never eat Me, I'm never going to ripen. You'll never be able to use me. And you know what I did? I throw them in the trash. They never did ripen. They're probably still not ripe Just somewhere in this world in the trash, not ripe. Green bananas. People began to postulate that maybe they're plantains and we could use them that way But they weren't. They were just unripened bananas, useless and therefore were trashed. And that's what he's saying here. We need that love. It brings a ripening quality to where we would move from Not ripe to ripe, so that we too could put on and that we could put off. We need not just a bond, but a bond of perfection, something that would tie it all together and allow us to ripen, something that will truly make us useful to each other. That's the point. So you can see the picture. This morning, therefore, the first commandment was a bracelet. Notice what's happening here. The first commandment was a bracelet and a necklace holding the charms and the pearls of the other nine commandments. And here we see within this passage a shoelace. Tying together the heavenly life. The big question still is: what does this look like? What does love look like that would tie all of these virtues together into perfection, ripened for use in the church? You would think that maybe the list is a picture of love, but he gives a separate word, love. I don't believe it's just a summary of all the other virtues that are in the passage. In a way that could be true, but here love is a certain posture and way of being that is best understood by our next point, which is to observe a model. Someone who demonstrates the characteristic. Someone who has it all bound together, tied tightly in perfection. Someone who has in fact ripened. And that alone is Jesus Christ. He is the model of love. That's our second point. The bond of perfection and now the model of love. Now if you look at verse 13 here Bearing with one another and forgiving one another, and if anyone has a complaint against another, even as Christ forgave you, so you almost so you all m so must do. But above all these things put on love, which is the bond of perfection. The model is obviously based on thirteen. The Lord Jesus Christ. That is our model. He characterizes in the embodiment of true love. He is more than a model of virtue, of course, but he is not less The seed sowed by Paul that we so long for, for maturity, to aid us in putting off and putting on is the seed of the model of Jesus Christ Himself, the embodiment or the model of love. There are many ways in which we benefit from the Lord Jesus Christ, and I think we can swing to an extreme to where we don't benefit from being able to just see Him. To behold him by faith and the embodiment of love. And so Paul places him before us, one who forgives, one who loves. One who is tender, one who is merciful, one who is humble, one who is meek and long-suffering and forgiving, all bound together in his love for his father and for his people Now, I want you to remember the context of 13 and 14. This whole section in verses 5 through 17, really, to truly understand how important the model of Jesus Christ is here. For us, it is addressed to a church where there is at least, if you look at what they should not put on or they should take off, what are at least temptations, this is a difficult place to be They at least have the temptation to anger, outbursts of wrath. I'm just reading the list: malice, blasphemy, filthy language, and lying. This was a difficult group of people. Or you could think of other situations where it would be difficult to love where you see a love passage like the 1 Corinthians. Do you know all the different things that were going on within this church? 1 Corinthians In the church of Corinth? Many difficult people there, many difficult situations. That's the situation that the love is called for, that forgiveness is called for, tender tenderness and humility and meekness. The situation then is this. It's this question. It's not how do you love or put on tender mercies and bind it all together with love in general. It's in the specific situation of church life. And just to add to this, remember that in chapter 3, he mentions barbarians, Scythians, slave, or free. And so we Do you understand how difficult it is for people to get along? People that already have cultural differences but also lie and have anger problems. The church. It's difficult for a church to get along. That's the situation that we have here, and it is love as modeled in Christ that would bind all of these things together to be able to actually perform that church love. It is one thing to get along with friends. That's pretty easy. It's another thing to get along with strangers. That's kind of easy too because you're not involved in each other's lives It is a whole other thing to get along with the people that will hurt you and hurt your family, which the church is known for. And so, therefore, we see how pertinent the model of Jesus Christ is, because who better to teach us how to love? Than Jesus. Who loved those who hurt him better than Jesus Christ Himself? For what credit is it if you, when you are beaten for your faults, you take it patiently? But when you do good and suffer, if you take it patiently, this is commendable before God. For to this you were called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow his steps. Quote, who committed no sin, nor was deceit found in his mouth Who, when he was reviled, did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but he committed himself to him who judges righteously, who himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we, having died to sins, might live for righteousness by whose stripes you were healed. Jesus Christ loved those who did not love him, but who crucified him. And so it's no wonder that he is the example of the one who would know how to bind all of the virtues together within church life. Jesus knows how to love those who no one else wants to love, like you and me. And that is what we need to ripen to perfection and be useful church members. It's what we need to move from green to yellow if you want to stay with the banana analogy. Jesus, therefore, defines love for us. And I think this is the ultimate expression of love in John. This is my commandment: that you love one another as I have loved you. This is the binding, this is the shoelace that we need in church life. The love is the love that Jesus Christ has loved us with, and then he says this, and this is where we fall over. This is where we have to fall over and worship and pray because he says, there is no greater love than this. Greater love has none, no one than this, than to lay one's life down for his In chapter thirteen Christ gave the foot washing earlier than that chapter, that was chapter fifteen, but two chapters back in John Christ is still seeking to teach this message of love and modeling it. He gave the footwashing, show how he must uniquely love through the cross, something that cannot be performed by us But also how we too must follow him in love that will bind together all of the other Christian virtues. And so when he had washed their feet, taken his garments, and sat down again, he said to them, Do you know what I have done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you say, Well, for so I am. If I, then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. If that one part were put into place in church membership, we would not see the wrath and the malice and the blasphemy and the lying together. that we see present within this passage. Just taking the posture and the way of life of a servant. For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. Most assuredly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master Nor is he who is sent greater than he who sent him if you know these things. Blessed are you if you do them This was right around the time when they were arguing who will be the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. To summarize, then, the only way that you and I will ripen is to put our lives On the shoelace of love. The shoelace of love is a model, as a life of humble foot-washing service to one another, at least, and especially our enemies. And let me say that one more time because I've been giving you a ton of information. To summarize, then, the only way that you and I will ripen, and of course this is by God's grace through his spirit Is to put our whole lives on the shoelace of love. The shoelace of love is modeled as a life of humble foot-washing service to one another, at least. Menial service. Plunge one another's toilet service. That's the kind of service I'm talking about That's the bond of perfection. And that is the model of love that is placed before us. That is what is requisite for there to be maturity and cohesion and unity within the church. Though there's other bonds, there's the bond of peace also. And he mentions that next in the passage. But here we're talking about the bond of perfection, which is love, and it is modeled for us by Jesus Christ Ripening and maturing as a Christian is not impossible by God's grace, but it is in fact difficult. It's more difficult than getting a snowsuit off a kid in the middle of winter Do you want to put off the evil, the anger and the lying of this world? Do you want to put on the tender mercies, kindness, and humility of heaven? If you are indwelt by the Spirit, then the answer is yes. Of course you You do. Then by God's grace, you must posture yourself in a way of life modeled by the man from heaven who is Jesus Christ. You must become a footwasher. You must become a servant, and servants do not assert their rights. Even if it is permissible, it may not be beneficial, and therefore you forfeit your own rights. Just to serve the one next to you. Even if they are your enemy. Now, I want to be really careful as I close here because I don't want you to misunderstand what I'm saying. You are re-most of you are Reformed, church-going Americans And so what you could be hearing me say is you must know about servanthood. You could get as many books on servanthood as you want, that doesn't make you a servant. You could be hearing me say, I'm going to read all about footwashing, and I'm going to go to the passage in John and I'm going to learn it in the Greek. That's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna parse all the verbs. I'll know more than anybody about footwashing. I say this as a warning. Now listen to this, listen to this quote The problem that we have is that so much of Christianity today is understood as information, not activity, but activism, which means you come up with good ideas for other people to do. This is what one pastor wrote. Today's Christianity, particularly within the Reformed world, is centered on conferences and congresses and colloquiums and committees and communication. But rarely is it focused on doing the work of a slave. When is the last time we have seen a conference for the men to go away on learning how to be a slave? A slave conference, 2019. I believe that the life of the mind is important. I think that's obvious. One pastor from India who is in glory now with his Lord, P. T. Chantapilla. He believed that the mind was important, but he said that for those that he worked with, he prayed that they would have the mind of John Calvin, but they would serve like Mother Teresa. And as Pastor Dovitzon Frase, who studied under him for about 18 days and maybe a little bit longer, he said, Oh my God, in heaven. What would happen if someone had the lifestyle of Mother Teresa and the theology of John Calvin? It's actually true, especially if you study Mother Teresa, that she has very bad theology. And that if you had the theology of John Calvin, particularly in regards to the sovereignty of God, you should be a much greater servant than she ever could have claimed. What we would have, the answer to his question, when he says, Oh my God, in heaven, what would happen if someone if someone had the lifestyle of Mother Teresa and the theology? Of John Calvin, what we would have, do you know what we would have? A bond of perfection. A love that laces together tender mercy Kindness, humility, meekness, and forgiveness. In one hole. We would be ripened. As Christians. And of course this deserves prayer. And so we have to take these matters into prayer