To you, though I hope to come to you shortly. But if I am delayed, I write so that you may know how you ought to conduct yourself in the house of God which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. And without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifested in the flesh, justified in the Spirit. Seen by angels, preached among the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up in glory. Let us pray. Oh Christ, we are dependent upon you. You are our Savior. We ask, O Lord, that as our Savior, you would be our teacher here this morning. We need more than words We need you to take these words and make them a reality that transforms our very dispositions, our souls, what we consider to be good, what we consider to be evil. And this, O Lord, is your work to do. And we ask that you would do it. We ask that you would do it through the means of the preaching of your word. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we ended our passages on the officers of the church. Seeing that a healthy church appoints qualified men to the office of deacon This morning we have a few more observations to make, and so let's begin right there in verse 14. You can see we've been leading to this point. We've mentioned this verse before. But Paul is telling Timothy his express purpose for writing all that he has written and that he will write. He wrote to Timothy, and this writing is preserved so that we would know how, verse 14, to conduct ourselves in the household of God. Now that it was meant in two ways. It was meant certainly for Timothy to know how to conduct himself. What's he supposed to do being sent over to the Ephesian church? But it was also for the church in Ephesus and what are they supposed to look like and how are they supposed to order themselves. And then of course it's recorded and preserved for us so that we would know in each era what is it supposed to look like to be a healthy church. You can see he says that we are the household of God. And that this is a good way to summarize the kind of order that Paul tells us that a healthy church puts into place. This ends up being a summary statement of all that has preceded this passage. So we've seen some of the particulars. What does it look like to be a healthy church? Well, it looks like a proper use of the law. Do you remember that? Well, it looks like how to address heretics. Do you remember that? It looks like a prayerful posture towards outsiders because the Lord wants all to be saved. And it looks like the structure and authority that we just saw over the last few sermons. It's some of the ways in which the household of God is to conduct itself. It is not the household of Satan, it is not the household of the owner of the ravens, it is not the household of Go ahead and list all the things that could be the household. And they could form it and shape it however they wanted, but they can't with this, because this is the household of God and this is how he sets it up The second thing I'd like you to notice is that Paul gives a theological description of a healthy church here in verse 15. He says more than that it's just the household of God. He says that it is the household of God, the living God. He repeats himself here with added information. And then he also says that the church is the pillar and the ground or the foundation of the truth. Now, when Paul says household, you should think of a ranch or a city. That's closer to the concept of an ancient household. The idea is that God has in wisdom developed an ordered and flourishing society, and he set up things in order for us to flourish. Think of the creation account, for example, as a kind of house. From nothing, God forms spaces or rooms which are productive and habitable for all the living creatures. Everything is blessed, it says It's blessed because God is a good householder and the creation is his house. In the same way, God through Christ creates the church, which is talked about as a new creation. He rules over it. He puts it in order to function like a well-run estate or a ranch. Well, he also says, besides us being the household, that we are also the pillar and the foundation of the truth. And this is another image that is painted. So we've moved from just the household to the image of a building, or a house to the household to the house itself And undoubtedly the building that he has in mind as he views in other passages is the temple. Perhaps Solomon's temple, I think, because of the pillars. But that is the image that's being painted for us here, and it's painted in 1 Peter also and in many in 1 Corinthians and other places. But the focus is on our job to uphold the truth, which God has disclosed to us as those who belong to his house. This will include truths about God. This is going to include truths about what God is doing in the world. This is going to include truths even about what we are to do in the world. What are we all about? Where are we headed? And what is our end? What is our chief end, in fact? And then the third thing I'd have you notice from this passage is this, is that in poetic couplets Paul lists in verse 13 the center of all of the revealed truth to which the church is a witness. You can break verse 13 into three lines there, and that's why I say they're couplets. I think it's the best way to understand this There's this um going back and forth. There's a lot to talk about since it's poetry, but there's a going back before between heaven and earth and earth and heaven and All of that is present there. The two are coming together in the poem. Earth and heaven are being brought together. And they're being brought together by way of a single individual, and it's Christ. And you could start with that kind of a thought and just see what's being said here. The the uh line one, for example. is uh depending on your translation, it's referring to Christ. Either way, it's referring to God. He's manifested in the flesh, or he takes upon himself human nature. And he is manifested or vindicated in another way by way of the Spirit and being raised from the dead. Being raised from the dead shows him to be the Son of God. That's the first line. The way that Paul lists that is that he was manifested in the flesh and justified in the spirit. Same kind of thing, though. The next couple that goes together Is that he the angels saw him, and the angels told the disciples, and the disciples, especially Paul, preached What they had seen and what they had heard, and how to understand all of Scripture to the Gentiles. So here you have a manifestation of God's great salvation in his Son. Then you have the publishing of that salvation by way of his son. And then the last two lines are really the response. It's the response. The nations have believed in the eternal Christ. Even the Ephesians They have believed in the eternal Christ in the flesh, and the heavens have rejoiced. They have received him in his Ascension Glory. Now these are consummate summaries of the great work of God the Father through the Son and His Holy Spirit, and they're captured in what seems to be a hymn, actually. Or a part of a hymn that Paul has placed here. Now, when we gather up all these lines of thought, when we gather up all of these observations, we have a nice short doctrine this morning, and it is this. The healthy church lives in light of its dignity and of its duty. The healthy church lives in light of its dignity, for it is the household of God. And of its duty, for it is the pillar and ground of the truth The healthy church lives in light of its dignity and its duty. So I just want to look at obviously the dignity of the church and then the duty of the church. So let's do that together. Dignity is a quality of something which makes it worthy of honor and respect. And now as soon as I say that, I wonder if you really think the church has a quality that is worthy of honor and respect. The church has fallen on hard times And if we were to do a survey, let's go down to Main Street in Annapolis. I'll carry a camera, we'll film the whole thing, and we'll do a survey and we'll ask the general public If when they hear the word dignity, if they think of the church and let us hear what they have to say, Now some of them, I hope, will say, yes, the church was very helpful to me. But undoubtedly we will hear from the mouths of some, even churchgoers themselves that they have heard of reports of re abuse, widespread abuse within the wider church, and that this does not go well with the idea of them having dignity. You know that the church at large has always struggled with having a dignified place within society. It is not new to our era. I want you just, for example, to think of how many different passages come to mind. where we witness in the scriptures themselves that the church does not have a dignified quality How many examples do you see when the prophets rise up to speak against the household of God and how they are conducting themselves? What is going on inside of churches in all of the New Testament letters? They're all arguing with each other, which is not dignified. And how many other examples could you come up with? I wonder if you thought right away of Romans chapter 1 when Paul says this about the church. The name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you If you reviewed the beginning chapters of the book of Revelation, Christ walks among the churches and does he find a dignified quality of people? Does he not find half-hearted and lukewarm betrayal How, therefore, could we have a doctrine this morning that says we must remember our dignity if we often lack the quality? in every era. I think that's a very important question to be able to answer. And I believe that we are to answer it in the affirmative, that we are still to maintain that the church has dignity The main question though is how, with its record. And here's why. Because even when her actual dignity subsides in certain eras, the church always has lows and highs, but it's trending positively. But even at her lows, we must judge the church as Christ judges her. And remember that Christ always loves his bride and will always treat her with dignity because he's a good husband. And we cannot do anything different than that. Not with a clear conscience. Christ, in fact, has determined that when the church becomes dim, that he will restore her So we would treat her in hope of dignity and with dignity. Christ has not determined that we would simply give up on her. As the passage said, the church is the household of God, and as another passage has said, Christ has purchased this household with his own blood, and who are we to give up on her? Now, to help you to remember this, I found a funny little word, and I warn you against researching examples of this because you will not sleep. Has anyone here ever heard of TAFOphobia? Tafophobia is a real thing in the world. I'm here to educate you. It is the fear of being buried alive. Doesn't it just freak you out right away? The thought of being buried alive, like you're just in a sound sleep And it's been a long time. And then you wake up and you're in the casket. Well, I've done research on this, and this has happened throughout history. It's horrifying. But here is my point in bringing this up this morning. Let us not have a premature burial for the church. One Puritan, John Flavil, puts it this way. He says, Oh, be not too quick to bury the church before she is dead. Stay till Christ has tried his skill before you give it up for lost. And that's why we'll always treat her with dignity. Because of how Christ Himself thinks of her and the great promises he has laid on her for her future. He has actually promised to make her perfect in blessed beatitude. Now that is the dignity of the church, and that flows out of our passage this morning. When we start to see our name, for example, of that we are the household of God. When you see that our name is the household of God, you would say, oh, what a dignified household. And yet, in the face of that name, we have such a track record that it can be a struggle for us morally to dignify the church It's easy to fall into habits of criticizing her or publishing her faults. And I'd encourage you in the name of Christ to not do that. I'm not encouraging you to stick your head in the sand. I'm not encouraging you to support corruption or to support abuse. But I am asking you to remember here this morning how Christ Himself thinks of the church and what his plans are for her, and that you would not bury her while she is still alive. That is the first point, is that we must remember, a healthy church remembers the dignity of the church, especially in the ways that I've outlined. But there is also the duty of the church, and this is our second heading here this morning. Under this heading, we can begin to see the great dignity to which the church has been called. I could have this morning focused on the great dignity of the ministry, because there's a, you see him speaking to Timothy. And if you are called as an officer or if you are a pastor, I'd remember you, or I would ask you to remember the great dignity of your calling, the importance of it But it is true for all of us. We all have a great dignity according to the calling that God has given to us as being sons and daughters within His household. Christ does not just put up with us, He sees all of our faults. And yet he does not just put up with us. He's not walking around exasperated with you. Instead, he assigns us and aids us in a high and a lovely calling. And this was captured in our passage under the figures of a pillar and a foundation of the truth. I cannot think of a more esteemed position to be a part of a household who is the pillar and the foundation of the truth. God has set his congregation aside as a witness to who he is, to what he is doing in the world, and wherein the good of mankind resides. You have this. This has been given to you and is placed in your hands. I do not think that this point is fully appreciated most of the time. And so as a way to kind of appreciate it, I want you to think of this in terms, perhaps, of the university. I hope this gets at it. If not, let's just talk more later. Let's think about a university for a moment. Maybe this will be helpful. A lot of you are looking at universities these days. A university Is meant to be a place wherein the truth of all subject matter is discovered and it is to be related into a single whole for the glory of God and the good of mankind. Oh, how far has the university fallen? But that is the purpose of the university in the world. And so you could uh, you know, maybe you like frogs. And you That leads you into the biology department. The biology department studies their subject matter with careful skill, and they resurface to declare the fundamental truths about mitochondria Or whatever it is, or the biological world in some fashion. If you're in the math department, I know I'm going to get this wrong. I should have never chosen a math example with some of the members here The math department abstracts from matter numerical quantities, discovering certain laws of motion, for example, and you become a physicist. You could give a description for every other branch of knowledge wherein we discover God and His glory where we gather these things for the good of mankind. Think of, for example, the obvious results of cancer research or something like that. In the past, universities also had a theology department and not a department of religion. Department of Religion is a subsection of sociology. They had a theology department. And so let me ask you, where did they receive the knowledge of their subject matter? If you're a biologist, you will go and you will make observations. If you do like frogs, you'll observe frogs. If you study viruses, you'll study viruses. If you're a mathematician, you study what you study. That's where you get your subject matter wherever you get it. I decided to not enter into that discussion But where would you get your subject matter for theology? This is where I'm hoping you're beginning to see. I'm bringing you over into the edge where you could perhaps see why it is such a high calling that we have as a church. You would receive some general knowledge about theology is about God. It's a study of God. That's what that means, okay? Keep it simple. You would receive some general knowledge by studying God's creation. You'd learn that he's powerful, for example. And you would learn, as you eat some of his grapes, that he's good. gives you what you need. But there is also knowledge that was not observed by you but was instead brought to you from heaven to certain individuals who then recorded and preserved for you the knowledge that they received. If you want to, you could think that there is a department of the university called theology, and the department does all of their work and finds all of their certain truths in heaven By way of God, and then God delivers them to men. We know that He delivers them to the prophets and to the apostles, He discloses them from heaven. God revealed himself in his plan of vindicating his creation to certain prophets, for example, Moses, Isaiah He delivered them to the apostles. And this knowledge then was preserved. It's called inscripturation. That's where we get the idea of our scriptures. This knowledge was then given to his church. who, by the way, would have been at the center of the university, to study and preach for his glory and for the saving benefit of the world In the past, this revealed knowledge, do you know what they called this in the university in the past? This revealed knowledge was called theology, and do you know what its nickname was? The queen of all of the sciences And all other sciences, do you know what they were called? Her handmaidens Now, what this ends up showing you is that for a time much of the world acknowledged the treasure which had been given to the church, and they acknowledged Their place within this world, which was a place of great dignity and honor, to be the ones who were the pillar and the foundation for this sacred disclosure for the salvation of humanity and the glory of God. And that is what we here are called always to remember as we hear about our calling Whether we have a department in the university or not, God has entrusted us with a treasure of endless value that you cannot go out And just gather up information on your own. You would not know about his plan of salvation or about many other things unless he chose to disclose that to you. God has put in our trust, therefore, the knowledge of Himself He has put within our trust the knowledge of salvation through his son. Did you see those couplets that are poetically laid out for you there in verse 16? That is a treasure that he has entrusted to you as members of his household, which is entrusting to you the knowledge of his son. And what he is doing through his son. And he has entrusted to us the end for which All men and women should strive. He has entrusted to us where actually where happiness resides, where everybody is looking for. He has told us. And we are entrusted with it. Now could there be a higher honor than what he has given to us as his household? as his sons and as his daughters. And yet what we find, unfortunately, is theology is the least big major among them all I'm sure there's other reasons for that, but one reason is probably that people don't value what God has entrusted to us. And so we can treat it like trash I ask you, hearing this, by way of this model of the university, hearing what God has entrusted to you, I wonder what are some of the consequences For you as a church that start to arise within your mind. If this really is what God has given to you, if you're the pillar and the ground as a group of people of these kinds of truths, not truths about mitochondria Not truth about abstract quantities or things in motion like physics, but truths of the eternal God, what he's doing in the world, and happiness What are the consequences that sit here before you as moral beings? What are your responsibilities and your obligations as a church as you take up the task and the calling? Let me give you a couple that came to my mind, but I'd like to, at another time, when you get a chance, please tell me what comes to your mind. The first thing I thought of is that we must carefully follow the apostolic teaching. If he has entrusted these things to you, then you must carefully know them. Remember, the apostles not only give us specific teaching, but they show us how to understand the entire Bible centered on God the Father's mission through the Son and His Spirit. It's called a Trinitarian reading of the Scriptures. God has given teachers and theologians to the church to gather this understanding. And they have gathered it and they have held councils, even in major branches of the church have held councils in order to codify into creeds That which the scriptures teach us to help us to know that we're carefully reading the scriptures. And one of those creeds we gave you this morning, which is the Apostles' Creed. You could read the Nicene Creed. And more recently, you could read the Westminster Confession of Faith. All that are, these are all faithful to the scriptures The Westminster Confession of Faith is simply a more detailed unfolding of the Apostles and the Nicene Creed. We must be careful to observe and understand the apostolic teaching within the of the church and their findings, especially as they've been codified in the creeds, but that's not enough actually. There needs to be more care taken than just a careful studying. You must also carefully follow the apostolic teaching. You must carefully understand, you must also carefully follow the apostolic teaching It must be embodied. The treasure, in other words, of heavenly revelation is kept best, not only in words, but in lives. You are meant to be a living letter of who God is and what he's doing in the world and where happiness resides. Many theologians these days call this the witness of the church. By the power of the Holy Spirit, the church becomes a living epistle and witness to God's salvation. We have turned from the ways of the world and are committed to God and His ways that He has revealed from heaven, and we are committed to the ends for human life that He has revealed from heaven. So, for example, here are a few hot button issues these days. Despite psychological difficulty, we submit to the gender which God has assigned to each of us as indicated by our bodies. Despite societal shaming, we embrace God's order for society within the church and within the home. And despite what society is doing now, is collapsing all relationships and relations, you could say, you could ask the question, how are people supposed to relate to each other? That is usually captured and encapsulated in different titles. Like if I said, this is my mother, you would know how I'm supposed to relate to her. This is my father. You would have some sense of my social relation to him. But our society is collapsing all of those titles into meaninglessness to where children are your peers. Or something along those lines. The words don't mean the same things any longer. But we as Christians, we raise our children as God has revealed. the place of children. And we raise our children of the church in the ways of Christ. That's what we do. And these are the ways in which we could carefully not only understand, but live in this heavenly reality that God has given to us. The second main thing I would say that we need to do, and I'd ask that you would pray for this more and more because it's more and more needed, and you would pray for it even in your officers, is that we need to defend the treasure which is given to the church. Let me give you a couple steps in what it would mean for someone to be a good defender of the church. Not everybody's going to be good at that. But the first strep in having a good defense for the a good defender of this sacred trust that's been given to us is that they would themselves and you yourself would have to have a clear conscience on what God has revealed from heaven. Now, I watch myself closely. I'm an introspective person. I watch you closely too And sometimes I see that with some of the basics of the faith, you are still calling them into question. You will raise up questions and wonder about them. And that, my friend, does not make a good defender. A good defender is someone who is not asking questions about that any longer. They are willing to die for it if they need to, because they are so sure of its truth. That was one of the great apologetics of the church. That was why people knew that they were not lying, is because they were willing to die for what they said. They were not wondering if what they thought or what they heard was true. And so we saw this in 1 Timothy. Especially if a person is going to be an officer, one of their qualifications, according to Titus, in certain situations, is that they would be able to defend the truth. Because it's constantly being attacked. And in order to be able to do so, a good soldier must have a clear conscience on the fundamentals of what God has revealed. If you don't have conviction about the basics of the faith, then when it matters most, in my experience, you will in fact not defend. That's the first step is a clear conscience. The second step is to realize your place in this whole thing This is really important. That you would realize your place in this whole thing. Let me tell you, let me remind you of who you are as a church. You are the pillar and you are the ground of the truth. You are not the inventors of the truth. You are not the legislators of the truth. You don't get to determine what the law is. You don't get to determine who God is. You don't get to determine how He's really doing things in the world. You don't get to determine how we're supposed to relate to each other really. God has already decided all of these things. There is no plasticity to these fundamentals that He has given to us We must remember our place. You do not have the liberty on these particular issues that I'm talking about to have open-minded dialogue with people about the truth of God. There are some things where you should not be open-minded about. I understand that there are things that are deduced from the faith that we could talk about forever in different seminars And we could write our PhD thesis on them and still not really know what we're talking about. I get all of that, but I'm talking about those things which have been clearly manifested to us within the Word That God has given to us, we are not free to have open-minded dialogue with people about the truth of God. I want you to think about it like this: you are a messenger, just like me. I don't have the freedom to stand up here and preach the epistle of Jesse. And you don't have that freedom either. Imagine if you were a messenger of a king and the king writes this message and you're supposed to deliver it to these people in the town, but on your way you decide, well, this is way too offensive. I need to change all of this. And really water this down. I need to, this doesn't, it's not going to fit with their worldview. Really not going to like it. So you change it on the way. How absurd is that as a messenger? You have no authority to do so. And that is what we need in those who will defend the faith and the sacred trust that has been given to us. God has not made us truth makers. God has made us truth. Receivers. I'm talking about in this specific area. God has given you the truth, and your job primarily is to keep people from twisting it. The overabundant examples within the scriptures are people misleading other people by twisting the scriptures. And when you see that happening, you must know what the truth is that we've received from God so that you can defend them by showing them that this is a twisting of what God has intended. That is what a defender does. That's one of his roles. And that's what you would be. And with patience, you would correct them if they do such things. Now, this is very difficult within our culture, is it not? Our culture likes to shame you. That's one of their primary weapons against you. Our culture shames you, especially if you do not value open-mindedness. And if you do not place equal value on all perspectives, it's called pluralism, if you want to look at it that way. They will shame you. But here is the thing. In some sense, I have to say to you, I do not care how you feel. About being shamed. I do not know what other option you have if you acknowledge your place within the world. You're not allowed to change the message. It's not yours. It was given to us from heaven, and we're just supposed to keep it safe. It's been entrusted to us. We're supposed to make sure that it's used in accordance with its Perfect purposes. You don't have that liberty with the treasures that God has given to you. You are not authorized to change what He has said. You are simply a messenger. I hope that that reframes some of what we struggle with within this culture. We can think that in the name of kindness or whatever it is or love That we have certain options. And I'm just letting you know there, yeah, you do. Like you're supposed to speak speak the truth in love, but you always have to have the truth present. We can't change that And that will make you among the persecuted in some situations. But blessed are the persecuted, for they shall see God. The basic point here, and we could go on, but the basic point is that the healthy church lives in light of its dignity and of its duty. The first thing that we must remember is that we should not bury the church before she is dead. God has a way of always reviving her to take her true place within the world. And that brings up the question, well, what is her place? Well, she has many places, but foremost among them, she is the pillar and the foundation of the truth. And therefore, may we at least be careful and follow the apostolic teachings in heart and with our hands. And may we be willing to defend the treasures of the Lord and not modify them so that we don't come under too many attacks and blows. Let us pray.