To do that in two parts. There's just too much. So please hear God's word in Proverbs thirty-one, nineteen to twenty-three. She stretches out her hands to the distaph and her hand holds the spindle. She extends her hand to the poor. Yes, she reaches out her hands to the needy. She is not afraid of snow for her household, for all her household is clothed with scarlet. She makes tapestry for herself. Her clothing is fine linen and purple Her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that We would not just be hearers of your word, but doers. Please help us to uh to know the vision that you give us for a wife, for womanhood, and all of the implications that come from that. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Different eras have Portrayed different archetypes for what it means to be a man or what it means to be a woman, what it means to be a husband, and what it means to be a wife I wonder if you could just think back on your life, what has been presented to you in books or movies or TV shows. that were meant to be ideals for what it meant to be a husband or a wife, for example, or a man or a woman more generally. Let me just give you a couple pictures that are pretty obvious. At one point in time there was a a a kind of ideal set by James Dean. Now that was a long time ago. There was another ideal set set by the Marlboro man. There was another ideal set for Mr. Cleaver. Is that his name? Wow. Ward was a certain ideal, and that entire household was a particular ideal. I wonder if you could think of some others that are more recent. I gave you some examples of what it would be a man to be a man or to be a husband. What does that supposed to look like? There's been characters that have been given to us in the culture that are trying to say this is the ideal. And it's been the same thing for women and for wives. There are different ideals that are placed in front of you. It's largely what magazines and TV shows are made of. The character is not just a character, it's trying to show you this is what it would look like for you to be successful as a woman or as a wife. Maybe you could think of Joan Cleaver where you'd be working on the house all day in high heels and whatever else she wore. I guess she had an apron. But you get the idea. Well that idea that we see within our culture where there's these ideals presented to us as to what it means to be a husband or what it means to be a wife. That's not new. Those uh the ideals have been presented to humanity uh since time has begun. I wonder if you've taken different trips For example, to art museums, and you've seen statues from ancient Greece on the ideals of a woman and the ideals of a man. Maybe the statue of David, for example. Well, you know, it goes back even further than that. If you were to study this passage here in Proverbs and the surrounding cultures, for example, the cultures in the ancient Near East, the Egyptians had an ideal for a wife And they had an ideal for women. It was largely related to her sexuality. If you were to go to uh Greece and look at the ideals there, according to scholars, is that It was largely seeking a wife who really was quiet and submissive and stayed at home. These were ideals within that culture. I bring this up because what we have here in front of us with Proverbs 31 is a biblical ideal. And the interesting thing that I hope you've been finding already is that this ideal for what it means to be a wife particularly. doesn't fit the ideals of any of the other cultures really. It's quite different. It's quite different than Joan Cleaver. It's quite different than the Egyptian ideal. It's quite different than any other ideal. God has an idea of and has designed uh wives to be a particular way. And here we're starting to see that within Proverbs 31. The main title that has been given on who she is meant to be ideally is that she is meant to be a valiant or noble woman. That's the translation that we discussed a couple sermons back, that this is about a valiant wife Now, if we take a look at the beginning of the poem just by way of review on what this value well, what is this ideal that's being laid out in front of us, if you look at verse number 10 To begin with, you can see that she is more precious than rubies. Who can find a virtuous wife? or valiant wife for her worth is far more or is far above rubies. It actually says corals there in the Hebrews in Hebrew, but if I said she's more valuable than coral, you'd say that's not very valuable. So we're we're translating it which would be have been valuable to them is now valuable to us rubies. Right? She's more valuable than rubies. You could ask the question, well, in what way is she valuable and the way that it's being focused on here is seen in verse number 12. She does her husband good. She doesn't do him evil. And she does, she's not, and this isn't a temporary state, she does that all the days of her life. And now you could ask, okay, well, what do you mean by good? What does it look like for there to be this ideal or good wife? And now we have the itemizations. There is a long list within the rest of the body of the poem of kind of kind of ideals as to what the goodness of that this wife accomplishes. You could take verse number 13, for example. She seeks wool and flax and willingly works with her hands. And we talked about this last week where she's taking the wool and the flax from her husband's production, and she is then using that in order to create an entrepreneurial endeavor to benefit the entire household. Now as soon as I say that, do you see how an ideal has already been slashed? There are pictures sometimes where women are just supposed to sit at home and not really work with their hands at all In different cultures that could be portrayed depending on the time. Maybe it would be the time of the Enlightenment. I brought up to you Pride and Prejudice, where they all just sit around together and talk about how vexed they are. And that's not what we see here. We see that she is fully committed to the work and she is um putting in efforts in an entrepreneurial endeavor. You'll then see that there's various pictures for her. In verse number fourteen, the kind of benefit that she brings to her household by way of the willing work of her hands is that she is like a merchant ship. And now w in what way is she like a ship? Well it she brings her food from afar. So she has she has done so much work and this entrepreneurial endeavor that she is able to bring exotic foods to the table and her family is is enriched as if they were a part of the court of King Solomon. If you were to continue with the imagery, just again by way of review, is that in verse number 15, this has to be picked up in the original language, but take a look at it here in the scriptures It says, she also rises while it is yet night. Now this is not referring to her doing a night shift. This means she gets up early in the day. It's still dark outside, but she's rising. Let's say 5 a. m. And it continues here with very specific language and it says, and provides food for her household. Now that word food provides us with another image. The word there is prey. She provides prey for her household. And many say that the image that's meant to be here is she's like a lioness who rises early, which is the time of hunting. She goes out and she As a lioness does, she finds her prey and she drags it back home to her her children. That's the imagery that's being used here. for the kind of strength that she has. So I'll just, even though we're in review, I'll give you by way of application, next time you see your wife dragging those Aldi bags back into the house, that is her prey. Right? She is the lioness returning from the store. And it continues then with uh more uh imagery in 18B You'll see she perceives that her merchandise is good and her lamp does not go out by night. Now that doesn't mean she works through the night. This is a sign that she doesn't run out of oil. Her house has become prosperous And um and that is the it's actually a sign of prosperity within the home. You can see all of her work, all of her endeavors, all of the planning. uh by her willing hands have come to this where she's able to provide for her household and her husband knows that she's trustworthy in doing this. Her husband knows that she's trustworthy in doing this. Well, that's just a review, and this poem now is going to continue to lay before you the Christian vision for the wife. Not a Greek vision, not an Egyptian vision, not a postmodern American vision, a Christian vision of the wife. And I want to bring out a couple points for you as we go through the rest of this poem Now the first one is this. And this is going to be seen in verses 19 and 20 as we go into the portion that we read earlier. Number one. In 19 and 20 we see that the Christian vision for the wife is that her work contributes to the poor and the needy. That is what she's like in the community. She contributes to the poor and the needy. You can see this if you take a look at your scriptures in verses 19 and 20, it says, She stretches out her hands to the dia staff. And her hand holds the spindle. Verse number 20, she extends her hand to the poor. Yes. She reaches out her hands to the needy. It's pretty explicit, isn't it? Really doesn't take much explanation because it's written right there But I'll just m uh make a couple observations for you is that the focus is moving to her work with the wool and the flax. So we already had mentioned the wool and the flax in the very beginning of the poem that she had received from her husband. Now it's going to continue that thought. And it's going to talk about specifically the kind of work that she puts in in order to turn this into something that's eventually going to profit for her community and then you'll see in the next point for her household. Now I don't know if many of you are very familiar with the die staff and the spindle, are you? Not really. Okay. Well, if you want, you could just type in Distaff and Spindle in YouTube, and for whatever reason, there's like a movement of people that are still doing this. Some of them are just doing it by way of hobby, but you will find some YouTube videos of women in Romania, for example, that this is how they're still making their living living. The die staff is basically just a stick. Sometimes it looks ornamental. And after you have taken the wool, you would wrap the wool around the die staff and you would pull from that staff, they would put it in their belt And they would pull from the distaph onto the spindle, basically creating a yarn. So you're holding, as well as with the skill of your fingers, and you're creating a yarn on the spindle. And that yarn or thread will be used to create different clothing. We're talking from scratch here. And that's the imagery that's given to us as to what she's doing. She's taking raw resources that her husband has brought to her, and she is with artistic skill and craftsmanship shaping the raw resources into such a way to where it will bring profit to her community and then eventually into her household. It mentions, for example, although in your translation it says she extends her hand to the uh to the to the dia staff and her hand holds the spintle. There are actually two hebr different Hebrew words. One has to do with the hand, which Actually, it goes from the elbow to the fingertip. It's like the strong part of you. You'd have to hold that staff with the wool. The other word specifically refers to Hebrew anatomy that has to do with like fine motor skills. So you see here that there's this combination to where she is strong in the work that she's doing But she's also skillful and delicate in the kind of things that she is creating. And all of that is coming together, as you can see. She stretches her hands out to the dissep. And her palm or the fine motor skills holds the spindle as she's weaving the yarn. And then it moves into verse number 20. The vision continues to where she's not just working. And she's not working for selfish purposes. She's working that others would be able to have life. You'll see in verse number 20, she takes those same hands that are clasping the spindle or the dissep, and she extends them to the poor. Now the imagery here is for the work and the the for the poor and the needy, the there's a little bit of a play on the words of her extending her hands. It could be like we read this morning in Psalm 104 The Lord opens his hands and all of his creatures are fed. It could be acting in his image, because woman is created in the image of God. She, being like him, opens her hand and feeds the poor and the needy. It also could be a movement like this. Come. She extends her hand to bring them into life and into health. She brings the poor into her home, so to speak, or brings them to a place where they're able to eat. The poor and the needy here are groups that are mentioned earlier. You'll notice her husband in verse number nine of this poem. It says, open your mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the poor and the needy. Both the husband and the wife are concerned about the same group of people within their community. And they're working together in order to be able to make this happen. The poor denotes here not those who, because they're lazy, don't have food. This is a group of people that we actually don't have much experience with Unless you go to certain places. They're suffering from some kind of disability or of a distress that is not their fault. And the way that the uh things can be set up is there's not really anything that they can do about it And uh the um and here this woman she is doing something about it. She makes sure that they're covered. And again, acting like God Himself. God Himself says that he covers his people like a female chicken, keeping them enclosed under his wings. And she acts like him because she does the same thing. She clothes and covers them with the things she makes with her yarn. In all of these ways, she is a picture of God for us, an analogy. One commentator said this, which I think is a real takeaway for you, if you ever wanted to just remember this part of the ideal, I think it's said beautifully. He says, the hands that grasp to produce Open wide to provide. That's the ideal of the of the wife that's here. The hands that grasp to produce, open wide to provide. Now in summary, just within this first point, I hope that you all recognize that she's not sitting around knitting doilies afraid that she's going to break her nails. I don't have anything about raw I don't have anything against beautiful nails, ladies. I'm just all I'm trying to do is to show you that the ideals that are given to us from different cultures and movies, we have to be very careful that we look to the scriptures for our standard as to what it means to be a man, what it means to be a good child, what it means to be a good woman, what it means to be a good wife. And in all of those, you're going to find a single answer. It means being in the image of God. And this is the way that that image has been held up to the saints of light from the beginning. Now it may surprise you that the way that this is unfolding here, I'll put it in modern-day terms, this lady owns a cottage industry. She owns a cottage industry and she uses the profit to help the poor and the needy of her community. That's what's going on There's of course many women that are like this within the scriptures, but you all know that I have a favorite from Acts chapter 9, verse 39, and it's Tabitha. So I'll just read of her because she's doing the same thing that we see here with this woman. She had died. Peter arose and went with them. And when he had come, they had brought him to the upper room in order to see her And when he went to see Tabitha before raising her from the dead in the name of Jesus Christ and by his power, it says this of Tabitha. And all the widows stood by weeping, showing the tunics and the garments which Tabitha had made while she was with them You see, that remark right there, the whole purpose of that passage in Acts 9 is to show forth apostolic authority But the Holy Spirit sees fit to describe her this way, so that you can see she's meeting a kind of ideal. The poor and the needy had gathered around her, showing the things that she had clothed the community with, so that we could once again see what it looks like to be a valiant wife and a valiant woman. Well that's the first point I wanted you to see. And again, I made this a sh um there are so many different details because it's a poem. It's like every word is played on, and I might even get into the sound of the words and how that makes a difference. I just want to bring out one more point, and that's going to be from verses 21 through 23. So the first point that I gave to you is that the Christian vision for the wife is that her work contributes to the poor and the needy. That's on the outer rim of the poem. And that outer rim, it makes a difference that it's on the outer rim. That is definitely part of her concerns, but there are other priorities that she has that actually, if she had to make a choice, this next point would come first because it's closer to the center. We're moving to the Holy of Holies and her primary responsibilities. And that's this. The second ideal or Christian vision that we have here for the wife is that her work is for her household. That's right at the center of the poem. We actually have come to the center of a poem. This is a chiastic poem, if you were to think of it as like dropping a pebble in water and you watch all the ripples go out We're at the place where there is the center that everything ripples out from. That's where we are in this poem at this point. And that means it's very important. Now in verse number 21, you can already begin to see the repetition of the word household. She is not afraid of snow for her household. What a great night to preach this. I mean, we really couldn't have picked a better day. Thank you, Lord. She is not afraid of snow for her household, for all her household is clothed with scarlet. I'm not sure if you knew this, but in uh November November to February in Palestine, that's actually the uh winter rainy season. And there is a snowfall. And more generally there are f there is freezing weather and in their particular situation that would definitely threaten people's lives. You have to ask the question for you and your family Will we make it through the winter? And here you see within this passage that she is not afraid of making it through the winter. For all her household is clothed with what she has made with the dia staff and the spindle. She is clothed with scarlet. She's not afraid. She's not afraid of the anticipated danger. It doesn't strongly agitate her, one commentator had said. And why? Because her work has protected her family She is the one who has clothed them. You'll notice if we go on to verse number 22, besides just her household, you can think of her children, for example. She also clothes herself in verse twenty-two. Now that strikes that at a and in verse number twenty-two it says, She makes tapestry for herself. Her clothing is fine linen and purple. There's another place in the poem that advances this thought that I'm not going to talk about tonight. It's just she makes uh coverings for her bed and the things that go within her home. But you don't get the picture here of of uh someone who has worked their finger to the bone and is not taking care of themselves, which sometimes can be another ideal that is placed Like every woman is only doing a great job if they kind of look like Cinderella at her worst. And that's not the picture here. She takes care of herself also. with the things that she has made. She is able to benefit from all of the production and the endeavor and the prosperity. The poem is going to actually end with everyone in the household and in the community Whenever she enters the room, they stand. Because she is a woman of honor. And she has provided for the poor and the needy. The reason why everything is going so well is because of the work of her hands. And when she enters that room, she's not in rags. When she enters the room, she's wearing things that are honorable. And the same thing is true for verse number 23. It says, moving on now to the dead bullseye center of the poem is her husband. Her husband is known in the gates. Now, number one, we've been talking about clothing this whole time. So I'm not ready to move off of that. Her husband is known for how he dresses also. He's not showing up and meeting with dignitaries as he runs the city with other dignitaries, and he is the one who looks slovenly and unkempt. He's wearing clothing. As a dignitary should wear clothing. He's wearing the fining finest clothing, and that is coming from his wife When he walks by, people recognize the kind of leader that he is and the stateliness of his walk, as we read earlier within Proverbs. She clothes him. And she not only clothes him, you can tell here in that verse that he's known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land. He's not only clothed with royal clothing, he's clothed with time. Because of the work of his wife, you could think of her homeschooling during the day, for example, or at least having governesses that she oversees. Because all of these things are done by his wife, he now has the time and the opportunity to sit in the in the leadership positions within the city and to make sure that the entire city is well ordered and run. He doesn't, in other words, need the moonlight at night He doesn't need to be the one who makes ends meet because his wife stepped up and took care of some of it. Here is the ideal that is placed before you because of her work, the husband is free to once again, you see it loop back, benefit the whole community. I mean if you were to ask why is it that our city is not, why is our city so well ordered? Why are the laws just? Why are people treated fairly You would have to say, well, it's because of men like this who are making decisions at the center of the gate. He doesn't need to work a second job. He's able to give his time to ensure a healthy community. Now you can see here the different ways that her work ripples out in benefit to really everybody. She brings life to her household and then she's able to, because of the work that she does with her household, even by way of her husband, she's able to bring life back even to the community. It starts with the community, but the household is at the center. But because of the work that she does within her household, her household becomes a blessing to the community. And now you end up having this ecosystem of life. Now I'll address this just uh one more time. When we get to the center of the poems, certain people who read this skeptically and with a bad attitude Say here we have the woman holding the spindle and the die staff doing all of her entrepreneurial uh work and then when we finally get to the man it's just like him, right? He's sitting there in the center of the city You know, whatever he's he's sitting. This is a problem. But I just want to remind you of other examples that we have of uh actually I want to give you two reminders that that's not the picture you're supposed to have in your mind Number one, the wool and the flax are from him. If you go back and you read, remember we want to consider all of God's counsel. If you go back and you read Proverbs 24, You'll see there is a man there working to prepare a foundation upon which his wife can build. You can read that in in 24. And he is encouraged in 24 to not be lazy and let the vineyard go to collapse by way of the law of entropy. but instead to remain diligent. So he's working. We even see that in the poem. I pointed that out. But then secondly, even when he is sitting in the gate, listen to this description of Job when he sat in the gate. It says here, the voice of nobles was hushed, and their tongue stuck to the roof of their mouth. When the ear heard, then it blessed me And when the eye saw, then it approved me. He's talking about how people responded to him because of his work within the community as he sat within the gate. It goes on actually to say this explicitly. Why are people praising him whenever they see him? It says, because I delivered the poor who cried out. The fatherless and the one who had no helper. The blessing of a perishing man came upon me, and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy. I put on righteousness and it clothed me. My justice was like a robe and a turban. I was eyes to the blind. And I was feet to the lame. I was a father to the poor. And I searched out the case that I did not know. I broke the fangs of the wicked and plucked the victim from his teeth. And you want to know why he was able to do all that Because of his because of his wife. He provided the she provided the opportunity in her work with the spindle and the die staff. And the buying of the land in order to have the vineyard to where he didn't need the moonlight, and he was able to then give his talents and the gifts that God had given to him to bring blessing to that community. This is not a picture of a lazy man. It is a picture of a just man. So there you have it. You have, by way of this poem Uh with her giving to the poor and the needy as an ideal and her giving to her household and the fruits that come from that as the ideal you have here the valiant woman. At least the th third part of it. We have another part to go on But I just, again, as I started off the sermon, I'd ask you to raise up the question again. Ladies, even young ladies. What ideals are presented to you today as to what it means to be a woman or a wife? And where do those ideals come from? Do they come from God? Are they what God longs for for you? What is the ideal wife and the ideal woman? We see it pictured here for us. And that is what Jesus Christ is doing in all of you. Now I have a few more words to say, but let me just start off by saying this. I have said this ever since I started preaching on this. I've said it privately. But I, as I look around and I see the woman of this, the women of this congregation, I when I see you in your life, and I'm not being flattering, I see Proverbs 31 women. I really mean that. I when I read these things and then I think of the women of Severn Run, they match for me. So I really want you to be encouraged. This isn't meant to be a discouraging time. I mean that about you. I really see Jesus Christ doing this kind of work within you. Now, with that being said, I really would encourage you men to pay more attention to that and to encourage our women by saying things like that to them Sometimes we can get in this weird mindset where we just take for granted all of the work that the women do around us and never say a word about it. And then not next week, but the week after that, we're going to get to a place where you need to realize you're supposed to stand up every time she enters the room. And your children are to call her blessed. I think it would be good for us as a witness, even to the nations, to begin showing them how we respect and honor our valiant women. If we look out at the culture, we can see that there are these different ideals, that on the one hand, a woman and a wife can be portrayed as helpless and fragile, never stepping out of the home. On the other hand, we can see women that are portrayed as independent, and that is the ideal, that they make a name for themselves in the corporate world, and it has nothing to do with their household. It really just has to do with their name. And then there is another perspective that marriage, huh, that's old-fashioned, forget it. Being a wife, forget it. But you see something different here. You see the ideal wife here is one who takes what God has given to her, especially by way of her husband, and manages it in such a way that she brings protection and life to the poor and the needy. of her community and she brings protection and life and clothes her family with love. Her household with love. And there you have it right at the center. You don't have a deadbeat husband who, based on all of the wife's work, he just sits around lazily and doesn't accomplish anything for the community. That's not the end picture that we have. That is a real danger too, men. For you to take all the work that our wives or women are doing, and then for you to use that as an opportunity to be lazy? Oh, God forbid. Instead, what we see at the center is the husband together with his wife, his helper. And together they are bringing love and they are bringing life to the land. Honestly, what you have here is a picture of the Garden of Eason as it is meant to be. And you also have the picture of Jesus Christ and his bride, the church. You see the picture and you see the ideal and it is it is beautiful. And may Jesus Christ keep working in the women here. May you keep being conformed to his image. In clothing the needy in your households, just like your God does. Ladies, you are made in the image of God. And in working out this poem in your own life, you will be a witness to his goodness to the nations. Put us pray