Our conscience, that we might be at peace, and that we might, for the first time perhaps, be able to look outside of ourselves at our neighbor and love them. You are so good to us. And we ask that your goodness would continue as you pour out your gifts tonight. as we worship you. Help us to enter into this thoughtfully. Help us to worship you even prudently, considering each thing that is before us in this order of worship. We ask, Lord, that you would be with us and that you would be glorified in our midst, and that you would prepare us to enter back into the works that you have created beforehand for us this upcoming week. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship. This is a uh very famous Passage it's quoted by our author of Hebrews also, Psalm 95, verses 6 through 8. Oh, come let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. Today, if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion as in the day of trial in the wilderness. And of course we won't because we're going to enter into hearts that are open with praise to God by singing all glory, Laud, and honor. So before the man Um praise don't be lonely doing three Please remain standing for the reading from numbers sixteen one through fourteen, and we'll be dependent on this same passage uh for the sermon. Now Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, with Dathan and Ebaram and Iliab. and on the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben, took men, and they rose up before Moses with some of the children of Israel Two hundred and fifty leaders of the congregation, representatives of the congregation, men of renown They gathered together against Moses and Aaron and said to them, You take too much upon yourselves, for all the congregation is holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them Why then do you exalt yourselves above the assembly of the Lord? So when Moses heard it, he fell on his face, and he spoke to Korah and all his company, saying Tomorrow morning the Lord will show you who is his and who is holy, and will cause him to come near to him. That one whom he chooses he will cause to come near to him Do this, take censors, Korah and all your company. Put fire in them, and put incense in them before the Lord tomorrow, and it shall be that the man whom the Lord chooses is the Holy One You take too much upon yourselves, you sons of Levi. Then Moses said to Korah, Hear now, you sons of Levi, is it a s small thing to you that the God of Israel has separated you from the congregation of Israel? To bring you nearer to himself, to do the work of the tabernacle of the Lord, and to stand before the congregation to serve them? And that he has brought you near to himself, you and all your brethren, the sons of Levi, with you And are you seeking the priesthood also? Therefore, you and all your company are gathered together against the Lord. And what is Aaron that you complain against him? And Moses sent to call Dathan and Avaram and the sons of Iliab, but they said, We will not come up Is it a small thing that you have brought us up out of a land flowing with milk and honey to kill us in the wilderness? That you should keep acting like a prince over us Moreover, you have not brought us into a land flowing with milk and honey, nor given us inheritance of fields and vineyards. Will you put out the eyes of these men? We will not come up You may be seated. I ask that you join me in a word of confession. All scripture is given to us by you, Father, that we might grow into perfection. And here, Lord, we see the scriptures, and they shine a light on us. They shine a light on us and show us that there is a place that you have given us in your providence. Each of us have a vocation and a station in life. And that when we rebel against that order that you have established, it is not just a rebellion against men. It is a rebellion against you. In other words, Lord, you warn us here and you probe our hearts that we would seek and find if we ourselves are insubordinate like Korah. Lord, I think of the children that are here before you, the covenant children, and how this past week they have dishonored their mothers and their fathers. I thank Lord in ways in which we have, as adults, dishonored each other's. That we ha each other, that we have not Paid the respect that is due to those who are over us, that we have not given the comfort and strength to those whom we are over, that we have not given mutual regard and interest for our equals. Lord, you have made us in your image to be socially intelligent, and yet we have become antisocial. And Lord, we come, therefore, before you to confess our particular sins particularly. We ask that you would use our conscience to remind us of how we have sinned against you in our relationships this past week, or even most grievously on your day Hear us now in the silence of our hearts and our confession. We thank you, Lord, that we have the freedom to acknowledge our sin before you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. And now here your assurance of pardon from Hebrews 10, 11 through 14. You can see why we have an assurance of pardon every service, that your conscience might remain clean in Christ. And every priest stands ministering daily and offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, Sat down at the right hand of God, from that time waiting till his enemies are made his footstool. For by one offering he has perfected for ever those who are being sanctified And that is you, brothers and sisters. Amen. Amen. Let us stand and respond to our salvation through Christ by singing, All I Have Is Christ. I once was lost in darkest nights, that thought I could go away, must be that joy and light. And then I had to hold that to work around to your will. If you have me first, I will bring you things. But as I ran by elder race in the break through the cause, to look up on my elderly. And let me help us for this place. You suffer in my place. Hallelujah who we are. Now I should be sure to hold and make so all my I see the strength of your commands, but never come from me, O father. Anyway, and let my song for every only voice in you. A white price available Amen. And in Christ we have all things. Please open Christ's scriptures with me to the book of Jude. And believe it or not, we are still on verse 11. I'll begin at the beginning of the letter and read to eleven fourths. Jude, a bondservant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those who are called, sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ. Mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you. Beloved, while I was very diligent to write to you concerning our common salvation. I found it necessary to write to you exhorting you to contend earnestly for the faith which was once for all delivered to the saints For certain men have crept in unnoticed, who long ago were marked out for this condemnation, ungodly men, who turn the grace of our God into lewdness and deny The only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. But I want to remind you that though you once knew this, that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, Afterward destroyed those who did not believe. And the angels, who did not keep their proper domain, but left their own abode He has reserved in everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment of the great day. As Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them in a similar manner to these, having given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh, are set forth as an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Likewise, also these dreamers defile the flesh, reject authority, and speak evil of dignitaries Yet Michael the archangel, in contending with the devil when he disputed about the body of Moses, dared not bring against him a reviling accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke you. But these speak evil of whatever they do not know. And whatever they know naturally, like brute beasts, and these things they corrupt themselves. Woe to them. For they have gone in the way of Cain, have run greedily in the error of Balaam for profit, and perished in the rebellion of Korah. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for the wisdom that you give us here through your servant Jude, and we ask that you would use it. according to your will, and if it is according to your will, that you would use it to preserve us in your grace. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be shooting. Since the beginning of giving our attention to the letter from Jude The Spirit of God Himself has been teaching you as a congregation to be watchful The word that you have before you in this letter, then, has become a means that Christ gives to you to preserve you from error and ungodliness. In a very serious way, this letter is given to you that you might grow in moral discernment and not be naive or gullible. It is what we need these days, moral discernment. It's what we need in all days, but especially in evil days. We've been helped by adopting some images that were have been a part of the church for a very long time, that we might have moral discernment in who we are dealing with. We must watch out for those who rearrange the Orthodox faith. The Orthodox faith is seen at least in the Apostles' Creed, the Nicene Creed And more fully in the Westminster Confession and Catechisms. We must be watchful for those who depart from that faith. We must be watchful against those who tempt us to abandon God's order of things. God has ordered all things. That's what it means for him to be the creator, is to make his world habitable for human life, which implies order. Now we use the image of Dalton Abbey for this Christ governs his creation like a governor orders Dalton Abbey. Everyone has their place, and everyone has their job. We are to watch out for those who seek to subvert and bring disorder to God's house. Jude continues to aid us in watchfulness here recently by alerting us to three evil villains. Just as a parent would warn their children of poisonous plants and dangerous animals on a camping trip So too, Jude warns us of those who are trouble in society. He tries to give you a heads up. I wonder if your parents have done that for you in some ways already. What to watch out for? Who is dangerous? Well, Jude is doing the same thing. The first villain that he gave to us, and these are the kinds of things, by the way, that we should be memorizing: lenses through which we should look at folks and evaluate. The first villain was Cain. He is a figure or a type or an example or paradigm of a certain kind of person that's always present until Christ returns. This person, Cain, he doesn't have the truth. He's not interested in having the truth. He doesn't use it as a foundation to move forward and to be successful Instead, he departs from the truth and he gets his way through brutality and murder. We're seeing this, as I mentioned two weeks ago, specifically in how the church is being persecuted in Afghanistan. This person, Cain, rejects the order that Christ gives to us in the sixth commandment. You shall not murder. Next, we observe Balaam. His lust for money and status tempted him away from a true path of life. He thought that through his evil he would gain much, something all fools think. But with him, as with Balaam, as with all. The proverb came true, but they lie in wait for their own blood. They lurk secretly for their own lives So are the ways of everyone who is greedy for gain. It takes away the life of its owner. It looks like it will be promising and a shortcut and easy. But it always ends in death. The grave swallows you. Balaam, his problem, if you wanted to summarize it, is that he rejected the order of Christ as communicated in the tenth commandment. You shall not covet. Tonight we have a new villain villain, and his name is Korah, and you see there in your verse 11 that it is Korah and his rebellion. And we have uh the passage in your bulletin, at least most of it that I'll be referring to, but it is from Numbers 16. If you want to have the verse references, then you'll want to open your scriptures to numbers sixteen as I as I go through and make a few observations. about this new villain that is in front of us. He was actually known, as I told you before, as uh Korah the villain. Just as Balaam was known as Balaam the villain. All the little kids would have known from their parents catechizing them who the villains in life are. So please follow along with me as we just review a few parts of number 16 so that we can better understand what we're watching out for with this character. I want you to notice, if you have your scriptures open, that in Numbers chapter 16, verses 1 and 2, you can witness the beginning of the rebellion of Korah. Together with Dathan and Avaram and on, Korah rose up before Moses with two hundred and fifty leaders of the congregation. And it really lets you know the gravity with the next words, men of renown. What a nightmare, by the way. Imagine men of renown rising against you. Imagine men of renown rising against me. That's the first thing I want you to notice. It's the picture of what's actually happening. But then I want you to see that as Korah reveals what is in his heart, that it is nothing less than the sin of insurrection. The sin of insubordination. Insurrection is a violent uprising against the lawful order put into place by God. It is an unlawful violent uprising. Verse 3 shows some of the accusations that show the heart of these folks. You can see what they're doing. They're playing all the same cards that anyone in this position plays, using all the same tricks. They claim that Moses and Aaron wrongfully have their place in society. Moses and Aaron have elevated themselves to levels of authority which all of them deserve. So why is it that you get to rule over us? You can see that very clearly in verse 3. And then if you were to go down, the argument is not over. The slander is really just beginning when you move into verse 12 of Numbers chapter 16. Verse 12 continues the insubordination by falsely accusing Moses and Aaron. And they really focus on their motives. They accuse Moses and Aaron of deceiving them all. They said they would bring them to a land of milk and honey, but really it is to murder them in the wilderness that they're doing this. And as an excuse to keep lording himself over them as a prince. Everything all of a sudden about Moses and Aaron is just bad. They're evil, they have ulterior motives. That's always the way that rebels put it. You are the problem What we end up seeing there is a very important teaching for us as we become watchful that we might be preserved. When we look at number 16 and the warning that people like Korah and his crew fall under, they're all either burnt alive or swallowed into the earth. We learn that they are under the condemnation of God. He is not pleased with such people And we realize that we must be watchful. We must be watchful that we are not a part of that group. We must be watchful that we ourselves do not become like Korah. We must be watchful to take guard if those around us rise up like his rebellion. That is our doctrine. When we look at number 16 and the warning that people like Korah and his crew fall under the condemn we see that they fall under the condemnation of God. And we realize that we too must be watchful. We must not join them. We must never become like Korah. And we must watch out for groups like that What I'd like to do now is just sh make a connection between what Jude is saying about Korah and his rebels. And the application to false teachers, because that's really what's on his mind, that we would start to recognize false teachers. And then I want to make a more general or broad application to ourselves. Jude wants us to apply what we're hearing here about Korah and his rebellion and how they conduct themselves to these false teachers. Jude is dealing with rebellious people who reject those whom God has placed in certain positions. This is something we really need to hear. As time goes on, I keep hearing more and more people sliding off into an ungodly doctrine that there should be no government over men. First and foremost, we see here within this passage that these false teachers rejected that Christ is Lord over all. That should give you some moral discernment as to who you're dealing with when someone does likewise. Secondly, these false teachers reject the authority of the apostles and the prophets. Third, there is no doubt that they reject the government of the church under the officers of elders and deacons. And I rely on that statement from just looking at all the pastoral letters and the warnings to elders as these false teachers will rise from the exterior and in the interior of the church. And so the lesson ends up being clear here with these false teachers and how they move and maneuver. We are to be watchful for the anti social behavior. Of insubordination. God orders his world through governmental structures. Those like Korah rebel against God's ways of hierarchy And I hope that you would not just allow me to feed this to you tonight, but that you would swallow and that you would digest what's being said here. That you would look around in your culture. What are the groups that surround us now that attack God's truth and order by way of denying his hierarchies? You should go through all the isms and see which ones do what. For example, feminism is a pretty good one, denying the order or right relation between men and women. And there are um Abhorrent forms of patriarchy that do the same, which do not deserve the name patriarchy. And there are others, I imagine, that could come to your mind. All of them fall into this category And you must use moral discernment to begin to see the world this way. They are like Korah rebelling against God's ways and hierarchies and orders. Well, that's what those false teachers are doing then. But there is also, of course, and that's still happening today, if you just take some time to digest what's being said here. But I also wanted us to apply this more broadly. Jude actually invites us, secondly, to see the broad application to our lives of this insubordination. We all struggle with it. Especially as red-blooded Americans. We see the same kind of instruction elsewhere Instead of having to read all the way through Numbers 16, I would encourage you to memorize at least one part of 1 Thessalonians 4, verse eleven. It says this, mind your own business. I'm quoting the scripture. It actually, if I were quoting the scripture, it would be saying, mind your own. Mind one's own. Here's the fuller reference. That you also aspire to lead a quiet life, to mind your own business, and to work with your own hands as we commanded you. Later on, Paul will instruct them not to be busybodies, and busybodies are those who are in other people's business. And that is a very mild version of what you see within the Korah rebellion. He was in other people's business that God had set up. This is an overarching call, in other words, before us here. It is an overarching call, not just to watch out for false teachers, but w to watch out for the seeds of this kind of thing within our own families and congregation. It's an overarching call to be aware of the station or the place which God has given to you, and that you must be very, very careful by God's grace. To watch out for ambition and pride, that you would not be seeking in discontentment to go beyond your place in society and the situation in which God has placed you and His providence. Now those situations and places in society change over time, but you need to know your place as well as your time. I think that if you wanted to hear more about what's underneath of Jude's teaching about Korah The concern about insubordination that we see here, that we see in 1 Thessalonians, that we see in Titus, you are disqualified as an elder or deacon if your children are insubordinate. If you wanted to turn to the grandest teaching on this, however, then you should turn to the fifth commandment. The fifth commandment is honor, at least the first part, honor your father and mother. But it's not just about mom and dad. When we see how this commandment is unfolded in God's order, we realize that what He is giving to us in the order of that command is how to be relationally responsible with everyone in society. To have relational intelligence, to know our place with people, which is perhaps one of the greatest struggles right now, is that we just don't know where we stand any long. with longer with each other. Well the scriptures tell you where you are to stand with each other generally, and then you work it out by way of wisdom and specifics, and that is through the fifth commandment. It is a summary which, when unfolded, shows an order to all of our relationships, each person in their place. I can't tell you how much I have been helped by the larger catechism in the unfolding of the Fifth Command. I think I read it multiple times a week. Question 126. I'm just going to give you a sample. What is the general scope of the fifth commandment? The general scope of the fifth commandment is the performance of those duties which we mutually owe in our several relations as inferiors. superiors and equals. Inferiors, superiors, and equals. Question 127. This is just a sampling, and if you'd like to look at the larger catechism after service, then let's do it. It'll be like a dream come true for me. Pull me aside and say, I want to look at the larger catechism. What is the honor that inferiors owe to superiors? Now listen to this. And let your conscience come under this instruction. And in the larger catechism, after each listing are references to Bible. to scripture showing the wisdom of God for our relationships. What is the honor that inferiors owe to superiors? The honor which inferiors owe to their superiors is, and this is This is true of children to parents, of those who rule over you, even if you are a parent. The honor which inferiors owe to their superiors is all due reverence in heart. All due reverence in word, all due reverence in behavior Prayer and thanksgiving for them. Imitation of their virtues and graces. Willing obedience to their lawful commands and counsels, due submission to their corrections. Fidelity to, defense, and maintenance of their persons and authority, according to their several ranks and the nature of their places. And you know what else it says after a beautiful semicolon? That you would bear with their infirmities. That you would cover them in love. So that they may be in that so that they may be in honor to them and to their government. We could develop a sense of relational intelligence between equals. We could develop a sense of relational intelligence between that the superior owes to the inferior and not just the inferior to the superior. It's in this fifth command that we see as the source and summary of how we are to relate to each other. And at the bottom of it. If you want to put it this way, based on our passage, is that you should know your time, you should know your place, and to not know either is to be insubordinate. It is to be like Korah. And we know that God is not pleased by people like Korah. He is not, although our our society in a sense flattening out all relationships and just seeking to make sense of our societies through equality. They themselves have become like Korah, denying the hierarchy and government that God has Himself has placed between men and angels. They rebel against the way God set up our social relationships. It wasn't our choice. We didn't come up with the names mom and dad. I didn't write down in a letter that men are the head of women. I didn't write down in a letter that Christ is the head of the church. I didn't determine any of these relationships, and neither did you. God did. And to reject them is to reject the Lord. God wants us to live in the stations He gave us. He does not want us ambitiously to subvert others. It's a good time in our place as a church. Relationships are complicated And we have to begin to start asking ourselves some questions. Are you insubordinate? Are you raising children who are insubordinate? One thing I hear often is people talking about how proud they are because of how smart their children are. Which is a glorious thing, is it not? But tonight we see that the real trophy goes to the children who are submissive, the one who recognize God's order. Do you admire or are you informed and shaped by those who are rebellious against God's ways of constructing society? The message tonight is that there is a better way. And it is at least twofold. That we are to watch out that there are not those among us that would lead us into some kind of insubordination. And that we ourselves, under the grace of Jesus Christ, would submit ourselves to his order in all the ways that he seeks for us to relate to each other. What we saw in the very beginning of verse 11 was that Cain rebelled. Cain rebelled against the order of the sixth command. That's what Jude is showing us. He's showing us that things are out of order or disordered when we don't follow Christ, and that Christ has been given all authority in heaven and earth to bring back order. Cain rebelled against the order in the sixth command, you shall not murder. Balaam rebelled against Christ's order of the tenth command, you shall not covet. Korah, you rebelled against the order of the fifth command. You were always meant to honor your father and your mother. Your father was Moses. God has ordered society into relational hierarchies. God chooses our place. It is our job as Christians, very simply, to mind our business. I do pray that God would grant us contentment. Discontentment is perhaps the seed that grows up into the plant that pushes us into insubordination. And may God grant moral discernment that we could avoid all chorus. Amen. Let me close the sermon in prayer, and then I'll announce how we'll be proceeding in the Lord's Prayer. Actually we'll We'll sing Father, I thank you for this wisdom that you give to us through Jude as we learn what it means to relate. I pray, Lord, that if the consciences of your people are unsettled with the doctrine tonight, that in conversation they would begin to work out their faith with fear and trembling together, that they might understand, that they might digest your word together, that they might be excited about The wisdom that you give on how we are to relate one to another. I pray even more than that, though, Lord, that you would send your Holy Spirit to us. Our hearts are naturally idolatrous. Our hearts are naturally disordered I pray that you would send your spirit of order and that he would work especially within our children I pray that they would know how to navigate relationships based upon the order that you have given and created and that you maintain in your providence. far better than we ever have. And they will need to, Lord, for the days are evil. I pray that our children would be a picture of walking in wisdom circumspectly and in the light. I pray, Lord, that they would be sober and that they would keep in step with the Spirit. And that, Lord, will take you sending your Spirit of Wisdom upon them and anointing them with wisdom and prudence. and watchfulness and fortitude. I pray, Lord, that they would be walking virtues and commandments. That when they look in the mirror, they would see the law. And I ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. Let us stand and respond to the good news of the gospel, which includes Christ pouring out his relational wisdom on us. We're going to sing together, Oh great God. Oh great God of my step are you by my lord easy. Let no God remain, let me take your holding war. You have not just I was mine by my thing, and always Did not know you love with me and not before Then you like open the door to me. On your grace, seek my heart and guard my soul from evil as I place you over. By your name through me, you are worried to me praise with I every God and before you're not going to be able to do it. Because my death glory by your name. Amen. Let us be seated and we'll move into a time of silent prayer as I announce uh each petition in the Lord's Prayer, and I'll announce the the uh purpose