If you don't have far to turn this morning, we're going to turn to Genesis chapter 3. And I'll ask you to stand for the reading of his word. We're looking at 3, verses 3 through 21. I won't be commenting on every single verse, but I do want you to have the context. Beginning in verse 3. I I might as well just start in verse one. Let's do that. Now the serpent was more cunning than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made, and he said to the woman, Has God indeed said you shall not eat of every tree of the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat the fruit of the trees of the garden, but the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat it, nor shall you touch it lest you die. Then the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die, for God knows that in the day you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree desirable to make one wise, she took of its fruit and she ate. She also gave to her husband with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves coverings. And they heard the sound of the Lord walk uh Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. Then the Lord God called to Adam and said to him, Where are you? So he said, I heard your voice in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. And he said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded you that you should not eat? Then the man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I ate. And the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me and I ate. Then the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, you are cursed more than all cattle, and more than every beast of the field. On your belly you shall go, and you shall eat dust all the days of your life, and I will put enmity between you and the woman And between your seed and her seed, he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. To the woman he said, I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception. In pain you shall bring forth children. Your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. Then to Adam he said, Because you have heeded the voice of your wife and you have eaten from the tree of which I commanded you, saying, You shall not eat of it Cursed is the ground for your sake, and toil you shall eat of it all the days of your life, both thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the herb of the field In the sweat of your face you shall eat bread, till you return to ground, for out of it you were taken, for dust you are, and to dust you shall return. And Adam called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living. Also for Adam and his wife, the Lord God made tunics of skin and clothed them. Please pray with me. Father, these are our this is our genesis, our origin. And we ask, Lord, that what uh the world considers this a foolish thing. Lord, help us to be fools that we might become wise. In the name of Christ, amen. Please be seated. We are in a new series. Last week we only had 99 of you, and we have more of you this morning. And so we're in a new series, surprise. You can listen to the first sermon on our website on Sermon Audio. It would be a good idea because these are stepping stones. They are all foundational pillars upon which we'll build our house. And the name of this series is Quorum Deo, and that just means living before the face of God. That is what we've always been meant to do. You just heard in the account, walking with God in the pool of the garden. That's what we were meant to do and and uh something tragic has happened, which we read about, and and um something glorious, even more glorious has happened. Which we've read about before, it's called the gospel, and we're trying to figure out what does it mean to live with God again? It's not an easy thing to do for fallen human beings, and we're trying to figure that out. But we're trying to do it in a very specific context. So it's not only Corum Deo, it's from Romans. I am not ashamed of the gospel. And the idea is that as you seek to live with God, the world will make you ashamed to do so. It's bad enough that we have our uh disinclination from God, and the world feeds that and says that God and his ways are foolish And we begin to feel ashamed and embarrassed to confess him. And that's what the whole series is about. It's walking before him and not being ashamed of him. Not being ashamed of the gospel. Persevering in our faith would be another way to put it. Last week we looked at God's holiness from Isaiah 6. It's a premier passage for His Holiness. I mean, holy, holy, holy. It's right there. It's His Holiness. And we were able to summarize His Holiness as a perfect moral purity which permeates every one of his attributes. It's a perfect moral purity that permeates every one of his attributes. It's like leavening the whole lump of bread. That's what his holiness does, is it leavens all of his attributes. And we focus specifically because of Isaiah being about judgment. We focused on justice. Justice is a just judgment. That's what justice is. It's taking moral purity to the act of judgment, of making a choice of who's right and who's wrong. And that's what we focused on last week was seeing God's justice. And we asked the question at the end, are you ashamed of God's justice? There are a lot of people that are ashamed of his justice. A lot of books out there on all the bad things that he did in the Old Testament. There's even a ancient church heresy. based around that being ashamed of the Old Testament God and only loving the New Testament God. It's called Montanism. I think I got that right. Yeah, anyway, there is. Yes. And we're asking another question today. And it's not about God's justice, although it relates. You're going to see the clash of the titans here. Today we're talking about your sin. Congratulations. Joy. We're going to be talking about your sh your sin and it's it's um It's on the tails of justice, and you can see how justice would clash with with sin, but we have to be able to recognize this if we're going to live before the face of God. In fact, no one will live with God unless they confess their sin. And our culture, on the other hand, tells us that it is shameful to admit that you're a sinner. It's okay to say that you tell little white lies or that you make mistakes. Or that you were born this way, or whatever it is. There's a few 80s songs that summarize that idea. But we're not ashamed of admitting that we are sinners. That's really what this is all about. And we're going to use this whole account. And I want to look at this, the topic of sin underneath of two parts, and it's imputation and punishment. imputation and punishment. So let's let's go ahead and begin. The first thing we see in the account, when we both look at this account in Genesis, And we also look at this account, how it's read by authoritative teachers in the New Testament, such as the Apostle Paul, is that we find that there is a grand or the first great amputation taking place within this passage. Now amputation is one of those words that you don't hear every day. You hear amputation. And some of you might rather have an amputation than to have this discussion about amputation. But we're going to talk about amputation. And really amputation is the guilt. For the sin of Adam is imputed to the human race. That's the way we're viewing this. That guilt for the sin of Adam is imputed to the human race. And imputation means being made liable for the actions of another person. That's what imputation is. It's happening all the time. Imputation is being made liable for the actions of another. So so f here's a real a down-to-earth example from David and Goliath. I think it's a great example. Um no matter how old you are, I think we were going to relate to David and Goliath's story. You know, if the world were to take the David and Goliath story Outside of the Christian community, they would use it as a way to turn David into braveheart. Now braveheart is not a story of imputation. That's a story of emulation and inspiration, isn't it? I mean the the Irish guy says, with me once more to the breach, or Scottish guy, sorry, once once more to whatever. I got all kinds of cultural mix there Uh sorry. That was Shakespeare and a wrong historical reference. That was great. He would inspire his his men to move forward and to conquer death and and and injustice and whatever, but that's not actually what you see with David. There's no one that follows him. He doesn't inspire anyone. And no one emulates him. He does it on his own because it's a story of imputation. Imputation by necessity involves one standing for the many. And then whatever that person has done. You're liable for it. You see that? You have liability. So choose a man for yourselves. This is Goliath. Choose a man for yourselves and let him come down to me. If he is able to fight with me and kill me, then you Then we will be your servants, but if I prevail against him and kill him, then you shall be our servants. So what you and and and uh serve us. So you can see that Goliath is a representative or public figure for the Philistines, and David is a representative or public figure for his people. You see that? And whatever he does, they're going to say it of themselves. If he's a winner, they're going to say, we're winners. And if they're winners, then they're going to say we're slaves. That's exactly what's going on there. And so the work of David ends up being imputed to the rest of the nation there. All of the benefits or lack of benefits if he were to have lost. Now, in this case, they benefit from his imputation. David's victory and all its benefits become their victory. And they are liable for his victory, so they become victors by identity. And you can see how that works. What you see here is the opposite. We don't receive benefits. We could have But we're liable for the choices that he did make, not what he could have done. We are liable for the sin committed here by Adam. Adam, just like David, is a public person He doesn't just act for himself, but he acts for the entire human race, not just a single nation. The entire human race is upon his shoulders or in his loins, is the way the Bible will talk about that sometimes with being in the loins of Abram. Or Abraham. He doesn't just act for himself, but acts for the whole human race. And he is disobedient to God. You can see very clearly there in Genesis 3. 6. She also gave to her husband with her, and he ate. And then you see within the curse a little bit later where God confronts him directly and says, That which you were not supposed to do, you have done it You ate from the tree I told you not to, and there is a disobedience there. And um and and therefore, because he has lost the battle So to speak, thinking of David again, we will inherit the loss. The loss will be imputed to us. There is no gain. And this is how the Apostle Paul looks at it. You know, you could make up all kinds of stuff with Scripture. You know how many different things people make up with Scripture to create weird cults in California? But the Apostle Paul authoritatively draws these connections. When the Apostle Paul reads this same passage, listen to the things that he ends up saying. This is from Romans chapter 5. Well worth your time this afternoon if you want to read through Romans five. Look at how Paul thinks. Therefore, just as through one man sin entered the world and death through sin and thus death spread to all men because all sinned. Do you see that? In the single act, all men sinned Now how can that be? We explain that by saying that the sinful act, the guilt of the act, has been imputed to the entire race, to where now all are sinners. And here's another reference in Romans 5. 18, just a few verses down from there. Through one man's offense, judgment came to all men. Now that's imputation. You are held, in other words, see the definition? You are held liable for Adam's decision. So this turns into not just an ancient account that has nothing to do with you or a myth where you could draw a kind of Aesop's fable. But rather this has everything to you because he's a public figure and represents you if you're a human. And you are. Therefore he does. This, however, is a controversial point. Some of you might be squirming in your seats already. It's a controversial point in our culture, both among Christians and non-Christians. Men throughout the ages have refused to be held accountable or liable for the actions of another person. Our culture says that our freedom comes in our freedom of choice, that we can even define our gender if we want to. And here it's saying actually someone else made a choice for you and you're held liable for it. So that clashes at the very core values of the culture. And sometimes Christians adopt the values of the culture and they would refuse to admit something like this also. And so you have to ask the question: when we talk about Adam, you being held liable for Adam's sin, are you embarrassed about this? Is this embarrassing to you? Do you think that this is a foolish teaching? You would say, well, that's just some frozen-chosen reform teaching. That you know what that when you say stuff like that, that means you're embarrassed. You're separating yourself from the teaching. You think it's foolish, so you're starting to distance yourself from it, and you're saying that's just some reform teaching It's a good idea for you to check your soul there and see if you are embarrassed. Is it absurd to be held liable for the actions of another person? Let's just state it generally like that Is it absurd or unreasonable or inconsistent with biblical revelation to be held responsible or liable for the actions of another person? Let me ask you this. If you refuse to be held reliable or liable for the actions of any person, will you remain consistent when you are not going to be liable for the actions of Jesus Christ? He's considered the new Adam. The parallel that that's how the parallel works. It's just as you have a first imputation of Adam to you of his sin That's how it works with the new Adam, and that you would receive all of his victory, Jesus' victory, and all of his benefits. Jesus' actions. We are we we we make no bones of being able to accept them and saying, I accept his obedience before the Father as my own obedience, I accept his sacrifice on the cross. In obedience to the Father, I accept that so that I don't have to sacrifice, so that I don't have to live up to the law, and yet we're not willing to accept this other kind of liability. But the both they both always come together. There are two sides of the same coin. Jesus is a public person, he's the new Adam. And the point is that you would be willing to be held liable for another's actions. If it if it doesn't resonate with you, this teaching about Adam, move to the new Adam. And realize all that you would lose if you reject this generally. I can't be held liable for another person's actions. That means you can't be a Christian. That's what that would mean. You can't be. And so we have to even if it's uncomfortable, if it chastes us, then we we still need to move forward. And I'd ask that you would just Keep talking about it with me. Don't dismiss it outright by saying it's just a reform doctrine. It's a biblical doctrine. Don't just dismiss it. You believe in liability. In fact, consider another comparison made by the Apostle Paul. Therefore, as through one man's offense judgment came to all men, we've read that. Resulting in condemnation condemnation, even so through one man's righteous act. Do you see the comparison? Did you catch it? Here, listen to it again. This is exactly what I'm saying. Therefore, as through one man's offense judgment came to all men, resulting in condemnation, even so through one man's righteous act The free gift came to all men, resulting in justification of life. For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so also by one man's obedience many will be made righteous. You totally believe in liability. You believe in liability. You believe in imputation. And we just need to we need to be able to understand uh accept the bad. I understand it's very difficult to do that. Now here's the next step. Once you see imputation here, And you can see how Paul reads this text, and when he's reading it, when he wants to teach people, he talks about imputation. So we're gathering that from the context. But we can go a step further and we can start getting down now into the detail of what's going on here in this ancient uh inspired text. Here it is. Listen to this. Here's the question. If God imputes to us the guilt of Adam, then it stands to reason that we are guilty. And if you are guilty, then what will be the punishment? That's the question. What will be the punishment? It's laid out here for you in the text And it's strangely, once you're in Christ, it's and even before, when he's drawing you in and effectually calling you, it's strangely comforting to finally find somebody that has the correct diagnosis for all our human ills This explains everything. If God imputes to us the guilt of Adam, then we are guilty. And if we're guilty, then what will be the punishment? And that's what this text is. Punishment after punishment after punishment. Now you maybe have never put it under that category All of the ills of the human race are a punishment from God due to them being guilty from the imputed guilt of Adam. It's punishment. Punishment. The punishment for our imputed guilt can be summarized under a fourfold death. Now, there's other ways to characterize this, but fourfold sounds great. So we're going to say fourfold death. And I just want you to notice that in this, it's going to unfold throughout the rest of the scriptures that the curses here end up being far more plentiful as they're worked out in their details. than just the seed that we have here. In fact, it's just like when the Apostle James talks about sin, he says in James one, fourteen and fifteen, he says, But each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own desires and enticed. Then, when desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and sin, when it is fully grown, brings forth to death. Can you see the progress and the procession that takes place there relative to sin? It's like a seed that then sprouts, that then becomes a sapling, that becomes moderate size, that then becomes the grand old oak. Can you see that whole progress there? And that's what James gives us. It's the same thing here. We're going to see the seeds of the punishment, and they will be worked out throughout history in so many different forms. uh that they didn't even know then. By the time you get to Noah, it's the whole earth is is has to be uh wiped clean. So it's a seed developing into a full-grown plant, and the first seed that we see is in verse 19. In the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for dust you are, and to dust you shall return. And I'm calling this temporal death. The reason why you die and not just Adam is because Adam's guilt has been imputed to you and you are being punished for your guilt and one of those punishments is you will die. Every one of you, you will die. And our loved ones will die. But where do we feel this one? And they're not always going to die nice deaths, are they? They're not going to die while reading the book of Romans on their deathbed or something. With a cool breeze. It'll be a sometimes a hot, feverish deathbed That's the first punishment. And you can see in seed form later on in scripture, this is going to the vastness of this punishment will extend to eternity because we'll find out that there's not only a temporal death, but an eternal death. That although we will die and our souls will be separated from our bodies, when Jesus returns and there is a judgment, all will be raised before the eternal judgment. uh throne where he will separate the sheep from the goats and some will go on to eternal life and some to eternal death as punishment for guilt of sin. So it's i it's worse than just dust to dust. It's the dust will be brought back up, and then there will be the eternal judgment by Jesus Christ, who judges both the living and the dead. That's the fool tree of the temporal death. It turns into eternal death, which is a second death. The third death that you see is listed out mostly because it's the normal everyday stuff. You have what I would call the miserable death. And that's because there's misery. That's why I call it that. So there's miserable death, one after the other. Look at verse 10. Verse 10, so he said, I heard your voice in the garden And I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. Now there's a personal misery there that wasn't present before. There's psychological consternation. There's guilt, which then brings fear And there is pollution, that is to say, sin. He now has a stain upon him, and so now he feels shame. And those things were not a part of his human constitution before, and now he feels them to where he has to hide. Which is, you know, basically what we do. If you think of for instance, of um I don't know if many of you have dogs. But when I I grew up with Golden Retrievers and when we would come home and the dogs were hiding under the bed, it meant they were guilty of getting into the trash. It always meant that. They got into the trash. If you can't find the dogs, then look for the trash can to be torn all over the place. And that's exactly what's happening here with Adam, is the guilt was eating his soul alive, so he needed to hide. In addition, he knew that there he was now polluted, and so he felt the shame and the fear And that really ends up characterizing human life. And that's the miserable death just of personal misery. You can then get into relational misery. You can imagine once Your insides move into turmoil like that, that in verse 16, it's no wonder that we would see that the whole family is going to come under distress. When it says that she's going to give birth in pain, it's not just speaking about her at the moment of labor and then she's done, or hey, you know, we can take this one away because we now have epidurals That's part of it. Part of it is that there will be pain where there was no pain before, but it's going to continue. I mean, her one son will murder her other son just in the next chapter. That's the kind of pain that this mother felt And we all know that hardship. We know what it means to uh try to exist as a part of a family, how to raise children or get along with brothers or sisters or or to be on good terms with your mother or your father. There's this relational misery of not being able to have good friends, of middle school girls excluding one another. That all is a part of the punishment that God has given to us because Adam's sin has been imputed to us. It's all punishment. And then you have a vocational misery as if it weren't bad enough. And you think you could get some relief by doing something productive, you will be subjected to futility. You will reach to to to grab something and you'll be diverted. Um what a life. And then you have in verse 13 the final fourfold death, which is the spiritual death, which then perpetu perpetuates the entire thing. And the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me and I ate. So the Lord God said to the serpent, and it goes on about this war that will go between the two families. And here we see Eve already lying, and we see Adam hiding and having shame and trying to cover up his guilt with ill-legitimate and unlawful ways. But really what this ends this is a seed form, which will grow up later in what you read from Jesus earlier in the bulletin. That's the full oak tree. Jesus says that the number four death of the fourfold death is that humanity will have an internal disposition that will be inclined toward evil always. It comes natural to you as a fish in water. When you're not involved in sin, it's like a fish out of water. When you're a part of the natural human race. That too is a punishment. You have been punished by God for your sin with sin, with further sin. Now, can you believe that? You can look at that further in Romans chapter 1 if you want to. He says it right there. And starting in verse 18. Just read right on down. He says, because They would not listen to me. I gave them over to their lusts and their desires, and they got worse, and they got worse, and they got worse and they got worse He removed his restraining hand as a form of punishment, which is what he has done with us. Our entire disposition or nature has been changed. We are now predisposed toward all evil unless graciously restrained. By the time you get to chapter four, Cain will without remorse kill his brother. Without remorse before God. In the time of Noah, every thought of man will be continually bent toward evil. And then we heard what Jesus says. It's not what is outside that causes the impurity. It's what is inside that causes the impurity. And these are all the punishments that the human race has received. You can see how it begins to make sense your situation of the biblical account if you first realize our first point, which is the imputation of sin. Otherwise, God is just holding you accountable for what? Why is it that this has spread throughout the entire human race And it perpetuates because now that we have a nature that is sinful and we do sinful things, we now receive punishment for the actual sins that we do, and not just the ones that we have inherited from Adam. The imputation of sin is a very, very difficult thing to accept. I think mostly because our souls want to rail against it, not really intellectually. It's just hard to hear that about yourself, that you didn't win the victory, that Goliath is going to all, he's going to enslave every one of us. The smooth stones didn't work. But once we do, once we do see how the Apostle Paul speaks of the book of Genesis with the imputation of sin, we can then understand. Not only the punishment of Adam, but the punishment that the entire human race would feel and the fourfold death. And it begins to unfold how we would understand our lives. Why is it that there are all these things going on It's because we're under a curse, we're under punishment. Now let me bring us to a close with this. This is the great diagnosis of the human malady. And so it becomes a foundation stone for the church. Have you ever been to the doctor and been misdiagnosed? It's not a good thing. They treat you for something that you didn't have. You know that happens sometimes with pink eye? You have to make a determination whether it's bacterial or viral, right? And then it determines which antibiotic you get or how they treat that, is that correct? Yeah. You're not sure. Okay. Yeah. Well you get the point. It's the same thing here. You have to get the diagnosis correctly, otherwise you'll s spend all your money on things that don't address the problem whatsoever. And here We have these uh this perfect diagnosis that God has given to us. Now there are other diagnoses out there And I think that we have accepted them sometimes because we can be ashamed of this diagnosis. I mean who would you like to end the four deaths? Doesn't some smart professor eventually come out with some new solution to end the four deaths? Wasn't technology supposed to do this? In the sixties movement, wasn't peace, love and harmony supposed to just take care of this? Or whatever it was. Really, what we need here and what we're given is the ability as a church to now diagnose the problem correctly, and so we can become great artists in treating people. And treating our culture. Here's the art of treatment. Number one, you're not allowed to treat the symptoms. When you leave here today, you can't treat the symptoms. The fourfold death are the symptoms. And people end up treating the symptoms, and you can treat the symptoms with all kinds of stuff. Psychological consternation or loneliness Well, we could just start hanging out more. We could get on Facebook. We could get on Instagram. In order for me to feel some greater connection. You're only treating the symptom The Bible says you have to go one step back to the cause. So if you're going to be a good diagnostician in your life and the lives of others, number one, don't treat the symptoms. In other words, don't treat the deaths. the fourfold deaths. Just know that they're there. And number two, you have to find the underlying cause underneath of the fourfold death. And what is it? It's punishment. Now our culture says that the reason why we experience this is because we all have chemical imbalances and that therefore we just need medication. Now that is partially true because of the fall, is that we do struggle with chemical imbalances. But can you say that it's the that it's the whole problem and that medication is the whole solution? Is that really a legitimate account? Of course not. I'm ashamed of that answer. I'm ashamed of thinking medicine is the total the total solution. What about your poor upbringing? Your problem is that you had a poor mom and you had a poor dad. Your mom drank too much or whatever it was. That's what the problem was That's what the problem is with the whole world, if we could just have good parents. Now, because of the fall, because of the punishment that is on us, we have bad parents sometimes. And we end up being bad parents sometimes. But is that really the problem? Is that the real diagnosis? Or isn't that just a part of the symptoms? Or sometimes they say poor education. Do you know how much money we pour into education? Why do we put so much money into education? It's because we think we end well, number one, we treat it like a business and then someone gets rich off of it. But two, it's because we think that there's a solution in education Now I understand that we need to be educated, and that is also a symptom of the fall, is our lack of knowledge or whatever it might be, but we can't you know it's ridiculous to take it to the nth degree and think it's the the whole problem. And then there's really what our culture is saying these days is there really is no problem. It's just an illusion. This is life, buddy. Eat, drink, and be merry. And I'm ashamed of that answer too. Because that doesn't justify anything that I feel or think. And the things that I'm thinking and feeling are really important If life is just an illusion, for instance, the things that I felt about the death of my stepfather, or the death of my uncle, or the things that you feel about your relatives when they die, that's just an illusion too. Didn't mean anything. We're unwilling to accept that. None of these are sufficient causes to be able to explain our situation. But what I would ask you to consider and to accept is what the scriptures are giving you this morning, and that is that God is punishing the human race for their guilt, their guilt, both that which they inherit from Adam and what we actually perform And that this ends up explaining all of our misery, all of our deaths, our temporal death, our eternal death, our spiritual death, and our miserable death. Are you ashamed of this account? Do you think he's being too harsh? Do you know how long he's upheld this punishment and this curse on the human race? Are you ashamed of his justice? Are you ashamed of his sense of justice on how long he would do this? Number three, in diag in diagnosing, number one, don't treat the symptoms. Two, find the underlying cause, and number three, treat the cause if you have a remedy. This is where the comfort comes in. If you would have chosen any of the other diagnoses, poor upbringing, chemical imbalance, poor education, or it's just an illusion, then you will find a solution relative to that Right? Chemical imbalance medicine, poor education, educational reform, etc. But what if the problem is punishment What if is that God has placed a curse on humanity? Then what's the solution? There is only one solution that has been revealed in all of the world, and that is Jesus Christ. Can you believe it? When you follow the path, although it's difficult to accept being liable for someone else's sin and becoming guilty and fearful and shameful if you keep Following the path, you end up at a true remedy for all of the deaths. If you were to look through the scriptures, every single death loses its sting. There will at one day be no more temporal death. You will have eternal life and not eternal death. Every tear will be wiped away from your eye. You will no longer sin. But will be inclined to good, everything that is beautiful for all of your eternal life. And it is all through Jesus the Christ. If you can hang on and not uh unbelieve or disbelieve or be ashamed of his justice. If you can hang on and believe in the imputation, you can get to Jesus. Otherwise you just get the Xanax. Or you get to college. And everyone feels empty with that. We've all tried those kind of things. I want to draw your attention to the words of the final song in just a minute, but I want to ask one more kind of probing question for you. Are you ashamed? Are you ashamed of what God is doing here? This is his wise plan. That we would be imputed with guilt and that we would find freedom from our guilt. We would find justification in Jesus Christ. Are you ashamed of that? This is a tough question. This is a really tough one I have to keep asking myself because I think I am ashamed. I'll tell you why. When Holly tells me that I've done something sinful, and I know that I have, I don't confess my sin. I refuse to acknowledge that I'm a sinner. Tell me that's not being ashamed of what's being revealed here. Why not embrace it and then say, and thank you again, Jesus? Because I'm a total mess. Every opportunity that someone brings sin up to you, and it's truly sin, you're truly guilty, it's another opportunity for you to profess the goodness of Jesus Christ. He is your justification and he is your life. You can stand before the Father because of him. You no longer need to be fearful or stricken with shame all the time. You can confess it freely because there's a free solution, a free remedy. This is Christianity. This is his justice, and this is his sin, or this is our sin. You can see this in our final hymn that we're going to be reading. I just want you to see these words so that you can begin preparing yourselves to sing these. With real meaning. Jesus, thy blood and righteousness, my beauty are my glorious dress. Midst flaming worlds in these arrayed, with joy shall I lift up my head. Bold shall I stand in thy great day, for who aught to my charge shall lay? Fully absolved from these I am, from sin and fear and guilt and shame When from the dust of death I rise to claim my mansion in the skies, even then this shall be all my plea. Jesus hath lived, hath died for me. You get the gospel message Isn't it beautiful