Now when he rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven demons. She went and told those who had been with him as they mourned and wept. And when they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they did not believe. After that he appeared in another form to two of them as they walked and went into the country. And they went and told it to the rest. But they did not believe them either. Later, he appeared to the eleven as they sat at the table, and he rebuked their unbelief and hardness of heart Because they did not believe those who had seen him after he had risen. And he said to them, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. He who believes and is baptized will be saved. But he who does not believe will be condemned. And these signs will follow those who believe. In my name, they will cast out demons They will speak with new tongues. They will take up serpents. And if they drink anything deadly, it will by no means hurt them. They will lay hands on the sick, and they will recover. So then, after the Lord had spoken to them, he was received up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God. And they went out and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the word through the accompanying signs. Amen. Please pray with me. Our gracious and holy God. You alone are God. You are the only true and living God, and we are here to worship you. Help us to worship you with our attention. Attention to your word. Fill us with your spirit so that your word would not be confusing to us, but would indeed be life-giving and transforming. We need you. We need your word. We need what you have preserved and recorded for us. And we beg you that for Christ's sake, you will hear our prayer and you will bless us through the preaching of your word. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength, my rock, and my redeemer. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. Do you know what a coincidence is? A coincidence is when God chooses to remain anonymous. It was an amazing coincidence this morning. My opening illustration is exactly what Elder Horner started our service with. Why are you here? Why has God brought you here? Why are you on planet Earth? Why are you alive? If you are a Christian, why do you have new life in Christ? How often As Brother Chase has reminded us, are we distracted from this, our true purpose? From realizing why God has given us the breath of life. Why he has given us a soul and why he has redeemed our soul from the pit. We are so distracted because we get caught up in our own lives We get caught up in the life that God has given us, and we forget what truly matters most. We forget what should be at the very top of our life's priority list, the very top of our life. of the hierarchy of goods in our life. We forget. Oh Lord forgive us. We forget about Christ We forget about his kingdom because we live for ourselves. And we live for our own kingdom. Well just as a way of reminder, last week we were looking at the first few verses of this section, verses nine through fourteen. And we saw that there is only one right response when you are presented with gospel testimony. When the Lord God brings into your life someone who is sharing the truth about Jesus Christ, how are you to respond? You must respond with faith. You must believe. You must believe that he is king. You must believe that he has established his kingdom and that his kingdom is here. That his kingdom has come. You must believe that he does save sinners. And that he does adopt into his household those whom he has saved. And so this morning we're going to look at the rest of this passage. Did you notice in our uh larger catechism question that it says, we are made heirs of all the promises And fellow heirs with Christ in glory. He saved you to an inheritance. And that should give you great joy. That you are a co-inheritor with Christ because of his grace and mercy. But I wonder if you have realized that you've inherited more And simply well I say simply more than the glorious future that is ours. You have inherited work. You have inherited a good work And it is the work of Jesus Christ that He's left to you to do here on earth. You have inherited a responsibility That comes with your faith, the faith that He has given you. Before all the world, you must proclaim Christ. And so we look at the rest of this passage. This long ending of Mark, the Other Great Commission And I pray that by the Holy Spirit we will see that Christians have the great responsibility of bearing witness to the greatness of God. Brothers and sisters, you have the great responsibility of bearing witness to the greatness of your God. We're going to look at this under three headings this morning. We'll examine first in verses fifteen to sixteen our great responsibility. And then we'll see in verses seventeen and eighteen our witness And then together we'll look at verses 19 to 20 and see our great God. Let's start in verses 15 and 16 with our great responsibility, and we'll see That it is the Great Commission. Look at verse fifteen. And he said to them Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. What a mission I know Pastor Jesse brought this out in his sermon series on the Great Commission. This is why it's called Great. It's great because it's an It's a seemingly impossible task. It's great because you get to have a part in it. And this mission is that you, having received faith, having responded to gospel testimony by believing, it's not just that you say in your head, Oh yeah, that sounds good. I think it's true. It's not that you have given mental assent to a bunch of syllogisms or truth statements. It is that you actually believe that Jesus is the King of all the universe. And you now live that truth. You live that faith. And you live it before all the world. Now it's important that we understand something that's happening here. Go is not an imperative in the Greek. Go as a participle. And there's an assumption here. It's an attendant circumstance. Having gone into all the world, you will be in all the world. And it's important we recognize this because if you're anything like me, for ten years after God grabbed hold of my life, And humbled me and made me see that he is king and I am not. I thought that this commission was only to those who go out into the world. Because the command is to go. So this is only for missionaries. It's not. Sorry, not sorry. This command is for you. This is what Christ is expecting of all of us. That having gone into all the world, wherever you are, wherever he puts you. That is where you two are. Heed the command of this great commission. And what is the command? Preach. Preach. Proclaim. Proclaim the gospel. Declare to the world what we have sung. He took on flesh, the fullness of God and helpless babe. He went to the cross. He suffered for you. He was stricken and smitten and afflicted for you Is it true? Can it be true that God Himself would humble Himself, humiliate Himself, so that He could be broken For you does that not fill your heart with a kind of holy longing, a longing to be more for Christ Alonging to be less distracted for Christ. belonging to live your faith, the truth that you believe, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, that he is the King. And so you must live what you believe. Live as it is true. Preach the gospel. And you're to preach it to all preachers. To every creature. Could also be translated to the whole of creation. Why does the whole of creation need to know this? Because the whole of creation has been messed up by our sin. The whole of creation is groaning. And waiting and longing for the restoration that Jesus Christ is accomplishing. We preach to all creation, to every creature. There is no prejudice. There is no limit. You as Christians cannot look at a single person and say, Well, I I can tell by the number of piercings on their face that they do not they will not receive this gospel. I can tell by all those tattoos that they will not hear what I have to say. I can tell by the sin that they are shouting at me. And by the way, they love their sin, that they won't receive the gospel. No, that is not for us to decide. Because the command here from our Savior is preach. The gospel to everyone, to every creature. And we can see how this coincides with the Great Commission for Matthew, can't we? Every tribe, tongue, and nation, from them we shall make disciples. That is our great commission, which is our great responsibility, the responsibility of faith. And our great message is the gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ. He has risen from the dead, just as he said, just as he taught his disciples. He has paid the price to redeem you. As we saw in our assurance of pardon, he blots out your transgressions. Because you're so wonderful. No. For my own sake. Not of anything you can do, or anything you have done, or anything you will do. It's for his own glory that he saves anyone. He gives faith. And he overpowers our rebellious hearts and our rebellious minds. And he enables us to flee to Christ. To flee to the gospel. And here in verse 16, we see that is the gospel. Do you see it there? He who believes and is baptized will be saved. But he who does not believe will be condemned. This isn't an instruction manual. These are participles as well. Those who are believing. Those who having believed. Those who having been baptized. And there's there's enough for us that we could we could focus just on verse 16 for the rest of the week. And I'll make time for that if somebody wants to. We could gather every morning and go through verse sixteen over and over and over again. But for our purposes this morning, would you see That is the gospel that God saves the sinners, that He gives faith and believing in the good news that Jesus Christ died for your sins. He transforms you and he adopts you. Why is baptism here Is baptism mentioned because it's a requirement for salvation? You must be baptized in order to be saved? R. C. Sprohl points it out in his commentary and in his sermons a very good way of looking at this. No, of course that can't be the case, because then Jesus lied to that man on the cross next to him When he said, Today, today, you will be with me. Baptism is not required, and we see that it's not required because it's not repeated. In the next half of that verse. But baptism is good. Baptism points our minds to the covenant promises of God. It is the sign of his covenant. And so it's saying that those who have received faith, who believe the truth about Jesus Christ, and who have been adopted into his household, his covenant family. Those will be saved. They shall be saved. Set free from bondage to sin and to death. The covenant is for you, brothers and sisters. It is for your children. It is true. It is true, and you can rely on it because God has verified it in raising Jesus Christ from the dead God saves sinners because he is merciful and gracious, long-suffering, full of compassion. That's who your God is. But we do have to pay attention to this other side of verse sixteen. Those who having not believed, those who are not believers, they will be condemned. If this begins to make you think negatively about your God, I have two words for you. Stop it. There is no wickedness in our God. This is a sign of his goodness. Because the wicked will not go unpunished. The evil that you mourn as you look out into the world and see terrible things happening, it won't be that way forever. Because there is a condemnation for those who are not believing. There is a punishment for sin. God will not be mocked. He will not be fooled. Elder Vaughn was talking about those YouTube videos. The algorithm likes to show me street preachers. Algorithm likes to show me people who are In some ways sharing the gospel. And often there's a a question Let's ask for them. Right? Well, if Hitler said he believes in Jesus, would he go to heaven? No. Because you must believe. To be saved, you must believe You must be a keeper of the covenant. You must be in Christ Jesus. And it's not just words that you say. It is a life that you live, a life of faith, the life in Christ. So I ask you, brothers and sisters, do you have faith? Do you believe Do you believe what the Bible says about God? That He is the only God? We read that from Isaiah 45. And there is no other God besides me, a just God and a Savior. Do you believe what the Bible says about you? That you are a sinner in desperate need of salvation. That there is nothing you can do to save yourself. Do you believe the good news of the gospel? Then live it. Live like it. Live by the grace of the Holy Spirit, depending upon Him that you will be That you will speak, that you will think, that you will act as a follower of Jesus Christ. Because that is the great responsibility of faith, and that is the great gift and privilege that you have. God will use you. God will use your life. And what does he use your life for? He uses it to bear witness to the gospel. So now let's look at the second section here in verses 17 to 18, which is our witness. And these signs will follow those who believe. In my name they will cast out demons, they will speak with new tongues, they will take up serpents, and if they drink anything deadly it will by no means hurt them. They will lay hands on the sick, and they will recover. A lot of people have made a lot of nonsense and mess about these verses. And that's what Satan does. Satan tries. Tries to convince people that If you're not seeing this in your life exactly as you imagine it should be, then you're not safe. But the reality here is that what Jesus is telling us is that our witness is to the reality of God. He is real. There are signs of his power that will accompany the believing. You don't need to convince anyone. You just need to believe and to live that belief. Whose power is at work in these signs? The believers' powers? Is that what's being said here? Is if you believe you then have power to do all this, that's not what it says These signs will accompany, will follow the believers. It is his power to serve his purpose. And that power is real. The power that he's given to Christ. I'm so glad that not long ago Pastor Jesse took us through Philippians. At the end of Philippians 2, verses 1 through 11, we have that marvelous statement. Every knee will bow. Every tongue will confess. What? That the name above all names has been given to Jesus. That he is Jehovah, he is God, and it is his name that has the power. Satan and his demons cannot withstand the power of the real God, of your real God. And it's a power over spiritual forces, power over principalities. The armor of God is yours. You have the armor of God. There's a power for proclamation. For the proclamation of the truth, they will speak with new tongues. Some take this to mean that you can make up a language, you can make up syllables. Shouldabada Ford Bhabada Hamda. You can say whatever you want. And somehow that is a fulfillment of this sign. That's a sign of the power of God. That's not what is being said here. That's not what happens at Pentecost. It is a sign of God's power that with a new tongue you will speak. New concepts that the world has never known, you will be able to articulate them by the grace of God. New ideas that the world will reject. You will be able to speak those ideas. Or just think about the Word of God itself. How many thousands, tens of thousands of languages has the Bible been translated into? New tongues there. New languages that didn't exist. If you've gone to the Museum of the Bible, you've seen that they There are some translators who had to create a written language in order to put the Bible into the mother tongue of a group of people. Cyril did this when he created Cyrillic. For what purpose? For greater unity and political cohesion? Nope. It was for the word of God to go forth. There is a power for dominion. It says that they will take up surface. Does that mean that you will be able to grab snakes? And that they will will do what you say? No. This is the power of dominion that Adam should have exercised. Taking a serpent out of the garden, the garden he was given to care for. What garden has God given you to care for? In the garden that God's given you, this will follow your faith in Christ, that you will have his power to take up serpents and to remove wicked, evil influences in your garden But in case you were wondering, has this ever been fulfilled? Well yeah, these these have been fulfilled. Remember Paul in Malta? He's making a fire? The snake jumped out, bit him, hung on to him. Do you remember what everybody said? Oh, he must be a terrible guy. This is Job 2. 0 over here. He's awful. He's gonna die. He shakes the snake off. Was that the end of Paul's ministry? Thank God, no. There's another aspect to this that we need to pay attention to. And if you have your Bibles, I would encourage you to turn to Ephesians chapter 5 I'm gonna read a section for us, verses eight through fourteen. Ephesians chapter five, verses eight through fourteen. For you were once darkness. You were once darkness. But now You are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness, righteousness, and truth, finding out what is acceptable to the Lord And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them. For it is shameful even to speak of those things which are done by them in secret. But all things that are exposed are made manifest by the light. For whatever makes manifest is light. Therefore he says, awake you who sleep. Arise from the dead, and Christ will give you light. Those who believe will expose the unprofitable works of darkness, the unfruitful works of darkness. The way that Satan tells the world to live, you will expose that by living the faith you have received. By living the truth of the gospel. We see in the beginning of verse 18 that there is a power of God in preservation. There's an interesting thing happening here in the Greek. There's a an adjective for deadly things. And there's a verb for consume or imbibe. And so here it's been translated to drink a deadly poison. Or drink anything deadly. But this can also be understood as if you take in to yourself something that is harmful or something that could be deadly. And if you've been distracted by those YouTube shorts, there's plenty of deadly things that will go into you. Those distractions can fill our hearts and our minds with things that are not good for us. But there is a special protection for God's people. God has a special power of protection for those who believe. We've definitely seen some special protection of God's gospel ministers, haven't we? If you would turn with me to Second Corinthians chapter eleven. Second Corinthians chapter eleven. We see this in the Apostle Paul's life. Now I know Paul is going to go through a list, verses 22 through 29, and he says all these things. And he says it to them because there's others who are boasting, boasting that they are more believer, they are more faithful, they are more blessed by God And what Paul says confirms what we see in this verse. Starting in verse 22. Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they the seed of Christ? I speak as a fool. I am more. In labor is more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons more frequently, in deaths often. In deaths, often. From the Jews, five times I received forty stripes minus one. I don't think I could have received forty strikes minus one one time. But I know if I am on God's mission. If I am working for the king of all the universe, what should kill me doesn't have to What should be harmful will not harm. Three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked a night and a day I've been in the deep. In journeys often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils of my own countrymen, in perils of the Gentiles, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren, in weariness and toil. In sleeplessness often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness, besides the other things. What comes upon me daily, my deep concern for all the churches. Who is weak? And I am not weak. Who is made to stumble? And I do not burn with indignation. Paul is evidence to us of that special power of protection that God gives to his believers And to those who have been called and are fulfilling, are on mission, fulfilling the responsibility of the faith that they have been given. And lastly, we see here, at the end of verse 18, that our witness is to the power of God's provision. They will lay hands on the sick and they will recover. Literally, they will have wellness. Christian Many people will try to make themselves appear great. A lot of those clips of those street preachers, I see them doing this, laying on hands and declaring things. It's a dangerous thing to do. For it's entirely up to God whether He will spare a person from their physical malady or heal an illness. It is not our power It is God's power. And all of you have an amazing gift to give the world. Do you know what that gift is? It is the gospel. The sickest body, the most frail and weak, and fragile and vulnerable person, if their body were healed. Miraculously restored and strengthened. It is worthless if their soul is condemned. It is worthless. You have the gospel to give. You have the greatest wellness that anyone can ever have. And God has given you the great privilege of participating in His work and putting that gift out to others and proclaiming it. Do not be afraid. Do not be anxious to go and do great things for God. Don't be scared to encounter anyone or any situation. Because it's not your power or power in you that you have to prove, is it? It is not your purpose. To convince or to amaze or to impress. What are you to do? Live. Live by faith. Live that Christ is real. Preach Christ. It's all about Christ. It's all about him. Preach Christ, live by faith, and God will do what God will do. You're not perfect and you don't have to be. And I believe Satan wants all of us to feel powerless in this command. Powerless to go and preach the gospel. Powerless. to proclaim the truth of Christ. He wants you to believe that. Because when we're powerless and when we feel weak, what do we do? When you're hurting, what do you do? Do you sit? Do you rest? Do you put your feet up? Do you wait? Do you wonder? When you feel weak, and somebody says, I need you to go do X. What's your first thought? I can't do that. I can't do that. I don't have the strength for that. Satan wants you to believe that you don't have the strength for the Great Commission. And I'm here to tell you, he's right. You don't. It's not your strength, it's not your power, it's not your might that will convince the world You live as one who has been convinced by God. You live as one who believes the gospel. And the power comes from him. And he will confirm his word. Our responsibility is to proclaim the truth. Because the truth is that there's only one who has the power to save. And it's not you, and it's not me. It's Jesus Christ. And all the world needs to heed his first sermon in Mark. Mark 1, verse 15. What is the first sermon that Mark records from Jesus Christ? Repent and believe the gospel. Submit to Christ. And those who have faith have the responsibility to bear witness to the power of God. To the greatness of our God. Let's wrap up by looking at verses 19 and 20. Verse 19. So then, after the Lord had spoken to them, he was received up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God. Our God is great because our God is faithful to his promises, faithful to what he has said he will do. In John chapter 14, Jesus says this himself, verses one through four. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. I will come again and receive you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also. God is faithful to his gospel promise that where he is, that's where you will be. With him in the perfect new heavens and earth. No pain, no tears, no more sorrow, no more death. God is faithful. He is great in his faithfulness. In Mark 14, verse 62, that is Jesus' answer to the Sanhedrin. The high priest asked him, saying to him, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus said, I am, and you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power. Coming with the clouds of heaven. As Mark is telling us here, that is true. Jesus Christ has ascended. He has been received up into heaven. He has been enthroned on high. As Matthew put it in his commission All authority on earth and in heaven is given to Jesus. And that is what we believe. That is what the Apostles' Creed says. I believe in God the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth, and in Jesus Christ, his Son, our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Ghost born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead, and buried. He descended into Hades. The third day, he rose again from the dead. He did what? Ascended into heaven and sits On the right hand of God the Father Almighty. And from thence he shall come to judge the living and the dead. This is what you believe, Christian. And that is what the world needs. The only great God. Your great God is with you in this. The living God is with you. He will never leave you nor forsake you. He is with you always, even to the end of the age, as it says in Matthew's two. And this is where he is. Look at verse 20. And they went out and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them. And confirming the word through the accompanying signs, Amen. The apostles obeyed. The church grew, and God is glorified. It actually happened. This is true. But there is a church in Millersville, Maryland is proof of it. That there are churches anywhere is proof of it. And God was at work through them, and God is and will be at work through you He will confirm your witness. He will confirm your gospel testimony as you obey the Great Commission. He will send his power. The power that saves sinners. And what a great gift we have to be part of that. You get to be part of that. Now you don't you don't save anyone. You don't get to have a tally of the people that you have saved. But I do love when we have that term, a very churchy, Christian East term. Has anybody ever said to you, brought to Christ? Did you have you brought anyone to Christ? That's a better way to think of it. You bring someone into the presence of Jesus Christ because Jesus Christ is with you. In you, I'm not sure. It can't be about us, brothers and sisters. Because then we will never do this. All of you know that you're limited. You're limited in time and your resources, limited in what you can commit to, limited in your uh mental bandwidth, limited in your energy, limited in your desire Limited in your love for others. Limited in your experience, limited in your knowledge, limited in your theological acumen, whatever it is. Every one of us is limited. Satan knows it. And he tries to convince you that because you are still a sinner That because you are still weak, that because you are inadequate to the great task before you, that you might as well just not try. Satan wants you to believe that you cannot be used by God to bear witness to his great things. But you can because it's not about you. You can because if someone believes And is adopted into God's household and brought into the church, it is not because of anything you will have done. It will be because of God's sovereign grace and his great power and his choice to work through you. It's because of Jesus that anyone is saved. And so bring people to Jesus. Live the life of faith. Live as God has revealed in His Word. Because He will confirm the word through you Though you will fail at many things, you will take up serpents. You will expose darkness. You will not be harmed. Though things may hurt you, though you may be in pain and you may suffer. It will not harm your witness. Because Christ will work through you. It is not about us. It is not about you. It is not about me. It is not about Fever and Run. It is not about one church. It is about the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he commands you, go. And bear witness to the greatness of God that is seen on this planet now in the Church of Jesus Christ. It is only and always about Christ. Brothers and sisters, He to the Great Commission The command God's given you: live for Christ, serve Christ, preach Christ. And God will confirm your faith. Please pray it with me