Uh through the apostle that he has chosen and the Holy Spirit who inspired him to write these words. Now when he had departed from there, he went into the to their synagogues, and behold there was a man who had a withered hand, and he asked him, saying, And they asked him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath, that they might accuse him? And then he said to them, What man is there among you who has one sheep? And if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, we'll not lay hold of it and and lift it out. Of how much more value then is a man than a sheep? And therefore it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath. When he said to the man, Stretch out your hand, and he stretched it out, and it was restored as a whole, as the other. And then the Pharisees went out and plotted against him how they may destroy him But when Jesus knew it, he withdraw from and withdrew from there. And great multitudes followed him, and he healed them all Yet he warned them not to make him known, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, Behold, my servant, whom I have chosen. My beloved, in whom my soul is well pleased I will put my spirit upon him, and he will declare justice to the Gentiles. He will not quarrel nor cry out, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break. A smoking flax he will not quench till he sends forth justice to victory And in his name, in his name, Gentiles will trust. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. I'll make it very clear to you right off the bat. It is my purpose to you today to show forth to you the excellencies of Christ. And we may touch on other applications that is inevitable when we speak of Christ. For I must call you, as we speak of Christ and His perspective and His perfections, I must call upon you to respond to that. And I must call upon you to respond to that as the Father wants you to respond to it But those applications are incidental to my main purpose. For it is my desire that from among us today not one leaves this sanctuary without having pondered to Christ. Whether for the first time, perhaps, or just in a renewed and refreshing light. But the goal remains the same. I want us to see Jesus and get a taste of his perfection. In many ways I think that is something that we need to do every day. Of course it is not something that is reserved just for Sunday, but it is something that I believe all too often we neglect. Brothers and sisters, we've had terrible news filling our minds and thoughts this week. An arrogant contradiction and rebellion to both the will and to the word of God, our highest court has affirmed the union of homosexual couples as a valid marriage. Many of us wonder whether the depths of depravity that is present among us will motivate God to cease tolerating what is going on and bring judgment upon our land This most recent act on top of the extermination of unborn children that has been going on for years in our church and our nation seems to be sufficient reason. The mass killings that we see about us on both sides of the ocean, done in the name of false religion and idolatry, fill us with competing emotions. On one hand I'm speaking for myself, I think I speak for you also. There's on one hand the anger that rises up in us and even hatred at those who would do such things, but on the other hand there is fear Fear for where this is all headed. Has God given us over to Satan Is the literal Antichrist beginning to run rampant through our world? Are we on the verge of mass tribulations such as what the world has never seen before? Will our children and our grandchildren have to go through times That make the Great Depression look like a cakewalk. These things can occupy our minds. They can sneak into our subconscious And we find ourselves spiraling down into a spiritual depression. We're tempted in the face of such massive bad news. To give up hope, to lose it altogether. We despair that there is any joy in this world, and in the words of the preacher, we think it's all vanity, everything under the sun. Is vanity. Our spiritual life, as a result, our prayer life, our everyday walk with Christ becomes bland. Perhaps even robotic, we're going through the motions. Why? Because we've lost sight of the greatness of God When we think of God at all, when we're in such a circumstance, it is only in terms of some immediate relief that we may be seeking. We have some passing concern, and we want Him to help us with something. This problem, this difficulty, this personal distress, our immediate lives, our immediate circumstances pushes all other things out of our consideration because the other stuff that's out there is just too big, it's too horrible. Maybe God, if he can't fix all of those things out there, at least he can help me with a little something here. And that leads us into those pits of helplessness, a sense of hopelessness that can strip us of our joy. But here in these words, the Holy Spirit calls us away from a preoccupation with self. And he reminds us that it is not our lives that should be the central focus of our thoughts. Rather, it is the life of Christ, the person of Christ, that should fill us. This alone, brothers and sisters, will banish our fears. This alone will answer to the despair that seeks to overwhelm us. This alone will give us hope in the face of a whole world that seems to have gone bananas. Filling our minds with the excellencies of Christ is the pathway to life, hope, and joy. And it is to that end that I hope to direct us today. Matthew's entire gospel Can be summed up under the heading, The Time is Fulfilled. Indeed, that is the title of this sermon series. Matthew is concerned to present to us Jesus, the Christ of God. Who has fulfilled all of the expectations and promises that God has given to the Israelite people over the thousands of years that preceded his arrival. And so he quotes the Old Testament quite a bit He wants us to see Jesus in terms of that amazing, those amazing, glorious, joyful promises that God has given to the ancient people going all the way back to Genesis 3. 15. And in this particular passage today, we see perhaps the central fulcrum, if you will, that on which the entire, all of the Gospel of Matthew rotates. This is the longest quote from the Old Testament in Matthew. And Matthew's arrangement of the materials to introduce this quote. gives us a clue to why he how he understands it and how the Holy Spirit has led him to teach us how to understand it also. In the immediate context of this quote, we see various concerns that are raised. There's the question of the Sabbath. There's the depravity and murderous anger of the Pharisees. And we see people gathered with those immediate concerns for their life that they come seeking Jesus to Jesus seeking to have their life either healed or made better or whatever. But these things are not to be the focus of the understanding that this passage gives Because you see here all of those things, even those the murderous intent of the Pharisees, or the issues of life that are reflected in the people, or else even the great theological questions such as the uh the nature of the Sabbath. Those are all things that are common in this fallen world, and they are present in every age. They are present from the time of Christ right down to today. And Matthew here, through the Holy Spirit, calls us to rise above those things as our central preoccupation. He draws our attention away from those things as they were manifested in the lives, the context, the events that were going on at the time that he is Quoting here, he draws us away from that and focuses us on this Old Testament quote from Isaiah And it is as if he is telling us, here is your hope, here is your joy, here is your comfort in the face of the various and manifold evil that is in this world. Look to Jesus. Look to Jesus and see that He is the beloved servant of God. Let the wonder of that, the amazing truth of it, fill your heart and your mind. You see, that's why Jesus came. He came so that we may know his perfections, so that we may know him. That we may know God's perfect work that was done and is being done in Him Matthew's arrangement of materials, I believe, shifts our focus and is intentionally designed to draw us away from the terrors and the concerns of life so that we may be preoccupied with the person of Christ. That we may be preoccupied with the perfections of Christ. as the blessed servant of God. We see all this in verse 17, and it is to that which I would direct your attention. For there he says, Jesus did this, and he's pointing to something, and I'll get to it in just a minute, and he says, he did this so that it may be fulfilled. Which was said by Isaiah the Prophet. Now, what specifically is he pointing to there That proves in his mind and for us that Jesus is indeed the subject of Isaiah's prophecies, and that these things going along should be understood in terms of what Isaiah said Well, the immediate context is Jesus' actions and teachings. And what we see there is him withdrawing from contention with the Pharisees. The Pharisees have decided to kill him. Jesus cuts off the debate. He goes away He goes off to another place, and what we see is huge crowds of people coming to him. And it seems like every one of them has a problem they want Jesus to fix. And amazingly here, don't pass over it, Matthew says, he healed them all. Yeah, that was a big day's work, I think. All who were bruised reeds, all who were smoldering, smoldering flax or a dimly burning candlewick All who had that sense of vulnerability and exposure to death, they came to him. And rather than sending them away, rather than turning a deaf ear saying, look, I'm tired, it's been a long day, go away. No. He comforted them, and he healed them, and he made their lives better. But if that had been his major purpose, if if he had come into this world to do those things and to have his ministry and his life interpreted in terms of doing those good things Of healing our hurts and being the God who is with there and preoccupied with making our lives better and taking away the things that bug us and hurt us If that had been his primary purpose in daily life, then he would not have then told them as they left, go, but don't tell anybody what I have done. Don't make me known as being just a healer of your daily hurts. Don't make me known as coming to provide healing and help. I have compassion on you. Of course I do. I want to heal and to help you. Yes, but there's more at stake here than just that. I come for a greater purpose than just those things. And I don't want my message, the message of my person to get lost in a lesser theme. What Jesus was doing was controlling the message. His major purpose was not to quarrel with the Pharisees. As it is not our major purpose to quarrel with the idiots who are making such ridiculous claims to what is good and what is not good in the world about us It is what we have to do, but it is not our major purpose. No matter how messed up these Pharisees were, it was not Jesus' major purpose to set them straight. Isaiah says that the Messiah will not quarrel. So Jesus simply withdrew. From this engagement with the Pharisees. He took it up later when it was forced to do. He never avoided a confrontation. But it was not what he was seeking. Isaiah says that the Messiah will not cry out, he will not make his voice known in the streets. And Jesus didn't come to make a big splash, if you will, as if he was Someone selling his wares, pushing a cart down the street, yelling up to the people in the windows, saying, Come down here, let me heal you. Come on down here. Physician Jesus is here. Come on out. I've got things to sell you. Come here. He didn't do that. People selling their stuff would cry out in the streets. That's how they advertise. And Jesus didn't do that. Rather, he said, Go and don't tell anyone what I have done. Thus it is that we see in that those applications, those recognition. That is how Matthew through the Holy Spirit saw the link to this passage in Isaiah. Because rather than doing those things, Jesus was going about humbly, doing good, being submissive to God. And that is the link that we are to see. That is how we are to direct our thoughts to Isaiah. So that we pick up the major teaching that Isaiah himself has about the person of Christ, that is what the Holy Spirit through Matthew wants us to understand too. Matthew directs us to Isaiah 42, 1 through 4, so that we may see Jesus as the perfect servant of God. And that is how we are to understand all of our questions and all of our fears and all of our concerns about life in this world to be answered. For all the promises of God are yea and amen to the glory of God through us. The perfections of Christ, or how he perfectly answers to all of God's promises, and brings about the glory of God through us, brothers and sisters, through us. That's what the passage says that Paul teaches in 2 Corinthians. No matter what is going on in this world, no matter what is going on in our lives, no matter what it is that may be preoccupying us, God is glorifying Himself Through us, because Jesus was and is the perfect servant of God. Amen. Now let that sink deep. Look at how Isaiah presents the Christ as being the pr as being perfect in God's sight and how God wants us to see him as perfect also. Look at verse 18. Behold. Look, consider my servant, whom I have chosen, my beloved the one in whom my soul is well pleased. God the Father, speaking through Isaiah, says, look. When things are tough, when things are hard, when things seem to be out of control, look See what I see and see it from my perspective, God says. Open your eyes to what is really true. That is what God wants us to do. This is my servant, the one I have chosen. This is my beloved. This is the one in whom I, my soul, is well pleased Now, brothers and sisters, if we let that sink into our heart, let it fill our minds, we see that the perfection of Christ has to be there because God would not make such an expression of total affection, total commitment. total delight in anything that was less than perfect. Jesus fills the whole bill. That is where the perfections of Christ are established in this passage. Only someone who is perfect in every regard could have such things said of him apart from the grace of God. Jesus was perfect in God's sight, not because God showed him grace, but because he was perfect. The grace was what he came to do. Therefore, when God says, Behold, that's what He wants to fill our minds. He wants it not to be the distractions of our life. He doesn't want our mind to be filled with the sordid filthiness that is in the world about us. He doesn't want our minds to be overwhelmed by the terrors of our enemies, whether they are Pharisees or whether they are Muslim fanatics or some crazy guy with a pistol. Marching into a sanctuary and killing people. Look at Jesus, he says. Look at Jesus and see him in his astonishing reality. As God's perfect, beloved, delightful servant Everything about Jesus finds its consummation in this, that He is God's perfect beloved servant, He is without fault, He is holy and undefiled, and therefore it is in Him that God delights. And our response to that should be absolute awe. If we were in a museum or an art museum, we were to come up to a perfect painting, one that entirely that just fills our minds with its perfection. We would sit there as I have done before. Let me I forget his name, wasn't that Carpenter, the the British landscape artist? I forget his name. But anyway, as I've done in the British Museum of Arts just since they have they they have it's a big painting and and they've got a uh a uh uh a um bench that you can sit on there just at the right place so you can see the whole thing. And you could stare at that painting for hours. It appears to be as close as any human artist could do to a perfect painting. Why don't we do that with Christ? Why don't we just sit and stare at Him until we become astonished? We look at him and gaze in awe. But there's more to it than that. For as we gaze at Jesus, the beloved of God, it becomes very personal to us because it's very personal to Jesus and it's personal to us in him. The perfections of Christ, brothers and sisters, and God's love for Christ is not just about Him and God and the love that they have for each other. As astonishing and as amazing as that is, it's also about us. Why? Because Jesus' very first perfection, the very first perfect work he did, coming into this world, being born of a virgin, giving up all that was in heaven before The very first work he did was to unite us to himself. That was his first work of obedience. God's perfect delight there in Christ is also God's perfect delight in us. Why? Because we're united to him. That was his first work to accomplish that. And that's what he did. This is not some added benefit. Oh yeah, Jesus came into the world. God really loves him. And God says, Oh, you know, I really like you so much I'm going to give you all these people over here. And you can uh raise them up on the last day if you want to. Jesus came into the world to unite you to himself. That's why he came the very first scene. That's the way he could become the perfect, perfect author of our salvation, as the book of Hebrews teaches us. Brothers and sisters, his perfect obedience started with that, of not only being our substitute, but of bringing about union with himself, to his person. In one sense, it is his greatest and first work. His greatest work because all other things flow from that. Everything we have in Christ is built on our union with Christ, our redemption, our calling, our sanctification, our perseverance Our glorification, eternity, hinges on us being intimately united to Christ. And that's not something we do, that's something He did And therefore, in perfectly uniting us to himself, he has made us beloved of the Father. The Father loves us just as he loves Jesus. Indeed, we're inseparable from that love. The Father delights in us just as he delights in Jesus because we're inseparable from Jesus Everything that is perfect about Christ is now perfect about us. That is what Jesus accomplished for us. And that is why God God so delights in him. Brothers and sisters, do you see the beauty of it? Are you amazed at the wonder of it? Does it make you want to just sing forth his praise? Does it cause tears of gratitude to perhaps come to your eyes Can you begin to see how that knowledge, if we let that knowledge of that fill our hearts and our minds, can you see how that will transform us? compared to our union with Christ, what do we care about the Supreme Court and what it says? Amen. Compared to the love of God that is ours in Christ Jesus, what do we have to fear from people with guns and knives? In the light of the righteousness of Christ that is ours because of our union with Him, what do we have to worry about? With the perversions that we see running rampant in this world about us and the threat of God's judgment upon it. Do you see, brothers and sisters, how we looking at Christ and we see that he perfectly fulfills all of God's requirements? And that as he is perfectly beloved of the Father and a perfect delight to the Father, do you see that through your faith of being united to him, That now constitutes your right and your privilege and your joy also. What he came to do and what he has done is to unite yourself to him so that wherever he is in God's kingdom, in God's plan, that's where you are also Behold my servant, in whom I, the one whom I have chosen, my beloved, in whom my soul is well pleased. The last thing briefly to comfort us as we ponder Christ is this. Look at God's perfect servant. And look at him as he is perfectly bringing about God's perfect purposes. I don't have time to expand this as much as I would. But look at what Isaiah teaches. He will declare justice to the Gentiles. In his name, the Gentiles will trust. Those things are not stated as bare possibilities. Those are not stated as hypothetical things that he might do Bringing justice to this world as a whole and not just to the nation of Israel was always God's perfect plan. And the Lord Jesus Christ is the perfect servant to accomplish those goals. God's plan is to establish justice. Can the Supreme Court say that decision? Can the heathen killers of the Middle East or the ones in South Carolina or the ones in Baltimore ever hope to escape the justice of God? Or will they not face his righteous retribution if they do not turn from their evil ways? and accept him as their Lord and Savior. Will every perversion, every wrongdoing, every act of arrogance that we see displayed on our TVs and in our newspapers Will they not be judged? But justice is not to be understood only in terms of punishment. Because we must also ask, will not the weak and the hurting and the unjustly oppressed people of this world Will they not be restored? He who does not even break a bruised reed, nor quench a smoking flax Will he not act to vindicate and reward those who suffer in his name and who are killed in his name? Will not the voice of righteousness that is uh proclaimed in the face of perverse wickedness, will it not be vindicated and those saved even as it was in the days of Noah when he stood alone against the whole world in proclaiming the righteousness of God And will not we be like righteous Lot and his family when they were saved out of the very fires that consumed Sodom? Of course they will, brothers and sisters, because Jesus Christ is the perfect servant of God. And as he answered for the guilt of our sin