Take a look at the scriptures together as you remain standing for the reading of Scripture. This morning we're looking at chapter six of Acts, and there'll be a reading from verses eight through fifteen. Here is the word of the Lord. And Stephen, full of faith and power, did great wonders and signs among the people. Then there arose some from which is called the synagogue of the freedmen, Cyrenians, Alexandrians, and those from Cilicia and Asia, disputing with Stephen. And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which he spoke. Then they secretly induced men to say, We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and God. And they stirred up the people, the elders and the scribes, and they came upon him, seized him, and brought him to the council. They also set up false witnesses who said, This man does not seek to speak blasphemous words against this holy place in the law. For we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place and change the customs which Moses delivered to us And all who sat in the council, looking steadfastly at him, saw his face as the face of an angel. Let us pray. Lord Christ as our head, and we your bride, we pray that you would give us your glory through discernment and wisdom. In the name of Christ, amen. Last week we acknowledged that the eternal Christ is always with his people. We acknowledge that one of the ways he is with us is that he sends. He sends his spirit of wisdom. As the church, we are the woman of Proverbs 31 in her fullness. And this sh sh uh we acknowledged this last week, in that manifesting itself. Through deacons. As seen through deacons and their prudence with widows, for example, Christ has made his bride a great influence in the world. We acknowledged that we will outlive every empire and we will bring good to the world for the glory of God. That is, in fact, our destiny. Now, this morning it's more wisdom. This morning ends up being another example of Christ giving wisdom to his church, and just like we said last week, when we said Christ is doing it again. So too, we see him here doing it again. Christ, in fact, is giving wisdom to this deacon here in our record. A kind of wisdom that we see within Peter earlier in the Acts accounts, did you notice some of the similarities? For example, Stephen, like Peter, had the wisdom of doing great wonders and signs among the people in verse 8. Stephen, like Peter, used those signs and wonders, it is implied because the pattern continues, to draw attention to Jesus as the Christ, also in verse 8. Now, Stephen, like Peter, will have opposition arise. But because we know that what we've read today is the preface to a martyrdom. We know that though Peter had opposition, Stephen is going to face something that Peter has not yet faced. The problem that we end up seeing in this record then ends up really standing out as dissimilar in some ways from what we've seen before The problem here, though, is that some in the crowd, when Peter would preach, they would be cut to the heart and then they would repent. But here in this record before you this morning. They are later said to be cut in the heart or cut to the heart, but they will not be cut to the heart in repentance. Some, in fact, arose, as you can see in verse 9, from the synagogue of the freedmen to dispute with Stephen, and they're not going to move into a repentance state. Now, I want you to be aware of what's happening here, and it's good to be aware that by the end of the next week, when we get done this full passage, Stephen will be dead. Okay, that's what we're dealing with. And it's good to keep that in mind as we're here now. So that you can see when it says that the synagogue of the freedmen came to dispute with him, Stephen. That this is not just any dispute. This isn't like you were at university and you had a policy debate. This isn't like that. This is different. I would say that the words bear out the idea of something like they are holding an inquisition. of Stephen. Or if you wanted to, the they are holding a criminal investigation of Stephen. It is very similar to what they did with Christ. And that's another thing that you need to keep in mind because Stephen is very much like Christ. And you will especially see that next week. When they would ask Christ questions after a certain point in disputing with Christ, it was to line him up for a guilty verdict so they could crucify him. And I believe that they're even at this point seeking to do something with Stephen. And we need to understand that's what's going on here with the dispute. But here is the thing: as hard as they tried. To corner him, to prove him wrong. Notice what the scripture said. These people were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which he spoke. And that brings us dead center to the continuation from last week's sermon. Last week's sermon was about the Christ and about the wisdom that he gives his church This week, the sermon is about Christ and the wisdom that he gives his church. Notice the phrasing there when he is irresistible. It does not say that they were unable to resist Stephen's wisdom. The emphasis is on Christ and his wisdom through his spirit. And this reminds us again, that phrase that I said earlier: Christ has done it again. Now last week we were able to see the eternal Christ and the wisdom that He's always given the church in multiple places. And I wonder if you could think of some places where you've seen Christ, the eternal Christ, act this way before With his church and not just with Stephen. You know, it shouldn't have been a surprise last week to hear that Christ gave the deacons wisdom to do that work, because he's been doing that for how long? As the eternal Christ. And it shouldn't be a surprise this week as we look at the eternal Christ giving the same kind of wisdom he's always given. For example, in Exodus chapter 4, verse 15 This is of Moses with the eternal Christ at the burning bush. And it says this. Remember when Moses was very concerned about going to Pharaoh and what he would say and not having the wisdom to carry this task out? And the eternal Christ says to him, Now you shall speak to him and put the words in his mouth, because he had given Aaron as a counterpart. And I will be with your mouth and with his mouth, and I will teach you what you shall do. And this brings up that moment when the eternal Christ said, You're worried about what your mouth will say? Who made your mouth? It's the same Christ at that moment in the burning bush as we see him g that is giving wisdom to Stephen here in this moment. But you know that Exodus 4 verse 15 is not actually the most famous passage from our tradition in seeing wit Christ give wisdom in this way to his church. Do you know what the most famous passage is for this? It's actually Isaiah Chapter 50, verse 4. If you were to review the Reformed tradition and read their books, you would find this passage all over the place. And it says this, The Lord God has given me the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to him who is weary. He awakens me morning by morning. He awakens my ear to hear as the learned. And of course, it is right for us to say That this passage in Isaiah 54 is Christ. It is Christ Himself who has the tongue of the wise. It is Christ who knows how to speak a word in season to him who is weary. It is what Psalm 23 is about in part. But we must ask: how will Christ accomplish these same things in his ascension when he is not physically present with us? And the answer is given to us in Ephesians 4, where he gives gifts to the church, who will bring this word in season to the weary. Christ takes from his wisdom and he sends it to teachers, pastors, apostles, and certain deacons like Stephen We'll find that throughout Christian history he will give this kind of wisdom to mothers and fathers and teachers and businessmen to stand up for his truth and to be irresistible in the sense of the resistance that we see here within this passage. Christ has done it again, and he continues to do it for you. The eternal Christ has always given this kind of wisdom. I hope that you're strengthened and comforted by such a fact. It is the same Christ who was yesterday, who is today, and will be forevermore, giving you the same kind of wisdom, you, his church, as he has always done. And hallelujah for that. This being the case, them coming from a synagogue, having read the first testament, they should have known They should have known and been able to recognize, wait a second, look at how irresistible this guy is in the sense of resistance in our passage. This looks like the Christ. But they couldn't see that. And they should have seen it for another reason, because they had already been warned by one of their own that they should not be messing with these men. Do you remember what Gameliel said? In in Acts chapter five, when the council was standing against the apostles, Peter and John Do you remember the advice that he gave to the whole council? And they said that they would listen to him. He said this And now I say to you, keep away from these men and let them alone. For if this plan or this work is of men, it will come to nothing. But if it is of God, you cannot overthrow it. Lest you even be found to fight against God. And guess what they're finding out right now? Guess who they're fighting against? It is the reason why Stephen is continually resisting them because they are not fighting against Stephen, they are fighting against God Himself. And they will not be able to win. They should have known that Acts 6. 10. It just covers all of that. It's a continuation of the wisdom we saw from last week, and it is a continuation from the council meeting with Gameliel we saw several weeks ago. And it is a continuation of the prayers that were offered from Psalm 2 several weeks ago. And it goes like this And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the Spirit by which he spoke. That is the confession of the church for every time. That is the kind of glory that has been handed down to you. That is the kind of promise. Just like last week we saw that the deacons were but a seed of the kind of compassion that would be brought to the whole world to the church by way of Christ, so too this wisdom will be brought to the whole world. They will not be able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which we speak. Now I want you to notice something that is very important in this turn of events. What do they do? They are not cut to the heart and repentant, like we'll see with Peter's audiences. What do they do? The crowds in other times, even what we have left in Acts, they will be cut to the heart and they will repent. Gentiles themselves will be cut to the heart and repent. Here, instead, they decide to lie. And it is right at this moment that you realize there is something much bigger going on here. Than just a single historical account. What you officially have are two kingdoms that are at war with each other. And what they have done is they have decided to show their hand Because the weapons they now will use will be the weapons of Satan himself, who is the father of wise. And that's important for us to hear as the church. Look at verse 11. They induce men to lie. They go on and they stir up the people that are present. This will happen in many cities. We have much of Acts left, and this is going to keep happening. And Paul's going to have the wisdom to be lowered in a basket outside the wall. But they're going to stir up the people, they're going to stir up the elders, they stir up the scribes to lie. They are even in verse 13 going to set up false witnesses, which is directly against the Torah. I mean it doesn't get more clear than that And then, though there will be these little moments of truth in verse 14 as to what Stephen is in fact doing here and what he's preaching In the end, the way that they frame it and the way that they show it to be, it will be a lie. That is to what they will resort, they will lie. They will take up the weapons of Satan himself. What is interesting here is to see now how Stephen, in Wisdom from Christ, responds. And I think a summary of it is that he doesn't budge. The reason why I say that is because if he has the same kind of wisdom that was given to the deacons, and he does because he was one of the deacons, Then he knows prudence in the sense of he knows what's good and he knows what's evil. And he knows how to put that into effect for God's people. That's why he was able to order the widow incident. He knows the truth, and he remains steadfast, to put it in terms of chapter 2. He remains steadfast in his devotion to the apostolic witness. But it also says something in our passage that could puzzle us, but I at least think that this is also proving that he is steadfast. And it says that he had the face of an angel. Did you catch that? It's a curious phrase, and I think it could mean multiple things, but I think that it at least is a reference to a figure of speech that we see in multiple places in the scripture. For example, and 2 Samuel 14, verse 17. And this is what it says there. Your maidservant said, The word of my Lord, the King. will now be comforting, for as the angel of God, so is my Lord the King in discerning good and evil Somehow this look of an angel became representative of those who were steadfast in their devotion to the truth and Could see the reality of what was good and what was evil. It would be the same thing that Solomon would have as the two women came forward with one baby. Whose baby was it? He would be able to see the reality or to do things to get at the reality, and then he would remain devoted to that truth. It's the same thing that we see here within Stephen, and we know that he's going to need it Because they are going to stone him to death soon, and he will not relinquish his confession. He's going to need to be stalwarts, in other words. And all of that is going on. And so what do we make of this? What do we acknowledge here? Last week I said you have a confession to make about the truth of the scriptures. What's your confession this week? What's the truth that is before us? Well, that's what I want to just boil down for you. I want to frame it so that we can see very clearly Some of the main confession that is a part of this. What are we to acknowledge? I think that there's two main things. Number one, Christ gives wisdom to his church, and he is doing so to change the world. Not just to have some historic moment. I mean, if you keep reading the uh the account of Stephen, when Stephen by wisdom is martyred, the church will scatter. And the wisdom of salvation in Christ will go across the world. That'll be the result. So we're talking about something really big here. Christ gives wisdom to his church to change nothing less than the world. Last week, through wisdom, we saw that the vulnerable were protected, not just in one historic moment, but we saw that the church is responsible for the protection of the vulnerable through every tribe, tongue, and nation. And this week, through wisdom, lies and evil are resisted by the church That is a very important role to play across the world. Now here's number two We must frame this whole account when we begin to look at it that way. This whole account should be acknowledged as an expression of Proverbs chapter 20, verse 8. And let me read that to you. A king who sits on the throne of judgment scatters all evil with his eyes. In that context of the book of wisdom, the king is an authority who establishes and he maintains wisdom even in the face of foolishness and general chaos. That's what kings do. For example, and this is really going to become more concrete so that you can frame this situation, I want you to think of King Jesus and the money changers in the temple. Because I think something similar is happening here. As the king, how have you viewed Jesus when he does that? If you see him connected to Proverbs 20, verse 8, then he's the king. And what he is doing is what kings do. He sees evil, and he flips at a certain time, after he has given patience and the opportunity for repentance, he flips over the table, scattering the coins onto the floor. And that is what Stephen is doing here because the king has sent him to do so. That's what kings do. They not only establish, but they maintain order and wisdom in their kingdom. And Christ does throw through his church his bride. Christ through Stephen, therefore, is doing the exact same thing here. In a very specific way. Stephen, in the broadest terms that we could speak of, capturing many things that have been said in both testaments of the scriptures. Stephen and reality is bringing order to the chaos. He is bringing light to the darkness. But here is the thing that we have to notice. Some people like chaos. Some people like darkness. And that should remind you of John chapter 1. Because Jesus Christ, or the eternal Christ, has taken upon himself human nature, and he has come to his own, but his own did not receive him because they loved the darkness. And the same thing is here is happening with Stephen. But nevertheless, you know what Stephen does? He flips the tables. He flips the tables not as a destructive act, but an act of healing, an act of bringing order to the chaos of those who reject the Christ. Now I think that that makes him Stephen and what he's doing, but more importantly, what Christ is doing through Stephen and what Christ does through the whole church. I think that that's clear enough. Now, I want you to see that there are some lessons that we can learn from this as the church of every age. The Spirit introduces us to some very serious realities here. This morning I told everybody that I had four lessons, and then they all came up to me and said, I only heard three. Where's the fourth? And then I looked back and I only have three. So I don't know. I have three lessons. Not four. Not yet. We'll see what happens. But given what we've hear what we've heard of what Christ is doing through Stephen and therefore through the church, here's the first lesson. I want you to notice that there is a pattern forming. And here's the pattern. When Christ gives wisdom to his church, Wisdom enters into chaos and orders it to God's glory When Christ gives wisdom to his church, wisdom enters into chaos and orders it to God's glory. Now we can see how that happened last week, right? It happened in that Christ gave them wisdom, and then the inner conflict within the church, the racial disagreement, because it was between Hebrews and Hellenists. The neglect of widows, that means the in some low-key sense, the vulnerable were being oppressed by the church itself, that this was then this chaos Christ gave wisdom, and then through those men who had that wisdom, they brought order. And I'm saying that is to happen across the face of the earth in every domain. This week it happened in our passage with them, with Stephen hoping for them to come to their senses as to who Jesus is. It is the greatest wisdom of all to recognize who Christ is. And that is why it is at the center of Mark's gospel. Jesus asks every one of you a question. He asks the whole world a question in the center of Mark's gospel. He says Who do you say that I am? That's the center, it's the epicenter of Mark's gospel. Who do you say that I am? And Stephen is seeking to show them Jesus is the Christ, and they are resisting him. But he's trying to give them the greatest order, the greatest life possible, but the chaos keeps raging against it, as we sung in Psalm 2. It is a mercy that Stephen is also seeking to give to them, which is also a sign of order, because if they don't bend the knees soon, they will be judged. And we can talk about that last uh next week. And in our day, it will be the same. Christian wisdom from Christ will always be wisdom that turns chaos into order. And I want to put it this way. Here it is in the negative. If Christian wisdom from Christ is absent from the world, the world will wither, the world will die, the world will rot, and return to a formless void. Because by saying that the wisdom of the church, the church in wisdom would be removed would be Christ's providential means for maintaining order in creation. And it would mean that he has withdrawn. And if the one who holds everything together withdraws, nothing will be held together. One author put it this way positively. We must contend against the ever-threatening impending chaos to create and sustain life. just as God did at the beginning of creation. You know another word for chaos is folly. Do you know what the proverbs say about a child? Folly is bound up in their heart. You know what parents do? They bring order to it. By subjecting them to the wisdom of Christ for their own good. That's a single example. Now that's the first lesson That's the first lesson that when Christ gives wisdom to his church, wisdom enters into chaos and orders it to God's glory. Now here's the second lesson. That being true, one of the cruelest things that you could do as a Christian is to remove yourself from the world. Now, this harkens back up the doomsday bunker from last week. But we can add to that. One of the cruelest things that Christians with the wisdom of Christ could do is to withdraw from the world. I mean take the single example of a parent that decides to w to withdraw from their child and have no discipline for them. That is cruel. To just give them over to folly? It's the same thing with the church in a much larger scale for the whole world. You know, we could put it in the lesson that Jonah learned in terms of the tree. If the tree of Christ, with all his branches, us, him being the vine, if we are removed, the whole world will say what Jonah says at the end of his book. Let me read just a little section of it for you. And the Lord God prepared a plant and made it come up over Jonah, that it might be shade for his head to deliver him from his misery. So Jonah was very grateful for the plant. But as morning dawned, the next day God prepared a worm, and it so damaged the plant that it withered. And it happened when the sun arose that God prepared a vehement east wind, and the sun beat on Jonah's head, so he grew faint. Then he wished death for himself, and said, It is better for me to die than it is for me to live. Now, those are desperate words. And it shows us how necessary we are. It shows us how necessary crisis. The church is called not to withdraw. That could be the cruelest thing. The church is called instead to go and make disciples of all nations, teaching them to obey everything that I have commanded in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And all authority has been given to Christ in heaven and on earth to accomplish this. And he sends out his messengers with his wisdom in that authority and his ascension glory, that we would once again go and offer to the chaos of gender discussions the order of Christ's wisdom, wisdom with regard to the fact that he made male and female. Or family? Or politics? What does it mean to be a nation or a city? Is not the Christ The eternal king aware of how to run a kingdom? Could he not teach kingdoms how to run themselves? And it is true for every other reality, if the shade of Christ's wisdom by way of the church is removed. In the end, they will say, It is better for me to die than to live. And it would be cruel for us to consign people to their sin. That's the second lesson. Now here's the third lesson. And this one we have got to get a hold on quickly. I want you to notice what is especially highlighted in our passage. This is the first time that this has really happened this way. Before, as I mentioned, the repetition that of Peter preaching and then people being cut to the heart and then repenting. There's significance to that, to then all of a sudden run up against the same phrases in Stephen's martyrdom and find that they are cut to the heart, but not for repentance, but for bloodlust. That's what will happen at the end of his martyrdom. And that is an emphasis here for us to learn from. There is a deep reality built into the way the world is right now that we as Christians must embrace. And it is this: sometimes when Christians bring the wisdom of Christ to the world, the world will lie and they will kill in order to keep their darkness and their chaos. It will be their primary mode of being at certain times within world history. And Christians have got to be aware of that. Now, lying and killing end up being broad categories that can work out in a thousand, maybe ten thousand different species of concrete examples. What are all the ways that mankind has devised to lie? Is it always just a bold lie to your face, or have they figured out ways to cloak their actions and do things manipulatively in ways that you don't discover for the next decade? What are all of the ways that man can kill without actually raising the knife? What are the ways that another person can destroy a life? The world has these things at their disposal, and we are warned here that they will use it. There has been enough time where we as Christians have gone on naively and gullibly. That is not a virtue within the Christian faith. To be naive is not a virtue in the Christian faith. It is of there is a different virtue, and it is called discernment and shrewdness. Now, in the face of this, when we're seeing this reality, we've got to realize that Christ had already warned his apostles about this and he had warned his church. In that same passage where he warned his church what would happen to Stephen and to them, to the other apostles later, and to his church throughout history He said, I will be with you when they kick you out of the synagogues. I will give you the words to speak. Do you remember when he says this? Do you know the words that he says right before he tells them that? Before he gives that hopeful promise. Do you know what he says? He says in Matthew chapter 10, verse 16, these very words. It is the same lesson that we're trying to learn in lesson three about the world and our place in it. Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore be wise as serpents and be harmless as doves. Therefore, it will not be enough for the church to think That it is wisdom to give themselves over continually to just let a wolf rule them They will have to have their own wisdom, their own discernment, their own shrewdness to not bring unnecessary persecution on them or whatever it is, that the church has had from age to age to age. I want you to think of all of the women Who have shown shrewdness throughout the scriptures. All of the men who have shown discernment like a serpent and being a a kind of virtuous, having a virtuous cunning In order to accomplish the things of God. That is a picture of what we are growing up into. When the world lies and seeks to kill, Christians must pray. Of course. That's exactly what they were doing, were they not? In chapter 4, look upon their threats, O Lord. And then they called down Psalm 2. They prayed. But they also did this. They exercised the wisdom of shrewdness and discernment. Do you remember how many times Jesus says he knew their thoughts and therefore did not give himself over to them? We often think that that is a declaration of his omnipotence, that he just knows everything. You know, maybe it was, but you know what it also was? It was a declaration of his wisdom, because as he says later in the scriptures He does not entrust himself to men because he knows what are in them. And so we must follow his lead. In having shrewdness and discernment as a church, that is the third lesson, perhaps the most important for us today Now I hope that that doesn't make you on edge or something. I mean, as I'm saying these things, I'm so hopeful because it's not like I have to go to the Amazon shopping cart And get a logic book to figure this out. Christ has promised that He's going to give us His wisdom to resist, to bring order out of chaos. It's guaranteed. When He returns, it will be complete. The earth shall be restored. So I hope that you are hopeful in hearing all of these things. Don't let the warning freak you out. Christ, who is the wisdom of God, gives his bride wisdom so that she more and more, as the church looks like Proverbs 31. Now last week, we saw that that worked out in prudence. It was the prudence needed to resist the chaos that can overcome interchurch conflict. And the chaos of neglecting widows and the chaos of race relations. Now, those are some heavy things, but Christ gave them the wisdom and gives us the wisdom to do that. This week we see that Christ gives his bride the wisdom to resist all evil and lies. That's what he's working on with you right now. And this week, he is doing so especially by teaching us that we are responsible to bring life and light to the world But while we do that, while we, through the water of God's word, allow the garden of God to start to grow again in this desert, you have got to be aware. That there is a dragon out there. He has a forked tongue. And he survives off lies. And he survives off lies about you. And that brings us to a very important declaration as we close from Ephesians 5, verse 15 and 16. See then, church, that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wives. You must redeem the time, because these days are evil. And he also gives us this to keep hope right there, like a feather in our cap. Do not fear. For God has not given us a spirit, capital S of fear, but He has given us a spirit of power. He has given us a spirit of love, and he has given us a spirit of a prudent mind. Let us pray.