God's Word, please take it out. Please remain standing as we'll read God's Word together. We're opening up to Mark chapter one, where we'll be continuing on. We're going to be looking at verses 21 through 28 tonight. Mark chapter 1, verses 21 through 28. Please follow along with me and keep your scriptures open so we can refer back to it throughout the sermon. God's holy word for God's holy people. Mark 1, starting in verse 21. Then they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and taught. And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes. Now there was a man in their synagogue with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Did you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out of him. And when the unclean spirit had convulsed him and cried out with a loud voice, he came out of him. Then they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? What new doctrine is this? For with authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him And immediately his fame spread throughout all the region around Galilee. Please pray with me. Great and gracious God, you have given us your word that we could be transformed by it. We pray, God, that we would submit to your Spirit tonight, to your authority. And that this word would indeed change us and make us more like Christ. And I pray, Father, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. Now, as I was preparing this sermon, a scene from a popular television show popped into my mind. It's a scene of a man who was recently elected as governor, and his opponent calls him up to concede the race. His opponent says something to the effect of, I hope you'll do right by my supporters as much as you do right by yours. And this newly elected governor responds, I do what I think is right. I don't much care who supports it. Now I don't always agree with what that character thinks is right. But he sure has the right idea about the authority of the office to which he has been elected. He could work to change the laws that he thought weren't right. And he could work to protect those laws that he thought were right. And he could act in accordance with what he thought was right. But the problem is that he has a broken idea of what is right. He thinks that he has the personal authority to determine for himself what is right and what is wrong. And sometimes we can be like that too, can't we? Thinking that we get to define for ourselves what is right and what is wrong. And none of us are right all the time. We aren't the authority on what is right and wrong. And if we're honest with ourselves, a lot of the time what we think is right ends up turning out to be wrong. And there's only one who has the authority to determine what is right and wrong. And when he chooses to disclose what he has determined, he has the authority to require obedience from every one of us, every single one of us. Well, Mark has already introduced us to him. This is the Son of God. It is the Lord Jesus Christ. And this book is the good news of Jesus Christ, who is the Son of God. Mark has already shown us that God prepared his people to encounter him because he was using all of the Old Testament prophets to point to Jesus, to the Messiah. We saw especially that the last Old Testament prophet, John the Baptizer, that was his entire ministry, was to prepare the way for the Lord. We also saw that Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ, was himself prepared for his own ministry, and we saw that he was proven. To be the spotless Lamb of God, to be the perfect sacrifice who could atone for our sins. He was untainted by sin, even though he was tempted by the devil. And in the previous passage, two Sundays ago, we saw that the gospel, the good news that Jesus preached requires a response from every one of us. And that response will transform our lives, just as it transformed the lives of the first four disciples that he called away from their lives as fishermen to become followers of the Son of God. Our passage tonight gives us an account of the early ministry of the Son of God, in which we discover that the Son of God's authority cannot be ignored. Brothers and sisters, we'll see from this passage tonight that the Son of God, Jesus Christ's authority, cannot be ignored You cannot ignore the authority of the Son of God. We're going to look at this in two divisions. We'll first look at verses 21 and 22, and we'll see that his authority cannot be ignored in his teaching. And then we'll look at verses 23 through 28 and see that his authority cannot be ignored in his commands. So let's look together at verses 21 to 22 and see that the authority of Christ's teaching cannot be ignored. The first thing we see here is verse 21. Let's look at it together. Then they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and taught. We see first that Jesus uses some ordinary methods here, just like all the other teachers that had come around to the synagogues He was coming around. The synagogue has its origin in the exile when the people of God were separated from the temple, could not offer sacrifices. They still wanted to honor the Lord's day, to honor the Sabbath. They would receive teaching, and there would be rabbis who would travel from synagogue to synagogue, even amongst the Babylonian captivity or the Assyrian captivity, and they would teach. They would teach the word. Now Jesus did exactly that. He taught. He expounded the scriptures. He explained the doctrine like other rabbis would have done. And yet something was different about Jesus. He did not teach the way the others had taught. And if you were to look into how those rabbis taught, they would have endless citations of other teachers. trying to gather authority from past figures who had authority. They would give their own interpretation of things, but they would never give it directly. They would always kind of be, I guess the term could be wishy-washy trying to hedge their bets and keep avenues open where they could get out from difficult decisions and judgments. This is not how Jesus taught. And we look together at verse 22 and we see that though Jesus taught with ordinary methods, his authority is verified by the extraordinary results. Look at verse 22. And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes. They were astonished. It wasn't like the other rabbis and the other teachers. He taught with authority. And we could understand this as he taught like those great prophets of the Old Testament. The prophets of the Old Testament didn't come saying, you should listen to me. They started all of their prophecies and their teaching with, Thus saith the Lord, you must listen to the Lord. And just in case it wasn't clear, clear enough from his teaching, Mark tells us something else happened in that synagogue in Capernaum as a result of Jesus' authoritative teaching. And through this, we see that the authority of his commands cannot be ignored. We're going to look at verses 23 through 28. And the first thing we see in verses 23 and 24 is a spiritual confrontation. Now there was a man in their synagogue with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Did you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God It's interesting how they how how this is phrased. It's a man in their synagogue who has an unclean spirit. It makes us wonder if this man had been there before. Maybe he was a regular part of that synagogue community. Why all of a sudden was there an outburst from him? What was different now? Well, now he was in the presence of true authority, and something happened to that unclean spirit that was within him. That spirit felt the fear that comes from being in the presence of the Holy God. They had a fear not only of God, but a fear of God's plan. Look at what the Spirit says. Leave us alone. What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Did you come to destroy us? The Spirit knows what the end game is for all those who disobey God. And he is afraid that that's what's about to happen to him then. Finally, that last thing he says shows us that he doesn't just fear God. He fears the Son of God. He fears the Holy One of God, who is Jesus Christ. And so Jesus responds with an authoritative command from verse 25. He says that Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out of him. And this be quiet is it's a little weak in the English. In the Greek, it's much stronger. It's the word for muzzle or put to silence. We see this used in 1 Peter 2, verse 15, for this is the will of God, that by doing good you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. Or when Paul is talking about is referring to Deuteronomy 25, verse 4, talking about the muzzling, the ox, that's the same word that's used there for muzzling So, in essence, what Jesus is telling the Spirit is not just be quiet. He's saying, shut your mouth, be muzzled, be silent. And that's not all that he commands. He also says, come out of him. The unclean spirit said, Leave us alone. And Jesus said, You leave that man alone. Be gone with you. Jesus shows his love and his compassion for the man by not expelling him from the synagogue or from the fellowship of God's people. Imagine how another rabbi might have dealt with that. Someone has an outburst. They're going to deal with it according to their own authority. They might say, you, you need to get out of here. We can't have that kind of behavior. But Jesus saw to the root of the problem. He understood that it was the unclean spirit that caused the man to cry out. He deals with the actual problem. And what should we expect to see happen if the true and living God commands one of his angels, even a fallen one? What do you think should happen? Well, exactly what we see here, exactly what Mark records for us in verse 26. We see an obvious submission. Look at verse 26. And when the unclean spirit had convulsed him and cried out with a loud voice, he came out of him. It was obvious to everyone present that there was a response. in this man. It convulsed him. It shook him. And it cried out with a loud voice. In the Greek, it's Omega voice. Everyone saw and heard the response to Jesus' command. They saw the spirit, an unclean spirit, submit to the Son of God, because that spirit indeed obeyed and left him. It came out of him. I found myself wondering how long that man had lived with that unclean spirit. Might have been his entire life. But Jesus' command, Jesus' love and compassion was there, given to this man, and suddenly he is free. Free from the bondage to that spirit. And that man had a response, that spirit had a response, but we also see that the people respond to Jesus' authority. They respond to f with fear and amazement. It says there in the first part of verse 27, then they were all amazed. And it's a different word than what is used for the astonishment, because it's a different thing that's happening. That astonishment was more of a mental recognition of the teaching of Jesus, that it was different from other teachings, that he taught with authority. But this was something supernatural. No one can do what Jesus did. They might have been scared of the man who had the unclean spirit, all of these people in the synagogue. He might have frightened them before. But you know what they were terrified of now? They were terrified that Jesus could command that unclean spirit, and it must obey. Their fear and their amazement carries us into seeing their next response, which is a hunger for understanding. Look at the rest of verse 27. So that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? What new doctrine is this? For with authority he commands even the unclean spirits and they obey him. They can't go back to how things were. This event transforms them. They want to know what just happened. Who is this rabbi? He's like nothing that anyone had ever encountered before And finally, Mark tells us that this impact was not just on those local in the synagogue. It wasn't just those that were present for the event. Rather, there was in Galilee a cultural awakening. Look at verse 28. And immediately his fame spread throughout all the region around Galilee. No one could ignore Jesus No one could ignore the reports of how he taught with authority, and then how he backed up his teaching and his authority by commanding an unclean spirit. They didn't necessarily understand who he truly was and what he was going to do, but they knew that someone supernatural had come to Galilee. A man of God was there among them. And the next few chapters, Mark is going to show us a whole lot more of Jesus demonstrating his power, demonstrating that he's the Son of God, and demonstrating his authority. There are going to be other miracles that Christ performs that are even more amazing than what we see here at the beginning The people who were gathered in that synagogue in Capernaum in the first century could not ignore the Son of God's authority. And Christians, neither can you or I, we cannot ignore the Son of God's authority. So I'd ask you, do you recognize Christ's authority over what you believe? Do you recognize the Son of God's authority in his teaching? There are a lot of challenging passages in the Old Testament. There are a lot of things that we can read that make us wonder deep in our hearts, would God really command his people to do that? Did God really command his people to kill entire tribes of Canaanites, men, women, and children? Did he really command them to leave not even a living animal behind? If we submit to the authority of Jesus Christ, you must realize Jesus believed the Old Testament. Jesus is often Bringing up the Old Testament, quoting it, speaking about it. Remember at the very beginning of the Sermon on the Mount, he says, Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled. Matthew five, verses seventeen and eighteen. Do you realize that Jesus believes the Old Testament, all of it? Do you realize that Jesus believes that God created the heavens and the earth? Do you realize that Jesus believes that God created the heavens and the earth in six days? Do you realize that Jesus Christ believed he was the Son of God? And that he was the only way to the Father, because that's exactly what he says. If that's what Jesus believed, if he believed all those things Do you have the authority to choose not to believe something Jesus believed? Do you have the authority to believe something that he didn't believe? The doctrine that Jesus came teaching was not a new doctrine. It was the Old Testament. He brought new light and new understanding. He brought a true understanding of the true spirit of the law And he gave it to his people. Think about the Sermon on the Mount again. He teaches that we should have a new understanding of God's commandments. He doesn't say, you've heard it said that thou shalt not murder, but I say sometimes you have to take out the people who are in your way. That's not what Jesus says. Now he explains that the sixth commandment goes far beyond simply forbidding that you kill someone. It goes far beyond the letter of the law, which those scribes and those other rabbis were so good at pointing people to. No, he teaches the true spirit of the law, the fulfillment of the law, what the law was always meant to be for God's people. And this gives us much to consider. Do you recognize Jesus Christ's authority over how you live? That's the authority of Christ's commands. Are there any areas of your life which you are trying to keep to yourself, that you are trying to keep God out of? Really think about that. Do you try to keep him out of your your love life? Do you try to keep God out of your education? You learn a bunch of things about how the world and the universe were formed, and you have to keep that separate from what you know about God and what Jesus believed? Does God have authority over what you do with your body? What you put in it? Does God have authority over what you do with your body with others? The world out there is telling us that He does not. The world and the culture in which we live tells us we are the only ones. We determine and define who we are and what we can do. I ask you, Christian, have you fallen into that trap of thinking that you really have that kind of autonomy? How are you submitting to Christ as the Lord over every part of your life Think about that this week, especially as challenges come up. Our society is also trying to convince us that we just can't We just can't have religion be a part of our whole life. It's just a little bit of our life, right? How many times do people clamor about the separation of church and state like it's some real thing? You can't Can't separate our religion and our faith in God from every other aspect of our lives? I'll ask you, does Jesus only have authority in the church, or does he have authority over the secular world also? Does Jesus only have authority over those who want to follow him? I would ask you, what do you think that unclean spirit would say to that? While we aren't in a position of authority to determine for ourselves what is right and wrong? I hope we all get to a point where we can be like that TV character, where we can say, I do what God says is right, and I don't much care who supports that. However, we we need to be careful. We don't want to put our confidence in our doing of what God says is right. Rather, we need our hope to be founded in the truth. that we see in Hebrews 11, 6. But without faith it is impossible to please him, for he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek. We must diligently seek the only one who has that absolute authority and who shows us what is good and true for us. Because he shows what is good and true for all his people. Brothers and sisters, let us not ignore the Son of God's authority over our lives and the lives of everyone else on this planet May the Holy Spirit empower all of us to submit to Jesus Christ, to submit to his teaching, and to his commands. Please pray with me.