I'll actually start in verse twenty and read through verse thirty. Then the multitude came together again so that they could not so much as eat bread. But when his own people heard about this, they went out to lay hold of him, for they said, He's out of his mind. And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem said, He has be Elzeboth, and by the ruler of the demons he casts out demons. So he called them to himself and said to them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand And if a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand. And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but has an end. No one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first finds the strong man, and then he will plunder his house Assuredly, I say to you, all sins will be forgiven, the sons of men, and whoever blasphemies they may utter, but he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness but is subject to eternal condemnation because they said he has an unclean spirit. Please pray with me. Holy Lord, this is your word that you have preserved for us. You know that we need it. So we ask God that your Spirit would lead us into the truth, convince us of our need for it, and will show us exactly how you will use it for us, for our benefit and for your glory O God, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord my God, my strength and my redeemer. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I don't know about you guys, but I have never been a big fan of the dentist. I remember one time when I was a younger man. I was just about to become a teenager. I was at the dentist's office and he was telling me all those things I needed to do, the regiment and methods I needed to engage in to protect my teeth. But I was very distracted. I was really distracted because this particular dentist I could see his teeth. I could smell his breath. And I was not entirely convinced that he was convinced of his own professional advice. From my perspective, if he was following that advice, that advice was not going to work. I thought that the dentist was the authority and the example of tooth care. Of all people, he should be the one to have full confidence in the methods he was prescribing. After all, if the dentist himself didn't believe it would work, why should I? Well, the men's Bible study has been spending a whole lot of time in the minor prophets, and so far we've been seeing a very clear message in all of them In all of those books that we've studied, the leaders of the people of God, those who should be the example and authority of how to follow him, had failed miserably in their example, and they had led the people of God away from him. I want to read for us just a short passage from 2 Kings. You could turn there if you want. 2 Kings chapter 1, and it demonstrates very clearly for us this kind of failure. 2 Kings chapter 1. I'm going to just read the first four verses. If you get there, feel free to follow along, but I'll read it for you. 2 Kings 1. Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab. Now Ahaziah fell through the lattice of his upper room in Samaria and was injured. So he sent messengers and said to them, Go Inquire of Baalzebub, the god of Ekron, whether I shall recover from this injury. But the angel of the Lord said to Elijah the Tishvite, Arise. Go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria and say to them, Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are going to inquire of Baal Zebub, the God of Ekron? Now, therefore, thus says the Lord, you shall not come down from the bed to which you have gone up, but you shall surely die. So Elijah departed. Did you notice God's answer to Ahaziah? Did you notice the question that God asks? Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are going to inquire of this other God, this false God? The king of Israel did not demonstrate faith in the God of Israel. He had more faith in a false God, and he sought the help that he needed from that false God. Well, Mark has been showing us that Jesus of Nazareth is the true Son of the only true God. The miracles that he's performed, his healings. Casting out demons, forgiving sins, cleansing lepers. All these wondrous signs have demonstrated that Jesus has real power His teachings, he taught with authority. No one had ever heard someone teach like Jesus did. That demonstrated his real wisdom and understanding of God. He knew God better than anyone else. Our passage last week showed Jesus doing something new. He was calling to himself those that he wanted to be the start of a new nation, a new people of God. The people of Christ, the church. And tonight in our passage here, I hope you'll see with me from Mark's account of these encounters with Jesus that no matter what anyone thinks, Only the power of God can rescue us. No matter what anyone thinks, only the power of God And I'd like to look at this in two ways. We're going to look first at the opinions of man in verses 21 and 22, and then we'll look at the power of God in verses 23 through 27. So let's look now at this first section in which we will examine the opinions of man. Starting in verse 21. But when his own people heard about this, they went out to lay hold of him, for they said he's out of his mind. And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem said he has Beelzebub, and by the ruler of the demons he casts out demons. Well, we first see the opinions of those who are close to Jesus. His own people, as the New King James translates it. It's likely that this is Jesus' earthly family. This is the family of Mary and Joseph. And it's reasonable for us to think this because though it's not specified right here, immediately after this passage, the family of Jesus becomes the center of attention. They become the focus in verse 35. They knew Jesus, or they thought they did. They assumed that they did. They assumed that they knew who he was and what it is that he should be doing But when they hear about everything that's been happening, personally I believe that they have really good motives in this. I believe they're very concerned about Jesus. And so they come to him out of great concern for his well-being. They hear about these huge crowds, dangerous crowds. So dangerous he had to get that small boat just in case he needed to be secreted away from them. They hear that he's so busy. He's just healing nonstop. There's crowds all all the time. He's so busy and he's so involved with helping these people. that he can't even take a break to eat. He can't even eat bread. So they say he's out of his mind. Some translations, if you read them, they say he's beside himself. And they say that because the Greek word here means to put out of place. or to disjoint. But it's also used to describe astonishment or confusion when it applies to the mind. Your mind is put out of place or out of joint. It's used when something happens and people don't know where it fits in their understanding of reality. It's the same word used in Mark 2, verse 12, to describe the amazement of those who witness the healing of the paralyzed man. Those people who said, we never saw anything like this. Jesus' people, his family, think That Jesus is somehow put out of the right way of thinking. He really believes that he's called to this work. He's going to work himself to death for this reason? Isn't he just the son of a carpenter? Isn't this our brother So they seek to lay hold of him, to grab him, not to arrest him, but to take him away from this crowd and from this work, to secret him away so that he can rest, so that he can get a meal So he can finally come back to his senses. And that's the opinion of his family, of those who are close to him. But then we see the opinion of the scribes, the learned men who were the trusted authorities, who should have been examples. Or, well, they were thought to be examples of how to serve Jehovah. We're told that they came down from Jerusalem, and this indicates To us that they aren't just people that were there in Galilee. That's a pretty long journey from Jerusalem. And they were there with a mission. They were there to investigate this miracle man, to see for themselves and likely to see for their bosses who had sent them just exactly what is going on in Galilee. Their conclusion is very different from the others. They don't think Jesus is confused or that he's not thinking straight. They've made a very different assessment. They say he has Baalzebub. In Matthew's version of this, in Matthew chapter 12, verses 22 to 32, we get a different, another piece of information, something that Mark doesn't include for us. Jesus, in that account, has just healed a demon-possessed man, restoring his sight and his ability to speak. And Matthew tells us it is the crowd Who is amazed or astonished? It's that same word that Jesus' family used. It's the crowd who is beside themselves. They can't make sense of this. How can this be happening? And if you were to turn there and you were to look at it, you'd see what they wonder aloud. They say, could this be the Son of David? I imagine that would have set the scribes off. The people are starting to wonder if this guy, if this man working miracles, is the Messiah. And they couldn't allow that. They can't explain Jesus, and they can't explain his miracles, but they can't let that be what the people are starting to believe. And so they claim that he must be in league with Satan. Now Baalzebub is a Hebrew word. We saw that in the reading from 2 Kings chapter 1. It's the God of Ekron, a false god. Baal means master or lord. Zebub means flies. The word itself literally means Lord of the Flies. But there's something interesting that happens here. In the Greek, it is recorded as Baal Zabul. And this is because the Jewish people would not have used the name of a false god. They wouldn't have said Baalzebub. They wouldn't have said Lord of Flies. Instead, they had gotten into the habit of demeaning the names of false gods. And they change it, not Baal Zebub, but they call it Baal Zebul, because Zebul is a Hebrew word for dung. And so they are saying that this false God, the Lord of Dung, is what Jesus has. They're saying Jesus is the Lord of excrement. That's a big deal. That's a very big deal. And it'll help us make sense of what we're going to cover in more detail in part two when we get to verses 28 through 30. It'll make more sense for us why Jesus is so strong in what he says there. Because Jesus says he comes from the Father. Jesus comes from the Lord of all creation, the Lord of the universe. But they are calling him as one sent from the Lord of excrement. Their dishonor and their respect, their disrespect doesn't end there They say that he uses the power of Satan, the ruler or the prince of the demons, to do what he does These different groups have different thoughts, different opinions about what is really happening and who Jesus really is. Those with good and loving motives. They still get it wrong. And those with mean and hateful motives, they really get it wrong. And so Mark then gives us the response of Jesus to the scribes, a response which leaves no room for any other understanding of the power by which Jesus is doing this marvelous ministry. It is the power of God. Look with me at verse 23 through 27. So he called them to himself and said to them in parables, how can Satan cast out Satan? If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. And if a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand. And if Satan is risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but has an end. No one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first finds the strong man, and then he will plunder his house. Jesus is responding in parables, very logical, very reasonable. These are clear illustrations showing that the position of the scribes is more than just wrong, it's absurd. Is the battle Satan versus Satan? How does that work? He uses a kingdom, house, and a person to show the same thing. That there is no way that this makes sense in the universe God's created. Think about a person. What would happen to your body if your left side decided it was against the right side? And they both said, I can't stand you anymore. I'm going this way. The right side says, no, I'm going this way. They would just tear the body in two. It would split, neither side would be called the winner, would it? Because both sides would be dead. There is only one power which can defeat Satan. It's not Satan's power, it is the power of God Satan is the enemy. He's the one who tempted Adam and Eve to rebel against God, to ignore his word and his loving provision. 1 John 3:8 tells us: he who sins is of the devil, for the devil has sinned from the beginning. For this purpose, the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil. Can you conquer sin with sin? Can you put out fire by adding to it more fire? Brothers and sisters, Satan is the strong man. He is really, really strong. Every single one of us in our natural state is in bondage to sin. We are in bondage to Satan In a sense, we belong to him. And we are unable to do anything at all to rescue ourselves from that bondage, from his clutches. We're going to get there soon in the morning services. When Pastor Jesse takes us to the end of 2 Timothy chapter 2, we'll see that Paul describes it as a snare. We're caught in Satan's trap. And like an animal in a trap, we can't get out. We will die unless someone comes and releases us from the trap. Jesus Christ has done this. He has bound the strong man. He's bound Satan. And how do we know this? Because he's plundering Satan's house He's casting out the demons. He's healing the diseases and the afflictions. He's reversing the effects of sin. Those fallen angels that are serving Satan, that fight against God. He rescues people from them. This is what everyone was seeing and experiencing from Jesus' ministry. And no matter what anyone thought, the power that was rescuing these people from sin and misery, from the clutches of Satan, was indeed the power of God. How dare these scribes attribute that power to Satan, to God's enemy? And perhaps you're beginning to see. Like I said before, why Jesus is going to speak so strongly against that sin. And we'll go into that again in the future. Brothers and sisters, no matter what anyone thinks, the only power to rescue you from sin and misery is the power of God. And so we must beware the opinions of men. If we listen to the opinions of men about Jesus Christ, we will not flee to him as we should. I know that this has been said by many others, but I believe C. S. Lewis is the one who made it most Popular, or perhaps most famous. What he tells us is that there's only three ways that we can understand Jesus. He's either a liar, he's either a lunatic, or he's the Lord. Or as I've heard uh others say it, he's either a bad man, a madman, or the god man. For example, if someone has the opinion of Jesus that he was just a good moral teacher. You know, he just had a lot of really great wisdom. And people turned him into this other thing that he wasn't. He had a lot of great teachings. If that's the case, then who is Jesus? Well, he's not a good moral teacher. Because what's recorded of his moral teachings is he's saying that he is the way, the truth, and the life, that no one goes to the Father except through him. He claims by his own words that he is the Son of God. And so he's a liar. He would not be a good moral example for us. If that's the opinion of man, you can reject it outright. Some people may think that Jesus was crazy. He was a lunatic. He had delusions of grandeur about himself and about his mission. I mean, after all, there is something called a messianic complex in psychotherapy. There have been people who've come who've claimed that they are the Messiah. I think of a couple, David Koresh, right, uh recently watched a documentary about some woman who claimed to be God and claimed to be the son of God. It could, from the outside looking in, it could seem like he's a madman, perhaps. But the reality is he is the Lord. He is the God man. And the opinions, anyone else's opinion, that doesn't come from this word right here does not matter. Do you remember what happened a few years ago when we were told that worshiping God was nonessential? It wasn't an essential component to our health and well-being. Guys remember how strange that seemed? That was the opinion of man. The opinions of man about what is today, what is Sunday? It's just another day. Another day off. Who wouldn't want another day off? And yet the Bible, God's holy word, tells us that we must believe something different. We cannot simply follow the opinions of men. We're all going to face challenges and difficulties in our life. All of those are the result of sin. Whether they're the effects of sin, whether they're the outworking of sin, there is only way one power For us, that can rescue us from sin and the effects of sin. And that's the power of God. I wonder if you're like me When you're in a time of suffering, I wonder if you do this. It's time to get to work. It's time to work harder. I must not be as devoted as I should be. I I need to I need to kick it up. I need to get going. I'm just gonna put an extra twenty hours in every day. Who needs sleep? Who needs food? That is my prevailing and dominant sin, and it is the sin of pride. You know why it's pride? Because somehow you've let yourself believe that you have the power to rescue yourself. The worst thing about it is that I know, without any doubt, that I don't have the power to save myself. But I constantly forget. And sometimes this can happen to us. We get in the mode of problem solving, right? Putting out fires. And there's something dangerous that can happen. We succeed. We start trying to solve problems. We get one of them right. Then we get another one right. And then we find ourselves down this slope going, oh, I can solve this one. I can solve this one. I don't know about you guys, but when I get there, I am learning slowly to become more and more grateful when God takes that two by four and smacks me upside the head. You know how he does it? He overwhelms me. One thing after another He makes it impossible to solve the problem. And so it drives me back to remembering that I am not the solution. Wonder if he does that for you. If it feels like everything is just piling on top of you and you're overwhelmed with the burdens and the suffering, perhaps it is God Reminding you that you can't save yourself and you can't rescue yourself. If your sin is becoming overwhelming, You have no idea how you will get through it, how you will conquer it. It is to drive you to him To remember that it's his power. No matter how many little victories you've had under your own strength, you need the power of God to conquer it finally and ultimately. Sometimes it has to do with money. How many of us uh don't stress about money? Oh good, I saw no hands, so we're all in the same boat. Money's tight. It's tight for everybody. But we say to ourselves, you know what I can do? I'm gonna plan. I'm gonna I'm gonna think this through. I'm gonna work really hard. We'll pinch the pennies, we'll save, we'll do all these things. Good stuff. This is good things that we should be doing to manage our money. But when you start to succeed, I don't know about you, but for me, my prayer life is what slacks And I forget that I have been told how to pray. Give me, Lord, my daily bread. I stop praying for my daily bread when I feel like I've done enough. There is countless other examples that we could think of things which are good and which help for time, but they're not the ultimate solution for our suffering. Counseling is good. Therapy can be very helpful for us. But it's not the solution. It may help us deal with some of the effects of sin, but it will never rescue us from sin or from Satan. We can save money, we can plan, we can have five year goals that make sense But that will never be the ultimate solution to how will you survive in the future. You must rest on God. You must trust in his power to save you. No matter what it feels like, brothers and sisters. It is the power of God that will save you, and it is the power of God that will save the world. The strong man has been bound. Jesus Christ, the Lord Almighty, is plundering Satan's kingdom. He is rescuing you to himself, into his family, into his kingdom. And so you must put your hope in the only power which can save you. It's the power of God. So I encourage you, brothers and sisters. Remember what Pastor Jesse reminded us this morning. Try not to forget that this week. Our God is big. Our God is powerful. And so you should be praying very big prayers. You should be praying for things that are too big for you to accomplish on your own. We just prayed for someone after the service this morning. They're going to have a very serious surgery. And we are grateful that God has allowed someone to develop that surgery and has trained someone to carry out that surgery. But is it the surgery that we're resting in? No. It is God that we rest in, that it is God who will accomplish a success for our brother. What can reverse our society's downward spiral into absolute depravity? Hallelujah, it's an election year That's not going to save us. A new president won't save us? An act of Congress will not save us? Congress can't reverse that trend. A civil war is not going to somehow end up with two nations, one of which is a Christian nation. No, it's not going to happen Only God has the power to rescue even America. You cannot be saved from sin and Satan by any other name There is no salvation in any other. There is only one name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. It is the name Jesus. It is his name that has the power, the power of God. May God give you the strength to reject all worldly opinions about Christ. And about how you will be rescued from sin and the enemy. Only the power of God, only the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, can rescue you. From sin, which afflicts you. Please pray with me