Enter by the narrow gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and there are many who go in by it Because narrow, or how narrow, is the gate and difficult is the way which leads to life, and there are few who find it. Please pray with me. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would use the preached word here this morning to bless your congregation. I pray that you would give them a sense of gravity that is now part of this Sermon on the Mount Lord, I pray that you would sanctify us by your word. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Why are you here this morning? If you'd like to tell me the very first thought that came to your mind that was honest, I would love to hear that after the service. So a good idea to reflect on on why we're here. I'm sure there are a lot of different answers that came to your mind and they differed from each other. Some good ones, some ones that aren't so honorable. What I have told you over the last few weeks with regard to at least the sermon is the reason why you're here I'm not talking about the whole service. I'm just talking about at least a reasking that question of why are you here listening to the sermon? It's so that we as a community can grow in knowing not just what discipleship is, but how to do it. We've been asking the question whether we were in the book of Jonah or we were looking at the last chapter of Matthew we were saying, well, Jesus has called us to be a community that is to disciple the nations, teaching them to obey all the things that he has given to us, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Well what does that discipleship look like? And so what we've done is we've gone back to the Sermon on the Mount, which really is a condensed a sermon for us to be able to see, at least in part and a great part, on what discipleship looks like. What are the kinds of things that we should be doing Now, one of the difficulties with that however is that you get yourself involved with a sermon series and all of these different weeks go by and you get interrupted by other sermon series in the middle of a sermon series because we'll have a Good Friday and a Monday Thursday and an Easter And then somebody gets sick or you get sick or and you miss a part of the series or whatever it is. And there are all of these different obstacles for you going into that sermon series and hoping to come out of it ready to disciple. You can be uh inundated by information, for example, or or missing the parts or whatever it is. Well, one of the nice things about the message that we have today is I really am By the time we get to the end of the message, try to boil it down to where you would at least know what is one of the main things that you should be getting from the Total Sermon series. We started to do that last week. Do you remember? In that there was a summary of what is the heart of all of the law and the prophets. Jesus knows us He knows that we are feeble in our frame and that he I mean, I think that summaries were not invented until after the fall. After the fall, before the fall, we were like, yes, I understand all six hours of that lecture. After the fall, we say to Jesus, could you please give me a summary of what you're saying? And last week we did have that summary of all the law of the prophets, and as you would want to have good done to you, so too would you do good to others. And that good, of course, is defined by God. Now in this week what we're going to end up discovering is really the by way of this teaching of the two main gates It's really another summary, and we're at the heart of the Sermon on the Mount. And the heart of the Sermon on the Mount, I'll just give you a hint, but I'll reveal this at the end. It's a call to action, not just understanding. It's a call to action and not just understanding. So it's my prayer that by the time we get to the end of the Sermon on the Mount, you'll know more about what it looks like for you to disciple. So be looking for that. Now the way I'd like to approach this passage is really in two main ways, which goes along with the theme of of of the uh of this teaching for a little while. Take a look at your scriptures really quickly before I announce the headings. You'll notice that I mentioned last week that we really ended the sermon proper, and we're now into a set of warnings And those warnings are going to be given in twos. So we have two ways. We'll have um I'm sorry, we have two ways. We'll have uh two different kinds of teaching, one from a false prophet and one from a true prophet. We'll have two different kinds of trees, good trees and bad trees. We'll have those who are lawful and lawless. And that'll depend on whether or not you're entering into the kingdom or if Christ knows you. We have those who build on the sand and those who build on the rock. There's all these twos getting ready to come up for you in these warnings, and we're going to deal with the very first one And that is the two ways, the two gates, the two paths, the narrow and the wide. And so for this, I just want uh us to look at two main things We'll divide the passage up in two main ways, which is the story of the two ways, as we deal with this first set of warnings. The story of the two ways, and then the purpose of the two ways. The story of the two ways and then the purpose of the two ways. Now, when I say the two ways, just beginning now on the story of the two ways. Obviously I'm referring to verses 13 and 14, but I'm especially referring to 13, the second part of 13, or what we would call 13b. And all of fourteen. So you can look down at your scriptures and you can read along with me. It says, For wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction. And there are many who go in by it. Because narrow is the gate, or in some of your translations, you'll see a little reference mark, and it says how. How narrow is the gate? Exclamation point. Because narrow is the gate and difficult is the way which leads to life and there are few who find it. So there you have these two ways, these two gates. One is wide and one is narrow. One leads to destruction and one leads to life. One there are many on the way, and there are the other one there are few who find it. And there are other distinctions like that, but you have basically the two ways Now one of the the dangers here in dealing with um in dealing with this teaching that we have from Jesus is that we can take this analogy that he's given to us of gates and ways and narrow and broad and we can impute meaning into everything We can say, well, when he says broad, he really means this. And when he says narrow, he really means this. And the gate stands for this. And the path stands for this. And I'm okay with doing those kinds of things as long as we're doing so by some kind of rule that allows us to only say what Jesus says. I'm not interested in making things up and saying Jesus said this when no he didn't really. And I think the best way to make sure that we stay within the intent of what Jesus is saying here and not go beyond his analogy Creating all kinds of things or inventing things. I'm not, I don't want to be an inventor with scripture. It's the worst thing you could do. Is that we have to see that Jesus is not saying something new to us The two ways are a long-standing division that have been what God has revealed to his people really from the beginning. If you think about the garden, for example, there's two ways there. Are there not? There's always these two ways that you can read all of the different stories from the beginning of the scriptures. You'll always see the two ways. And it's oftentimes stated for us explicitly that there are two ways. And Jesus is picking up on that. That's one of the reasons why we had the reading in the bulletin that we had today where you could see these two two ways, these two paths that are talked about within the book of Proverbs. And that continues in the book of Proverbs. Let me give you just a couple other examples that are a major part of the story of God's people, and it is the story of the two ways. Here, for example, you can write these references down for further study in prayer later. But the first one I bring your attention to is just kind of like the epitome or the apex is Deuteronomy chapter 11, 26 through 28. It says this, Behold, I set before you today a blessing and a curse. The blessing if you obey the commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you today, and the curse if you do not obey the commandments of the Lord your God. But turn aside from the way which I command you today to go after other gods which you have not known. Now there are two specific ways There is the way of blessing and there is the way of curse. If we were to take that over and translate it into the language of our specific passage, Jesus has said there is a way of destruction and there's a way of life. And that's the way that we have to think about these things. These are talking about the same kind of stuff. We could see the same kind of thing in Deuteronomy thirty, fifteen through eighteen Deuteronomy 30, 15 through 18 says, See, I have set before you today life and good, death and evil. There it is again. It's always showing up And then I command you today to love the Lord your God, to walk in his ways. Again, that's a word that Jesus uses. To walk in his ways, and to keep his commandments, his statutes, and his judgments, that you may live and multiply. And the Lord your God will bless you in the land which you go to possess. But, if your heart turns away so that you do not hear, and are drawn away, and worship other gods and serve them, I announce to you today that you shall surely perish. Now that's the language of destruction. You shall not prolong your days in the land which you cross over the Jordan to go in and possess. So Jesus is not inventing something here or coming up with a fresh new analogy in order to make sure that he captures the ears of his hearers. Instead, he is aligning himself with what he has always taught as the eternal Christ, though now he has taken upon himself human nature. He is aligning himself with what God has always taught. And I'm pointing that out to you by way of showing you the two ways that are announced to us uh especially within Deuteronomy 11 and in Deuteronomy 30. Though I wonder if there are some other places that you immediately that immediately come to mind for you where you see these two ways Let me ask you, for example, did anybody here think of Psalm One with the two ways? Blessed are these, cursed are these. And it talks about it in terms of destruction and perishing, or righteousness and life by the streams of water Or if you wanted to, you could also look up at another time, and there's a more specific application of the two ways in Jeremiah 21, verse 8. What all of this does for us is it makes sure that we're on good ground and a solid foundation when we're understanding wisdom sayings like this from Jesus and we don't impute things to him that he never meant to say. We're on good ground here. And so as we look at this particular passage, we understand that Jesus is telling the old, old story The difference is that he's making clear that he's the center of it. We have to understand here that the gates and the paths within the story is the same story. of the covenant God graciously offering reconciliation to those who repent and believe in Jesus as the Christ. That ends up being the total story. Now the story that I just told you there goes beyond this initial passage, but is given to us in the rest of the New Testament as to who Jesus is, what is his biography, and what is his meaning But here is it is here in seed form and it's expli is even explicit that we have to understand that the gates and the paths, whether wide, broad, or narrow destruction or life. This is all still talking about the story of the covenant God graciously offering reconciliation to those who repent and believe in Jesus as the Christ. And the question that is before this whole crowd that he just preached to, and remember what we said two weeks ago, you're a part of that crowd now Because the Word of God is living. You're a part of that crowd now. The question for you is will you be on the broad path and insist on it or the narrow? Will you be on the broad or will you be on the narrow? Now this first shows up these two ways. What I'd like to do is I'd like to see for you to see next, as still part of this first main heading Is that these two ways are kept even after the the res the uh crucifixion, the burial and the resurrection and the ascension of our Lord, these two ways are then brought into apostolic preaching and the way that they talk to the crowds. So I'd like you to hear that next so that you can still understand these two ways that Jesus is giving us. the two paths, the two gates, narrow and broad. For example, one of the first sermons that we see is from Peter in Acts chapter 2, 36 through 39. And he is underneath of his sermon, he is keeping the two ways in mind. Listen to this with ears to hear now that we've seen this story that Jesus is telling. Therefore, let all of the house of Israel know. So number one, I just before I even go further in reading this, they're starting with preaching to the Jews. Jews who know this story about blessing and cursing and about the two ways. He says, therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Then Peter said to them, Repent. And let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is to you and to your children and to all who are afar off, as many as the Lord our God will call. There are two ways there. They could remain in the way of the crowd that kept saying, Crucify him, crucify him, and they stopped their ears to the voice of our Lord. Or they could repent from all of that foolishness. They can move themselves by God's grace away from that path of destruction by way of it says here in this passage, repenting And being baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ for the remission of sins. And what will go along with that is faith in Jesus Christ, as I'll show you in a moment. And they shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit And then he ties back into the story of Abraham saying, For the promise is to you and to your children, and to all who are afar off, as many as the Lord our God will call. Abraham's children have always struggled with the two ways. They've always struggled to not be tempted over into the path of destruction. Well, they gave into temptation. And so Peter starts off his sermon pointing out to them that you have crucified the Messiah. You were on the other path and you didn't even know it. But now perhaps you could have ears to hear and enter into the narrow path. The path where Jesus is the Messiah and he is Lord. And that really is this the sermon. And they and by God's grace they were able to say, what shall we do? And many of them were baptized that day. I believe it says in the scripture somewhere around five thousand. Am I correct on that? Well, that's not the only time that we see a sermon like this with the two ways. uh um working itself out after the ascension of Jesus Christ. We not only see sermons to Jews, we also see sermons to Gentiles In Acts chapter 10, 42 through 11, verse 3, this is known as the second Pentecost or the Gentile Pentecost, and it says this. And he co and uh he commanded us to preach to the people, speaking of Jesus now, and this is Peter explaining himself to Cornelius. And he, Jesus, commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that he is the one who was ordained by God to be the judge of the living and the dead. He's explaining to Cornelius, we just had this thing called Pentecost. That I just read to you from Acts chapter 2. He's explaining this to Cornelius, and that they were to continue this preaching. And he goes on and he says, To him all the prophets witness that through his name Whoever believes in him will receive remission of sins. While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those who heard the word. And those of the circumcision who believed were astonished, as many as came with Peter, because this is why they were astonished, because they were Because the gift of the Holy Spirit has been poured out on the Gentiles also. For they heard them speak with tongues and magnify God. Then Peter answered, Can anyone forbid water? That these should not be baptized who have received the Holy Spirit, just as we do you could basically insert Jews have. And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. Then they asked him to stay for a few days, and now the apostles and brethren who were in Judea heard that the Gentiles had also received the word of God. And when Peter came up to Jerusalem, those of the circumcision contended with him, saying, You went in to uncircumcised men and ate with them. Now there are these two ways that are present not only for the Jew as a part of their story, but what you're noticing is that all of the nations are being sucked into the same story. There's always been two ways for everybody. But the only way for anybody is Jesus Christ. That's really the way that the story is moving, is that it's not going to be that you are Abraham's children by way of physical descendancy. It will be that you are Abraham's children by way of repentance and belief. These are my two children. And those are the two ways, and at and at the center of the narrow way as opposed to the broad way is Jesus and his kingdom. In other words, if you wanted to put a summary on all of this and what I'm saying to you as we start to end this first point, the two gates are understood. Remember, this is the the title of this is the story of the two ways. The two gates are understood within the long story. Of the covenant God graciously offering to the world redemption in Jesus Christ. That's where Jesus is pulling from. The two gates are understood within the long story of the covenant God graciously offering to the world redemption in Jesus Christ. Now that's like the 5,000-foot view. But that is the story of the two ways. That is what is behind them. And I hope that that helps you to understand as you continue to reflect on those. The second thing I'd like to do, which really starts to bring us back down to earth here a little bit, and we can begin to see how the Sermon on the Mount is supposed to help us, is the purpose of the two ways. So it's not only the story of the two ways, but it is the purpose of the two ways. Now there's two main purposes that I want to point out. I imagine there's more purposes that you could come up with, but I see two ones that are in two of them that are emphatic. The very first purpose of the two ways here in this passage, the first way is a warning. Now that's pretty obvious. If you look at at um your scriptures again in chapter seven and we look at thirteen B It starts off, really the whole thing is a warning from 13B all the way through 14. But you can see that it is a warning just based off of the descriptions and the kind of language that Jesus is using here. He says in 13b, for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and there are many who go in by it. Now that's a warning. He's saying there is a certain path in life and there is a gate that you could enter in uh either before or after you're on that path. That's debated. And if you're on that path, it leads to destruction. That's a warning. And the implicit thing being said here is don't be on that path or go into that gate. That's really uh an implicit message that's that's going on here. And it becomes even more of a warning when you start to look at some of those descriptors. For example When he says, wide is the gate, that means this thing is really easy to see, it's really easy to go through, there's really no problem. It's totally convenient to make it happen. And what makes it worse is that it is popular. There are a lot of people on this path. And when there's a lot of people doing something, there's this kind of phenomenon that we have as human beings. You know, I grew up and and whenever I did something, I always tried to justify myself rather than you know take responsibility. And the uh that and that would never fly with my grandmother. Go figure And and she's and I she catch me doing something. I say, Well Tommy did it. And I had you know, I'd I just lit like a M eighty off at the local pond. And the neighbors told her. And I said, well Tommy did it too. And she said, if Tommy jumped off a bridge, would you jump off a bridge with him? And in my demented little head, I'm like, well it depends on how high the bridge is. I mean actually Tommy and I have been jumping off bridges and you don't even know. But that's besides the point. She is getting at s she you know the principles that she's getting at, but there is this weird phenomenon within our life where if there were enough people up on that bridge jumping off, we'd be like, well, maybe we should be jumping off the bridge There is something about that here within this warning is that there is a way that everyone is doing, and in that way it starts to be legitimized within our minds and in our hearts And that makes this a really serious warning that you think, oh, well, I'll just avoid that path. Yeah, well it's not that easy. This is really difficult. And in fact, if you go back to the story, you have a group of people who were told these things in Deuteronomy and in Genesis and in Exodus and in Leviticus and in all of the scriptures that had been given to them, they were told about the two ways. And in the story, you always see them struggling with the two ways. Always see them struggling with the two ways. And there were severe consequences for them departing from the ways. Or departing from the narrow, the narrow road. And you see how broad it is and how popular it is, and that's some of the reasons why they end up going down that So that's this this um this uh first warning then is is seen to us is is given to us here very clearly within the scriptures. Now, if we were to go to just the Sermon on the Mount, what are some of the broad ways that he has pointed out? Well you could point them out pretty easily yourselves. It would be something some here's just like a random p selection that I have. Don't twist the intention of the law on the prophets. But what was that one? If you're on the broad path, you're twisting the intention of Scripture. You're twisting Scripture. If you're twisting Scripture, you're on the broad path And another one would be don't be a hypocrite in your relationship with God. It's interesting to me that the hypocrisy part of the sermon was brought up mostly in relationship to how we relate to God. That we publicly look like we're interested in him and love him, but privately we don't. We don't really love him. And so the broad path is to be a hypocrite. And the positive form of that would be to actually love and to trust him as your father. That's the narrow. The narrow of the first one, of the twisting and the lull and the prophets, would be that you would you that That you would use the law and the prophets for the good that God intends, especially to your neighbor, instead of justifying your hate. And then lastly, I'll just mention that the negative um that the negative Uh the negative path, actually if you wanted to go on, and this could be a really interesting thing to do with friends and family is you could look at in the book of Matthew at all of the different characters and you could ask the question, are they on the narrow or the broad? Now if you wanted to pick out some easy ones, you could say, well, Herod, he's on the broad, because he's seeking to bring in the kingdom of God through military action, and that's not how Jesus wants this to happen. He doesn't want another Maccabean re revolt. That will end poorly in 70 A. D. That will end very poorly. And Jesus warns them about that. So those are you could go through all of those different characters. You could say is Mer Mary on the narrow or the broad? Is the wise men on the narrow or the broad And then you go all the way through them and it becomes really clear where this path is. And what you're going to end up finding is that those people who aren't on the broad, this is the way that you can put it, they're beatitude people. That's a great way to get at what the heart of the Beatitudes is. You're going to find a group of people that you could s you could describe them as. Oh, these are Beatitude people. These are Sermon on the Mount people. And that gives me a really good picture of these two ways. Now, that's the very first purpose of the two ways. The first purpose is a warning. You need to take this seriously. I would like you to just for a moment, before I move into the next point, think about the people in the story of the scriptures that didn't take it seriously The description that we receive, even in the New Testament, is that their carcasses were in the desert. Those who did not take Jesus seriously at this time, and continued on the broad way of a military revolt, were decimated by the Romans. He warned them ahead of time. Decimated. That was not the way that Jesus was going to do it. He wasn't rising up another group of young revolutionaries. That's not how he was proceeding in his kingdom. But they did not listen. They looked for another messiah. They found a guy named Bar Kakbah, and they went storming the gates, and they were obliterated. And God in his infinite wisdom used that to show that you lost this fight in 70 AD the moment you turned your backs on my son. Not only have you forfeited eternal life, you forfeited this life. That's the way that worked out in history, and we need to take that very seriously. And take the warning here about the Broadway seriously. Now, the second purpose then is that this is a call to action This is a call to action. I have not talked about the main point of this entire section yet, and that's 13A. Not 13B and 14. It's 13A. 13A is a command. Did you ever notice that? It's a command. It's in the if you want to be fancy, you could say this is in the imperative. Or if you want to be fancier, you can say it's imperatival. That this is a command that is given to us here, and therefore it is a call to action. He says, to those people standing there, listen to him, and remember you're a part of those people, he says. Enter into, enter by the narrow gate. It is a command and a call to action. Now this is I think the most important point that I want to bring out to you. It is not a call to never acting. Let me say it again. It is not a call to never acting. This is a call to action. And that ends up being really important as we s as I start to kind of um pay on the promise here from the beginning And that is that as we are discipling the nations, let me just tell you something. It's not enough for them to know the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus Christ is interested in them becoming a sermon on the mount, person. It's not enough for us to know the Greek words new creation. We are meant to be the new creation It's not enough for you to know the Greek word of what salt is. It's not enough for you to know in all of your accordances, all of the ways in which Jesus or the uh the in the scriptures, every place where it says light. You are to be the people of light. I wrote down a few things here that I think would be helpful. It says, not the call to never acting. Is it a call to true action? So, here are some things that you could fall into when you're going through a section like this. You could say, I listened to the Sermon on the Mount in my Bible app. Great start. But that's not the that's not the end of it. You've only just begun. He says here, enter by the narrow gate. He doesn't say learn all about the narrow gate. He says enter the thing. So just get this picture inside your head. There is the gate and it's narrow. And there you are still outside of it listening to the Sermon on the Mount. He's saying, Enter this thing. Everything that I've given to you, you have to take it on. Or I listened to a sermon series on the Sermon on the Mount. Not good enough. I read books on the Sermon on the Mount. Still not good enough. I understand that those are prerequisites. But Jesus said this is a call to action and a command to action to enter. Not think about entering. You could say to yourself, I know the Greek words that Jesus uses on the Sermon on the Mount. Not good enough. You can do all of that and more, and you can still be wide gate people. Isn't that amazing? You can do all that work. You could spend the next 32 years in seminary learning all that stuff and still be a wide gate person. Just a heathen philosopher, really, or professor with tenure. Jesus says, enter. I think that's the most important part. Enter. Now, there's a gentleman that picked up on this, which gave me the idea to begin with. I actually had not noticed the strong force of this imperative until I picked up and was reading David Martin Lloyd Jones. I'm not sure if you know Martin Lloyd Jones. He was from here in 1899 to 1981. He was a Welsh Protestant minister and a formal former medical doctor. who became a leading expository preacher in 20th century Britain. You can actually hear him live in his archives if you'd like to listen to him preach. He ended up, he has a really interesting story, Martin Lloyd-Jones, in that he left a promising medical career to become a pastor in Wales during 1927 to 1938. And then he went on to serve at London's Westminster Chapel for nearly 30 years from 1939 to 1968. And he had a particular ministry to young folks who were kind of metropolitan. Really interesting story. I hope you get a chance to to look him up if you don't know him already. But he's my point is that he said this about this enter by the narrow gate. He says, so we ask ourselves a very simple question at this point. My ultimate test of myself and of my profession of the Christian faith can be put like this. Have I committed myself to this way of life? Is it the thing which controls my life? We have seen what it tells us to do. Have we then put ourselves under its teaching? Is it dominating our lives? Is it governing and controlling us in our actual decisions and practice? This, of course, involves a very definite act of the will It calls upon me to say, recognizing this as God's truth and as the call of Christ, I am going to give myself to it, come what may. I am not going to consider the consequences. I believe it. I will act upon it. And this henceforth is going to be my life. That's what the call to action is. That's the enter. That is the enter. You'll remember, I'll give you one more example here. You'll remember as people are being baptized in the Jordan by John the Baptist. Now why the Jordan, by the way? It's definitely not only the symbolic act of baptism. I mean he's baptizing not just any place, but in the Jordan. It has to also be the symbolic act of entering into the new land, this covenant, this covenantal renewal that was going on. And yet when the Pharisees and the Sadducees made their way down there by the river John the Baptist confronts them and says, you need to show the fruits of your repentance and not just the words. And you it makes you wonder if they're sitting out there on the edge of this Sermon on the Mount And they're going to know more about what Jesus is saying intellectually than some of those other people that are more closer in the in the internal crowd listening to Jesus And yet they remain wide gate people, because, as Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones points out here, is that they have not acted upon it They have not acted upon it. There are different parts that are required. It is God's truth and it is the call of Christ, but there is also an act of the will. And I love that he brings that out. I will act upon it, and this henceforth is going to be my life. Now that is the story of the two ways. You can see how that connects to everything in the scriptures now, if you look closely. And that is the purpose of the two ways. The purpose is the warning, and it is also a call to action. And it answers that question that we asked from the beginning of the sermon. What is your responsibility to whom Jesus calls? Remember, I told you that's where by the time we get to the end of the sermon, that's what we're going to get. We're going to get an answer to that. What is your responsibility to those whom Jesus calls? To begin to answer that, I want you to write down this. Acts chapter nine, one through two. Listen to what this says. It is starting to answer the question of what is your responsibility to those who Jesus calls? What are your discipleship responsibilities? Then Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest and asked letters from him to the synagogues of Damascus, so that if he found any who were of the way Whether men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. Now let me just ask you, which way were they a part of? Because there's two ways. They were a part of the narrow way. Saul will find in just a moment, if you keep reading the story, he was a part of the Broadway. And Jesus is going to confront him and say, why are you persecuting me? And in his grace, Paul, Saul will become Paul, and he'll become a part of a narrow way. And that is the same thing and the same responsibility that has been given to you. What does it mean for us the disciples of nations, for the people that Jesus Christ sends to us in our life or here at this church? It means in the most robust way possible, in the most vital and meaningful way possible, is you are to take them under your wing and show them what it means to be the people of the way. Not the broad way, but the narrow way. The narrow way where Jesus Christ is Lord. I have written here to disciple to make them the people of the way. That's the answer. That's how simple it is. to make them the people of the way. In all areas of life, they would know and they would follow the way of Jesus. And here's my question for you this morning. Where is Jesus leading you to lead people in the way? Where is Jesus leading you to lead your children in the way? Where is Jesus leading you to lead your grandchildren in the way? And all of those other people that he puts in your path, where is he calling you to lead them that they would have the opportunity? upon his grace to enter that narrow path where Jesus is the way, he is the truth, he is the life, he is the door. He is the one that we walk through to enter the path of righteousness. I pray that you would think about those things as we think about being the people of the way. Please pray with me.