But I want you to know, brethren, that the things which happened to me have actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel. So that it has become evident to the whole palace guard and to all the rest that my chains are in Christ. And most of the brethren in the Lord. having become confident by my chains, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Amen. Let us pray O Christ, if we have not you, we have nothing. We ask, Lord, that you would pour out your Spirit on us. That we would receive your word with all joy. We pray, Lord, that you would transform us here this morning We pray, Lord, that we would not be ashamed of you, but that we would grow in our love and our faith and our hope in you We ask that this would be done through the preaching of your word. In your name we pray. Amen. You may be seated. As Christians, we are not adrift at sea. As Christians, we are not adrift at sea. We have, in fact, a North Star, a direction, a way to go. And it is given to us throughout all of the scriptures. Last week, that was particularly true as we looked at the Apostle Paul's prayer. Within his prayer, he shared for That it was preserved for even us to be able to see his prayers and his aspirations, his resolves for those people who lived in the town or the city of Philippi, the Philippians. And by looking at his prayer, we were able to see not just Paul's aspirations for the Philippians. But the Holy Spirit's aspirations for Christians from one generation to the next. And when we got a chance to look at each one of those things individually, I really hope and I prayed that you would be begin to become enthused about what Jesus Christ is working in you, about what it means for you to be his restored humanity. We are growing more and more in love under the ministry of Jesus Christ We're growing more and more in love, but it's it's not a love that the world offers, it's a love that is governed by the scriptures It is a love that is applied with moral competency to each individual circumstance and situation. And it's love applied and upheld by a group of people called the church who have integrity. Integrity in private, integrity in public, that we're not the source of blasphemy God amongst the Gentiles, to quote Romans. That instead we're fruitful. We're not a fig tree that just has leaves. We have figs. And it's all adding up to one thing. That God would be glorified. And we're a part of that. Wow, what a opportunity for us to be able to see through the Apostles Paul's prayer, Jesus Christ's aspirations and resolve. for you as his new humanity. Well we leave his prayer this morning and we're going to enter into a main theme. With this paragraph of verses twelve through fourteen, we're going to enter into the main theme that is this letter. Has anyone ever discovered what the main theme of Philippians is? If you were to look it up, I'm seeing joy. Yeah, if you look it up, it's not unusual to see that this is called the letter of joy. And one of the reasons why people call this the letter of joy or of rejoicing is because you can find, just by way of repetition, these words throughout Philippians. In 14, joy. In 118, joy. In 125, it's joy or rejoicing. 126, 22, 216, 217, 218, 228 Eight three one three three and four one Joy or rejoicing. And that was just at a casual glance. I wonder if you could find more. It is known as the letter of joy. And before we go launching off on that theme, Really, what we're invited to do here this morning is to ask the question, how is your joy? The fact that it is a letter of joy. And looking at that Paul and that the Pauline prayer to see what we're to be characterized by, here we have another feature that Christians are to be characterized by joy. Not Pollyanna joy. If you don't know what Pollyanna is, I'm sorry. It's not joy that's bittersweet. It's not joy that's superficial. It's the kind of joy that is expressed in the statement, we grieve, but we don't do so without hope. That's the kind of joy. And you need to ask yourself, are you characterized by joy? Is that how people would characterize you? Or Did something steal your joy? You ever heard that phrase? My joy has been stolen. Was there a circumstance that really did it to you? Was there a person? Was there some criticism? What we're going to see over these next several paragraphs, over the next several weeks, is that Paul does face criticism. Paul faces life and death. Paul faces circumstances. And in the midst of it all, he is the apostle of joy. And he encourages you and actually believes that Christ's ministry to you is moving you to be a people that features human life in joy. Despite your circumstances, in fact, this in our first paragraph this morning, this is the main lesson. Despite your circumstances, Christian, your life ought to be marked by joy. Now we'll get to this eventually by the end, but the big question is how's that supposed to be, given what I've seen. But that is the lesson. Despite your circumstances, your life ought. to be marked by joy. Now I want to kick this off by just starting with looking at the difficult circumstances and then we'll go on from there. So let's do that together. Despite your circumstances, your life ought to be marked by joy. Now let's take a look at the passage, and I want you to see that Paul has difficult circumstances on his mind. And that's the situation in which he's talking about this idea of joy. Take a look at verse number twelve with me. But I want you to know, brethren. That the things which happened to me. Let's just stop right there. Don't go on to read about the good news. Just stop right in the middle of that sentence, and things have happened to Paul. There are circumstances that he has undergone. Now, what happened to Paul? Now, if you remember the story, Paul was arrested after setting foot in Jerusalem. Acts 21, verse 27, through Acts chapter 23, verse 35. After two years in prison, he appealed to Caesar, as was his right as a Roman citizen. And so he was sent to Rome to stand trial before the emperor himself. Does anybody remember what happened, Bill? Things that happened to him. Along the way, Paul ended up enduring great hardships, including shipwrecks and venomous bites from snakes. And by the time the Philippians, the letter of Philippians was written, Paul was living under house arrest in Rome itself. He's awaiting his trial. And as you can see there, if you keep reading past twelve. He is under a Praetorian regiment. He's under Roman guardianship. He has soldiers, elite soldiers, there guarding him. That is his particular difficult circumstance. And the Philippians knew it. And that really starts to get at why he's writing what he's writing here in this first sentence in verse number twelve, and he says I want you to know, hey guys, this is really important. I want you to know something. I don't want you to forget this. I want you to know, brethren, that the things which happened to me. I've got some serious circumstances that I'm sure you've heard about. They need to know that he does in fact acknowledge that the circumstances are difficult. And the Philippians knew it, and it appears that they were tempted to be discouraged by it. Imagine somebody who is seeking to do the right thing and has been commissioned by God to do it. But at each step that they take, they meet obstacles until finally they've been cornered back into the corner where now they're under house arrest. The congregation saw that as the other team was winning, and they were tempted to become discouraged. That news of Paul's imprisonment being chained to a guard, that news would steal their joy. And so, when you're reading this letter on your own or you're listening now, you have to know that Paul is highlighting that circumstance and what he's seeking to do, his purpose here in these next several paragraphs, and specifically this one Paul is not only telling him of his circumstance, but he wants them to know that despite all of those circumstances, they should still maintain their joy. He's going to eventually get to that when you look at verse number 18, where this whole section is characterized by that verse down there in 18. What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached, and then he goes on the early And he tells you his attitude through all of this. And in this I rejoice, yes, and I will rejoice. And he is he's giving this letter, and that's the paragraph that we're looking at this morning to the Philippians. that despite his circumstances, they would not have their joy stolen. Now you want to ask the questions, well, how's that the case? Are they just optimistic people? Are they kind of just glass half full? Is it a personality trait, or is there some reason within the universe that Paul has for maintaining joy under such affliction? We know that Paul does not deny that affliction is present. I'm sure he still has the mark from the snake But how is it that he would encourage them not to be discouraged, but instead to have joy? Well that's what I want to talk about now. I want to talk about not only the difficult circumstances, but what are the reasons that you could continue to have joy Despite your circumstances. That's what Paul reveals to us next. The passage is going to continue past verse number 12 by giving two main reasons that Paul himself had joy The first one is seen in the second part of 12 and into 13. So take a look at that with me. Let's look at his reasons specifically down there for the Philippians, and then we can bring it up as a timeless principle. The first reason is seen in the rest of verse twelve and into thirteen. It says this. But I want you to know, brethren, that the things which happen to me Okay, we haven't gone past that. Now we can have actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel. So that it has become evident to the whole palace guard and to all the rest that my chains are in Christ or for the cause of Christ Now, this is one reason why Paul is still joyful despite being imprisoned, is that phrase, the whole palace guard. Did you catch that? That's actually a ta a technical term for an elite soldier. During this time, Paul was not, I'm not sure what you picture, but Paul's not sitting in a jail cell by himself. I think he's on house arrest at this time. He's not just sitting in his house by himself. Do you see the picture? He doesn't just have shackles on his ankles by himself. He is shackled or chained to a soldier. He's shackled to the Imperial Guard. Those guards have shifts. They're on from my reading. One commentator says they had shifts of about six hours. So in the course of a day, there's several soldiers chaining themselves to Paul as a part of their duty. And I want to invite you to think about this for the for the moment Because this is how Paul is now thinking about this, that despite what has happened to me, despite what they intended for evil I now have an elite soldier, several of them, chained to me during the day and the night. Now think about that. Paul was chosen by Christ to bring good news of God the Father, setting his Son Jesus Christ as King of heaven and earth. Christ gave Paul extraordinary gifts. Think about Paul walking into a city. Paul could walk into a cosmopolitan center. He could argue with politicians and religious leaders and the best philosophers that they had to offer. And at the end of the day, though some did not have ears to hear, Christ would empower Paul And his persuasion to where there were enough people converting to where church plants needed to be to be established in each one of these cities that were totally pagan. This is the man to whom they are chained. Through the power of Christ, Paul ends up being, as we look back, Paul, by the power of Christ, is a major architect. Of what still remains the largest movement in the world started by Christ Himself, the eternal Christ. And that's part of the point. There are elite soldiers of the emperor chained to him all day long. If you were to look in verse number thirteen. You can see that they have come to discover that his chains were not because he is a criminal. He did not do something wrong. There was no reason for them to look down on him, but instead he becomes an example of the ultimate soldier for Christ, showing allegiance to his king. That had to be, I'm speculating, but that had to be re uh re uh uh drive respect from the soldiers. He was chained in Christ or for the craw cause of Christ. And between this witness And the words which Paul shared with them, some of the imperial guards converted and they gave allegiance to Christ. I mean can you imagine yourself in that situation if you were an Imperial Guard and you wanted nothing to do with Christ? I mean come on Paul, just give me some space. Okay, yeah, sure. Yeah, give me some space. Sorry, but Christ has changed you to me. Now if you were to flip a little bit later and look at Philippians chapter 4 verse 22 as he's closing the letter The gospel of Christ even made its way into the household of Caesar himself. It's Philippians 4, 22. All the saints greet you. But especially those who are of the household of Caesar. Now, why am I telling you all this information? It's because this is the first we're we're down on the ground and we're really concrete about something that happened in the past, so I'm going to change that in a moment. But the first thing we have to see is that this is the reason why Paul could maintain joy despite the circumstances, because despite what happened to him Even if it was intended for evil, it still furthered the gospel in this specific way to where even members of Caesar's household were now greeting the saints of other churches. That's the first reason that he encourages Christians to have joy despite their circumstances. Now here's the second one, and this is a shorter story, and it's Philippians 1. 14. The second reason is seen in that 14th verse, and it says, And most of the brethren in the Lord, having become confident by my chains, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. And I think what's going on here is that Paul was arrested and Christians became fearful of arrest. Can you imagine yourself in the same situation, hearing that that certain saints within our congregation were being arrested? for following Christ and being faithful to Him, you would begin to be on guard. Some of you would remove yourself from public situations and you'd become far more quiet. Some of you wouldn't, I know But some of you would. And yet as they watched God work through Paul's imprisonment Where even though what they intended for evil, God was working towards good, just like in the Joseph story, now they are filled with confidence that if they go on talking about Christ, Despite the circumstances, they would be established by God. And consequently, they are courageously speaking about Christ to their surrounding culture. So you've got two main reasons that Paul brings up on why they specifically should have joy despite what has happened to him. And you could summarize it all as saying the gospel is being furthered. Gospels being furthered, saints have greater confidence. Now You have those difficult circumstances, and I've given you the two main reasons that Paul establishes for them to have joy. And I want to draw out now, I want to go away from just the Philippian situation. I want to abstract and I want to look at the timeless principle where I might say to you, from this pulpit that Christ intends for you, Christian, to have joy despite your circumstances. I wonder if you have seen the timeless lesson which the Spirit is giving all Christians already. Difficult circumstances do not steal the joy of Christians. Why? Because God, our God, takes difficult circumstances and He uses them to accomplish good things. That is a universal truth that may be passed down from generation to generation. Paul did not just the the f God did not just work with the Philippians in that way. The Spirit is telling you here this morning that he works the same with you, that as you seek his honor and his kingdom, despite what the circumstances are, Do not fear, do not be discouraged, but have joy, because God is the same God that will further his gospel in the face of such circumstances. Now think about that. God used imprisonment to convert elite soldiers in the household of Caesar He used imprisonment to embolden Christians to speak freely about Christ. And Paul captures this in a few words What happened to him did not stop the gospel. God used the difficulties and the evil to further the gospel. That is the way that God works. So there can, in a sense, always be a smile upon your face. Now, there are two commentators that I had read on this, among many commentators, but these two commentators I'm going to mention to you, they said something that I thought was super interesting, and so I thought I'd mention it to you because you like to hear interesting things. These two commentators are from the 1600s. I think they're British, but I get confused about that. One of them at least is from England. It's from the 1600s. The two commentators, the first one I want to mention to you is Matthew Henry. Has anyone here read Matthew Henry's commentary on the Bible? Or have you read sections of it? I'm starting to see some hands. He's a pretty Uh is he British? I think so. He's uh pretty popular among you. So he says this in reflecting on this same passage. Is he British? Yes. I'm getting I'm getting a I don't know. That's what I'm getting. Okay, we'll find out later. He's reflecting on this same passage and listen very carefully to what he says here. He says, for the timeless lesson, that's what the point that we're on right now, the timeless lesson. A strange chemistry of providence is this to extract so great a good as the enlargement of the gospel. out of so great an evil as the confinement of the apostle. A strange chemistry of providence is this Now that's that's our friend Matthew Henry. Now living during the same time was Thomas Watson. And I think he's from England too. It seems like they're all from England. But he's another pastor, and he says this: see here the wisdom of God, who can make the worst things imaginable turn to the good of the saints. He can by a divine chemistry extract gold out of dross. And then he moved into praise in his commentary, and he says, Oh, the depth of the wisdom of God. Did you catch that both of the I don't know if they shared office space? I'm not sure how that worked. If they shared a horse and buggy on the way to work. But both of them used the same phrase and they talked about God and his providence as if he were a chemist. Isn't that interesting? See I told you it's interesting, right? That's interesting. Both men spoke about God's work as a divine chemistry. Watson gives it a name. Watson gives it a name elsewhere, and it is alchemy. They both saw God as the divine alchemist. Now do you know what alchemy is or was? Alchemy was the attempt by chemists to work at the molecular level in their day. To work at the molecular level in order to transform base metals like lead into high-valued metals like gold. Watson and Henry, therefore, are saying that God is the divine alchemist. He is the divine chemist. Why? Because he is in the habit throughout all of the generations of transforming your base and rotten and evil circumstances That you face as Christians, he transforms them into golden opportunities and accomplishments and the furthering of the gospel. You could summarize this in a sense by saying, He who sits in heaven laughs. Wow. Are you starting to get it? Are you starting to get that deep reality that Paul Is tapping into and that the Spirit is delivering to you today, are you beginning to see the plausibility that despite the circumstances that Christ tells you to face, that forces you to face That you still maintain you still may maintain the joy of the Christian faith You'll know this. The Spirit's point is that despite your circumstances, you ought to have joy. Christians don't lose their joy due to tough circumstances. Why? Because they exercise their faith in the divine chemistry of Jesus Christ. Who can change the lead of your situation into gold for his glory? We believe in the great alchemist, don't we? Do you? Do you believe in the great alchemist? Do you exercise this kind of faith? I bet you some of you are thinking of some situations where you haven't. And I bet you if you think of those situations, you'll find that you really had a lack of joy. Because the two are connected. It is the exercise of our faith in believing these things about God through Christ, that even in the midst of those circumstances we may still have joy. If you do not exercise that faith, if you don't really believe, then it is no wonder the joy is not present. And so his call to you this morning is to believe. And for you to pray to him to help you in your unbelief. That's part of it. Oftentimes we think of Christianity as being forgiven of our sins from Christ's sacrificial work, and then we go on our merry way and we just believe whatever we believe. But here we're beginning to see an advanced lesson about what it means to be a Christian. It doesn't just mean understanding the role of Christ, sacrificial work within God's plan of redemption. You begin to see that the advanced lessons that Christ wants to teach you is that He wants you to believe that He is who He says He is, and He wants that reality to start to show up and how you conduct yourself, particularly, and that you are a person of joy. That's the advanced lesson. This is one area of faith that perhaps you have neglected and perhaps it has really cost you. But now's the time to believe Instead of someone who is positive and confident and joyful, look at the Apostle Paul on these pages. He is confident. He is positive and he is joyful. And it says at the end of the letter that as he is an example before us, we are to follow his example. And elsewhere he says, as he follows Christ, we are to follow him. But instead we have this terrible struggle where we don't really we haven't really taken the time to believe that Christ is who he says he is and acts the way that he says he's going to act, and so what we have become It can even happen to a total congregation, is that we become cynical. We become grumpy. We become skeptical. We become bitter. We become resentful. We become critical. We become defeated. We become great, a great group of people Who are great at tearing things apart and tearing them down, but we have no vision for restoration and building anything. We're just angry I mean, if anybody, using the words of Paul from another place, if anybody had the right to be angry. Shipwrecked, bitten by the snake, has to climb down walls to escape persecution, stoned, 39 lashes plus one. If anybody, but that's not who you see here on this page. So he sets this example for you, and he's showing you that no matter what those circumstances are, through faith in Christ, Really putting your faith to work, you may maintain that joy and not become that corroded Christian In fact, the Spirit calls you out of that lifestyle this morning, and he shows you the way to do it. He not only is here calling you by way of this sermon out of that lifestyle of grumpiness and skepticism, but he's showing you how to do it. And he's saying you need to believe who I said I am. I will never leave you and I will never forsake you. You cannot live by the sight of your eyes. You must live by faith. For the righteous live by faith. He shows you what you must do. And may he grant us that. It is by exercising the faith which Christ has given to you Now, what I love is that as we look at the pages of Scripture and we tap into our own experiences, what I love is that practically speaking Christ does not usually, I don't I can't even think of a time where he just says to you, exercise your faith. Come on. Get it together. Exercise your faith. He knows who we are. He knows that we are like dust and we are fragile. And so he says it and then we sit there like a whatever I'm thinking that I'm not going to share We just sit there, and so he begins to act, to move you into a place where you are going to need to start exercising faith in him, and the result will be joy. I wonder how many of you have experiences of Christ not giving up on you, but still and still moving you. despite yourself, and then you thanking him and telling him, oh Lord, if I would have just submitted in the beginning. He doesn't just say exercise your faith. He is so generous. He is so faithful that he prompts you to believe in him as the divine chemist. And I want to share a story with you to end this morning on how he has done that for one person that shared with you. I'm gonna leave her name a blank here, but I did gain permission for the first time. I gained permission to share a story from someone. I have for some time been concerned with the leadership of Stuart Pittman, and I have been concerned with those who are under him because of the way in which he promotes evil through the use of the public library. We have children that go to the library, and when they come home from the young adult shelf, we have to vet every single book. And you would not believe some of the things that Holly has found in these books. I admit perhaps you would. We look at the books on the shelf and we become very concerned for young adults. And we are of course very concerned about drag queen story hour. And it grieved my heart. But more than me, it grieved the heart of a person who works at the library. Who has to live with this day in and day out and be a part of the meetings where they're, these things aren't happening by accident. They're literally planning to make sure that these are the kinds of things that are on the shelves and these are the story hours that we're going to have. And this person has become very discouraged by what they watch. They told me that they became deeply discouraged about this and other things at the library, but they believe this is Christ's call, so they march on. And that's good, but I think the discouragement got to an all-time high and there were thoughts of leaving, but then this happened in Christ's providence. Christ made something happen that filled them with hope and with joy, even for the public library system. The library decided to showcase an opera singer. And the opera singer decided to sing, as a part of the repertoire, two separate spiritual songs. Now, she's sitting there, having sat perhaps in the same seat to have to participate in Drag Queen Story Hour And instead, there's an opera singer standing up there, and the opera singer decides to sing two old spirituals titled this. The first one is called Hold Out Your Light. And the second one was this, ride on King Jesus. She was recounting this to me when she started to hear the lyrics of the words. There I was, this is a paraphrase, there I was. Surrounded by all the evil and the confusion and still feeling the frustration. But then wringing off the walls of the library was Ride on, King Jesus. No man can hinder me. These are the lyrics. No man can hinder me. Ride on, King Jesus. No man can hinder me. Right on, King Jesus. And then it occurred to her, she said to herself, All this time I thought God had left the library, but here he is. The name of Jesus Christ is being proclaimed again. God never left. He was never far away. His thoughts are just higher than mine. And he's more patient than I am. God will not let this evil continue. Now, was there a total change in all of the library systems of Adorado County? No, there wasn't. But what happened inside of her heart was that she began to believe. She began to believe that even in the library Jesus Christ did not leave her. He did not forsake her. And Jesus Christ cares about all of the children who go to the young adult section. When you forget that that's what Jesus Christ is like, you become angry, you become grumpy, you become cynical and skeptical. But when You see who Jesus Christ really is, you can sit there still working for the library system, and you can have joy. You could have joy because what just happened was Jesus Christ himself, by way of those spirituals, regave her hope. Which we certainly should have above all people. I wonder if you could complete this sentence. This is the sentence that she did not share with me, but I think this is the sentence that that she that is true. I wonder if you could complete this sentence. God will not let this evil continue, but He will transform it as the great chemist. And there she was, listening to two Negro spirituals, filled with joy. In the Anna Runnell County Public Library under the leadership of Stuart Pittman. America. I want you, brothers and sisters, to look at your circumstances. Look at the situations and the cards that you have been dealt. But I want you to do so by faith. And I want you to remember who Christ is and what He promised you. Knowing Christ, I encourage and admonish each of you here today to renew your joy despite your circumstances. Amen. And let us pray