Lord, I pray, or we pray together that you would make this a profitable day, that it would be a day where we would grow in our relationship with you. and with each other. Help us, Lord, to understand your word and the role that you have for us in setting aside a day to worship you. I ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Nick, you can turn me down. It's kinda too loud. Okay. Um so today what we're going to do is we're going to go we're going to review what we have already covered. with regard to the Lord's Day. And then we're going to enter into the fourth chapter, which has to do with the Sabbath as a sign. Although most of that we'll we'll just take a look at again, trying to answer the question of is the fourth commandment more a moral law? That's really still the main question that's being asked And then hopefully there'll be a little bit of time at the end for some questions or some comments. Okay, so just be beginning with the review, the very first chapter again is uh showing us the Lord's day and the Sabbath as something that is positive. And it's doing so what is this? Okay, what's that? It's doing so by asking the question, we have several questions that we're trying to answer, and that is what is the purpose? Was the first one. What is the purpose of the Sabbath? And we had three. Number one, to delight in God. It's good to just remember these things each week. Two victory over sin. And does anybody remember the third? Who said acts of mercy? Alright, Megan's right, yeah. So we could say mercy. Great day for mercy. Alrighty? Pardon me? Certainty of specific promise police. Yeah. Okay, yeah, and then and there's a Well that get kind of um goes along with each of these. There's a kind of a certainty, the certainty of the promise, my understanding, would it starts to fill these things out That he promises to be with us on this day in a special way and to work with us in our sanctification and our love. is how I would view that. And then the second question we had to do is is the Sabbath A moral command And we answered that question as yes. And the reasons that we gave were one That it was a creation ordinance. Or you could just call it a creation law It was given to all mankind and was meant to be obeyed in every age. The second thing that we saw there were was the proof of that. So if we wanted to support it. Then we have God's example World's smallest eraser. We have God's example and we have God's declaration. Does anybody remember what the example is that was given. Yes. God rested in himself. Yeah, God Himself rested, and then what was the declaration that was given? Remember. Yeah, and to g well in the in Genesis. And for the creation law, what was the declaration that was made? Pardon? That it was good? That's true. That it that but that wasn't referring to that specific day. Yes. The seventh day to rest, yeah, but what was the declaration that he made? If you want to, you can look in your Bibles. You can open your you can open your Bibles if you want. This is an open Bible class. Jeff Jeff. Yes, that it was finished. That is one of the declarations. There's specific about this day. Yes. Christina? Yeah, he blessed the day and he sanctified it. Right? So we know that the idea of sanctifying it is that he set it apart. And that day so that day has been set apart by his example and by him saying, I set this day apart, I sanctify it. That's what sanctify means in this case, to be set apart, and it's set apart for these specific purposes. So then the third part of the review had to do with the market day of the soul. Now why is it that it's called or has been called for a while now the market day of the soul? Why is the Sabbath or the The Christian Sabbath of the Lord's Day called the Market Day of the Soul. Yes, Natalie. Yeah, so the other six days are us transacting our business as normal, and the seventh day. is a the transaction that are meant to be between you and God in a special way. The rest of the week is also to be lived to God, but there is There is a day set aside where that's happening in a special way. So the market day of the soul Uh well I don't know exactly how I would put that into a question, but we could put market up here just to review the chapter And we saw that, number one, we basically we just went through the fourth commandment in Deuteronomy 5 and Exodus 20. We just stepped through the different sentences there. and those different words. And the very first word that we considered was remember. Does anybody remember the two points about remember When we look at the fourth command, if you want to, you can take a look at this in Deuteronomy five Just so you can have this back in front of you. Yeah, so Deuteronomy before the Ten Commandments appeared to worship God. Pardon me? It's inherent when the fourth commandment told us to remember the Sabbath day that it was in existence. It didn't come to the existence With the uh coming of the fourth commandment that was already a day fell apart and recognized by Israel Yeah, it was already here and we need to remember it. Okay, and then the second po point about remember or the word? Observe Yeah, it had to do with observing and the same that you would remember your anniversary, there's an observance And that has to do with a s an act of celebration on that day. And can anybody remember uh what was specifically pointed out in terms of how It is to be observed as we as we record it in Leviticus. There's a special call on that day. Yeah, the convocation. And what's a convocation if you to break were to break down the Latin. Yeah, you're called together. Good job, you're all the Latin work with Deborah's paying off. Okay, yes, so we have a convocation and that's two words I'll put up here. You can see that this is uh voco Or vocare, which has to do with being called. And then the con is um like a to bring things together. So we are called together and that's called a holy convocation. It happens to be for us at 11 a. m. and at 5. So we have a morning and we have an evening convocation. And we do so because we believe that's one of the ways in which we're supposed to observe the day. Okay. The other part of that market day of the soul that I want to cover and by way of quick review is just uh for us to be able to remember the personal uh domestic and social. So it's good to keep just have like a basic outline of what we're covering. So we had When we're talking about observance, one we have here, and then we can drop into a second bigger one that has to do with personal. There should be a personal observance. Whoops, personal, sorry. Personal a domestic Anybody and what does domestic mean? Yeah, like the home or family. And then there's social. So then the argument runs that the observance should be influencing each of those spheres of our life. A lot of the times we'll talk about that here is just saying um personal, family. And then like county, state, federal, we can talk about it different ways in which the calling that we've received from Jesus Christ and how we are to be a witness to him in the world, that is meant to affect every sphere in which we're apart. So it would affect how you conduct yourself personally. If you have family responsibilities And every, you know, we're all we're all a part of di of different families in different ways. However, uh, whatever ethical decisions arise, we want to take into consideration the ethics of the fourth command. And then it's the same thing with the social, so your larger community. And you could bring that back over to here, for example, is what are some ways in which you could uh especially demonstrate the mercy of God on that day? to your larger neighborhood or or wherever. Okay. Also giving people the opportunity to be able to delight in God. You see that in the fourth command, especially where it says, neither neither you nor your employees basically will work that day. You're going to give them off so that they too can worship. A little bit later in the book, we're going to get into some ways in which there are exceptions to that, that there are certain occupations where they really can't be taking off the whole time. because of the nature of their job like firemen. They can't just watch the house burn down because it's the Lord's Day. Same thing with nurses. Dairy farmers. If you were uh I think I'm correct about this, I'm not a dairy farmer. Anybody here I grow up as a dairy farmer? Oh really? Did you really? Yeah, there's always one among us If you don't milk for one day, uh don't major problems happen? Yeah, it's just like making breast feed experience. similar that way, but I was gonna make the comment. I used to hear stories how they even did there used to be a time they did not need to adjust to it Yeah, it's the same thing with like if you have chickens they can't you know you ni you still need to be fed and that's where we come up with the word necessity. And so we can look at those New Testament passages, but within the personal, domestic, and the social, it is set aside for specific purposes, which are mainly the holy convocation. And um and then there are but there are matters of necessity and there's matters of mercy. So Okay. Um I'm trying to think of a all right, so that's the basic review. That catches us back up. Uh can I take this down? Is that okay? You should already have this from last week. Can I take it down in about 25 minutes? World's smallest eraser. It's eraser for ants. I am pretty sure that Nicholas gave me this eraser just so he can laugh in the back today. Man, what is the deal? Has anybody seen those little hands that you can buy? Yeah. Yeah. Makes me want to erase it with those little tiny hands. Okay, so let's now move on to the next chapter which has to do with the fourth Now the main the main thing that he's going to get across is the idea of uh this enters us into a certain debate. But here's a here's something that's interesting to me is that not every debate out there is our debate. Uh sometimes when I'm talking to people who will disagree about uh different things. It could be the fourth commander, it could be other things. They bring up arguments I've just never heard before. They're not a part of my life. They're not a part of my thinking. And so I'm not sure if this is an argument that you have come across or not, but has anybody run into an argument against everything that we've said or at least parts of what we've said in terms of The fourth commandment is no longer obligatory for Christians. It was only a sign meant for Israel. You have one there. Yeah, right. Yeah, so and I'm saying three. So there's three, at least of us here, who have seen that. Well, he's addressing that argument here. And the main way, and there'll be other arguments in the future, there's a bunch of different passages that tend to come up with regard to this. And then at the end I'd like to say something about that. So what we'll do is we'll just step through the chapter and you'll notice in the very beginning of the chapter that the argument taken, now I have never met anybody who has this argument. So it's interesting that you do, and you do, and you do, and you all have people in your lives who have made this argument. I haven't I d I don't have those people. I don't know. Not that I know of anyway. Okay, so this was new to me. The the sign of the covenant, now let me say one more word by way of introduction Because I haven't run into this personally, my experience with this argument is limited. I did look at the footnotes on the argument that he's given here, and he says that If you wanted to see a full exposition of it, then you could this argument, if you wanted to see the full argument, you could look at Gary D. Long. And you could also look at D. A. Carson. Now, I couldn't find Gary's book. And then I used to have Carson's book. And I have no idea where it went. So the the reason why I mention that to you is because before I move into any kind of argument, I really try hard to understand what the other person is saying. James 1, 19, you know, you be quick to listen, slow to speak, slow to become angry. So What I'm going to do is we're just going to assume that Pipe is representing them well. I assume he would. But I haven't read these people's arguments. So I just want to give that as a kind of a disclosure. I do hope to find my D. A. Carson book If you borrowed it, could you just let me know, please, so that I can read and see, well, what are the points they're making and do they have any good points? What Python ends up bringing up, and maybe some of you already know this, is that this argument is relying quite a bit on Exodus chapter 31, 13 through 17. that they're using this as a kind of lens by which they're going to understand our relationship to this fourth command. So let's go ahead and take a look at that And before I go on, let me just point out, has any let me just ask you, has anybody read the D. A. Carson book? No? Let me just say one thing that's kind of interesting. So I know D. A. Carson disagrees with Dr. Pipa. But do you know what they're both going to do this morning? They're going to go to church and worship. Both of them. So just keep that in. I think that's a good thing to keep in mind. Or even when they're disagreeing. They're they're working off a different basis, but they're both showing up for worship today. Uh I know that unless they're sick or they can't get out of their house because of snow or something, but you get what I'm saying. Okay, so 31, 13 through 17. So let me just go ahead and read that to you, and we'll discuss for a moment the observations that they're seeking to make. I'll begin in 12. And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak also to the children of Israel, saying, Surely my Sabbath you shall keep, for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations that you may know that I am the Lord who sanctifies you. You shall keep the Sabbath, therefore, for it is holy to you. Every one who profanes it shall surely be put to death. For whoever does any work on it, that person shall be cut off from among his people. Work shall be done for six days, and the seventh is the Sabbath of rest, holy to the Lord. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day, he shall surely be put to death. Therefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations as a perpetual covenant. It is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever. For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed. And when he had made, I'll go into 18, when he had made an end of speaking with him on Mount Sinai, he gave Moses two tablets of the testimony, tablets of stone. written with the finger of God. Okay, so you read the book just like I've read the book. What are the observations that Pipa makes about First, let's just say they're making the argument that this is only a sign for Israel. What is it about this passage where you you would make those kind of statements that it's really it's it's not a commandment meant for everybody, it's just meant for Israel. Anybody see in that passage what they would use, perhaps? Because it's directly addressed to the sons of Israel would be kind of an obvious example Alright, and I think that's basically all that he brings out. Dr. Pipa specifically writes the anti-Sabitarians assent that since the Sabbath was a sign of God's covenant with Israel, when that covenant was fulfilled in Christ and the new covenant, the covenant sign of the Sabbath was abrogated. What does it mean if something is abrogated? It's another Latin word. What's that? Done away with. Yeah, done away with. Alright. So so let me just read that to you again, because this is the argument. The anti-Sabitarians assent that since the Sabbath was a sign of God's covenant with Israel, When that covenant was fulfilled in Christ and the new covenant, the covenant sign of the Sabbath was abrogated. The weekly Sabbath, along with the Sabbaths of the religious festivals and the new moons, was a ceremonial ordinance which, like the sacrifices, was destined to pass away. So, for example, can you think of some things that in the new administration that we are now under since the resurrection of Jesus Christ? Let's just be honest. What are some things that well let me ask it this way, have some things changed? What would those things be? A lot to do with the sacrificial system. Christina. Well, I mean if if the throw of Travis here is like you said The book is talking about the other ceremonies that they're learning past over and big and evily and all those things we don't feel need to follow those. Yeah. Alright, very good. Yeah. So there's all kinds of uh Sabbaths is um Christina is pointing out And I just, there's a note here that it's in the plural. It's not a singular word. Actually, and you're going to see this, Zach, in Colossians also, that it's in the plural. And the and here it's referring, if you look, you'll see there's all different kinds of festivals. There is a yearly calendar There's a there is a holy calendar that Israel follows for the entire year. Can anybody think of the festivals? We mentioned Passover would be one booths. Pardon me? Yeah, Feast of Booths we have the Feast of Trumpets. Did you say the Feast of Chocolate? Oh trumpets. I was like, man, that's That shouldn't be abrogated. If there wasn't a feast of chocolate, it would be perpetual. God would never take that away from us. Okay, so you could go through and you could look and you could see um that there is a calendar system that's followed the full year and it's really a calendar of remembering the different events that took place um where God showed mercy to his people. And there's a whole calendar for that. And um So when we say that those and then you mentioned also sacrifices, didn't you? Natalie. When we say that those things have been abrogated or done away with, what do we mean? What's the story behind that? It's true, there's no longer the killing of the animals. But why? What's so there's a certain way we Carol? Sorry. the days to come that are pointing for the Christ and so the substance of Christ, the fulfillment of those things is in Christ. Yeah. Yeah, so these are put into a category that has to do with shadows, and that the reality or the substance is Christ. Now if you want to see Uh uh all these different festival you know these festivals mentioned and then fulfilled in Christ, read the Gospel of John. It's uh he makes a point of pointing out what's going on there and that all of these different festivals were pointing to God the Father's work through his son. And then the book of Hebrews points out God the Father's work through his son with regard to the sacrifices and all of the priestly system. So here's a here's a quick question. If we were down south, most of us would if you became Reformed Presbyterian, you would be a recovering Baptist. If you're in the north, that might be the case, but most of you end up being recovering Roman Catholics. Let me just ask anyone here who's a recovering Roman Catholic, do you have a priest? Yeah. Is there anybody here that is a recovering Roman Catholic besides myself? Yeah, I went to St. John Evangelist and my family went to St. Mary's in Annapolis. And you can ask the question, do you do you have a priest? And sometimes a recovering Roman Catholic, that'll make the make them itchy for a moment. But we do, we have the great high priest who is Jesus Christ. Alright, so it's uh important to talk about those things correctly. And I don't know that there's anybody here that would argue that these things are to continue, that we're still to continue to slaughter the animals in the same way, or that we have an obligation to celebrate these festivals. Alright. What they're including in the argument is they're saying this is also included, including the what we would call the Sabbath, that this also was a shadow And is no longer continuing as a moral obligation that binds all humans in all ages And they're taking Exodus 31 as part of the argument for that. Alright, so I think I hope I've done a pretty good job of explaining How they're categorizing things, whoever they are. And maybe in your own life you've seen people talk about it the same way, and I think that's what they're probably trying to do. I have some close friends, actually, now that I think about it who do this. I didn't realize that it was connected to Exodus 30, but So now let's take a look at the response. And uh when I get a chance, like I mentioned, as soon as I find Carson's book, I'll go ahead and read. And before the class is over, if I see that there's something I'm missing that I'll go ahead and try to fill in just to accurately represent him as much as possible. Yes, Gary. So for some of those that are what we consider aggregated, and I would add uh circumcision for that, there is a new so like sacrifices. We're still offer sacrifices of praise. Circumcision is a uh eternal covenant and it's now done with a bloodless spine. Okay. I think this could be an argument argument could be developed as Sabbath, what is the if if we're to not practice the Sabbath, what's the modern practice of Sabbath then? In which case I would see the Uh if we say okay, I understand someone saying, okay, well we don't do we don't do uh circumstances anymore, we don't do sacrifices, and we say yes but you still there is a new covenant form of those. If they say well the Sabbath too is to be abrogated, then we can say Oh okay. They haven't disappeared. They have become new in the sense of transformed to connect more clearly with this new administration under Christ Jesus. Do we see something transforming or new with this change also? And I think your answer is I don't know that we do. I wonder though if they would say actually I wonder if they would say we do have something where it has transformed and that we are to be worshiping every day or something like that. I don't know. I have to look into that. Jeff and Brian. It's a lot of parts of this this part of the argument that is really tied up in in the uh dispensational uh view. Okay. And I've definitely heard people say that well now So Jeff is saying that in his experience or in his reading This uh argument here it can be can be tied up in a larger system called dispensationalism. Does anybody want to tell us what that dispensational is them? Seven. It must be right though. Seven. Does anybody want to tell us what that means? Dispensationalism. Natalie, you want to give it a shot? Yes. And there may be dispensational lists among us, so let's be charitable. Okay. Thanks for that. I mean but there the church has been the church the government God has divided his his plan into different dispensations um and they're they're they're so very separate. Um Well that would be good. I mean that's a good addition to the conversation is that God has divided history into dispensations. Which is not wholly untrue. Dispensationalists kind of think of them as like really big dividing lines and that we're in the dispensation of the church and that um it dispensation Often turns into an eschatology of premillennial dispensationalism where we're going to have uh a tribulation from which the church will be raptured out of it. Um am I going too far? Well I are started off with a seven syllable word and you're adding other really long words But that's okay. I think I asked the I asked the wrong question. I asked the wrong question. For me to ask what is dispensationalism in this class was a terrible idea. I should have just said that in Jeff's reading and experience this can often be tied to something called dispensationalism, which you may look up if you'd like to Although I think we're somewhat familiar with that. Okay. And um any other last comment? Uh wait, Brian, you were up, Mr. Reardon? Oh, I was just going to do it. With Gary? When I've heard this argument to Gary's question of what is the new testament kind of if there is if there if there has to be one. Uh and I've read read things that suggest that it is just our resting in Christ from our works. That Christ Himself is our Sabbath. Okay. So in the same way that you would turn every day to remember how Christ has given you rest from Trying to please God as a sinful person, so too has Christ given you Well I don't uh or something along those lines. John Calvin uh states online or mutation or Yeah, that is good to note, by the way, that John Calvin, some people will say that John Calvin makes this this sim uh kind of argument. It looks like he does. There is a specific book that has explored him him Uh and that book says that it seemed like John Calvin was kind of unaware of what Pipa is saying. So but the but that book is called um I think it was written by Gaffin or anybody remember? Uh I think it's called Calvin in the Sabbath or Calvin in the Lord's Day. Or bowling with Calvin. Something like that. I don't I don't remember. Okay. Anyway, we get we get the idea. Oh there was one more. Christina. I think and just to continue strongmanning, the scriptural I think the scriptural defense of that would be a Hebrews four, but it talks about there's the rest that remains and they take the Sabbath scriptures specifically apply them to our bench. Yeah, right. Yeah. I d I think one of the questions you a and then one of the questions we have to ask is if we accept that assertion, does it mean that this everything we're learning here also can't be true? Do both of them do both of these things go together or does one negate the other? These are questions that have to be raised. Okay, so I think what what we're seeing here is the basic argument that is given is that this too went away. Now when we look at Pipa's response, he basically has a threefold response to this. And his answer is no, it doesn't go away. All the way from the beginning of the book, he's saying the fourth commandment is a moral law that is perpetually obligatory for all of humanity, for all of time. That's his argument, which is different than it being temporary. So we have temporary and then we have permanent. And does anybody remember his first argument, by the way? Yes, Sarah. Yeah. So let's put down the title of his first argument is that is called the Unity. And I'm just going to write out ten commandments instead of Decalogue. The um and it's actually ten words is the translation, but Okay, so we have the unity of the Ten Commands. And can anybody relay his argument to us with that one? That there is a unity in the Ten Commands. I think part of the point with that What I was reading and I came back to is because God wrote all ten commandments on stone with his own hand, how can you argue find arguing that the last six were spoken by Jesus in the New Testament, so those seem disciplable easily. But how can then you can not say that they're all part of God's will of how we should be living and holding truth. Okay, so the so it looks like the I think what Elaine is saying is that that there is permanency to the Ten Commands specifically, the permanency is shown in it being written in stone. And the the permanency is also shown in it continuing over and being quoted in the New Testament. Now she did raise the question that it was the final six that were quoted in the New Testament. How does Pipa handle that? He'll handle it in another way in the future here where we looked at the other four are present in the New Testament, but as of now. I gave the um Ten Commandments in two sections. Yeah, so that very good. So then there is a Jesus does mention the full Ten Commandments by way of him summarizing the Ten Commandments You love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And that these were ref these were a twofold summary of a tenfold summary. is the basic argument. So let's take a look at that just briefly, this unity of the ten commands. I think that basically the argument could be viewed like this. is if you had a bubble of um those things which were the moral law Then included inside of that bubble is the Ten Commands. And included in that is the fourth. So then the fourth ends up being a moral law. So what you can do is if you're against this specific position is you can argue in each one of these points. You could say, no, it's not there is no there that is not the moral law, or you could say the Ten Commandments are not the moral law or And some people would argue that the Ten Commandments are not the moral law. They would just say that they were given to Israel also. Does anybody hear Well, I hate to I don't want to do this to people, but I so I won't. Never mind. Okay. Anyway, so hopefully you believe that the Ten Commandments are a summary of God's moral law. And if the fourth commandment is one of the ten, then the fourth is a moral law. If you define moral, moral law means that it is true for all time, for all men. All those who were, who are, and never shall be. So that's the main argument that Pytha is making. I find that very convincing I don't know how you take the fourth away, though I've heard different arguments. We had a argument on the floor of Presbytery once, and I heard how that how that they wanted to try to do that, and I was not convinced. Okay, so we have the unity of the ten commands, and this was, like Kate was saying, was uh um shown in the summaries. So let's take a look at those scriptures real quick. I I really enjoyed looking at those scriptures when I was going through the book. So let's take a look at Matthew twenty two, thirty-seven through forty. And I'll start in thirty-four, just so you can see a little bit of the context there. But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together. Then one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question, testing him, and saying, Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the law? Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. So the argument here is that he is summarizing the I'll just read what he says in Matthew I'm sorry. The New Testament, however, is clear in its understanding of the Ten Commandments as a summary of God's moral law. For example, when Christ is asked what is the greatest commandment He bases his answer on two Old Testament passages that summarize the Ten Commandments, Deuteronomy 6. 5 and Leviticus 19. 18. And we just read his summary. Now, does anybody remember the context of Deuteronomy 6. 5? That's a pretty famous passage. Does anybody know the if you if anybody knows Hebrew, they tend to know this Hebrew word from that passage. From that Shema. Yeah, so we have the Shema there. And then in Leviticus there is a further Well then when we get to Matthew nineteen, if you would like to turn to Matthew nineteen verse eighteen, which is just a couple of chapters earlier He's speaking to the rich young ruler, and the rich y young ruler says to him, which ones? Speaking of The command keep the keep the commandments. So I'll start in verse number sixteen. Now behold, one came and said to him, Good teacher, what good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life? So he said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good but one, that is God. But if you want to enter into life, keep the commandments. He said to him, Which ones? Jesus said, You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness. Honor your father and your mother. And you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Do you see how he puts the listing out or the enumeration of the commandments right next to the summary of the commandments that we just saw within Matthew 22? That's the second the summary of the second part. So the main argument here is that Jesus is bringing all of the Ten Commandments forward by way of the summary. In fact, Pipa goes on and he says, as a summary of God's moral law, the Ten Commandments are a unified expression of God's will. This unity is reinforced by the manner in which God gave the law. The ten words which were given in such an awesome manner at Mount Sinai and which were engraved by the finger of God in stone stand together as a unit. They could serve as the basis of Israel's covenant to God because they are the timeless expressions of God's moral will. And um that's that. Okay, so the so this is the first main argument on on why we don't think it's temporary. We actually think the fourth commandment is permanent, and we think it's a pr it's permanent because it's a part of the Ten Commandments. And we see the permanency in the different things that I just said. The summaries in the New Testament and also the way in which they were given Okay, what is the second argument? Does anybody remember that that this fourth commandment is permanent and morally obligatory in all times of all men? Anybody remember his second one? Carol. It's the scope of the commander to the sound for daughters and the service of the household. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, very good. Uh so Carol is saying that the second argument on how we could see that this was not just for Israel is the scope So that what we what he means by that, if I'm understanding him correctly, is that when we look throughout the scriptures, we see that there is a command not just to Israel but to others also So, for example, Carol just brought up within the fourth commandment itself that the command went out even to those who may be in a person's household that are not from, who are not Israelites. You see this particularly he brings up as a kind of a favorite passage of his to deal with this is from Nehemiah. So let's go ahead and take a look at that together. And actually first let's take a look at what Carol said, which is Exodus 20, verse 10, since we're already, we'll just take it one step at a time. Exodus twenty, verse ten. Alright, I'll go ahead and read that. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall do no work, you nor your son, nor your daughter. nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your cattle, nor your stranger who is within your gates. And he translates that sojourner. And he says this. The second reason for considering the fourth commandment to be a moral law binding on all people and not just the Israelites is the scope of the commandment. As noted in the previous chapter within the covenant context of Israel, the stranger was the unconverted, or in some instances, the converted, but uncircumcised Gentile. who lived among God's people in the land. God obligated the unconverted Gentiles to observe the structure of the Sabbath, even though they could not take part in the feasts or in temple worship. So again, the argument here is the scope. The second part of the argument for scope is from Nehemiah 13, 15 through 21. So let's take a look at Nehemiah. 13, 15 through 21. Alright, I'll go ahead and read that for us. Do you need a second? This is one of those books where sometimes you've got to flip to the front index And find that bad boy. Okay. In those days I saw people in Judah Sorry, let me just choose something real quick. Okay. Okay. In those days I saw people in Judah treading wine presses on the Sabbath and bringing in sheaves. and loading donkeys with wine, grapes, figs, and all kinds of burdens, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day, and I warned them about the day on which they were selling provisions. Okay. Man of uh tear Dwelt there also, who brought in fish and all kinds of goods, and sold them on the Sabbath to the children of Judah and in Jerusalem. Then, that's an important then, I contended with the nobles of Judah and said to them, What evil thing is this that you do profane by which you profane the Sabbath day? Did not your fathers do thus, and did not our God bring all this disaster on us and on this city? Yet you bring added wrath on Israel by profaning the Sabbath So it was at the gates of Jerusalem, as it began to be dark before the Sabbath, that I commanded the gates to be shut, and charged that there must not they must not be opened till after the Sabbath Then I posted some of my servants at the gates, so that no burdens would be brought in on the Sabbath day. Now the merchants and sellers of all kinds of wares lodged outside Jerusalem once or twice Then I warned them and said to them, Why do you spend the night around the wall? If you do so again I will lay hands on you. From that time on they came no more on the Sabbath. Alright, so what is this point there? Which specific verses do you think are important for the scope? Okay, verse number sixteen. Men of Tyre dwelt there also, who brought in fish and all kinds of goods and sold them on the Sabbath to the children of Judah and in Jerusalem. Why is that important to you, Ian? Yeah, so that's the so if you were to ask the question t in the scriptures to whom does the Sabbath apply, if the argument is to just Israel, what you end up finding is You say, um to whom does it apply? Well, one would be Israel. But is that the extent of the scope is the main argument or main question? And the second, we end up seeing Gentiles. And the specific Gentiles mentioned in this case are men from Tyre. And is there any other passage, any other part of the passage? Christina? I think in verse 21 would mean warnings the people about camping out around the sound it's really warning that you need to stop as well. Yeah so then we have all of the groups of people and then you can see also back up in fifteen in those days I saw people In Judah, although mine's in italics. Does anybody have their I don't have an internet connection here? Does anybody have the Hebrew word there? I don't have my Hebrew Bible with me Okay. Stephen, do you is it is it present or is it implied? Fifteen, in those days I saw people. Remember you read from right to left. That was a joke. Is it uh or if anybody has a subtuagent? Pardon me? Yeah, I'm thinking it's implied. Yeah. Yeah, in those days I saw in Judah treading wine presses on the Sabbath and bringing in sheaves. Yeah. So whoever there there has to be a subject implied those. He saw something, saw people who were tre bringing in sheaves and loading donkeys with wines, grapes, pigs and all kinds of burdens. which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. They imply there the word peoples. They didn't and that word people tends to be a translation of those who are from other nations besides Israel. So I'm wondering if that's why the translators chose the word people. All you people in the lands. That's not referring to Israel. That's a proclamation to those who are not Israelites. Okay, so that's the second argument is the scope. And the is a third argument. Does anybody remember that one? And this one just goes back to the fourth commandment, and he calls this the theological basis for the command itself. And we've already looked at this. So we have the the theological basis. So he's going to refer to back to the fourth commandment, and he says this. He says the third reason for recognizing that the fourth commandment is a moral law and not a positive ceremonial law Is the theological basis God gives for the commandment. God declares that the ground for the fourth commandment is the creation ordinance For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy. And I think that's important, part of the reason why it's important to tie it back into the creation ordinances is that Israel is not a nation yet. We have Adam and Eve. And there God is speaking to all men by way of their federal head. So you have Exodus twenty, going back to Exodus twenty twelve. Is that right? Yep. So the theological basis. So there, so last week we talked about uh I gave you an analogy that if you were living within Greece and you were and you had uh saved some money and were able to get a statue You would chain your statues down so that people did not steal them. And in the same way, whatever your beliefs are as a Christian, you want to chain those down so that they are not stolen from you. And so Dr. Pipa is seeking to supply some chains for you. For you, the main argument in this chapter is, and hopefully I'll be able to expound that a little bit more for you at another time once I find that book, but that some will argue that the fourth commandment is temporary. That it was only given to a particular group of people, not all people. That's the main thesis that they're holding, and they have different arguments for that. The response to that is no, the moral uh uh the fourth commandment is a moral law which binds all People of all ages, whether old age or new age. And then he gives his main premises for believing that is the fourth commandment is a part of the Ten Commandments. The Ten Commandments are permanent. And the fourth commandment is one of the Ten Commandments, so therefore the fourth command is permanent. And we can see the permanency within the Ten Commandments. If you have that doubt, we know that the Ten Commands are permanent because Jesus summarizes them. specifically and lists and enumerates them within the New Testament. And then as Elaine had, our former dairy farmer, had pointed out, is that they were written in stone for a reason. Number two is the scope. We do not see the fourth commandment only applied to Israel. We see it also applied to other groups of people outside of that. We see that in the fourth commandment when the sojourner is morally obliged to obey the fourth command. And then we see that in Nehemiah, when he commands those from other nations to obey it. And then third is the theological basis for the command. The theological basis takes us back into the creation account where it was not just speaking to Israel, it was speaking to all of humanity. And those are that's that's the those are some of his arguments so far in the book for the permanency of the fourth command. Yes? reason that he brought out I thought it really was uh very good was the second time that the Ten Commandments are given in Deuteronomy instead of Creation is the theological underpinning, it's redemption. Okay. And and that those two were both cried out all the way back in the Ten Commandments, but is certainly even all the way through heaven in Revelation 4 and 5 we're we're praising we're worshiping God as creator and as redeemer. Okay. I just thought it was Okay, very good. Thank you. So uh Jeff say that one more time aloud. Uh the the second there's a second theological reason in uh And that's in the second time the Ten Commandments forgiven described in Deuteronomy. He says instead of saying for six days God made heaven and earth, he says, Because God uh brought you out of Egypt. Yeah. Right, and then but you you you chose to describe that by way of redemption as a more general term for a specific reason, I imagine. Right, we were Just a comparison or the now the Israelites being delivered out of Egypt to um our s soul speakers. Okay, yeah. So in the same way that Israel of old was called from a specific place out of a specific bondage under Pharaoh into servanthood to their Lord, so too there is an analogy that we were called out of our bondage to that to sin and misery. to servanthood. And as a a part of being serv servants of the Lord, we are to serve him by obeying all of his commandments, which are summarized as love him and love your neighbor. That's what it means to be his people in that way. Okay, so next week thank you Jeff for that. I forgot about that one. Uh the so for next week we're making our way through this book here. And we're going to look at something that you all wanted to look at, which will be the Lord of the Sabbath from Matthew 12, 1 through 8. So make sure you're stay with the syllabus. I'll be adding a couple chapters at a time here soon, but next week we'll do Matthew 12, 1 through 8, which is chapter 5. Okay, let's pray Heavenly Father, I pray for your people that we would remember to delight in you today. That we would remember to delight in the redemption that you have given to us. You have bought us back. You bought us from a life that was futile, a life without you, a life without hope. But you've bought us through that and the price was your son. We thank you and we ask now that you would reveal yourself and your and all your gloriousness. here in worship service and may we respond with praise. Lord, we ask that you'd that you would help us to understand your moral law and how it is good. And Lord, in other words, help us to love you and to love our neighbor. We ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.