For the reading of scripture, please turn with me to Deuteronomy twenty-eighths. We do have a longer uh reading today, so I ask that you please bear with me. I'll be reading verses fifteen through sixty-eight. The sermon will be selections from those verses But it shall come to pass if you do not obey the voice of the Lord your God. To observe carefully all his commandments and his statutes which I command you today, that all these curses will come upon you and overtake you. Cursed shall you be in the city and you sh and and cursed shall you be in the country. Cursed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl. Cursed shall be the fruit of your body and the produce of your land The increase of your cattle and the offspring of your flocks. Cursed shall you be when you come in, and cursed shall you be when you go out. The Lord will send on you cursing, confusion, and rebuke in all that you set your hand to do, until you are destroyed, and until you perish quickly, because of the wickedness of your doings in which you have forsaken me The Lord will make the plague cling to you until he has consumed you from the land which you are going to possess. The Lord will strike you with consumption, with fever, with inflammation with severe burning fever, with the sword, with scorching and with mildew, they shall pursue you until you perish. And your heaven and your heavens which you are over you, your head shall be bronze, and the earth which is under you shall be iron. The Lord will change the rain of your land to powder and dust. From the heaven it shall come down to you until you are destroyed. The Lord will cause you to be defeated before your enemies. You shall go out one way against them and flee seven ways before them, and you shall become troublesome to all the kingdoms of the earth. Your carcasses shall be food for all the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth, and no one shall frighten them away. The Lord will strike you with the boils of Egypt, with tumors, with the scab and with the itch, from which you cannot be healed. The Lord will strike you with madness and blindness and confusion of heart, and you shall grope at noonday as a blind man gropes in darkness. You shall not prosper in your ways, you shall be only oppressed and plundered continually, and no one shall save you. You shall betroth the wife, but another man shall lie with her. You shall build a house, but you shall not dwell in it. You shall plant a vineyard, but you shall not gather its grapes. Your ox shall be slaughtered before your eyes, but you shall not eat of it. Your donkeys shall be violently taken from before you and shall not be restored to you. Your sheep shall be given to your enemies, and you shall have no one to rescue them. Your sons and daughters shall be given to another people, and your eyes shall look and fail with longing for them all day long. And there shall be no strength in your hand A nation whom you have not known shall eat the fruit of your land and the produce of your labor, and you shall be only oppressed and crushed continually. The Lord will strike in the knees and on the legs with severe boils which cannot be healed, and from the sole of your foot to the top of your head. The Lord will bring you and the king whom you set over you to a nation which neither you nor your fathers have known, and there you shall serve other gods, wood and stone. And you shall become an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword among all nations where the Lord will drive you. You shall carry much seed out of the field, but gather little in, for locusts shall consume it You shall plant vineyards and tend them, but you shall neither drink of the wine nor gather the grapes, for the worms shall eat them. You shall have olives throughout all your territory, but you shall not anoint yourself with the oil For your olives shall drop off. You shall beget sons and daughters, but they shall not be yours, for they shall go into captivity. Locusts shall consume all your trees and the produce of your land. The alien who is among you shall rise higher and higher above you, and you shall come down lower and lower. He shall lend to you, but you shall not lend to him. He shall be the head, and you shall be the tail Moreover, all these curses shall come upon you and pursue and overtake you until you are destroyed. Because you did not obey the voice of the Lord your God to keep his commandments and his statues which he commanded you And they shall be upon you for a sign and a wonder, and on your descendants forever. Because you did not serve the Lord your God with joy and gladness of heart for the abundance of everything Therefore, you shall serve your enemies, whom the Lord will send against you in hunger and thirst, in nakedness, and in need of everything And he will put a yoke of iron on your neck until he has destroyed you. The Lord will bring a nation against you from afar, from the end of the earth, as swift as the eagle flies. A nation whose language you will not understand, a nation of fierce countenance, which does not respect the elderly, nor show favor to the young. And they shall eat the increase of your livestock and the produce of your land until you are destroyed. They shall not leave your grain or new wine or oil, or the increase of your cattle, or the offspring of your flocks, until they have destroyed you They shall besiege you at all your gates until you are high and fortified walls in which you trust come down throughout all your land. And they shall besiege you at all your gates throughout all your land which the Lord your God has given you. You shall eat the fruit of your own body. The flesh of your sons and your daughters, whom the Lord your God has given you in the siege and desperate straits in which your enemy doubts shall distress you. The sensitive and very refined man among you will be hostile toward his brother, toward the wife of his bosom, and toward the rest of his children whom he leaves behind. so that he will not give any of them the flesh of his children whom he will eat, because he has nothing left in the siege and desperate straits in which your enemies shall distress you at all your gates. The tender and delicate woman among you, who would not venture to set the sole of her foot on the ground because of her delicateness and sensitivity Will refuse to the husband husband of her bosom, and to her son and her daughter, her placenta, which comes out from between her feet and her children whom she bears. for she will eat them secretly, for lack of everything in the siege, and desperate straits in which your enemies shall distress you at all your gates. If you do not carefully observe all the words of this law that are written in this book, that you may fear this glorious and awesome name, the Lord your God. Then the Lord will bring upon you and your descendants extraordinary plagues, great and prolonged plagues, and serious and prolonged sicknesses. Moreover, he will bring back on you all the diseases of Egypt of which you were afraid, and they shall cling to you. Also every sickness and every plague which is not written in this book of the law Will the Lord bring upon you until you are destroyed? You shall be left in number, whereas you were as the stars of heaven in multitude And it shall be that just as the Lord rejoiced over you to do you good and multiply you, so the Lord will rejoice over you to destroy you and bring you to nothing and you shall be plucked from off the land which you go to possess. Then the Lord will scatter you among the peoples, from one end of the earth to the other, and there you shall serve other gods, which neither you nor your fathers have known, wood and stone And among those nations you shall find no rest, nor shall the sole of your foot have a resting place, but there the Lord will give you a trembling heart. failing eyes, and anguish of soul. Your life shall hang in doubt before you. You shall fear day and night and have no assurance of light Life, in the morning you shall say, Oh, that it were evening, and at evening you shall say, Oh, that it were morning, because of the fear which terrifies your heart And because of the sight which your eyes see. And the Lord will take you back to Egypt in ships, by the way of which I said to you, You shall never see it again. And there you shall be offered for sale to your enemies as male and female slaves, but no one will buy you. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, you have given us an exceptionally long passage relative to the other ones. The verses continue and multiply in heap one upon the other. Even the weight of the length of the reading is nothing to the weight of the content of the reading itself And we pray, Lord God, that we would learn our lessons from the curses today, especially in the supper. In Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Thank you for your patience in the reading of the Word this morning. The Fault in Our Stars is a young adult 2014 American romance drama, and it is about two young adults with cancer. And it is based off the novel by John Green. I recently heard a quote from the movie and the novel that I cannot get out of my mind. And this is what it says. That's the thing about pain. It demands to be felt. That's the thing about pain. It demands to be felt. I hope that you can ponder that for some time. It's been racing around in my head morning through night. And it seems that all human beings know this: that pain demands to be heard, and it demands to be felt. But it seems like humans are in the pursuit in almost everything to rid themselves of the voice of pain, to have no pain whatsoever. Now we understand that desire, and it is right, but we do see drastic measures being taken that pain would never be heard. We see alcohol as a kind to loosen the pain and drugs I just heard recently that TV watching and video game playing should not be categorized as entertainment. It's a misunderstanding of the etymology of the word. That video game playing and TV watching and movie watching for Americans is an intoxicant. All it does is distract them from the pain. Most human activities seem geared to not feel pain. But what if we stopped and we let the world of pain have its demand? What if we stopped and we listened to the pain? What would it say? What would be the divine message in God's divine providence? Why does pain demand to be felt? Why doesn't it just leave us alone? Why is there no cure for pain under God's providence in this era What is so important that we would experience it? What lesson does it have for us? What message does it want to teach us under God's superintendence? Last week we really had the opposite question. What would blessing teach the world? What would light teach the darkness? But this week we have the reversal. We have the curses. And the opposite is about pain, and it is through the curse. This, brothers and sisters, is an emotionally difficult passage. This is an intellectually difficult passage. This is, in every way that we are made as human beings, a difficult passage. We could spend and break down the passage in many different ways. I see multiple scenes throughout the passage, and we do need to have a time in our church history where we We spend more time with this. But this morning I am just going to take some selections. We have to learn from the curses. Even for the church today, who is not the original audience of this passage, pain demands, the curse demands. To be felt and to be known. And God has a very important message or messages for us in it. The reason why this passage is so long is because it consists of two main parts. The first is an introduction, and that's what we'll look at. We'll look at the introduction of the curses. But then the rest of it is a vivid description, especially if you were to read this in the Hebrew. This is a vivid description of the curses. This is going to bother you. I hope you caught some of the imagery already. And I'm not going to linger on them, but I am going to talk about about them and I'm not going to hold back. I will be appropriate, but I'm not, but I'm going to stay with the spirit of this passage. So I pray that you would arrive with me at this passage with complete sobriety. And so we have two parts, the introduction to the curses and the vivid description of the curses, and there'll be two parts under that main point. So let's begin together with an introduction to the curses. Uh we really see here that uh this is uh uh completely related to the passage the week before. Last week the passage said that God will overtake us with blessings. Now that was verse 2. We have this language of of him chasing us down and even if we hid around the corner or we went to the lowest places of the earth, he would find us to bless us as those who have faith and are faithful. We use the illustration from the movie Taken. Liam Neeson was pursuing the kidnapper. But I pointed out to you that for the sake of the blessing, kidnappers was a secondary concern. The primary concern on the father's heart was that he would restore his daughter to a place of blessing. Well, it switches here in this passage. You can keep the Liam Neeson movie in mind, but the pursuit now is for the kidnappers. Instead of thinking of a father pursuing his daughter to bring her blessing, now think of yourself as the kidnapper and Liam Neeson as pursuing you. You'll notice in verse 15 if you take a look with me that this is exactly what's happening. In the same way that God pursued in blessing, likewise he will pursue in cursing. But it shall come upon it will shall come to pass if you do not obey the voice of the Lord your God to observe carefully all his commandments and his statutes which I command you today, notice the language that all these curses will come upon you and overtake you. In this introduction, please notice that there is a uh identical reversal of the blessing But it is uh not just in this passage, it is throughout the rest of the passage too. You could actually hold one up to the other as in a reflection and you'd see that one is the mirror image of the other Every part of the passage is the exact opposite of the blessing passage. So, for example, take a look at verse 16. Cursed shall you be in the city. Sound familiar? And cursed shall you be in the country. And then look at verse 3. Blessed shall you be in the city. Blessed shall you be in the country. And it's the same for the rest, although these curses are lengthened out because of the vivid descriptions. The mirror image of blessing and cursing is especially given in 16 through 19. And it makes sense if you think about it too with the geographical setting of Mount Ebal and Mount Gerizim. We have a mirror of each other on opposite mounts of the curse and the blessing. And I just wonder how powerful would this be in that setting in the river basin for you to hear such things? And maybe it's just as powerful for us today. This is the introduction. We're going to spend the rest of our time in the vivid selection of the curses. The thing I wanted you to take away from these first couple of verses that are in this passage is that there's a mirror view. And I wanted you to have that so that you could study this together and converse over lunch about that mirror and also see the key For understanding the rest of the passage. But now we move into vivid and ever-increasing specificity. And the more specific you become, the more horror is presented on the page. I'm not going to go through them all. I will be selective to get the main point across. And so we begin with a vivid selection of the curses. And the first division that I'd like you to see is that there is a repetition of the word the Lord. On purpose, it occurs ten times. And 28 verse 20, verse 21, verse 22, verse 24, verse 25, verse 27, verse 28 is a lengthy section, verse 35, 36 This section is marked by the repetition in each of those verses by the Lord I do not believe that this repetition was just for memory, although it certainly was. I believe you were to meant to feel it lay one on top of the other. It occurs ten times, and each time the curses develop with increasing horror. Have you ever thought of the word horror, by the way? I'm noticing even within my own life so many words that used to have meaning have lost their meaning. Horror means to tremble. It means to shudder. And verse 20 begins with a general description to where this kind of shuddering would start. It says, The Lord will send on you cursing, confusion, and rebuke, and all that you set your hand to do, until you are destroyed, and until you perish quickly because of the wickedness of your doings in which you have forsaken me. This is a very general high-level statement. But then when we move into 21, we can see that it moves forward with a kind of specificity in the active verbs. The Lord will make the plague cling to you. And then in verse 22, notice the specifics even more. You see how this is like a spiral going down into Sheol itself? Consumption, fever, inflammation, severe burning. And as verse 21 says, these plagues will cling to you Which takes it to a whole nother level. Think of yourself whether you are a babysitter or you're a grandma or you are a parent when you've watched children and you've noticed that they have started to have a fever. Or you hear a cough in the middle of the night. And you can tell they're congested. And we do the waiting game, listening very, very carefully. to see if there's any productivity in the cough and we can we don't need to worry. We don't need to go to patient first or whatever it is. The day comes in our lives when the fever breaks and the cough clears. I actually have heard you this morning, many of you sound much better than you did last week. But not here. When the curse descends like night, the fever will cling and the cough will be resistant. You would take your child's temperature at 8 p. m. and it will read 101. 5. You'll check again at midnight and it will read 102. You've already given them ibuprofen, so you're going to switch the time So that the both can work together and you're thinking it always brings it down, but then you check at 2 a. m. and it reads 104. And then it goes to 106 and then there's death. That's the picture that we're supposed to get. Now when we move down I'm going to skip over a major section, but when we're still in the Lord's statement, when we move to verse twenty-seven, the uh uh specificity increases even more here This is the longest of the Lord's statements, so that's why I wanted to bring this one out also. The first one gets us started to help us to understand the tone here. 27 is the longest and the most descriptive. The curse will become so bad if you take a look in verse 28 that they will become insane. The Lord will strike you with madness and blindness and confusion of heart. And you'll notice at the end of this lengthy Lord section, it will be because of what they witness with their eyes. There's a recent story that I heard that brings out the spirit of this passage. It depicts a woman who forgot her child in a car seat in her car during summer. For several days. When she became aware of what happened, the reality of it began to warp her mind. She ran out into the car, and although the child had died, she took it out of the car seat and kept carrying it around for weeks. The reality, however, kept pressing, and at one point, all she could do is stand and tremble and shudder in horror. She just convulsed. And she literally went insane Verse 34 says something similar that will happen to this group of people at what they witness. It says, So you shall be driven mad because of the sight which your eyes will see. And that especially comes true under this next section as we move out from the ten the Lord to the curses that happen with the siege, beginning in verse 52 and following. So far, we've really just been talking about plagues on the body and plagues on the land. Now we're going to talk about an invading army. A siege, if you uh haven't uh reef researched that or looked up the definition, I'm sure you've seen it on movies. A siege is a military operation in which an enemy force surrounds a town or a building and it cuts off all the essential supplies with the main aim of compelling the surrender of those inside. So what happens is you run out of food and you run out of water. Really, you run out of all of the essentials to live Now look at me with ver at verse fifty-three for this section. And you can see why I would give such a horrific image of the story of the child in the car seat, because it become it pales perhaps in comparison what will happen with this Group of people. In verse 53, the enemy will starve the Israelites so severely that they will be forced to cannibalism of their own family members. That's what it says. You shall eat the fruit of your own body, the flesh of your sons and your daughters, whom the Lord your God has given you, in besiege and desperate straits in which your enemies shall distress you. And then, if you were to go down to look at verse 56, there is both a condemnation on the kind of society the Israelites had become and the results. The picture that we have in verse 56 is absurd. The tender and delicate woman among you who would not venture to set the sole of her foot on the ground because of her delicateness and sensitivity. This is a woman that is so refined that she thinks she's too good to even step on God's earth. It would be like the kind of person that would refuse to go anywhere unless you threw rose petals in front of her in her travels That's the mentality that had happened within this society. That's what the kind of luxury obtained by the rich. But her tune's going to change. Because look at what happens in verse 56 with her. She will refuse to the husband of her bosom and to her son and her daughter her placenta. Which comes out from between her feet and her children whom she bears. And although she will still hold on to her sensitive pride, she's going to eat those things in secret Because of the siege, there's nothing else to eat. It will be what the curse has brought upon this group of people, like a dark night that has descended and it will not lift. That's as far as I want to go into the vivid descriptions. I think you get a sense. Perhaps in the future we can start going through some of these things and looking at them in deep detail. They're marked off in sections where we could spend five, six, seven, eight sermons. just in this section. But I wanted to kind of overview and to make sure that we got the spirit of this passage and what God is communicating to this group of people as they pass through the river basin Moses begins with a general introduction, and then he shows the mirror of the blessings, which is the curse. And next Moses vividly described the curses in a group of ten, and then under the siege of the Babylonians. What this is meant to do, one of the reasons why they're so specific, is that you would read your Bible and you would go, There it is. There it is. There it is. And you will see each of these things come to come The question that all of us ask, besides the answer that I just gave about seeing these things in throughout the rest of Scripture, the question that everyone asks Is what should be done with the pain and the curse in a passage like this. It's interesting that since you all don't have a beer in your hand, And you don't have uh vulume or whatever, that you are forced to look at the pain on this page. Because pain demands To be felt. And that is definitely true of this passage. The question is: what is the message? Why would God include it? Why would the Spirit enscripturate it? For all of his church. Why is it still around? Well, for the original Israelites, they should have feared the Lord as they entered Canaan through Mount Gerizim and Mount Labal. But as for us, of course fear of Lord should the Lord should continue. Our God is a consuming fire. In Hebrews 4:11, it tells us exactly what to do with a passage like this, and it says that we should let this be an example to us. Fear would be one of the things that we should have before our God. But what I want to do is I want to go through a few ways in which this should be an example, and then we'll go to the Lord's Supper for the final example. First, why do you think there were ten the Lords? Did you pick up on the motif and the theme that ran through the passage? There's a tenfold curse. Has that ever happened in biblical history before? You ever seen ten plagues? It is tenfold to show that Israel was being judged just as Egypt was judged. They themselves had become a kind of Egypt. In the Exodus, God brought them blessing, but now since the Israelites essentially have descended and become like Pharaoh and his nation, he brings ten plagues upon them, just as he did in Egypt. And I'd encourage you to read through that passage looking for that. The Egyptian language. It's all through there. That's the first. Is that we would see what had happened to them. That they they had become what the Lord had translated them out of And then number two, let us learn from the curses that all curses came from not listening to the Lord. They ignored his words, and that's where it all came from. It was so from the beginning. This is not new. Adam and Eve did not listen to God's words, and they brought the curse. And that is true even to this day. I'm not saying that it would happen at this level, and I'm not promising you that we would have a siege, but it is still the reality of today that God maintains and rules over his world to where there is sin. There is the consequence of sin. That what you sow, you will reap. And that is another reason or a lesson that we have the curse, and it is the message of pain. That pain and the curse come from not listening to God. His word is very, very important, and you should hang on every Syllable. Thirdly, and I think this is not uh the only purpose, but a major purpose in this section, is that we should learn from these curses to hate our sin. To hate all sin. Look at what it does That is a major purpose of the vivid descriptions in the passage. The picture of the placenta is not gratuitous like we would see in a Hollywood movie. They put things on the screen all the time that don't make any sense in the plot. God doesn't do that. He gives you the vivid description. And he gives it for a good reason. He wants it to create a horror and a terror within you, and that is meant to create a hatred and an aversion Not only to the curses, but that the sight, the smell, the taste would transfer over to the cause of it, which is the sin. I was swimming in my pool a few years back, and there were lots of people over. We must have been having a cookout. I can't remember all of the details. But everybody was over and they had sh and they brought their children. I it was at that time uh in my life where I had a bunch of young children and they had a bunch of young children and And I remember diving in and swimming from the deep end over into the shallow end, and when I got to the shallow end, I saw something I couldn't see before, and it was a young child on the bottom of the pool struggling trying to get to the top. So I quickly grabbed her, brought her to safety. She's she's totally fine. Must have just happened. When the parents noticed what happened, they not only hated what had happened to their daughter. The sorrow was out of ten for their daughter, but I saw Saw within their faces and all future actions a hatred to the inattention that they had around the pool. They hated not only the results but the cause From that day forward, I noticed, now that all their children are growing up, but I noticed whenever they're around my pool, they're not casual. They're always looking at all the other children because they hated what happened so desperately. Or so deeply, rather. They hated not only the result, but the cause, the inattention, the carelessness. And that's the part of the intent of these curses U it is part of the intent of these curses, and so one day it will be worth going through every one of these, so that we would grow in our hatred of sin You're to look on here and to imagine with a holy imagination what it would be like for these people to go through these curses, and it is to bring up inside of you, you should smell the death. And hate the sin. Hate the result. Let the smell and the taste and the sight of the horror Bring you into a hatred for sin, which we have already defined as ignoring what God has to say. We must listen to what God has to say. And lastly We learn from these curses a greater love for Jesus Christ. Here is The most profound thought perhaps a person could have is that as we go to the table here in just a moment It says in Galatians, as we read in our bulletin, I wonder how casually you read Galatians in the first part of the service. It says that Jesus Christ has become a curse for us. And then we look at the horror of this page, and we see Christ by faith on that cross. Is he not a picture of what happened to this people? It clung to him. And of course he's not on the cross any longer, which is why we'll and also have the grape juice and the wine to celebrate his victory But let us remember these lessons of the curses as an answer to our initial question: why pain? Why does pain demand to be felt? What is the lesson we are to learn? Whether it's the pain in our own lives or the pain that we see within this passage, we are told in Hebrews 4. 11 it is to be an example to Us. In particular, to remember our hatred for sin, to grow in it, and to remember that Christ has become a curse for us. In offering us salvation. I want to contemplate that second part, Christ becoming a curse for us as we see the bread break. Broken. So please join me in prayer, and then we're going to stand for the invitational hymn, and then we'll have the elders prepare the table. Please join me in prayer. Father, this passage so