Please stand for the reading of God's Word from Deuteronomy chapter twenty-four, and I'll be reading the first five verses. When a man takes a wife and marries her And it happens that she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some uncleanness in her. And he writes her a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hand, and sends her out of the house. When she has departed from his house and goes and becomes another man's wife, if the latter husband detests her and writes her a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hand and sends her out of the house, or if the latter husband dies, who took her as his wife, that her former husband who divorced her must not take her back to be his wife after she has been defiled. For that is an abomination before the Lord. You shall not bring sin on the land which the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance. When a man has taken a new wife, he shall not go out to war or be charged with any business. He shall be free at home one year, and bring happiness to his wife, whom he has taken. Please pray with me. Christ, we thank you for being present with us here. We pray that you would work now through the preaching of your word and eventually to your word seen in the sacrament To bless your church, that we would bring service and blessing to you and to our neighbor. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. Several years ago I attended a CCEF conference when Joni Erickson or Johnny Erickson Tata was the main one of the main uh speakers. Uh she sat there. I think does everyone here pretty much know who she is? Yes, I believe. Yeah, okay. She she uh is in a wheelchair, has uh very limited use of her body. Obviously she can speak, but the rest of her body really does not work. She actually was local here. You can read about her online. But here's the thing, as she began giving the speech in front of at least a couple thousand people, I would say, at least a thousand, her dress began moving up her leg. Now if you're her, you can't move your arm to then correct your dress. So here's the very first thing that I began to see is that the cameraman who was had the camera on her and was showing her up on the big screens, he immediately refocused his camera to just focus on her face so as to not embarrass her. And then there was this. And I thought that I thought there is a God. when that man did that. I'm not used to cameramen doing the right thing within our society or people with phones with cameras. But then I noticed this. The everyone that was there still physically was able to see what was happening. And her husband came out from behind the stage. Didn't interrupt the speech. She just kept going. And he fixed the dress. And he fixed it in such a way to where it couldn't it couldn't happen again. And it was just a little Snapshot of their marriage, wasn't it? It made me ask this question: how much does this husband do in this relationship? What is the marriage like? How is it that he's able to stay within this marriage? Would the men that I know be able to be her husband Those were good questions that were crossing my mind. And it it raises questions like this. Let me ask you this. If something happened to your spouse that redefined the marriage, would you stay with them? You can ask it in other relationships too. I'm just drawing off of the marriage relationship from Johnny and her husband. You can ask it in terms of friends or uh mothers and fathers and sons and daughters and Grandparents and whatever it is, if if something redefines drastically the relationship, will you remain faithful to the relationship in which you have a commitment? If you stayed, and let's go back to the marriage for a second, if you stayed, and the marriage could never be normal. It would never live up to the ideals you had when you were married. What would your attitude be? Would you write a certificate of divorce? Or would you stick with your vows? It's an excellent question. It's the kind of question that we would have posed before us in Deuteronomy. Jesus Christ has invited us to consider questions like this, and he has done so in a unique way. He's done so through these case studies that we find within the book of Deuteronomy. Through Deuteronomy Christ walks amongst the churches by his Spirit, and He has us thinking through all aspects of being human and especially being human in relationship, because that is a primary way in which we are human beings. We relate to each other in only a way that God could give to us. There's been these different scenarios that have taught us many things. Last week we had scenarios that led us to the following conclusions. Through the grace of the Holy Spirit, we love our neighbors by offering asylum from domestic violence and human trafficking. That came out of Deuteronomy. Can you believe it? We help the destitute when they need a loan of money or food or whatever. We don't take money off of folks by exploiting their vices. That's called dirty money. We keep our word and tangibly live thankful lives before God with voluntary vows. And one last thing we learned was that we promote a community of mutual trust and responsibility for each other. All of these come out of Christ, through his providence. And his spirit working in us to meditate upon these case studies. Now we have another case study before us this morning, and there's all kinds of things that come out of it. It's going to need more meditation by you and by me besides this sermon. This one's a deep one. It's actually notoriously difficult to understand exactly what's going on here, but I think we've got a good grip on it The case study, this one that we're having before you that I read to you, it should make you ask make you ask things like: why am I in relationship with other people? What are my real motivations? Do I love them or do I use them? Do I only relate to them and get them to smile so I feel better about myself, or am I more concerned about them? That's a good question. How serious is marriage? How faithful does God want me to be to other human beings? When I am disappointed, do I have a right to disregard the dignity of others? How should I treat the disabled? That's also present here within this. And I can't get to all of those things, but it's here in this case study. It's brilliant how Christ does these things. Well, to start to get to the principles to be able to answer questions like that, I want to look at this passage under three ways. Those of you who are diligently attending to the word this morning and taking notes, here's the three. Are you ready? The problem, the foil, and the prohibition. I expect to see those three points on all of my children's sermon notes. The problem, the foil, and the prohibition. So it begins with a problem And I have my NKJV here before me, but I had another translation earlier this week, and it titled the section, The Law Concerning Divorce. I'm not sure what yours is titled. Maybe I'm seeing some nods that, yeah, that's the title. I'm going to challenge that. This title, honestly, in verse 1 could be seen to be self-evident and obvious because if you look at verse 1 there, just down a couple lines, it says in big letters, certificate of divorce. But are we justified in saying that this is what the passage is about? Is divorce really the main problem in this passage? I want to carefully step through this so that you can begin to see what is the problem. And that's the title of this point: What is the problem? Well, verse one gives us the problem. When a man takes a wife and marries her, and it happens that she finds no favor in his eyes. Because he has found some uncleanness in her, and then we'll get to this after the comma in a minute. A man takes a wife and he marries her. And yet it happens, and this is really key, you're going to want to remember this and make a note of it. It happens that she finds no favor in his eyes That is a guiding principle for us in understanding what this scripture is meant to communicate to us, what Christ wants us to see as His church We need to stop and we need to hear to understand this phrase. She finds no favor in his eyes, and the way in which it's communicated. The word favor means to be gracious. That's how it's used throughout. And in many cases, the word is used specifically. I'm having trouble not finding a case, by the way. I'm looking at all of the verses that have this word, and I can't find a place Where it's not used in this way. There's a person who is in the position to help somebody, and then they, from that position, help. And it's called having grace or favor. Now, Ruth is a premier example of this. Do you remember the book of Ruth? Have you been in the book of Ruth lately? This is a premier example, if you want to look at a narrative, of what favor looks like. amongst the kinsman Redeemer. Ruth is the premier one. In Ruth chapter 2, verse 1, Ruth asks permission from Naomi to gather grain. In Boaz's field. And actually, even her relationship to Naomi is called one of grace or favor. And Naomi does have favor upon her, being in that position to give her permission. Her hope, not entitlement, her hope is that she will find favor in his sight. And that's exactly what happens by chapter, by the time you get to verse 10 in chapter 2, it says this So she fell on her face, bowed down to the ground, and said to him, Why have I found favor in your eyes that you should take notice of me, since I am a foreigner You can hear the humanity in that, can you not? Not entitlement, but seeking to find favor from a person in a position who could give it. Those who can offer help to the helpless. Ruth found favor from Boaz. It's a beautiful picture. But when we go back to our passage, you cannot say the same thing about this woman She is lined up and in a relationship with someone who could find favor toward her and he does not. She finds no favor in his eyes. That should be the stark reality standing out within this passage that we see within verse 1. And it enlightens us as to what the knowledge is. Now we have to ask the question, well, why? Why does she not find favor in his eyes? Why won't he be the Boaz to her? And it says, says it quite clearly right here in verse 1 also, it says, because, doesn't get any more clear than that, he has found some uncleanness in her. The key word that we have to look at here, and this is notoriously difficult to translate because it is so general Is well, what is the uncleanness? What did he find in her where it elicited no favor from him? Well, some would obviously say adultery. And those who connect this to the adultery passages within the New Testament seek to make that argument. And you can talk to me about that afterward on why I don't connect this passage with that. And yet, here's the thing: we just spent a lot of time in Deuteronomy showing what happens to a person in this culture. When they committed adultery. And what we have here is that she is not only allowed to live and she is not stoned, but she is allowed to remarry. So many scholars say that contextually what we need to do is not just go searching anywhere in the Bible to see what this uncleanness would be, but what's closest in the context. And we see the exact same words showing up in chapter 23. The whole passage in chapter 23 is considered in verses 9 through 14, and it has to do with soldiers in the camp and human excrement And it is called unclean. There are other words within that passage that you can read on your own as to what's going on there. But there's a there's a kind of uncleanness that is taking place within the camp. It is no longer pure. It has become an impure place. And if that is the kind of uncleanness, then the wife in our passage has some personal problem, a feminine personal problem That puts her in a constant state of impurity and she is incapable of having children. If impurity is the issue, Then we see the exact same situation on what we read within the bulletin, which is why I put it there for Mark chapter 5, verses 25 through 34. A woman had a flow of blood Menstrual irregularity. For twelve years, she touched the hem of Jesus' garment and she was healed. Since her uncleanness does not result in stoning, but instead a divorce certificate giving her legal freedom to remarry. And since this passage echoes also, you have to look at chapter 21, because it almost is structurally the same as the wife from a war captive and the protection of her. I think that the problem here is not adultery and grounds of divorce. I think the problem here is a husband who is ungracious with his wife who has a personal feminine issue. Now we can talk about how how people say that Jesus' discussion on what are the grounds of divorce connects to this passage. And I'll just say this, I'll just mention it to you very briefly. Notice that in that passage, Jesus Does not ever talk about this passage. He takes them to Genesis to understand the voice. He does not take them to the passage that they were bringing to him. And you should consider that in light of what I said. So to make this problem stand out more, there's a brief section here in verses 2 through 3. It's our next section. And really what it's going to give is a contrast or a foil. This second husband is not really the point. It is leading us to a climax within this overall passage and what the general principle should be So let's take a look at this second point, the foil. Do you know what a foil is? I don't mean aluminum foil. A foil is a person or a thing that contrasts with and so emphasizes and enhances the qualities of another This second husband is going to bring something out in this scenario that the Spirit wants us to consider in terms of relationships like this. From the first husband, we pick up that the woman is given her certificate of divorce. This is her way to legally be free and to have property within the culture. It was actually a great uh blessing. Shows that she's not tied to another person. He put it in her hand, which is typical, these steps. He puts it in her hand and he sends her out of the house And now, divorced, in verse 2, she becomes another man's wife. Take a look at that with me when she has departed from his house and goes and becomes another man's wife. And now we're going to go into this very quick scenario that's leading us into this third part of this second husband. Moses doesn't stop to talk about this new marriage. He jumps right to the collapse of the marriage. Notice that? It's like focuses right on the negative. Marry, end. And Moses is not concerned with how the marriage specifically ends, which is interesting. It could be, as it says here, that the husband detests her, perhaps for the same reasons as the first husband. And if we keep that overarching interpretation, the husband is disposed toward this wife like Jacob was disposed towards Leah. Jacob always wanted Rachel, but detested or hated Leah, at least that's how she felt. And when the Lord saw that Leah was unloved, he opened her womb, but Rachel was barren. So Leah conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Reuben, for she said, The Lord has surely looked on my afflection. Now therefore, my husband will love me. We see her motivations and what's going on here, and perhaps that's that perhaps that's what's happening here. But Moses doesn't just focus on one instance. It could be really anything. He's asking us to basically use your ethical imagination. Because look at the second example. Or he could have died. It could be either one of these things. However it ends It's really just to bring us to this third point with the husband. Moses simply brings in the second husband as a foil to establish an interesting situation and get us back to the first husband. In other words, this second point creates the scenario which the Holy Spirit really wants you to see. The woman was divorced. The woman was divorced again for whatever reason. And now she is available again. That's the most important thing right now. She's officially and legally available. That's the climactic issue. And I'm just going to drop this and I'll pick this up. I'm going to drop this little piece of information and I'll pick it up a little bit later. If the first husband sees some advantage financially. So perhaps. This is the question. Can he marry her again? And that's the climactic issue, and it brings out the main prohibition of the passage. We have an ethical situation before us. We're trying to learn what it means to be in a relationship. And the wisdom of the Holy Spirit does it this way. And it's beautiful. And you can see how it would begin to spread out into all our relationships where we can take from it. And it takes us into this main, this last point, which is the prohibition. And this is in verses four through six. We move from the foil to the prohibition. The second release from marriage happens, and we meet this prohibition in verse 4. Take a look with me. Then her former husband who divorced her must not take her back to be his wife after she has been defiled. And then it talks about, it uses the language of abomination, as we've seen throughout all of Deuteronomy. Now, just as we had before asked, well, why is she unclean? Well, what do these words mean? We've got to ask the same thing here with the file. And the key word here is defiled and found in verse 4. And you have to pay really close attention. That's what I'm saying. You have to meditate on God's law, like it says in Psalm 119, over and over again. It does not say that she defiled herself. Do you see? It's in the passive voice. It says she has been defiled. So staying with what I first said and siding with many trustworthy scholars, the defilement came from the first husband. He married her. After marriage, he discovered she had personal problems that would be difficult for them in the marriage. Instead of keeping it private and showing his wife grace, he publicly divorced her and defiled her in the public eye. This is not my own reading. Many people see this. And thus this is the general prohibition. It's going to come in a descriptive part and then a much broader way. Listen to this very, very carefully, because here's the prohibition. After the husband chose not to protect and nurture his wife, he loses her right to be with her. Or let me put it this way: God is better than her husband, and he refuses to subject her to unending abuse. Now I said that this was a difficult passage. I ha I you don't know how much research I have put into this thing. So I see your faces, and we've only had a few minutes together with the exposition of this. Let me just add a couple of things to help to reinforce this interpretation of the passage, and feel free to continue the conversation with me You need more time to study, I get it. But let me point out one more aid to see why I interpret this passage. The way that I do, and that the way other people do, scholars. Notice that I included verse 5. You've seen all along that these case studies come together in clumps. And they all have a motif or a theme that we're supposed to get in touch with so that we can see the lens through which we are to see all of these things. Don't forget, and I'll get to this in a minute, we're still under the eighth commandment. Okay? But I just want you to notice verse 5. That he's not going off to talk about something new. He's continuing, in my argument, with the motif of verses 1 through 4. Now let me read verse 5 to you. When a man has taken a new wife, he shall not go out to war or be charged with any business. He shall be free at home one year and bring happiness to his wife whom he has taken. It is a clear contrast. Verse 5 gives the positive image of what a husband should be. And it even taps into the role of the state. The Israeli Israeli military may not draft the husband in the first year because it is the husband's job to remain home and bring happiness to his wife. Now what does that mean to bring happiness? to it. And if you look at within the context, and if you don't rip it out of context, to bring happiness means it includes economic stability, it includes protection, it includes nurture, and it includes love. It's like the establishment of a small business, which is how you have to think of a family at that time. This is a good husband in verse 5. And it adds to the weight of my argument, because his wife has found favor from the Israeli military and most of all from her own husband. Do you see the contrast that's happening here? The Lord wants you to meditate on. That even the state looked upon the wife with favor in keeping the the husband established and not leading her to public embarrassment by being economically unstable. Isn't that beautiful? Now, let me just, I did mention to you that in addition to verse 5, if you look at the overall context as a whole, we're still dealing with the eighth commandment. I challenge you, just keep looking at the verses that I preached on last week. Look with the ones afterward. It's still dealing with the eighth commandment And therefore, many scholars will add that the first husband is financially motivated. And that's really what's going on here with the abuse. He publicly disgraces his wife, but then after she has property from the second husband, he wants to remarry her for financial gain. Now that's a very powerful argument, and I have a lot of research to back that up if you would like it. A lot of it's in the But you can look at it if you want. That's got to be a part of this. In other words, for those of you who are lawyers, I'm not going to make you raise your hand. But those of you who have ever studied law or are lawyers, what you see here within this law of general equity, which is still a law of equity today, equity today, is called the law of a stople. Have you ever heard of that? It's exactly what's going on here. Astopple is a strange word. We've never used it in our lives, I bet. But it means to stop or block. It is a law which blocks a person who makes an argument to gain advantage in one way to then make the opposite argument to gain advantage in the opposite way. In other words, the husband divorced his wife because she was not favorable. And later, with money, she becomes favorable, and now he wants to remarry her. And now the Lord says, no. Lol of a staple. And we still have it today. It is used in many different ways within our society. So that's why I conclude here with this passage: that it's not about divorce But that we are learning about human relationship in the midst of divorce. That is the situation or the context. In which this could take place, where we would learn about the Lol of Estoppel and about what that means for our human relationships. The problem, the main issue, is a husband who shows no grace and uses people for selfish gratification. In God's kingdom, these kinds of husbands lose their rights. And you should look at the other examples where you see a husband and how they lose their rights when they start acting a certain way. They start to have their authority limited because they don't use their authority well. The righteous living called for in the kingdom of God is relationally radical. And that is what we begin to see here. I don't think we understand or have taken the time to meditate as human beings what Jesus Christ is doing in your life. When he says that through his Spirit He is sanctifying you. This becomes a picture of what you are to become within your very character as He shapes and molds you into the image of God. We don't get how far the righteousness goes. We should, because we've seen the righteous one die on the cross for his people. Now, I want to take another step here, and I want to show you how far the righteousness goes in our relationships, the kind of commitment that we're have to have to each other. That you are not to use each other for selfish gain. I want to pose a hypothetical. Let's say that in the beginning of the passage, it doesn't mean that she's disabled in some way that's not a moral problem. Let's say it means adultery. I'm going to grant it. Are you ready? Then what should the husband do? And it is enlightening for our relationships. How should the husband treat the wife in that situation if the uncleanness were adultery? Now we have an excellent example of this. I would like you to turn to Matthew, the Christmas story, in chapter 1, verses 18-19. Begins in eighteen saying that now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. After his mother Mary was Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. But Joseph doesn't know that. He just knows this woman is pregnant. Then Joseph, her husband, notice the emphasis here in relationship to Deuteronomy, a culture that has is built upon Deuteronomy, says Then Joseph her husband, being a just or righteous man, and not wanting to make her a public example, exactly what we see within our passage today, was minded to put her away soon. secretly. Now I don't know exactly what it looks like to put her away secretly. Whatever it was, it was not abusive, it was not an act of of uh selfishness and selfish gain and ambition. He was still in a way looking out for her nurture, for her economic stability, for her well-being, that she would flourish. Joseph was a righteous or a just man in this. Even with the possibility of adultery, he would not publicly embarrass or shame Mary. And if this is what justice looks like for adultery, then how much more should wives remain protected and nurture for all moral considerations? And so praise God for Johnny Erikson Tata's husband, because that is exactly what he is doing by remaining in the marriage. And I'm sure he wouldn't even think of it that way. I think he would just say, I love her How dare you even bring it up? A lot can happen in your life. And I just wonder here what things have changed. You thought life was going to go a certain way. And surprise, it didn't. Perhaps your spouse now struggles with a physical defect or a psychological issue Or a disease, or whatever. Perhaps you have been called into a hard calling. You thought it was going to be bloody Marys on a sailboat your whole life And it ends up being quite different. Uh Bloody Mary with it's just tomato juice. It was dru yeah. Because it's the morning. The point is that your marriage will not look like you imagined. But the righteous husband or wife will nurture, will protect, and will honor the spouse. And I've given you different ways in which that will happen. Whether the uncleanness means one thing or it means the other thing. We know what righteousness looks like in this relationship so that we can begin to grow and see what justice would look like in all of our relationships. As God finds you, let me remind you, as God finds you crippled with sin, And as he has clearly demonstrated to you what he has done for you, and yet you still continue to sin against him. Notice how he still pours out his favor on you through Jesus Christ. And may we also show favor to each other in the way that Christ shows favor. I think there's no better way of doing this. It's time for me to be quiet and to let us now see this favor by communing with Christ in the supper.