The words of King Lemuel, the utterance which his mother taught him. What, my son, and what son of my womb, and what son of my vows? Do not give your strength to women, nor your ways to that which destroys kings It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine, nor for princes intoxicating drink, lest they drink and forget the law, and pervert the justice of all the afflicted Give strong drink to him who is perishing, and wine to those who are bitter of heart. Let him drink and forget his poverty and remember his misery no more. Open your mouth for the speechless in the cause of all who are appointed to die. Open your mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the poor and needy. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we can't help but to read this and think of our Christ who pleads our cause. Oh Lord, we thank you for this faith where we see Jesus as the Christ. And I pray in honor of his name, for his bride, that you would work through the preached word here this evening. In his name, Amen. How many of you have read Proverbs thirty-one or heard it quoted in some kind of a talk? in a sermon or a conference or a book. I imagine most of you have. And how many of you did not realize that it had a beginning that we've never heard before? Oftentimes I'll see someone say to talk about the Proverb 31 woman, and then I watch all the women in the room kind of duck their heads a little bit. I've noticed that, but I just want you to point just wanted to start off by pointing out to you here it doesn't start that way. It starts differently. And I'll go over the the introduction here in a moment, but just want you to note there's two main parts really to this to this poem that's given to us for both men and women, for children also, grandmothers and grandfathers. So really everyone that's sitting here this evening, this proverb is for you. Let me point out to you, if you were to flip the page perhaps in Proverbs 31, verse 23, we are going to spend our time tonight here on verses 1 through 9. But then as far as the king goes, he's going to disappear. And we're going to continue talking about the woman, which really is a way of talking about the church. But he does show up one other place, is that's in verse twenty-three. He's sitting there in the gates. As a noble king. Sitting there in the gates as a noble king that we're going to hear about tonight. You'll see in your bulletin, that's what I titled the sermon for tonight, is noble king. And I I want us to look at what this proverb has to say to us here about kings and queens and about ruling nobly. I want us to to look at this under a couple different headings. It should be easy for you to remember. I want to look at an introduction. That's really just verse 1 and 2. And then I want to do three admonitions. So it'll be an introduction, and then admonition one, admonition two, admonition three. And that's the the total way we're going to look at the passage here. this evening. I want to begin with an introduction. It's one of the most delightful introductions I've come across within the scriptures. And it says this. It says the words of King Lemuel the other utterance which his mother taught him. That just sounds lovely to me. And it goes on in verse number two, where the mother is speaking, and says, What my son, and what son of my womb? And what son of my vows. You'll notice in this introduction that quite obviously, as I've already pointed out to you, my delight, that these are the words that his mother taught him. And the words of King Lemuel's mother have survived. They have now been used by the Holy Spirit to teach generation after generation the will of Jesus Christ. You'll see there in that verse 2, what she's doing is what we have seen throughout the rest of the book of Proverbs, especially in the beginning. Perhaps you'll remember that uh in chapters 1 through 9 we had larger um speeches. After we got to chapter 10, they were pithy little proverbs, things that you could remember. Uh kind of like jingles. But before that, in verses one through nine, we had these longer speeches, and most of the speeches begin with the mother and father appealing to the youth. their own youth, but really the youth of Israel, the youth of the church, to please listen to the wisdom that God has handed on to them that they are trying to hand on to their children. Proverbs 1 8 is a great example. My son, hear the instruction of your father, and do not forsake the law of your mother. That goes throughout all of the Proverbs. Here, when we when she is saying, What my son, and what son of my womb, and what son of my vow, she's doing the same thing. King Philemuel's mother knows that she has to work to get her son's attention. I know mot many mothers know that And so she appeals to him according to his finest feelings and the connection that he would have with his mother. She ends up in these threefold ways. She traces her connection to him really throughout her whole life. When she says, What my son, she starts really where she is with him at that moment. mother standing with grown boy about to make his path in the world, but she also appeals to him and what happened before that and you and you know you come from me I remember when you were a little boy, and I remember when you before you were even born, when you were there in the womb. And I used to sing to you. Something along those lines. And even before that, she goes back to before Uh even that that there was just a time when she was making vows for him. Makes me wonder if this is very similar to the vows of Hannah that we see in 1 Samuel 1. 11 Where she calls out to God and says, If you would please bless me with a child, I'll dedicate this child to you And something like that is happening here. This mother has been connected to her son at the present all the way to the past, and she's been seeking one thing. That he would live for the Lord. That he would bless the community. And all of that is packed here in verses 1 and 2 for the son to listen. I've always looked out for your good. Listen to me. That's how she wants to introduce herself. Introduce This whole section is to make sure that he is attentive to the one who really does and always has, even before he was born, has always looked out for his best. You know, there's before we move on to the admonition section, just within this introduction, one of the reasons why this is so delightful to me. is because the Holy Spirit is obviously telling us here that our godly mothers are a source of wisdom in our community. It's a real shame when that motherly wisdom is overlooked. I remember being at some event And there was a mom there. Obviously she had had a long day and probably a long few years. But her family, when she was trying to contribute to the conversation When she would go to talk, her family would interrupt her When she would go to speak again, some of them would turn their backs as if she wasn't speaking to go do something else. And eventually I watched her. I watched the temperature rise within her, and she eventually said, in a kind of act of desperation, she said, I'm a person too. And what a shame that is. And she was a she is a godly Christian woman, godly mother. What a shame it is to not recognize That our godly Christian mothers are a source of wisdom. You know, you give me one good godly Christian mom. And I'll take her over a thousand podcasts. And that's what we end up seeing in part here with The Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit did not save for all generations the utterances of the most recent talk show. He saved the mutterance the utterances of King Lemuel's mother. And may we heed motherly wisdom. Now there are these admonitions. Of course she has admonitions. She cares deeply for her son. I don't think these are just advice these aren't just advice. This isn't just a counsel. She's more forceful than that. She knows what God's will is. And so she begins with these admonitions. And the first admonition, this is admonition one of three. Admonition one is seen in verse number three: do not give your strength to women. nor your ways to that which destroys kings. She is cautioning her son Lemuel against losing his strength. She calls out especially giving away his strength to w to women, and this includes a whole variety of actions and choices that could be a part of his life So she cautions Lemuel against losing his strength to poor choices with women. It really has to do with anything, you see there at the end of that verse in number three nor your ways to that which destroys kings. You see how broad it gets? One of the ways that that can happen is if he gets involved with the wrong woman or women Even if it's just a one night kind of a thing, or if it's supposed to be longer than that, those kinds of choices wreck a sun. It goes on to be even broader in verse 3 on that second part when he says, Your ways to that which destroys kings. Anything that will take you and make you weak. You are to avoid those things. And we're going to actually look in the next admonition about alcohol. Mentions here for the sun to Be quite concerned about this. Don't be naive. One commentator says, obsession with such women corrupts the king's sovereign power. It includes wasting his money. Gratification of lust distracts his attention from serving the people. It blunts his wits It undermines his good judgment. It exposes him to palace intrigues and squanders the national wealth that would be better spent to promote the national good. Now, as an example of this, how many stories are there in the scriptures where that person was meant to be strong for a community and is ruined by their choice in romantic relationships? How many are there? I'll just start with the scriptures. I won't even ask you about our own lives. You just start with the scriptures. What's one that comes to mind? Well, one that should be coming to mind, of course, is David's lust for Bathsheba. He had everything going for him. What a blessing to the whole nation and to the community. And yet David's lust for Bathsheba made him callous toward justice. Why do I say that? Because he had Uriah killed over it. Send them to the front of the line. In 2 Samuel 12, 7 through 10 eventually comes around where God sends Nathan to David. Nathan says to David, you are the man, after telling him that story. Thus says the Lord God of Israel, I anointed you king over Israel, and I delivered you from the hand of Saul I gave you your master's house and your master's wives into your keeping, and gave you the house of Israel and Judah. And if that had been too little, I also would have given you much more Think of the strength that God has waiting for his community. Those men and women who will serve him, who have been raised up in especially Christian homes. Just like David, I would have given you much more. Why have you despised the commandment of the Lord to do evil in his sight? I'll tell you why. It all began on the rooftop with Bathsheba. You have killed Uriah the Hittite with the sword, you have taken his wife to be your wife, and have killed him with the sword of the people of Amon. Now therefore the sword shall never depart from your house Because you have despised me, and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife. It's not just mechanistic cause and effect relationships that King Lemuel's mother warns King Lemuel about. God governs the world in a particular way. To where if you play with fire, like King Lemuel's mother is saying, you'll lose your strength. You'll get burned. That's another proverb, actually, playing with fire in this exact same context. You can see what the proverbist is doing here. You can by recording King Lemuel's mother, you can see what the Holy Spirit is doing, not just for King Lemuel himself, but for the whole community, that we are like kings and queens. In the last proverb that we looked at, we saw that there are four things that walk stately on the earth, one of them being like a lion, and it's a call to us and our dominion. Like we read in Psalm 8 that we're to rule over God's creation for his glory. And now we know that that is to happen underneath the new Adam, who is Jesus Christ. But nevertheless, he doesn't take away our rule but gives us the strength for it. But King Lemuel's mother reminds us here that if you'd like to lose your strength quick, even the one that Christ has given to you, then play around with this. Sons and daughters raised to be strong for God and his kingdom, ruined by poor choices with men and women. And let me just remind you: that's men or women that are real or digital. I've seen pornography wipe out a man's strength. I've seen pornography wipe out a woman's strength It's all right here with her words before the internet was even invented. The Holy Spirit knew what we needed to hear. Now I understand that there's no such thing as a perfect relationship. I get it. No matter uh what let's just say you're younger and you're looking for someone to marry, whether you are a man or you are a woman, no matter who you find They could be the godliest person in Anorundal County. They're going to have problems. And you have problems. There's no such thing as a perfect relationship, but as you're entering into a domain where you ask the Lord to bless you in marriage, you've got to ask certain questions like Is this the kind of person that'll help me to be strong for the Lord, or will they take away my strength? Because that's what it says here from under King Lemuel. He says, do not give away your strength. Don't be with those things that destroy you. nor your ways to that which destroys kings. And that's applicable to us too in our Dominion mandate. That's admonition number one. She has some more things to say. Admonition number two is going to take us really in verses four through seven. And then we'll have a final admonition in a moment. Admonition number two starts off in verse number four. It says And it's a continuation of the same thought. We've seen that the king is not two, and yet neither are those who are royalty, namely the Christian family, humanity, really. That we are not to give ourselves over to those things which destroy us. And now we're going to get into another particular A man or a woman can intoxicate you and ruin you. But so too can more literally booze. And that's where we get to in verses 4 and 5. It is not for kings, O Lemuel. It is not for kings to drink wine. nor for princes intoxicating drink, lest they drink and forget the law and pervert the justice of all the afflicted. I don't think that this is a command that there should be no alcohol within the Christian's life. It was pretty regular as I read the commentaries for kings to have wine cellars. We see wine all over the scriptures What's important here for you to see is the qualification is that whatever is happening here, this isn't normal drinking. This is drinking wine. Where they become intoxicated, and they become intoxicated to the point where, just like we just heard from the first admonition, they lose their strength. Now the strength of the king is to uphold justice for the land And when he loses his strength, corruption enters in and there is no justice in the land. And that's really what's being pointed out here. Now we saw within the bulletin an example of that, and I tried to pull that out in the confession of sin. If you wanted to look at that again. From Mark 6, 21 through 28. It's also in Matthew 14, 6 through 12. But Herod has a birthday party. I'll just read this to you again. I'm going to read from the Matthew account since you've already heard from the Mark account. But when Herod's birthday was celebrated, the daughter of Herodias danced before them with and pleased Herod. Therefore he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask. So she, having been prompted by her mother, said, Give me John the Baptist's head on a platter. And verse number nine is key here. And the king was sorry. How did he get himself in the position where he was just running his mouth and saying stuff that he didn't really mean? Did it have anything to do with the dancing? Of a young girl with a nice figure? And what about all the wine that had been flowing all night long? He'd lost his judgment. And he had lost it this time to the point where John the Baptist, someone he deeply respect actually, if you look at the rest of the scripture, will lose his head. And of course we'll find judgment from the hand of Christ himself for this. But we are meant to look at Herod and what is happening there with the intoxicating drink. the lack of judgment, the hasty decision making, and the regret, we are meant to examine our own lives to ask, are we like him? We are to look at him as an admonition of warning, a giant sign that says, Don't walk down this path. Alcohol can take away your strength. It continues on in verse numbers six and seven. Give strong drink to him who is perishing, and wine to those who are bitter of heart. Let him drink and forget his poverty and remember his misery no more. This is a very difficult two verses. I hold the right to one day perhaps make a retraction on what I say here tonight. But I think what's going on, the best that I can do from the Hebrew is that this is sarcastic. I have read other commentaries where they think that perhaps the mother is suggesting to the king that if the poor are really struggling, then give them a bunch of opiates so at least While they're poor, they can be high or whatever it is and have some kind of a pleasure. That really doesn't fit the proverb, and it doesn't fit with King Lemuel Mother's wisdom I can't see her saying handout joints for the community or whatever it is. Or free beer, whatever that is. I think this is sarcastic and she's pointing out to him that If you were to turn to these things, even though it is especially appealing to turn to these things when you're bitter of heart and when you're down in the dumps, so that you can at least Bring down the amount of pressure that you feel so that you can at least numb some of the misery. I think she's saying it sarcastically and saying that doesn't work either. That just leads to more problems. And the per premier commentator on Proverbs, Bruce Waltke, agrees with that. She's basically pointing out it's not real medicine. It pretends like it's real medicine, but it just makes things worse when you're using it that way Hosea 4. 1 picks up similar themes as we've already seen in Admonition 1 and in Admonition number 2. Hosea 4. 1, the Spirit says to us, Harlotry. We've talked about that. Wine and new wine enslave the heart. Matthew fourteen, six through twelve, we've already looked at with King Herod and his birthday. And there are other instances within the scriptures where we could look and we could see The cause and effect relationship to becoming intoxicated with the wrong things, including alcohol, has led to weakness and a person not being able to exercise dominion for the benefit of their communities. Now I want to step outside of the scriptures just for a moment. And I just want to ask, is there any truth from your own lives? on what King Lemuel's mother says about the damaging effects of alcohol. Have you seen it work a certain way within an individual where they could have been the glory of your community, but instead they became the dread? Could you just go ahead and recount the things that have happened in our own communities? And do you see that alcohol is sitting there as a centerpiece? How many pastoral strong rods of the community have had to be removed from the pastorate because of turning to alcohol in order to deal with the difficulties of the job? How many have had to be removed from the intoxication that they gained from the women in their lives with adultery? How many have had to be removed because of the pornographic habits that they developed over time And what congregations have suffered when they find out that their pastor has been caught prostituting or being a part of a prostitution ring? Unfortunately, these aren't unheard-of stories, and nor are they rare. There's some real wisdom to what this mother has to say. Now, if you think you're above it all, if you think you can play with venom and stakes and not get bit I'd ask you to go back to the beginning of the proverb where she's just trying to get you to listen. Listen to her for she speaks for Christ. And now we have the last admonition, admonition number three. Now so far this has been an introduction so we could really understand the motherly wisdom that's being passed down to us. There has been another ad there has been a few admonitions which have largely focused on the do not do or avoid these kinds of things. We now move into an admonition number three that's positive. Positive. You can see that the mother is concerned about what will weaken God's people because God's people are supposed to be strong doing positive things. So she wants to avoid the weakness so that you can have the strength. And she brings this out especially in Proverbs 31, 8 through 9. Open your mouth for the speechless. In the cause of all who are appointed to die. Open your mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the poor and the needy. Now we've already seen this actually back in the last admonition, where you can see Excuse me. He says, she says, um lest they drink and forget the law and pervert the justice of the afflicted. We already had a foreshadowing there that that's her main concern. And that's the wisdom that she's seeking to give to her son. She wants him to be God's man. And the same could be said to daughters, and we'll get to you in next week or in a couple weeks. You are to be God's woman. Verses 4 through 7, which we just looked at, negatively warned the king against intoxicants that dismantle just decrees that protect the poor. And by contrast, in verses 8 through 9, these are positive commands, and she positively commands him to enact righteous decrees to protect them. You'll see the way that this is unfolded in her wisdom. She says, open your mouth. This is the primary concern. Open your mouth, verse number eight, for those who cannot open their mouth. That's what pervades the rest of this passage. Open your mouth for those who can't open their mouth. This is a way of talking for those who lack a voice, who can't defend themselves in the court unless someone else speaks up for them. One commentator uh puts it really well in looking at all of the details and the way that this could happen. He says, those who can't open their mouth are socially and economically too weak to defend themselves against the rich and the powerful. The poor may be defenseless against them because, one, they could be too ignorant to counteract the tactics of the legally savvy. I've seen that before. Too inarticulate to state their case convincingly. I've seen that before. Too poor to produce proper evidence. Seen that before. Andor too lowly to command respect. Furthermore, the rich and powerful can bribe witnesses to accuse them falsely. In summary, the king must be accessible to the people and champion the cause of one who cannot otherwise get a fair hearing. What is said here of the king, says another commentator, is valid for every person in every sphere of activity. We are the voice for the voiceless. It's an act of royalty and an act of dominion. If she would just if he would just listen to to his mother To avoid weakness, not because she wants to be a nag. But because she wants him to be strong. And not just strong for himself. She's not trying to create Andrew Tate She's trying to create a man who serves God and blesses the community. A noble king. That all of us get to participate in that pattern. Whether men or women, kings or queens. You know, with that last part that we read, we had the introduction and three admonitions. Well now last the tail end of the third Admonition, you notice that the king is meant to stand up and to plead the cause of the poor and the needy. That he is in verse 9 to open his mouth and to judge righteously. Can't you relate to that? Have you ever been poor? You ever been needy? I hope so because I've heard you sing songs saying that you were. Have you ever groaned under your own sin? Like the Egypti like the Israelites groaned under the exacting arm of Pharaoh? Is it true that you're so inept in your sin that you just can't get out of your own way? Maybe it's not just sin, maybe it's also misery. Have uh men or women taken advantage of you You know what you need, you need a king who's not intoxicated. You need a king who's strong and never gives up his weakness. And we've even heard this morning that that is King Jesus. I'll read to you again. I know that you've heard this before, but I'll read this to you again in light of the proverb that we've heard here tonight. And really what's happening here, the reason you want to know why King Memuel's mother is so wise? It's because in the wisdom that she had given, inspired by the Holy Spirit, she has painted a portrait of Jesus Christ. That's who's really here is for us to be able to see Jesus, that he's your King. Those times when you don't know the right words to say. Those times when you've said the wrong words? Those times when other people's words overpower you Jesus Christ, though you have difficulty speaking, he speaks for you It says in Matthew 5, 3 through 5, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn. For they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek. The meek are those who are overrun by the evil powerful. Blessed are the meek, for they are the ones actually who shall inherit the earth. How could he say that? After we look here with the cause of the poor and the needy and all of the ways in which they have no power, how could he then say that they are the blessed ones? Here's the reason, and it's the reason for you too. It's because Jesus is their king. And Jesus is your king. That's the depths. That's as deep as it goes. That's where blessedness resides. is being able to say, Jesus is mine and I am his. He is my king, even and especially when I cannot talk. There's another portrait that I love from Job 29, 7 through 17, with which I'll leave you. When I went out to the gate by the city, when I took my seat in the open square, this is again connected to uh Proverbs 31, 23, sitting in that gate. The young saw me and hid, and the age sh arose and stood. The princes refrained from talking and put their hand on their mouth. The voice of nobles was hushed, and their tongue stuck to the roof of their mouth. When the ear heard, then it blessed me, and when the eye saw, then it approved me, because I delivered the poor who cried out. The fatherless and the one who had no helper. The blessing of a perishing man came upon me, and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy. I put on righteousness and it clothed me, clothed me. My justice was like a robe and a turban. I was eyes to the blind, and I was feet to the lame. I was a father to the poor, and I searched out the case that I did not know. I broke the fangs of the wicked, and I plucked the victim from his teeth. Another painting of Jesus Christ Who is your Christ? Who comforts your hearts? And is your eyes when you cannot see? He is your ears when you cannot hear. He breaks the fangs of those who are against you. He, the greatest wisdom of King Lemuel's mother is that Jesus Christ is the noble king. Let us pray.