We're looking at Philippians 2, 5 through 11. And this is really the core or the center. If there is a if you have ever wanted to have a Bible memory Memory time in your life. If there is a passage that you should memorize, it is this passage. I would say that this passage and the one that we looked at at before, it ends up being I I'm beginning to think, and I'm actually quite convinced at this point, that it is a summary of everything It's a summary of all of our problems, a summary of all the solutions. It's amazing that it's all right here. So this is what you would want to memorize. And so I'm sure you can't wait to hear Let's stand, and I'll read this. It's verses five through eleven. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Who being in the form of God did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. Taking the form of a bond servant and coming in the Therefore God also has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven, and of those on earth, and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ Is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Father, these words are so important, and yet we could miss them. We ask that you'd make us the right kind of soil This morning. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Please be seated. We're in a series on partnership. your first service with us. So we're in a series on partnership. We're that that word is used in different ways within our culture and uh w we are meaning it in terms of We're looking at that to have true Christian faith is not like having a hobby and it's not like just being an employee. It's like having a small business And you're one of the owners, which means you're always on call. The concerns are always your concerns. Your desk is where the paperwork goes. That's the image that we have here. You can see in chapter one. that the there's a there's a word in there fellowship but if we were to understand that word it's a a word that was used in commerce like a business partnership and that's where we get this idea of from. If you remember, let me just run through some of the sermons that we have uh going through already, just as a quick review. We started by looking at the destiny of partnership And just the fact that God has established His Church in a partnership with Himself, in which the Church will it will advance progressively. in the Christian faith automatically and instantaneously, but there is progress throughout life. And this destiny is truly ours in the same way that an acorn can bust through a marble slab and become an oak tree. There is also the life of partnership teaching us that we must have the right philosophy of life if we're going to last as partners. In order to avoid discouragement and disillusionment in our partnership, we must have a Christian philosophy of life. This has to deal with our sufferings, that God is the great alchemist And is conforming us into the image of Christ. There's also the publicity of our partnership. There's a public faith That we have as Christians. Our partnership is for everyone to see. And this means that we have a public faith. This can become difficult in our secular culture. And yet if we persevere, our faith is refined and it actually proves that we are ones that have salvation when we don't fall away. There's also the fight of partnership. This is uh based really on Paul recognizing that the human world is full of fighting, as we see in such novels like The Lord of the Flies. Paul teaches that our fighting is from a deep desire for our own glory. Glory at any cost. Glory undergirds a lot of our decisions. Self-glory, power, success. I gave you you may remember this sermon because I quoted Madonna at length. From a n from a nineteen nineties Vanity Fair column. Anyway, the gospel teaches us to seek gospel glory through giving up our rights. And really this sermon this morning is a continuation of that because You can see two one through four in your Bibles there, he's launching from humility, just speaking about it in one way, to giving us an example of humility Humility through Jesus Christ. And so you notice each one of the sermons has a title that has to deal with partnership. You have the destiny of partnership, the life of partnership, the publicity of partnership, the fight a partnership and to today, this morning, is the mind of partnership. The mind of partnership. It it's really interesting because here you see See, right within your scriptures in five, take a look. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Have you ever wanted to see how Jesus thought about things? Because it's right Right here. He's saying, here's the mind of Christ. But he's not just saying, here's the mind of Christ, so that we can have an interesting theological discussion about Christ's psychology or feelings. Ultimately, the verse begins with, Let this mind be in you. So we're going to see a mind, a human mind, that should change all other human minds. And that's really amazing to see that. When he says a mind, when we see a mind for partnership here, he's not just saying some of his thoughts. I mean, we're talking about the preoccup Of his mind. You really you could put it like the vision of his life, the inclination or trajectory of his life. And And this is really important for us because Jesus is the ultimate human being. He is true humanity. In fact, if there's one question that's out there right now, it's what does it mean to be be human. Do you ask that question? Is that just me? You you do. If you don't think you asked that question, will you talk to me after the service? I'll show you. You you you asked that question like twenty times already today. I'll I can show you that. But that's what we're dealing with here is what does it really mean to be human? Now why can Jesus give us that answer? Because Jesus is the ideal human. He's called the new Adam, and Hadam is Hebrew for human. He's just man. He is mankind in his true vision. And so what we want to do is we want to peer into his mind. We want to peer into his trajectory, into the vision that he has for his life. And the Apostle Paul Is saying, when you look at his mind, this needs to change your mind. This needs to change your trajectory. And there's two things. There's a mind of shame, believe it or not. Jesus is Got a lot of shame. So to speak. You'll see what I mean. The mind of shame, and then there's a mind of faith. Just two parts. mind and then we're going to go to the Lord's Supper. The mind of shame and the mind of faith. First I want you to see here, I want to build this mind this mind of shame up for you so you can see. Take a look at verses five and and six, and uh we'll just keep reading. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, did not consider it robbery to be equal with God but made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant and coming in the likeness of men, and being found an appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death even the death of the cross. A lot of the times when you read this passage in other books, what you'll find is a very complicated theological discussion on the natures of Jesus Christ. Now the natures of Jesus Christ are present in this passage, but that is not what Paul is trying to do. He's simply trying to lay before you what you too are to be like. But what you do end up noticing here, you can't go on without seeing it, is that the Son here present who becomes Jesus Christ is equal in power and glory and is in the In fact, God. Now this can be a little bit of a confusing phrase, I don't know what translation you have, but he says that being in the form of God doesn't mean just an outward appearance. We're talking about a sub Substance here, his essence, being in the form of God, he did not consider it robbery to be equal with God. What he's laying out here is that the Son is equal in power and glory. If this is already too complicated, just think of the Christmas story. Think of the Christmas story. The incarnation is what we see in the first part of this verse. We see that there is one who Pre existed as God and then has taken on human flesh. That's the Christmas story. All the wise men showed up when he arrived. Angels appeared in the sky. to declare his glory that the Messiah had finally arrived has finally arrived. It is through the incarnation that while remaining God, he becomes human. And the point of the statements is not for you to have a philosophical conversation of that. The point is for you to see the way of life and thinking that Christ chose as the God man. He had, here's the point The point is, is that he had all glory. The sun, the pre-existent sun, had all glory, and yet he did not exploit it. He did not Consider it a time for him to maintenance his power and to grasp onto it at all costs and never lay it aside. Instead, he chose to give it up for the sake of others. That's the whole point, setting aside his glory willingly for the sake of humanity Now this ties back in with exactly what we were talking about in the last sermon, where the base desire that we have as human beings is For glory. We do a lot of things in order to feel good about ourselves, and especially for others to feel good about us. All the things that you can think of in your life, it could be the car that you choose to The clothes that you wear, the haircut that you have. It's all for you to be identified as a little more special than somebody else. Now can you think just with within your own experience with When you have had to humble yourself and give up your reputation, to give up your glory, to give up your power, your successes, and become a person that's thought of as not successful. To become a person that's thought of not as wise but as stupid. Has anybody ever called you a fool? Do you know how that feels as a human being to be called a fool Jesus Christ is pointing out that he had everything. He had all glory, all wisdom, all excellence, and yet he sets it aside, so to speak, in order to be able to benefit Those who are down in the dirt. That's the point here. So you can begin to see the mind and the heart and the vision and the trajectory of Jesus Christ. Think of some of the ways in which He has done this. Jesus Christ was born from normal parents in a manger, nothing special. Jesus Christ grew up and was not physically attractive, according to I some passages. Do you know what it's like? You know how he must have felt being ugly? You know how difficult it is to not like a certain aspect of yourself? To not like your eyebrows or something? You know how difficult that can be if you don't like your smile? Jesus Christ knows what that feels like. Christ was religiously subversive. He wasn't accepted by the those who were in charge. Those who ran the synagogues and the and the temple. They didn't like him. Jesus kept company with unwanted people. He hung out with those who were drunkards, or he hung out with prostitutes, which is not what you were supposed to do. Words, in all of these different ways, he has set aside his glory voluntarily, accumulating shame that people have have said to him, that's very shameful, or you're nothing special, or you're stupid. The Greeks said that he was stupid. The Jews said that he was was powerless. or weak. This is what he has decided to do. He was the most shameful, weakness to the Jews, foolishness to the Greeks, and in fact In fact, there's this one phrase within Galatians that shows that he was the most shamed on all the face of the earth because uh the the the most shamed you could possibly get was to be And so in Galatians he says, Cursed is everyone who is hung on a tree, and who was hung on a tree it was Jesus. And so Jesus is the most cursed amongst people. We talked last week about how he was stripped naked. Think of the loneliness that he has taken on. Now this is profound, and I think that it's moving Yet it becomes more moving for me when I begin to realize that this is the nature. What I just presented to you is the nature of what it means to be human. It's to have that mind. Have you ever thought of your humanity that way? I was just watching with um the other night a bicentennial man. Anybody ever seen that? Yes. Thank you, Doug. Uh came out in nineteen ninety-nine, starred Robin Williams. He's a robot and um somehow he is Becoming a human. And his owner recognizes that he is able to have certain emotions and and uh and is becoming human, and so he goes to bicentennial man And uh actually bicentennial name man is named Andrew, uh and he says, I feel responsible I feel a responsibility to help you become whatever you are able to He goes down into the basement and he can see that he's develop you you see this moment. There's no words, there's just music. But you can see what the screenwriter is trying to do. The bicentennial man, Andrew, has fixed an old record player and is playing some classical music. Music. And the owner comes down the stairs, and the way that he looks at the robot, you can tell that he believes that he has tapped in to the most essential part and beauty of humanity. That humanity is so is it means for you to be a part of the greatest cultural production. And we hear that within our culture. And that of course is very Christian. But have you ever considered this to be the center? If you went down and you saw your robot becoming human, great hypothetical situation. If you saw your robot becoming human and you saw him listening to classical music, you'd think, ah, he's becoming glorious. Would you think the same thing if he began giving up his life for other people. Is that would you reg would it register for you that the category that you should be thinking in is he's becoming truly human? Or would you just think, well that's nice. I could exploit this. It's fascinating, I think. It's fascinating to me. I I I pray that it's fascinating to you You that the center of what it means to be human, according to this passage, to have the mind of the true human is to give up your glory for other people. Can you give up your desire? For others is the question of this first part. Could you give up your comfort when you just wanted to sit on the couch and watch TV. Could you get back up off the couch to help? Could you do that? That's just a small thing. I know that's super simple, right? Think of something that's more advanced? Could you become someone that other people are ashamed of for the sake of other people? Could you become the person that doesn't look the best? So that somebody else could look good? Could you become the person who uh doesn't have the best car so that someone else could be provided for? Could you give up American materialism so that someone else Perhaps somewhere else in the world could have food. Could you give up having the best vacation so that you feel like you have the American dream and that you have the glory of uh what Americans are after. Could you give that up so that someone else could have a relaxing time? Those are all questions for us within our culture and those are just some ideas that we could go after. And that's what it would mean to have the mind of G Jesus Christ in terms of this first point, which is the mind of shame. And you are now looked at as low, lowly, ugly, not well spoken, not educated. None of those things, of course, are true, but it's just how you're looked at Are you willing to do that? Because that's what it means to be truly a human. Now whether I I think it's an exciting vision, number one I think it's in part an exciting vision because all the other visions that I see out there of what it means to be a human, uh they're bankrupt. I've in fact tried them all, uh I think. Uh and maybe you have tr uh tried most of them. They're bankrupt. But yet when I see it, it almost seems too good to be true. I mean I've messed things up before. So what is it that could give us some kind of confidence Or let me ask it this way, how would we proceed forward if this is the way that we truly wanted to be human? Of course, we know we have the Holy Spirit helping us. How is it that we would want to Walk alongside him and participate with him in order to become this human. And that's the next point. It's the mind of faith. Christianity is going to get really, really simple at this point. Point. The difficult part after this sermon will not be understanding Christianity. It will be living it. That will be the difficult part. That's what I'm finding. It's the mind of faith. Take a look here at what um is a really interesting turn of events. What would you expect if you were going to write a paragraph on who Jesus Christ is in terms of trying to create humility Within a congregation. Wouldn't you just keep going on about all the things that Jesus Christ has done and the ways that He's humbled Himself? Wouldn't you have a kind of litany or a long enumeration? That's not what we see here. The passage actually has a shift. Look in verse number nine. Therefore, God, this is the conclusion of Therefore God also has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name, and then it goes through a list of all those who would praise him, who would have been a little bit of a would bow their knee and give him service. Jesus Christ, very simply, you can see it here, is exalted as King by the Father. The point here is that from his place of humility and loneliness. His willingness to give up his dignity and reputation has resulted in the Father restoring his glory, really giving him glory for the first time. as a human. What seemed like shame before has really accumulated and built up a case to the Father that Jesus should be great. That's the great turn of events. He has the ultimate glory. And this is the wisdom of God. We read earlier in the bulletin you know that the rulers of the Gentiles lorded over them, and those who are great at Exercise authority over them, yet it shall not be so among you. But whoever desires to become great whoever desires to become great, not self denial for its own sake This is exactly what we were talking about last week with the quote from C. S. Lewis. The New Testament has lots to say about self-denial, but not about self-denial as an end. To desire, and it's exactly what we find here within this passage. We find that there is a a the nature of humanity is to be humble, and yet at the end of it, there is great Glory. The glory that you desire, lawfully given. All of the appetites of man are present right here. But it's the right kind of glory, and it's granted by the Father. You get you actually see the granting of this glory to Jesus from the Father in the preceding verse. Take a look. Don't think, in verse number eight, don't think that depth is personified here. Take a look at verse 8. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient. Notice in my translation it says, to the point of death. Some translations you may May have may say to death. But he's not obedient to death as if it were personified. He is obedient to who? He's obedient to the Father, to the point of death. He's obedi And so the Father grants him this glory, as you can see. Now if you see this theme here, you can begin to look at the other scriptures to see this theme picked up in another place. For instance, consider 1 Peter 2, 22-23. Now listen really closely to this. I I don't know if you've read this verse before or not, but you should be reminded of it. Listen to this verse. This is verse 8. But when you do good and suffer, if you take it patiently, This is commendable before God. For to this you were called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow his steps. Do you hear the you hear the theme surfacing? He has left you an example that you should follow in his steps or have the mind of Jesus Christ. Now listen Listen to this quote. He committed no sin, nor was deceit found in his mouth. Who, when he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten. And here's the really important part. This is why the whole section is called the mind of faith. But Jesus Christ committed himself to him who judges women. righteously. Do you know what that means? It means that you ask the question, how is it that we are to be truly human? I understand that it takes the spirit. But what are we to do? What's our participation point? How do we become truly human? It is by faith, it is by entrusting and committing ourselves to Him who judges righteously that one day it will all be worthwhile That continuing the pilgrim's progress, he will pay what he said he would pay to us. The glory will be granted That's what Jesus Christ had to see for the glory or the joy that was set before Jesus Christ, he was able to endure the cross. Do you see that? You see the theme surfacing? It's the same for us. Jesus Christ, what's being revealed here, if you if you see this passage correctly, is that Jesus Christ was able to humble himself, making himself of no reputation, because he had faith that the Father would glorify and take him out of all of his shame. That is the necessary ingredient. It's the combustion point for all of human life. It's the lightning that strikes. That makes us a la allows us to be human. It's faith. It's faith that is given to us by the Father. It is faith that is continued every single day in God that He will actually do what He said He will do in your life. Jesus Christ had the mind of faith. We are to have that mind. Faith is not, we really need to hear this. I need to hear this. Faith is not knowing about the Christian faith. Faith is not knowing about the Christian faith. Even the demons know about it. about the Christian faith. They know it better than you do. Satan in the desert with Jesus knew the plan of redemption to the T. He knew exactly what was going on. There are really two parts to it, true faith. If you ever wonder what faith was, this is what it is. There's two parts to faith. You have to realize, if you have faith, that you have faith in a promise that is for you. It's not just a promise A promise that you see within the scriptures, but it's a promise in the scriptures for you. It's a promise given to you. And here's the more difficult part: that God will fulfill those promises to you. You. That's where the difficulty is. That He's going to fulfill the promises to you. For this reason I also suffer these things. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed. This is first Timothy one twelve. Listen to what Paul says. He summarizes this whole thing on faith. For this reason I also suffer these things. Nevertheless I am not ashamed. Do you hear the shame? For I I know whom I have believed and am persuaded that he is able to keep what I have committed to him until that day. Do you see It's all right there. It's all summarized. I'm not ashamed. I'm suffering. I'm being put in prison. I'm the refuse and the trash of the world, but I'm not ashamed. I'm the lowliest of the world, but I'm not ashamed. Why? Because I know the God that I believe in, and I'm persuaded that He is going to keep His commitments to me. That's what it says. That he keeps his promises. The Father made promises to Christ, and Christ believed they were for him, and that the Father would fulfill him, would fulfill them, and he in fact did. Jesus has seen the promises come true, and Jesus is a picture of all Christians, that the promises would come true You could see the exact same thing. I'd encourage you to go through all the scriptures and look at those folks who had to rely on the promises and exercise faith. Abraham was willing to raise the knife, and it says elsewhere in scripture, why Why would he raise the knife when this was going to be the only way for uh the the nation to continue? The reasoning was because certainly God could raise him from the dead He never doubted the Father. But the Father provided it another way that he could have never expected. And now I'd ask you to turn to Hebrews chapter 11 in your spare time. And read of all those who have demonstrated this kind of faith. They have committed themselves to God that He will fulfill what He said He would fulfill That's what it means to be truly human. The question is not simply, do you know the faith? That's easy. That's easy. Read a book. The question is, do you believe it as a personal promise to you, and do you believe that God will be true to his promises? That's where it's difficult. So you have the mind of shame and you have the mind of faith. You can see how the two go together. You can see how the shame unfolds. And so he had a mind of faith. Not only of shame. Here are three things for you to consider as we're starting to move towards the Lord's Supper now. Number one One, you have to answer this question for yourself. Does God make promises? Does He make promises? You have to answer that. Here's the second question: What are those promises? Promises. Write them down. Are they applicable to you or not? And here's the last one. This is the most Difficult. Will God keep his word? Now I don't want you to just say yes. I want you to look at your life. I want you to look at your anger Anxiety and your distrust and your cynicism. Those are all signs that you do not believe that you can trust God. You believe that you have to take things into your own hands because He is not to be trusted. trusted. And now we all struggle with that. And that's what the Spirit's here for, to increase our faith. And so we can take great hope. While I was at General Assembly, I went to a Seminar on uh uh it's this was not related to you all, but I did go to a seminar called How to Counsel Really Difficult People. W it wasn't really related to you. But I I um Yeah. Uh just Brad, yeah. So uh and and he went through different things, it was really, really helpful. He has a son who is I think twenty eight now and he has uh a pretty severe autism. Uh and so he said, Hey I have a twenty year old son who will forever be seven. And they have he's tried really hard To figure out what does it mean to give up his life for his son so that he can have the mind of Jesus Christ, which you can imagine is a little more difficult. So he had this great idea, and he took his son on a cruise. And um he made the whole crews about him. They went to everything that the the son wanted to do. They went to the shows because he loves the shows When they would eat. The sun only likes to eat things that are yellow, so he got everything yellow on his plate as a as a special treat. And when they were done, uh he was saying when they were done, uh he took the sun down the the hall and the son had to go to the bathroom. And if you've ever been on a cruise, the locks are a little different. Than normal door locks, and the son got locked in the bathroom. And uh this was very upsetting to him. He began to scream and kick and punch the door. door. He couldn't get the thing open and he and he couldn't it was different in the inside, so he couldn't uh describe exactly how the door was supposed to be open and you could hear it was he was stuck in there for like fifteen to twenty minutes Before they could come and they could get him. And finally, the door is open, and he's telling the story to us in this seminar. The door is open, and the son comes out with his hand like this. And he shakes it in his father's fist. Shakes his fist in his father's face, holding that, infuriated. And he says, You never do anything for me. And he turned to us in the seminar and he said, that's exactly what you do to God the Father when you do not have faith in him. We all struggle. And he could say this, I can't say this, it's offensive when I say it. He can say it. We all struggle with spiritual autism. I think that's a beautiful example, and we need to we need to think about that example as we come to the Lord's table now, we're going to consider whether or not God keeps his promises when we break this wine, when we break this bread and drink this wine.