I'll start with twenty A. Then the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel, and he said, Because this nation has transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and has not heeded my voice. I also will no longer drive out before them any of the nations which Joshua left when he died, so that through them I may test Israel, whether they will keep the ways of the Lord to walk in them as their fathers kept them or not. Therefore the Lord left those nations without driving them out immediately, nor did he deliver them into the hand of Joshua. Now these are the nations which the Lord left that he might test Israel by them, that is, all who had not known any of the wars in Canaan. This was only so that the generations of the children of Israel might be taught to know war, at least those who had not formerly known it, namely five lords of the Philistines all the Canaanites, the Sidonians, and the Hivites who dwelt in Mount Lebanon, from Mount Baal to Herman, to the entrance of Hamath And they went, and they were left, that he might test Israel by them, to know whether they would obey the commandments of the Lord, which he had commanded their fathers, by the hand of Moses. Thus the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. And they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and they served their gods. Let us pray. Lord, we live in a different century, but the story is still the same. We ask, Lord Christ, that you would teach us from this church and its mission statement, what was commanded to them and the fathers. And that you would cause us to remember the great commission you have given to us, and that we would be your temple. That you would gather more stones, and that you would fill the earth. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. You'll notice if you have your scriptures open that we're going to enter into the first cycle of stories here starting next week. So far in starting the series of judges, it's really been an introduction. And it's been an introduction by giving you the lenses and the frameworks that you need to make sure that you're reading this book the way that God wants you to read it As we enter into our series in Judges, we've seen a series of questions that we really should be asking through all of the chapters. Let me remind you of a few of them by way of review. Who or what competes with Jesus Christ in your life? Who attacks Jesus Christ in your life? Who or what inspires your love, your devotion, and your obedience? Our God is a jealous God And he is greatly displeased when his people give their love, allegiance, and obedience to any other. That's been a large part of what we've seen here within the introduction, and those are the kinds of questions that are meant to emerge. We have our final part of the introduction this morning, and I want to begin with just a few observations that are going to be quite helpful to us as we move forward. Let's start by just taking a look at 2. 1 as a review. In chapter 2, verse 1, do you remember that we heard from an angel of the Lord? Well, did you also notice that when we bring our finger down to chapter 2, verse 7, that the voice changes? It's no longer the angel of the Lord speaking to us, but the narrator. Well look at what has happened in chapter 2, verse 20, verse in B. Last week we looked at A. And then when we get to be, it says he said. And now what we have is the Lord Himself speaking. And he says two main things. First, God's people transgressed the covenant that He made with their fathers. Again, this is the main focus of the book. It is a downward spiral of the church apostatizing. When God says that the people transgressed the covenant that he made with their fathers, surely he meant the covenant on Mount Sinai. Which has continuity with all of the covenants, really. But more specifically, what is meant here is the covenant of command to remove the evil tribes from the land of Canaan. The tribes had stored up all that God and his patience could let them store, and now God is going to intrude in his creation and take the evil out by way of his people. That's the first thing that he's saying to them, that they did not keep that covenant or that great commission of conquest. But here's the second thing. Now God will not remove certain evil tribes, and he will test Israel. This is what he says in verse twenty-two. The test is not difficult to understand. I think sometimes we can get hung up on what is God doing when he's testing people? What does he mean? Well it's repeated throughout the passage. What's repeated twice within the passage? In verse 22, there's a question that is raised. Will they walk in the ways of their fathers or not? That's the test. Are you going to walk in the ways of your fathers or not? Remember, this is a new generation. The old generations we saw how they were split into eras in earlier sermons. Are you going to be with them in their house? Or will you be create creating your own house that is not the house of the Lord? Or you can see it's the same Statement or question being raised in chapter three, verse four. It's repeated again. Will they obey the commands of the Lord which he gave to their fathers by the hands of Moses and Joshua to remove the evil tribes from the land? That's the main question. That's the first thing I wanted you to notice is that we're hearing from God now. We've moved from the angel of the Lord, the narrator, to the voice of God, and now we hear what God has said in two ways. Now here's observation number two. We're going to move back now into the narrator's voice. God's people did not keep the commission. That's what we hear the narrator say. It's the same story over and over again. On how we're supposed to look at this. In Judges chapter 3, verse 6, the narrator says, They took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and they served their gods. Are you getting a clear enough picture from all of the voices who have the knowledge to know how to interpret and understand everything that is in Judges and what happens in the church in every era? Barring the preserving grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. Well, here's observation number three. I want you to remember that we are not just doing a historical study here that is kept for history class and history teachers. Remember, we are drawing an analogy between the Joshua Judges relationship and the apostolic and the post-apostolic relationship. That means the time of the apostles and then after the apostles. Judges and Joshua, time of the apostles and after the apostles, and you're in the time after the apostles. Which means that we can liken ourselves to the time of the judges and the kind of commission that we are to be fulfilling. Let me put it this way: the fathers fought faithfully with Joshua. They kept the commission. But then in the time of judges, as you have seen in this introduction, that generation joined the darkness instead of shining a light. When you see this list of what they have done with their daughters or their sons in marriage and then serving their gods, this is not just speaking about a single act. This is a reference to a total movement of them becoming Canaanites. That's what this new generation has done. And analogously Our fathers, the apostles, and the prophets, we just went through the book of Acts and we watched Paul faithfully perform the great commission of the Lord. Bringing the sword of the Lord and which is the Word by way of the Spirit to each of the nations. But now we exist in the time after our faithful fathers of the apostles and the prophets And the question must be raised for us as we go through this book, will we, as the new generation, continue the commission or not? The same question that is present within our passage this morning is a question that is turned and toward toward you. Will you continue the work or not? And it is posed to every new generation. So you little ones, listen up. This question is going to you too. Will we as the new generation continue the work, or will we syncretize and assimilate with the tribes that surround us? That's the question. Now, when we pull all of that together, what we see here is a statement that we can pull from this passage, and it's this. Jesus Christ calls the church to continue obeying the commands which He gave our faithful apostolic fathers. Now that's jam-packed. There's actually a lot in there that we could develop with that kind of a statement. I'm going to read it to you again, and then I'm only going to take a particular line on it. Jesus Christ calls the church to continue obeying the commands which he gave to our apostolic fathers. That's our doctrine for this morning. And when I tell you what the doctrine is, what I'm trying to state for you is a fundamental reality of your existence So hear it again. Jesus Christ calls the church to continue obeying the commands which he gave to our apostolic fathers. As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. It's the same thing over and over again. Well, I'd like to unfold that this morning with an image. I want to pull together some prophecy that builds on the image of the temple, and I think it can really help us this morning. After we have an image for understanding, I have some questions from the image. And that'll bring us to the Lord's Supper So let's begin with an image for understanding. I want you to recall The argument that James made in the Jerusalem Council in Acts chapter 15. He says this in verses 16 through 17. He ends up quoting Amos and saying, After this I will return and rebuild the tabernacle of David, which has fallen down. I will rebuild its ruins, and I will set it up, so that the rest of mankind may seek the Lord, even all the Gentiles who are called by my name, says the Lord, who does all these things. There was an argument in the Jerusalem Council as to what they should be doing with the Gentiles. Paul is seeing the Lord Christ do much among them. They're debating it, and then James gets the final say, and he quotes this prophecy from Amos showing that the new Davidic king would in fact restore his temple. to such a condition to where the Gentiles in all nations can then be brought in and made a part of it. That's his argument there, which will permits them to then go forward with the Gentile mission under Paul. When you look at this prophecy closely, the prophecy is divided really into two main parts. The first part proclaims the rebuilding of the tabernacle of David The ruins shall be repaired. Once the ruins are repaired, part two is initiated. The rest of mankind may seek the Lord, even all the Gentiles who are called by my name. Rather than you being gathered to a corrupt temple system based on an immature administration Christ does the work to call you to a mature temple with a mature administration. I want to take each of those parts in turn. The rebuilding of the temple was not a physical rebuilding of a physical temple in Jerusalem. That should be obvious by now. As we see in manifold places of Scripture, Jesus Christ is in fact the Davidic King, and he is the cornerstone. with the apostles and prophets laid as the foundation of this new temple. It says this in Ephesians chapter 2, 20 through 21. having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone In other words, under the kingship of Christ and his apostles, the church was cleansed of wickedness, misdirection, and immaturity. I want you to think for a moment of what we went through with Matthew, or your recollection of your readings in Matthew from your past. Think of this imagery and what is going on with the Davidic king and what he's establishing with what happens in Matthew. Think of Christ in Matthew and his setting the record straight on what his father really means by his law. You have heard that it is said, but I tell you the truth. This is what my father meant. Think of Christ flipping the tables. Think of Christ establishing by the Spirit the apostles that they may keep the truth well ordered and protected from those who twist the truth. Under the Davidic Messiah, Jesus the Christ, the ruins are being rebuilt. That's the picture that we're gaining. And he is the chief cornerstone. Now that's the first part of that prophecy, and we can see that taking place in the Gospels, and we can see that happening within the apostolic era. You can even see it continuing to happen as there is a transition from apostle to those that the apostles are raising up like Timothy. The second part of the prophecy is that once a cornerstone and foundation has been laid, then Christ will start to build that temple with stones from every nation. You are those stones. It says this if I were to read more fully the same passage from Ephesians. Now, therefore, you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. Having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone in whom the whole building being fitted together grows into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit This is what God is doing in history. And this helps us to understand ourselves, and it helps us to understand What's going on within judges? Those are images, the image of the temple, divided and taking the prophecy and dividing it into two, still maintaining that temple imagery at the center That imagery helps us to have understanding of who we are and what our task is within this world. To bring that out, I want to ask you a couple questions. Or raise a few questions about that image that I've given to you, or that really God gives us that we might understand. Here's some questions from the image When you keep that image in mind, I want you to revisit now the main doctrine from this morning. Jesus Christ calls the church to continue obeying the commands which he gave to our apostolic fathers. And here is the question With reference to that imagery that we see throughout all of the scriptures, what does that doctrine mean? What does it mean if you take the doctrine that we are to continue in the commands which he gave to our apostolic fathers and you overlay that with the imagery of the temple? Doesn't it mean that if you are a stone in the temple of Jesus Christ, then you will remain constant? That you will remain consistent, that you will remain on the same trajectory and in the same direction, in line with, in love with. The cornerstone and the foundation and all of the other stones who are the saints from every nation. Does it not mean that It does not mean that we would isolate a single few commands and check the boxes. We are talking about an overall trajectory, an orientation, a mode of being in the world. when we give our doctrine like we gave it this morning, when we overlook overlay it with the image of the temple. If you are a stone in the temple of Christ, let me put it negatively here for you, just to consider this second question. If you are a stone in the temple of Christ, Does it make sense for you to be like a stone from another temple? That's the question that's really underneath of what's going on within judges. There's another question of what temple are you a stone? That's quite revealing. But if you claim to be a stone in the temple of Christ, does it make sense for you to be like a stone from another temple? So, what I've just done is I've divided reality up into that there is one temple that is the Lord Jesus Christ's. He's the cornerstone. And then there's a bunch of temples that are not his. I want you to think of the other temples or enterprises in our world. Here's some popular ones. The Temple of Wokism. They have their priests and priestesses. The temple of LGBTQ, but sometimes those two temples get together and they like to party together There is the temple of consumerism. We've talked about that. And then last week we talked about the temple of expressive individualism, which might include all the other temples. Each of those temples, if you think about it, they have their cornerstones and they have their foundations. Each has their Christ, which we would call an Antichrist, and they each have their apostles. Each has stones built on their foundations. Now just imagine what we're saying here when we say the doctrine or the reality that we've stated this morning. Imagine the absurdity. Of taking the stones from one of those temples and placing them in the temple of Christ as if that's going to work. Tell me, how will that work? That's the whole point of this introduction to Judges and most of the New Testament. How will that work? We pretend that our actions and our thoughts are isolated and discrete incidents, but they are not, they are revelatory of you being oriented and a part of a larger project. And it is either the project of Satan or of Christ, of his kingdom or of the kingdom of the world James puts it like this, James chapter three, eleven through twelve. Does a spring send forth fresh water and bitter from the same opening? Can a fig tree, my brethren, bear olives or a grapevine bear figs? Thus no spring yields both salt water and fresh. Do you get the point? If you do not have the point, I will just give you the exact imagery from judges concerning idolatry and temples. And I will put it, I will just show you exactly how Paul connects all the same dots in the letter to the 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 14 through 7. 1. And you're going to want to read that. That's why I'm quoting it. 2 Corinthians 6, verse 14 through 7. 1. Listen to this. Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Keep the imagery of the temple in mind. I'm not talking about discrete acts, although those are included. This is a bigger picture here. He's saying the same thing that we're learning in Judges. Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship has righteousness with lawlessness? Do you see how the stones from the temples can't be swapped? And what communion has light with darkness? And what accord has Christ with Belial? Or what part has a believer with an unbeliever? This is all still Paul. And what agreement has the temple of God with idols? For you are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will dwell in them and walk among them. I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Paul is speaking to both Jew and Gentile at this point. Therefore, continuing the quote from Paul, come out from among them and be separate. Says the Lord, do not touch what is unclean, and I will receive you. I will be a father to you, and you shall be my sons and daughters, says the Lord Almighty. Therefore, having these promises, beloved. Let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. It is the same sermon from Paul that we see within Judges. And you can see how all of the imagery of the temple connects these pieces for us that we might understand who we are as the temple of Jesus Christ and how silly it would be for you to think that you could be like a stone from another temple and still be a part of this temple. As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. If there are false gods among you, put them to death today. We shall not mix fresh and salt water. That's the point. Now, there is a further conversation to have on how that works out in progressive sanctification. I'm not preaching perfectionism up here, but you get the main point. You see the emphasis that Paul himself has in 2 Corinthians 6. Jesus Christ calls the church to continue obeying the commands which he gave to our apostolic fathers. And we mean that doctrine in this thick sense that we're hearing from Paul, who collects all of that different kind of imagery to make his point. Now here's the final question. I think it's the final one. It might not be. I've got to keep you on your toes. Doesn't this just sound boring and joyless? Sometimes we get the picture that what it means for a person to join Christianity and we'll use the temple imagery, welcome to the temple. In here you cannot do this and you cannot do this and you cannot do this and you cannot do this And you do that ten times, and you say, and this is just a summary of all of the things that you really can't do. It's a comprehensive summary That's one of the misunderstandings where you would answer that question, yes, Christianity is boring and it is joyless. I love that quote that is about Puritans, but I've broadened it to Christianity. Some folks think that Christianity is the haunting fear that someone somewhere may be happy. But I want you to remember that as we think about being the temple of God and the great privilege that comes with being one of his stones. So as to not be lured, entrapped, ensnared by the seduction of another temple. I want you to remember from the our Deuteronomy series that even when the commands are put in the negative, the core and heart of them is positive. Remember that the core and heart of the whole Deuteronomic passage is this: Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and your neighbor as yourself. Is that not a positive statement? Is that not a positive social vision? Should not every do not of the Ten Commandments be tempered by that positive declaration of love of God and love of neighbor And therefore, when we went through the Deuteronomy series, we did read each commandment positively. For example, I want you to think about this social vision under King Jesus Christ. that he has established for this world with just the ninth commandment. Think about this. Do not just think about this as an individual. Think about this as a total community or kingdom that is Stretching across the world and what life would be in the positive understanding of the ninth command, which is do not bear false witness. It is the preserving and promoting of truth between human and human. It is the preserving of the good name of our neighbor. It is the preserving of our own good name. It is standing up for the truth. From the heart, sincerely, freely, clearly, and fully, it is to give your neighbor The benefit of the doubt when you hear something about them that's noxious It is to have a charitable esteem for them, loving and desiring and rejoicing in their good name You not only protect their good name, you figure out a way to orient your life that your neighbor would be glorious in their name and what they stand for in Christ. And you sorrow. You sorrow for them. And when they do sin, or they do show that they're weak, you cover it up in love. We study and we practice whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are lovely, and whatever is of good report in the ears of Jesus Christ. That's the positive vision. Imagine the whole world being taken over by just the ninth commandment. Are you telling me that you don't have a kingdom to be proud of? This is what it means. This is the temple. This is where everything is heading. It's inevitable. The ninth commandment shall reign throughout the land. We're not talking about this as just a few individuals who are going to have a Ninth Commandment club, but an entire kingdom or temple present in the world shining forth this social vision. Under the Davidic King, whose name is Jesus Christ, who has sent his spirit to every tongue and tribe and nation. That is Christianity. Are you becoming a stone in another temple because other temples look nicer to you? Who is the cornerstone and foundation which sets the direction of your life? Is the saying of C. S. Lewis becoming true of us? We are half-hearted creatures, fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered to us. Like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea, we are far too easily pleased. If you could really see the kingdom of Christ, you would find every other kingdom grotesque. I wonder now if you see how important it is to remain the church and to not assimilate to the culture. They're telling you, I'm more beautiful. Come be with me. And they're lying to you. You are more beautiful because you are the bride of the king. I wonder now if you can see that we cannot assimilate to the culture and the seriousness if we do. Can you see through the argument which James gave in the Jerusalem Council that Christ has restored the temple from corruption and is restoring? That Christ is building the temple with stones quarried from every nation. You are those stones, and therefore he calls you to separate yourselves to the temple to which God has called you. Your calling is beautiful. The kingdom of Christ correctly understood is lovely. Let us remember with privilege, therefore, that Jesus Christ calls you, the Church, to continue obeying the commands which he gave to our apostolic fathers. You are called as the temple to keep building the temple. And may the temple of God never become a sanctuary for idols. Amen. Let us pray.