Jude, a bondservant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those who are called sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ, mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you Beloved, while I was very diligent to write to you concerning our common salvation, I found it necessary to write to you, exhorting you to contend earnestly for the faith which was once for all delivered to the saints. For certain men have crept in unnoticed who long ago were marked out for this condemnation, ungodly men, who turn the grace of our God into lewdness and deny the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. But I want to remind you, though you once knew this, that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe. And the angels, who did not keep their proper domain, but left their own abode, he has reserved in everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment of the great day. As Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, in a similar manner to these, having given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh, are set forth as an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Likewise also these dreamers defile the flesh, reject authority, and speak evil of dignitaries. Michael the Archangel, in contending with the devil. when he disputed about the body of Moses, dared not bring against him a reviling accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke you But these speak evil of whatever they do not know. And whatever they know naturally, like brute beasts, and these things, they corrupt themselves Woe to them. For they have gone in the way of Cain, have run greedily in the air of Balaam for profit, and perished in the rebellion of Korah. These are spots in your love feasts, which they feast with you without fear, serving only themselves. They are clouds without water, carried about by the winds, late autumn trees without fruit, twice dead, pulled up by the roots. Raging waves of the sea, foaming up their own shame, wandering stars, for whom is reserved the blackness of darkness for ever. Now Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied about these men also, saying, Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousands of his saints. To execute judgment on all, to convict all who are ungodly among among them of all their ungodly deeds, which they have committed in an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. These are grumblers, complainers, walking according to their own lusts, and they mouth great swelling words, flattering people to great advantage. But you, beloved, remember the words which were spoken before by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ How they told you that there would be mockers in the last time who would walk according to their own ungodly lusts. These are sensual persons who cause divisions, not having the Spirit. But you, beloved, building yourselves up on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. And on some have compassion, making a distinction, but others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garment. defiled by the flesh. Let us pray. Lord Christ, I pray that you would continue to give us instruction on how to be a community in the last times. How to be a community that lasts, that doesn't erode away with the washing of mockers. Ask this in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week, Jude gave us a command which we just repeated. We finally got to the command. Up to this point, it has largely been working out the theology that is taught and the wisdom taught by Jude and how he views the kingdom. And here we we land upon a command in verse seventeen, But you, beloved, remember the words which were spoken before by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. And what were the words? How they told you that there would be mockers in the last time who would walk according to their own ungodly lusts These are sensual persons or natural persons who cause divisions not having the Spirit. Last week we looked at how that matches up quite well with the mocker in the book of Proverbs. This week we observe what a community looks like when we do in fact remember the apostles' words. The very first thing we'll focus on as a remembering, a real thick sense of what it means to be rem to remember. And the embodiment of remembering is this but you, beloved, build yourselves up on your most holy faith. Verse 20 That will be the main focus for tonight, or it is a participle building yourselves up on your most holy faith. And so let's begin with just a few observations I did mention to you that the word building here is a participle, and I agree that it is, in fact, a participle, but it seems to me to have the force of a command. And that's not unusual, and that is how I will take it tonight. Build yourselves up on your most holy faith. So you're receiving a command. From the scriptures this evening. Observation number two, I want you to notice the contrast. Notice that those who remember the apostles' commands, they are not like the false teachers. And the mockers. The false teachers and the mockers, if you remember from last week, they cause divisions. It's what we've been categorizing as antisocial. They bring down society. They tear things down. They're demolition experts, if you want to think about it that way, because the word edification in this passage is actually construction terminology. So the the building up of something. Well, we saw last week that the mockers are the ones who tear down Christ's society in causing divisions. The saints, however, they build up the city of God They're very concerned about the health of community. That's observation number two. Observation number three. Here you can see that there's a very specific way in which we are building up each other. As a community, and we are built we build each other up on our most holy faith. Now, what this should do is should alert you that Jude has returned back to verse 3 of his letter. It says this Beloved, I was very diligent to write to you concerning our common salvation. I found it necessary to write to you exhorting you to contend earnestly for the faith which was once for all delivered to the saints. It's the same faith that he mentions in three that we are to build each other up in in this verse twenty. And I want to remind you, this is also a excellent verse for you to memorize. I just want to unfold a little bit of what he's talking about here when he says to build each other up on that faith in 20 and in verse 3. And I think an excellent summary that I have seen many people use in order to explain what that faith is in summary terms is from 2 Timothy 1 verse 13. This is a summary that Paul himself gives that we might understand the entirety of the revelation of God divided into two parts. And so, whenever you can get the whole Bible in two parts, I mean just grab it. Right? It says this. Speaking about the same thing we're talking about right now, the faith, he calls in 2 Timothy the pattern of sound words. We've been over this in the beginning of the Jude series. But Paul says this, hold fast the pattern of sound words, which you have heard from me, and then he gets two divisions of the pattern of sound words, in faith and love, which are in Christ Jesus. That's 2 Timothy 1. 13. Faith is what we believe concerning God, especially what God the Father is accomplishing through the Son and the Spirit. And actually, that's as I talked to you in the beginning of the this letter, that's the first part of your confession or the first part of your catechism Then you have the second part of your catechism over your confession, which is the second part of 2 Timothy 1. 13. This is one of the places where they get the division for the catechism, and that is love. And love is what God requires of us in Christ. Love is what God requires of us in Christ. And so you have a division here that Jude is alluding to. Faith is what we believe concerning God. Love is what God requires of us. And we are to build each other up upon those two pillars. If you wanted to summarize. Summaries are very helpful to us so we can get our head around the big picture. So when we take those observations and pull them together, we end up with a doctrine like this. In light of mockers being present in these last times, Christians should build each other up in belief and love. I'll say that again to you. In light of mockers being present in these last times, Christians should build each other up in belief and love. And I'll just add That this is one of the ways that Christ preserves his community. In circumstances or times when mockers are present, Christ works through the secondary means of his people encouraging and building each other up that they might be preserved unto the last day. That would be a larger teaching. That's it's pretty much the same thing that I said. But in light of mockers being present in these last times, Christians should build each other up in belief and love. Now, what I want to do is uh we have spent so much time in establishing the uh the biblical framework from which Jude is teaching. That tonight I just want to do something simple and share basically two biographical moments in my own life. And I want to do that for a couple different reasons. One is some of you don't know me, or some new people folks that have come and they don't know me. And this will get you give you a chance to start to hear something about me. And then I'm also hoping that it would just stir you up to good works as you see uh what other people have done in my life, that you would want to be a person like me. that. And so let's just look at two examples of Christians who built other people up in belief and love. And I'm just giving myself as an example so that I don't embarrass anybody. The first is a biographical account of in-depth personal discipleship that I received from a person. Again, these are examples of what Jude is talking about. I want to get away from the theoretical framework that Jude has been giving, and I want to get down because it's time to get to work. You hear what I'm saying? Okay. Right. So when I first became a Christian, I returned, as many do, to my old haunts, and I continued in much anti-Christian behavior for about five years. I don't know that you would know that I was a Christian, but Christ knew that I was, and boy, did I ache in my bones every time I sinned against him. But at some point I attended a Bible study at uh Flo Wolf's house, actually. I don't know if any of you know her. Um, Flo and Dave Wolf. They had Used to have a Bible study at their home in Arnold and I attended, and one of the attendees invited me to coffee. He found, as he met with me, that I was a total mess, and I agreed He found that I needed lots of attention. Lots of attention. Lots of in-depth personal discussion. Lots of in-depth personal discussion. A book or a class would and could and was a kind of supplement for me, but it was never going to cut it If there was going to be any progress made, the way that God had worked it out in his providence is someone was going to have to sink their time into me. At the core, what was needed was a consistent relationship wherein my mind was renewed and I learned how to live. Not from the pages of a book. I needed to see somebody do it. I needed in the moment for someone to confront me and say, I understand that this is the way that you used to be, but you're not that way anymore, and it needs to happen this way now. And that happened in my life with this gentleman. Eventually, we ended up spending so much time together that I just moved into an empty room at his apartment, and the discipleship increased at that point. We talked through everything. All the thoughts that I had would come out at dinner, and we would work through all of them by way of practice and scripture, and he would seek to apply scripture to all of it And also provide for me an example, a complete and a full rationale for all of life, live together in community. And that's the kind of person that I am. I need uh rationales for things, and Christ Sent a person who was able to do that. I had many low points during the discipleship, many uh very frustrating points for the one discipling me. Infuriating as he watched me turn back to my sin. But the call was always the same from him: repent, and let's get back on your feet and let's move forward for Christ. Eventually, what we watched only by the grace of God was for some of those old temptations. And some of those ways of relating to people and the world, they began to fade and lose their power and were replaced by new loves and desires. Now he would agree that I am still a mess, but I think he would agree also that Christ has made me less of a mess. Now, when we hear a biographical account like that, that's exactly what Jude's talking about. I'm sorry if it's not academic enough for you. But that's what it looks like. That's what it looks like. Do you think there is any other way to see real progress in the church today? I want you to think of the times where you grew yourself. Was it analogous to my experience? Experience where someone actually took the time out of their life, you know how many sacrifices he made to be able to do that? Think of your times of growth in knowing God and wanting to live for God Was there a long-term committed relationship present? I'm seeing a lot of people nod. And I don't think Christ does these things differently today. It lets you know what the command is calling you to here in Jude. If you're going to listen to Christ by way of Jude, And submit your knee to Christ in truly building one another up, I'm telling you, there may be no other way than to give up your time for the people around you. In the same way that I represented to you that happened to me when I was younger. If you have something to give to a more immature believer, it doesn't have to be totally more immature than you, just in one area. Let me ask you, and I'd ask you to keep thinking about this. What keeps you from entering into a long-term relationship with that person? What would the Lord think about sacrificing some of your pursuits and instead devoting your time to helping each other? What if you and your children were not able to do certain things that other families and children can do because you have decided to devote your life to people or to a person? Would Christ be pleased with your decision? Do you really think we can build each other up in the faith in the context of mockers? That's the context of our passage. Can we build each other up in the faith in the context of mockers if all we have are narthexian, shallow relationships? Yes, I just came up with narthexian as an adjective. You can have that one for free. Will you be the change that we need? I think that's a question that needs to happen more often around here. I would encourage you not to look to me for the change. I'm telling you this is your responsibility. I have the responsibility too, but we can't look for me to grab the flag and run forward over the hill and you follow. Why don't you grab the flag? Will you, in other words, will you be entrepreneurial and lead the way on the on on how we have to start relating to each other if this is actually going to happen? The kind of changes we're going to need to make in our schedule and our calendars for this to happen. I wonder if there are some, I'm a big thinker. Some of you are frustrated by that. So let me just say this out of love for you. I wonder if there's some small ways that we could begin to do this Well that's the first biographical account and you can see the kind of questions that flow out of that and you can see how aligned they are with Jude's intent and it it really brings us down where the rubber meets the road. Well here's a second biographical account. And this is where someone built up the Church of God by sending me and some leaders to a peacemaker conference, which is still bearing fruit to this day I watched someone build up the saints by sending several leaders to a peacemaker conference and to training, and I ended up being included in that group. It was a great way to build up the Church of Christ. During one of the seminars entitled Horrible Christian Marriages, which I went to so that I could help other people with their horrible Christian marriages. And then when I went, I realized, man, I I'm I'm I'm the one with the horrible Christian marriage, and it's all my fault. The Spirit convicted me of some of my problems as a husband I was taught from the scriptures how I was supposed to relate to my wife and others. For example, I am to get the log out of my own eye first. But that was not my habit at the time. My habit was to blame shift. And man, I'm so good at that. The Lord expects me to consider the interests of other above my own, but I was in the habit and was a master at justifying how I want to do things and ignoring others and how what you're interested in and how you want to approach it is just is just inferior But the Lord worked great conviction during that time and in many other times as I worked with job disputes and marriages and those kinds of things. In the Lord's hand, this personal conviction and repentance turns into experience by which I could help others, just as from 2 Corinthians. Mostly Christ called me to help people know how he wants them to relate to each other. That's very much a summary of the Christian life. Love God, love each other. Those are relationships. How he wants us to relate to each other, especially when we feel hurt, especially when we feel confused, especially when we are angry When we feel ignored or small, in terms of Jews' concern for following the law of God, for the good society The Spirit, through peacemaking, trained us to live in accordance essentially with the Sixth Commandment. That is what was being unfolded at the conferences and in the material, was the Sixth Commandment. You saw how important the commandments are to Jude that we would have an ordered existence by way of law and order. The sixth commandment is thou shalt not kill. Now listen to the second half of the description of the sixth commandment The duties required in the Sixth Commandment are all careful studies and lawful endeavors to preserve the life of ourselves and others by charitable thoughts Love, compassion, humility, gentleness, kindness Peaceable, mild, courteous speeches and behavior, forbearance Readiness to be reconciled, patient bearing and forgiving of injuries, and requitting good for evil, comforting the distressed, and protecting and defending the innocent You know, if if mockers are present with us, don't you think that they will strive And capitalize on our confusion and our unrest? Don't you think one of the first things that happens in a division is that we are in conflict with each other? And that they will capitalize on that? Does it not then make sense that if we are going to build each other up, then it would be in being able to handle conflict? Have you taken the time to work with each other on peacemaking in your personal life or in your home or as a community? Have you started speaking to each other that way and working out? Those peacemaking principles with each other. Let me ask you a couple questions with regard to that. Okay? These are some that I find the most difficult for myself, and I find them to be most difficult to you Let me ask you this. Are you thin-skinned? And do you hold grudges? Because that, my friends, the mockers will eat up. In Christian society, the Lord prizes those who can overlook offenses, which is another way of saying that the Lord prizes when your skin is like crocodile skin. Let me ask you this. Do you have a critical spirit? Do you justify your critical spirit? All people that have critical spirits justify their critical spirit They say things like, truth hurts, but it's a truth, man. When you are involved, let me ask you this serious question. When you are involved in community Do relationships grow and flourish, or do people wither and die in your presence? What happens when your words leave your mouth? Are people encouraged or downtrodden? Does their tail instantly go between their legs, so to speak? Those are some good questions to consider as we Consider yet another example by way of my biography of how a person contributed and edified the church of God by contributing money and ideas and sending leaders to a people. Peacemaker Conference and how that unfolded. In light of mockers being present in these last times, Christians should build each other up in belief and love. And those are two examples of how that was done in my life. In light of our time and day, how do you want to build up the saints around you in belief and love? So remember, that's one of the reasons I gave you the biographical accounts so that it would stir up in you ideas for how do you want to pursue this. May the Lord lead us to be a people that remember the apostles' words. By being a people who build one another up in the faith, like some of those people did for me in the past. Please pray with me