Then he said, To what shall we liken the kingdom of God? Or with what parable shall we picture it? It is like a mustard seed, which, when it is sown on the ground, is smaller than all the seeds on earth. But when it is sown, it grows up and becomes greater than all herbs, and shoots out large branches, so that the birds of the air may nest under its shade And with many such parables he spoke the word to them as they were able to hear it, but without a parable he did not speak to them. And when they were alone, he explained all things to his disciples. Please pray with me Almighty God, thank you for your word. Thank you for the way that you have preserved it. And illuminated it throughout the history of your church. Thank you, God, that you have given it to us. But most thankfully, we give you our great praise because you have put in us your spirit. Who shines a light on your word and reveals the truth, bringing us into it. And I pray, Lord, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my strength. And my Redeemer. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I have long described myself as something called a fact addict. Don't know if you guys know what that is. I'm addicted to facts. I just like to know useless trivia. I love knowing things. I wonder if you guys know that there are some trees out there that have names. Did you know that? There are trees on this planet that people have given names because these trees are magnificent. They are mighty. Does anybody here, maybe you're also a fact addict, maybe you know the name of the tallest living tree on earth at this moment? Its name is Hyperion. That's a fun name. He's in the Redwood National Park. It's a coastal Redwood Redwood and I say he because you know, that massive of a tree. I just want to give it the strength of being masculine, but I don't I don't think that's how trees work. You can talk to a biologist. It's over three hundred and eighty feet tall. Does anybody know the tallest building in Annapolis? It's the state building. Do you know how tall that is? If you've ever been there? It's 181 feet tall. So Hyperion, the tree, is well over twice as tall as the state building in Annapolis And if you were to see a seed of these coastal redwoods, you would not believe that a 380-foot tree could come from it. It's just about the size of an acorn. It's almost unbelievable. It didn't matter that that seed is so tiny and seems insignificant. It doesn't matter that it appears to be powerless. Anyone who thought that about that seed would have been proved wrong. Because 800 years later, Hyperion stands 380. 8 feet tall. God revealed the power that was in that tiny seed by growing it up into the tallest living thing on earth right now. And sometimes, brothers and sisters, we can get caught up in appearances, thinking that we really understand what we are seeing. But God is gracious. He's compassionate, he doesn't leave us there. And we've been seeing as we go through Mark, especially here in Mark chapter 4, that Jesus has been teaching his people how they need to understand this world and how they need to understand what he himself is doing in it. It doesn't matter what it may appear What matters is what Jesus really is doing. And so he uses parables. And just to remind you, a parable is an earthly story that has a it has a common understanding, a common sense to it. But it actually has a far deeper meaning, a heavenly meaning, which is the message in that story from God to his people. We've looked at the parable of the soils, and we learned that God's word is the seed. And the seed will only take root in good soil, where it will then grow up and produce a great amount of fruit. That parable helps us understand why some will respond to the gospel of Jesus Christ and while some will not. He then gave us the parable of the lamps, in which we learn that Christ has lit us with his fire, filled us with his light, and now what are we to do? We are to shine forth. As his lights in the world. And that parable helps us understand why God saves us at all. He saves us that we would spread the gospel. Last week in the Parable of the Seed, we saw that in spreading the gospel we need to patiently trust God to grow His kingdom. And by it we understand that He grows his kingdom one sinner at a time. He transforms one person at a time by the power of his almighty word. We also learn that this happens gradually, it happens progressively, according to God's design, according to his good plan of salvation. Well, tonight in the parable of the mustard seed, we get another lesson from Jesus Christ. And Christian, you must understand from this parable that though the kingdom of God may appear to be insignificant, God Himself reveals its true power. Though the kingdom of God may appear to be insignificant, God Himself reveals its true power. We're going to look at this under two divisions tonight. First, we'll look at the apparent insignificance, and we'll see that together in verses 30 and 31, and then also in verse 33. And then we'll look together at God revealing the kingdom's true power. We see that in verses 32 and 34. So let's get right to it and look first at apparent, insignificant Apparent insignificance. Things are not always as they appear to be. And from a worldly perspective Something might look one way, it might appear to be one way, but in reality it can be quite different than what it appears. And so Jesus asks these questions. Look there in verse 30. He asks questions And he asks them so that all will know what exactly he is talking about. He's talking about the apparent insignificance of the kingdom of God. Look at what he says. To what shall we liken the kingdom of God, or with what parable shall we picture it? He's orienting everyone there who's listening to him speak. So that they, whether they understand the deeper meaning, the heavenly meaning of the parable or not, they will not be confused as to what he's talking about. He's talking about the kingdom of God. And he's talking about how it will appear to the world. The previous parable was also about the kingdom of God, if you recall. It was talking about the kingdom of God in you, the personal kingdom, Christ's reign in an individual's heart and life. But this parable, he's talking about a different aspect of the kingdom of God. This is the kingdom of God on earth, or as we could understand it, the church. Jesus does not want his people caught unaware. We need to know. Follow me here. We need to know that Jesus knows. What his church, what his kingdom will appear like to the world. He knows that the church will look insignificant or weak from a worldly perspective And we see this in the parable itself. We see in verse 31 that the kingdom will appear insignificant because it has small beginnings. Verse thirty one says, It is like a mustard seed, which, when it is sown on the ground, is smaller than all the seeds on earth. And this might not mean as much to us as it would to the original audience. The original audience was very uh agricultural. They all knew about the different seeds that you planted and how things worked in that regard. We seem pretty removed from this. Maybe you've seen a mustard seed, they are really, really tiny. Very tiny. But even though we may be removed from an agricultural illustration, Because of our own culture, we are not ignorant to what God is doing here, what Jesus is doing. He's telling us. We know mustard seeds are tiny. He's telling us That when when you look at the kingdom from an earthly perspective, it will seem as small as a mustard seed Now a mustard seed, if it's thrown on the ground, even somebody with perfect vision is not going to be able to pick out that mustard seed from any other tiny little speck on the ground. That's how small they are. And in its beginning, a mustard plant looks much like all the other kinds of herbs or garden plants that exist. But as we learned in the last parable, everything may start small, but God progresses it. And grows it. By his power, he grows it up. Even Hyperion started as that tiny little seed, no bigger than an acorn. But by God's design it became this massive, significant, mighty, and magnificent tree. We learned In the last parable that God has designed living things to grow, to go from one stage to the next until they are ripened fruit, ready to be gathered in. And the church, the kingdom of God Especially because of its small and humble beginnings, will appear to the world to be insignificant. But we also see that the kingdom of God will appear insignificant because of misunderstanding. So jump down one verse to verse 33 now. And see what Jesus says there. He says, or what Mark tells us. Mark tells us, and with many such parables, he, Jesus, spoke the word to them as they were able to hear it. Jesus purposely uses parables because they will convey information which can be understood by anyone, but there will also be a hidden message that will only properly be understood by his people. Those to whom he reveals it. Chapter 4 is Mark's parable chapter. This is the last of the parables that's recorded in this in this chapter, but it's not the last parable that he'll record in the whole gospel. There's one more that happens in Mark chapter 12, Parable of the Vineyard. Matthew and Luke, in their Gospels, they give us a lot more. There's many more parables in those But they still don't record every parable that Jesus taught. If you remember the last verse of John's Gospel, what he says there, if the whole world was a scroll, it's not enough to record everything. that Jesus has done or said. But I want to point out something to you in verse 33 that's very important. Look at what Mark says. He says, He spoke the word to them as they were able to hear it. Now, there are some people in the world today who would try to use this parable as proof that Jesus was not all-knowing. You know why they would do that? It's because mustard seeds are not the smallest seeds that we're aware of on planet Earth. Yet That smallest seed, do you know when that tiniest little seed that's smaller than a mustard seed was discovered? It wasn't until the turn of the 20th century. And it he's not going to use that seed or that plant as an illustration for the kingdom of God because that's a little tiny orchid flower. It doesn't work But the reality is that at that time, in that region, the smallest seed that anybody would have been aware of was a mustard seed. There were Jewish proverbs that used mustard seeds, and in the Middle East there were proverbs using the mustard seed to describe things that were insignificant. And so people now will say this. They will say, oh, there's there's a smaller seed than a mustard seed, because what are they trying to do? They're trying to make Jesus seem insignificant. But they misunderstand what is happening there, what Jesus was doing. Jesus is not showing himself to be limited in his understanding. He's actually showing himself to be unlimited in his love and his wisdom. He knew exactly what these people, how they needed to hear his word that they would understand it. And if he had talked about a seed that nobody had ever heard of, it wouldn't have made any impact on them. They wouldn't have gotten even the common sense understanding of the parable. Well, anyone looking at the church at its beginning, we can't blame them for thinking that it's insignificant. For centuries, Christians have been mocked. Do you know why? We've been mocked because our God was killed on a cross. We've been mocked because our religion started in a group of people who weren't even ruling themselves. The Jews were ruled by the Romans. They didn't even have their own independence. Israel is not a very large country. It wasn't a very large nation. And yet from Israel the gospel spread. And do you know who it was spread by It wasn't spread by scholars and philosophers. It wasn't spread by mighty warriors who took the banner of Jesus across the world. It was spread by fishermen. Was spread by slaves. Was spread by tent makers. It appeared very insignificant. And this brings us to our second division. Though the kingdom of God, from a worldly perspective, may appear to be insignificant, God reveals its true power. Look at verse thirty-two. I'm gonna reread a little part of verse thirty one, but look at verse thirty-two. Um Jesus says, it's like a mustard seed which when it is sown on the ground is smaller than all the seeds on earth, but 32. But when it is sown It grows up and becomes greater than all herbs, and shoots out large branches, so that the birds of the air may nest under its shade God reveals the true power of his kingdom, and that it is different to any other kingdom which might seem similar to it. The word that's used here by Mark is a very particular word. It doesn't just mean plants. It doesn't just mean any other vegetation It really is helpful to us that the New King James translates it herbs. Because it's really talking about garden plants, the kind of plants you'd have in a little backyard garden. It's helpful to us because Jesus is comparing his kingdom to a very particular kind of other kingdoms. And I understand this as he's comparing it to Satan's kingdom. Which has many manifestations. All those other false religions or false religious systems are really just manifestations of Satan's kingdom. These are the religious systems and the kingdoms that we're aware of throughout human history. And though there may be similarities to the true church, there are some big differences. Now, most herbs are garden plants. They don't grow that big or establish themselves permanently. They grow. They stick to one little area. They grow up just a little bit. And then what do we do with the herbs? We cut them off, we use them, and then it dies. This is the same of these other religions, of these man-made religious systems. Most of them show up in human history, they're around for a season, sometimes a pretty long season, but eventually they die out. No religious system has endured longer than the worship of Jehovah. He was worshipped in the beginning. And only his worship was preserved in the ark. There were a lot of religions around when Jesus was born. Do you know how many of them survive to today? It's only a handful. The kingdom of God also grows differently than these other religions. They generally were just regional. As a religion, or even if you look at church history, when a heresy would pop up, it would usually stay in one location, wherever it originated. But this is not what happens in the true kingdom of God, the church. It spreads out. It covers a large area. It grows these large branches that spread out close to the ground that allow protection for the birds of the air. The Church of Jesus Christ has done this. It has spread across the whole globe. It's a home for countless believers, and it will continue to be a home for Christians until it has reached its full ripening, and God harvests and brings his people home to be with him Well, God also reveals the true power of His kingdom, not only in that it's different from other similar kinds of kingdoms, but He reveals it. And that it, the kingdom of God, the true church, brings real understanding to those who dwell in it Look at what he says in verse 34. But without a parable, he did not speak to them. And when they were alone, he explained all things to his disciples. Those who are not in Christ's kingdom will only ever have a surface-level understanding of this universe, or of themselves, or of their own lives and existence. They will only get the common sense of things, only the earthly perspective, the earthly story. They will not get the deeper and more significant heavenly meaning of life and this whole universe. But those who follow Christ, His disciples, it is to them that Jesus explains everything. By His Spirit, the word is true. By His Spirit, it's opened up to us. We can know what we must believe about God and what duty He requires of us because of His Word and His Spirit in us. Only in Christ's true church is his word really understood. It's through the church that the Word of God, the Bible, has been copied and preserved and protected. It's through the church that the Word of God has been translated into countless other languages. If you've ever been to the Museum of the Bible, there's a room with tens of thousands of languages, even languages That very few people speak. There's somebody out there wanting to translate the Bible into that language. But beyond just that, it is in the church that the Word of God has been smuggled. smuggled into countries where there's a death sentence for owning it. And yet Christians still do this. In Christ's church, he has caused large branches to grow, and these are the gifts of men who understand the word They've been given tremendous understanding and tremendous faith. Those men, some given to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers, they are gifts given to the church. And that have helped us throughout the history of the church to understand the word. But the world does not see this, brothers and sisters. To the world, the kingdom of God seems insignificant. But God has revealed and is revealing and will continue to reveal the real power of his kingdom. Now I want to quickly illustrate the reality of the principle that I'm talking about, and that's the principle that appearances don't matter most. What really matters is reality. Appearances don't matter. What really matters is reality. And to illustrate this, I just want to talk to you quickly about a very real affliction that you may be aware of. Do any of you know anybody who is colorblind? You all know at least one person who's colorblind. My brother is colorblind. He's red-green colorblind. You know what that means? That means that red looks like brown, and green looks like brown. Red appears to be brown. Green appears to be brown. Is it the appearance that matters? Or is it the reality? I ask you, should the rest of the world change so that what red and green appear to my brother to be, should the whole world change so that that is what we now understand as the reality of red and green? Should we change our language? Imagine somebody said that. They said, look, people are red, green, colorblind. Some people can't see red and green. They all look brown. Here's what we're going to do. We're not going to call it brown. That might be confusing. We're going to call it Red green. Would that make sense? Should we do that? I tell you what, it would make it really hard for people to learn how to drive. When the light turns red-green, you must stop. But when it's red-green, you go. It doesn't work. The appearance is not what matters. What matters is the reality. If appearances mattered, then the world would be right about the church, wouldn't it? It would be just another faith, just another religious system, just another kingdom, just another herb, just another garden plant. We're just a another one of those times where a bunch of people get together and we we like the same things and we we say the same stuff. We've chosen to believe the same things. But that is not the reality of the church. The reality is that the kingdom of God on earth is unlike any other kingdom. No other religion has changed the world like Christianity. I'm happy to set aside five, six, seven hours with you one day if you want to talk about church history or world history. I'll talk as long as you're willing to listen. And if you study history, you'd see how God has used the church to change the world. I'll just talk about a few things. One, did you know that in Europe? The history of Europe has basically just been a history of tribal peoples killing each other for thousands and thousands and thousands of years. Even when the Romans came, they were still just tribes of people. For wealth, for land, for power, for people, they would go and conquer one tribe. They had no problems killing and wiping out. Genocide did not become a problem. in human understanding until the church. Because the church is where we get the real understanding that genocide is wrong. The Vikings in the 8th century, they they went on a tour of conquering and terrorizing, if you know about your history. But if you know your history, you know that only 200 years later, the Viking religion was gone The Norse religion is gone. The Vikings themselves were Christians. They were making churches on Iceland. This is the power of the gospel. What Christ had conquered them Even though they were killing Christians. The church has changed how we learn Modern science came from the church. Only a rational universe, made by a rational creator, can be rationally understood All of the scientific advancements that have come since then are because we fundamentally presuppose that the universe makes sense The oldest universities on planet Earth were founded as places of learning for the church. Oxford, Cambridge, the University of Paris. The idea of there being a place to go to learn came about because of the Church of Jesus Christ You want to see the impact of the church on the world? Just go to a library. And I don't mean that you'll see a bunch of books written about it. I mean that you will see books. Did you know that the world didn't have books before the church? Everyone just wrote things on scrolls, and that was fine, because you'd open a scroll and you'd read what was there, and you needed it. But once the church was founded, And we see in the New Testament that there's so many references to the Old Testament. The church needed a way to be able to look at one side and quickly flip to the other. They created something called a codex, which is a book. And it's taken the world by storm. Well, maybe books aren't as important now, but the same concept has taken the world by storm. Or the abolition of slavery. Did you know that the abolition of slavery in the modern world is the result of the Church of Jesus Christ, the true church? It's hard for us in America to realize this because uh the abolition of slavery is often overshadowed by the horrors of the Civil War. But if you look at English history, you'd see That was the church doing what God had given them to do. William Wilberforce, friends with a man named John Newton, a pastor who used to be a slaver. He's written the most famous hymn On the planet, a hymn so famous that even non-Christians know it. Do you know which hymn that is? Amazing Grace Well, since we've learned that appearances don't matter and the only thing that matters is reality, I ask you, how should we judge the church then? Should we look at the church from a worldly perspective and judge it the way the world judges? If we do, then we would say, oh, how how do we know if a church is being successful? Ah, they've got lots of people there. It's the size, right? Or perhaps we say, oh, it's the income. It's whatever the budget of that church is that makes it successful. Or how much how much influence it has on the culture. That's a successful church because it's influencing lots of things. And this just isn't true. Joel Austin's church may have 35,000 members. That doesn't mean that they are doing the good work of God. If you listen to what he says, he is not preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. The world says that justice and fairness looks a certain way. Do you know what the world is saying? Justice and fairness looks like? You've probably heard the term DEI, diversity, equity, inclusion. I'm not saying that that's entirely a bad concept, but I'm saying you we can't look at the church and judge the church from the world's standards Can we call the church evil because it seeks to follow God's design rather than man's? A lot of people have a problem with the Church of Jesus Christ because we won't ordain female officers. And the world says that can't be. And yet we say, no, the the Bible's clear about certain things. If you judged Severn Run by the standards of the world, we're a pretty terrible place. Because we're basically racially homogenous. There's really just a bunch of white people here. And the world would say that that's a bad thing. But what we say is, no, you can't judge the church based on how the world sees or based on appearances. You must judge on how God reveals us. Are we following His mission? Are we sharing His gospel? It doesn't matter that there's more white folks than non-white folks. That doesn't matter at all. What matters is, are we preaching the true gospel? Brothers and sisters, what really matters is: is the church doing what God wants? Are we dealing with sin the way God says deal with sin? Are we pointing people to Christ? Are we bringing them to an understanding that their behavior or their confession, what they've said with their mouths, Does not please God. Are we willing to discipline someone because they've said they're a Christian, but their life is running far away from Christ? How does the world deal with sin? The world says, we're just going to change the rules. There is no such thing as sin. If you want to do XYZ, we just stop calling it bad and you go ahead and do XYZ. But there are things in God's word that are very clearly forbidden by God. We cannot believe them. We cannot do them. And so it doesn't matter what it looks like to the world. We follow God. We do what He wants. The world is constantly changing. Whoever gains power redefines what is good, and we've seen this time and time again in history. But God does not change. The Lord Jesus Christ does not change, his word does not change, what pleases God has not changed since the beginning. What God wants for his people has not changed. What he is doing through his church has not changed. We must strive to follow God's way. We must strive to evaluate things with His wisdom With his understanding, we must strive to enact his justice, no matter what the world might think, no matter what we may appear. It doesn't matter that to the world the kingdom of God will appear insignificant. Or wrong or wicked. We must trust God, who has and will and will continue to reveal the true power of his kingdom. Please pray with me.