Good morning. This we do have a two-week break after this class, and then we'll come back and and uh Lord willing we'll finish off the book from there. I want to begin this class with a review like I always do And that'll just be of the chapter we went through. And then we're going to focus on the compassion part of the Lord's Day. We have necessity and mercy. We've talked about that today is the mercy portion. And we're really just going to take a look at the um argument between Jesus and the Pharisees in a couple different passages to understand the mercy component. And then I just wanted to make a note for you that when we do come back from the two-week break We have an important chapter which is on Colossians 2, 16 and 17, and that's one that people have a lot of qu you know people have questions with regard to that, because let's say no more Sabbaths, for example. So we'll take a we'll take a look at that one when we get back. Okay, so let's start first with a review. And in the Book. Uh Dr. Pipa actually gives us a good review on page eighty-two. On page 82, the second paragraph down from the top, if you want to follow along. I'm just going to read it to you very quickly It says, um, speaking of why did it uh Jesus, I'll start at the last sentence of the first paragraph. Jesus uh scraped away all of the accumulated dirt and paint of human tradition and rules to restore the Sabbath to its original purposes. Why did he do this? Why did the gospel writers devote so much attention to the Sabbath controversies if the Sabbath was done away with? Jesus spent little, if any, time correcting the Jewish ceremonial practices, while he spent more time teaching about the correct observance of the Sabbath than any other Old Testament commandment. He asserted his lordship over the Sabbath in order to establish it as the appropriate day for the New Testament church to celebrate and observe the rest that he provides In chapter 5, we learn from Jesus' defense of his disciples picking and eating grain that we may do on the Sabbath those things that promote the purposes of the Sabbath, the deeds of necessity So that was last week, and just very briefly let's re-look at that passage in Matthew chapter 12 Just want us to refresh our minds on that and just point out a few, just I just want to make a few observations with regard to that passage again. Matthew chapter twelve, and it's verses uh one through eight And I'll put that up on the board as our review because we're really just reviewing the passage. Look how nice and vital the ink is this morning. Okay, Matthew 12, 1 through 8 is where we're looking at how are we to spend the how are we to spend the day. And When uh we get into these controversies. Jesus talks about being the Lord of the Sabbath. What was a contextual clue that we really needed to understand what he means by asserting his authority here. What is a context clue in order for us to understand verses one through eight? It's actually outside of those verses. What was the c what was the clue to help us understand and read one through eight? Anybody remember If you want to understand one through eight, you have to read a verse prior to this. Which was my yoke is easy. Yeah, my yoke is easy and my burden is light, and that's eleven what? Okay, so we have Matthew eleven thirty. When he uses this imagery of the yoke, this is another way to talk about someone who has authority, who is Lord. Okay, and so he wants to talk about how his yoke is easy and his burden is light. Now, Gary, that stands in contrast to what? Burden of the law or the Pharisees interpretation of the law? Yeah, so then we have a contrast With the Pharisees, and how they are Applying the law to God's people. Jesus is directly critical of them and how they apply it, and he's saying he provides a real rest, whereas they are providing a pseudo-rest. that he never intended. And that is supposed to to g give us the lens in how we're to understand the controversy with him asserting his authority. and talking about the necessity of the Sabbath or or of working out necessities while on the Sabbath, like the picking of the heads of grain. There was also another phrase in the context Where that brought us back to Matthew chapter 5 and 6. Does anybody remember that phrase? Also helps us to interpret. Yes. Yeah, but I say to you that kind of idea. And all of this is accumulating or raining down in order to make the argument that if you want to understand this section, Jesus is not throwing the fourth commandment away. He's correcting those who have misapplied it. Alright, that's the whole point of that section and that review. And then finally, what was the helpful question that well some of you found help what was the question that some of you found helpful uh that uh in terms of ethical decisions on the Lord's Day. Remember the question that Dr. Piper gave Yes. Does this promote the purpose of the day? Yeah, does this promote the purpose of the day? Okay, does this promote the purpose of the day? That's what you would ask relative to the thing that you're considering and you're trying to make a decision on what you should or should not do, which is why I say this is in the ethical realm. Trying to make a moral decision. And that would make sense because, you know, the fourth commandment is a moral law. So that's and we spent the first four chapters trying to establish that. Alrighty, so that's a pretty good review. I think I can leave that up there. This passage here was dealing with necessity. Does anybody remember the specific example of necessity in that passage? Doing things that are necessary on that day? It was the picking of the heads of grain, right? Rubbing them in their fingers, and then that leads to further conversation about being able to take care of things that are necessary that day. We'll talk about that a little bit more in this chapter too. Today, the focus is not just on necessity, but on mercy or compassion. And we're going to look at another biblical passage or controversy in order to discuss that. So let's start. We could call this the first confrontation that Jesus has. And we're just trying to take lessons about the Fourth Command from that controversy, because it's all about the Fourth Command. Well, there was a second controversy too, and that's in verses 9 through 14 of Matthew chapter 12. So please follow along as I read that to you Now when he had departed from there, he went into their synagogue, and behold, there was a man who had a withered hand. And they asked him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath, that they might accuse him? Then he said to them, What man is there among you who has one sheep And if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not lay hold of it and lift it out. Of how much more value then is a man than a sheep? Therefore it is law therefore it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath. Okay And so let's go ahead and just notice some of the observations that we had from the from the book. I thought it was interesting in that Dr. Piper had pointed out on page 82, the last paragraph on 82 and following that he he says a few interesting contextual statements. He says, in this account, Jesus teaches the principle that the Sabbath is a day for doing good to our neighbor. The event recorded in these verses is one of the classic spiritual confrontations between Jesus and the Jewish religious rulers. Knowing that he would come to the synagogue to worship, they set a trap They knew where to find Jesus on the Sabbath. Since he kept the Sabbath faithfully, they knew that he would find him at the synagogue. Moreover, foundational to their plan was the assumption that Jesus was able to heal. What an amazing insight into the wickedness of their hearts and the depth of their depravity They never stopped to ask, Who is this who can heal the sick, cast out demons, and raise the dead? The Pharisees elaborately set the scene. They positioned the man with the twisted, paralyzed arm at a prominent place in the synagogue. so that it would have been impossible for Jesus not to see the man or his tragic condition. As Jesus entered, they asked him. Now, go ahead and take a look down at Matthew 9 through 14, 12, 9 through 14. And you see there in verse number nine how Dr. Pipa is reading that. Do you see any clues there to see that these Pharisees were actually setting up Jesus? Um Dr. Pipe is viewing this as a elaborate plan that is being revealed by these gent by these gentlemen. So Chase? Okay. Question comes before he heals the person, so that's a sign that this is a setup. Anything else? Well it says outright they were trying to think about. So there's this question here that lets you know why they're asking the question. It's it's literal you could literally say Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? And then you could ask, well, why did they ask him that? And then you answer that they might accuse him. Right. And then we already know that when we get down to the end of this passage that uh and that is uh found in verse number 14 then the Pharisees went out and plotted against him how they might destroy him Right, so you definitely see that progression here that they're trying to set up traps for him. But Jesus does not Oh Jesus knows that they're setting a trap and um he engages with them anyway. He engages with them anyway, which is Which is uh really astounding. He does different things at different times. Um so continuing then Dr. Piper raises the question on page 84 in the second full paragraph. He says, why does the Savior who is gentle and meek, who avoids confrontation, rise to their bait? This question is all the more pertinent when we realize that the majority of the Sabbath confrontations, Jesus took the initiative initiative by deliberately healing on the Sabbath. Why does he seek to provoke his enemies on the issue? Obviously, the correct observance and use of the Sabbath is so important to him that he aggressively seeks occasions to free the day from the laws of men by scraping away centuries of grime. Now the second question I have for you therefore is why is he using the analogy of grime? Scraping away grime. Can someone help us understand that? How are we supposed to understand that language in this chapter? Uh Jeff, you had your hand up first. Okay. There's something valuable underneath. Yes, if you saw? Okay, very good. So yeah, right. So then if you remember in the beginning of this chapter, the analogy is of a Yeah, what is a pie safe? It's a wooden cabinet. That's okay. Alright. You have a picture in your mind? Okay. So it's a wooden cabinet and if you remember in the beginning of the chapter he said that he and his wife, uh Sissy, she they yeah, they had uh they had That's just it was her her name. She's with the Lord now. The the um said that there were different layers. There was a green layer, a pink layer, and some other kind of layer And that they had to stand through all that. And he uses that as an example of Jesus uh having to scrape away all of the things that have accumulated on the fourth commandment over the over the years. And so he uh surmises that here Jesus takes the bait in order to be able to straighten those things uh in order to straighten those things out. He continues and he says that Jesus provokes the confrontation with a threefold challenge stated in a series of questions. And this threefold challenge is not going to come by way of just the book of Matthew. So what I'd like to lead us into now is to look at the other passage Which is in Mark chapter three. So if you wouldn't mind turning there as we consider this. And Mark chapter three. And verse 4, but I'll start at the top of Mark 3. And he entered the synagogue again, and a man who was there had a withered hand, so they watched him closely. whether he would heal him on the Sabbath so that they might accuse him. There's a little bit more information. And he said to the man who had the withered hand, Step forward. Then he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save life or to kill? Man, are they caught at that point I would never want to get in an argument with Jesus. Could you just remind me of that? If I'm feeling argument or disagreeable with God, could you just smack me? Man, I tell you, I just keep my mouth shut Yeah, so is it or to or to kill, uh but they kept silent. And when he had looked around at them with anger, being grieved by the hardness of their hearts He said to the man, Stretch out your hand, and he stretched it out, and his hand was restored as whole as the other. Then the Pharisees went out and immediately plotted with the Herodians against him how they might destroy him. Now, why do you think that that's significant for it to be recorded that Jesus was grieved? What do you think was so grievous here? When he looked out, what do you think he saw based upon their silence? Pride. Yes. Okay, pride, yeah. Definitely pride, right? Yeah. Yes, Natalie? Yeah. Okay, that's good. They were unrepentant, their hearts were hardened, they knew that they were caught, but wouldn't they had the and therefore had the opportunity to turn But in their pride, like Carol mentioned, they r just kept on the same path. Gary? Yeah, I think the other tragedy is he sees what what this man needed and and grieved that they would not think Yeah, ex yeah, very good. Yeah, that's great. Now, do you all remember go just launching off of what Gary has said here, do you remember the ethical principle that Dr. Pipa lays down in the book? Specifically when you see a need, there's an ethical principle. Dwayne? After hearing Gary said that just remind me of another situation Where Jesus was coming to preach, this guy's friends had such faith that they took him up to the roof so that they could lower him down so that he would be healed. And instead, in this case, they were using the man with a withered hand as bait. Instead of having a true faith, bringing him so that he would be healed. Yeah. So that's where his disappointment, grief, and sorry would come of they don't care at all about this man. They're just trying to Yeah. Yeah. Hmm. It's a good reminder, I think, for all of us to see the lengths that we'll go to as human beings to avoid um listening to God and his conclusions. If our hearts are really set on something Boy, can we harden against any alternative that he suggests through our family, our husbands or our wives or our friends And how foolish is that? Really keeps leading you into the wrong places. It's really important for us to keep soft and humble hearts to what God is saying Whatever he says to you, even if it's a really difficult thing, he always says it to us because it's for our good. And that's not how we see it in the moment, though, is it That can be really difficult. So I just want to remember that today to try to keep my heart humbled and soft. I can become so stirred up in anxiety and worry and can really mess with me and being able to listen to God. So it's a good application right off the bat. Was somebody going to say something else? I I did want to visit the ethical principle that is brought out in this If you look on page number 85, this is the first question that's asked. Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? That's the first question we're considering in terms of how should we be spending the day. And Dr. Pipa points out that this reveals to us a larger ethical principle on page number 85. He says that the answer to his question was obvious. they would have to say it is lawful to do good and to save a life. The answer is necessary because failure to do good is to do harm, and the failure to save a life when in one's power is to destroy. This conclusion is based on a proper understanding of how to interpret biblical law Namely, the opposite of what is commanded is forbidden, and the opposite of what is forbidden is commanded. So let me reset that. I'm going to just say it again. But before I do, I'll just let you know that that exact language right there is in the Westminster Confession of Faith shorter and larger catechism. And it is a regular ethical principle that was unfolded in rightly interpreting the law of God. And I've preached it from the pulpit also. It says again that The opposite of what is commanded is forbidden. And the opposite of what is forbidden is commanded. Now, that sounds like a kind of riddle you would get on a quest in order to be able to find a pot of gold at the end of the story or something. So why don't we try to work out just that ethical principle by way of some examples? Could someone give an example and help us to understand the opposite of what is commanded is forbidden The opposite of what is commanded is forbidden. I'm not getting any takers on this one. All right, Marilyn, go for it. Enlighten us. Give us a practical example of what is com of uh the opposite of what is commanded is forbidden. Honor your father and mother. Okay, so positive. The command is honor your father and your mother. And then there's in the proverbs, well, in the summer. Okay, so then the opposite of honoring your father and your mother is dishonoring your father and your mother, and that's forbidden. So it's really, it sounds kind of like a riddle, you know, like you'd be able to open some secret gate after figuring it out. But it's pretty simple. You have another one? You have another example? You have a question But I I don't disagree with what Maryland said at all. Okay, good father and mother. She's happy. Oh good. Um and then she pointed out in the scripture where the where the opposite of what was commanded was stated as forbidden. My question is is does it have to does it? If we didn't have you shall not curse your father, that would still do the it would still do we don't have to have the Oh, does it need to be stated explicitly? Correct. I don't think so. That's a good question though. It's a good question, but the thing that messes me up with that question is that it's counterfactual because we do have it stated So I'll never know. I'm sure there are other things in scriptures that are commanded. Yeah. And the prohibition of its opposite is not Explicitly stated. Uh huh. That's yeah, I'm not saying that material. I would say that it's probably like forbidding a portion. Uh-huh. Because the opposite of not killing is preserving life. Right. So right, right. But that's the other that's the other side of those technical. Okay. Before we comp I don't want to make it more complicated because we just solved the riddle. To answer your question, I don't think it needs to be explicitly stated. I think you can also arrive at what God's will is by good and necessary consequence Yeah. So I think this is a good and necessary consequence. Yes. I want to do another example though, because I want us to then I'm gonna keep yeah, I was only gonna solidify that example because right in The commandment it says, honor your father and mother. Next part says, and it will be you'll uh you well be well you you'll live long and serve. So the opposite of that is don't honor them and you won't live long and Yeah, which we also see. You know, a blessing, which it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out the opposite of that blessing. Yeah, so everybody sees that with the example, right? It seems kind of like commonsensical once you start to look at it. are the Sabbath and non your father. Yeah. So then let's go to the so then let's go to the other principle. So the first one is that the opposite of what is commanded is forbidden Alrighty, so if we were to use even just outside of a command that we would see within the summary of the commands, if your mother says, oh let's let's use a realistic example. If your wife says Those cookies are not for you. Do not eat them. Since last week. No, that would be a that's a negative. Is there a p positive Oh, uh bless me by not eating the cookies. And bless those whom I will be bringing the cookies to The opposite of that is I may I've I'm forbidden to eat the cookies. Am I getting complicated? I don't know. Okay Well we had a good we had a good one with do not or uh with honor your mother and your father. So then the second one is we have the opposite of what is commanded is forbidden, and the opposite of what is forbidden is commanded. Okay, so then why don't we take one from the summary of the moral law and what is an example of the opposite of what is forbidden is commanded? Okay, thou shalt not kill, so then what's the opposite? That is commanded? You shall protect life. You shall bring life, yeah. Right, very good. And that all of that is laid out in our larger catechism, both of those. And the way that that is laid out is how. If you remember the larger catechism, what are the different kinds of questions that they ask in order to look at both of those things Does anybody remember? This is a bonus question. What is required and what is forbidden? What is required? Very good. All right. What is required and what is forbidden? So you can always look in there and study those sections just to get a better sense of what is God's will. Alrighty. So then the whole reason why we went through that, I'll give you some of the examples that are here in the book When God forbids adultery, he is requiring faithful, monogamous marriage. Jesus rightly implies that if it is in one's power to do good, one must do it Thus, if one has the opportunity with him one's calling and circumstances to save a life but refuses, one is sinning Since he could heal by the exercise of his will when faced with proper circumstances, it would be wrong for him not to. So his question ends up silencing them Since to do that which is morally required cannot be a violation of God's Sabbath law. No wonder the Bible tells us they were silent and refused to answer him. That's the first question And we learn a lot by just considering that question as to what are the purposes of the day in terms of our mercy. When we look out, you'll notice he was really careful with his language in this book. Dr. Pipa said If your calling and your circumstances, et cetera, permit, then when we see, then we do something about it, right? And that's a very you have to say that very carefully because there is a like infinite amount of need out there. All right. So you have to have some qualifications on that. in order to see the full picture that God is painting. Okay. So then I suppose you could at this point be um you could be raising the question of Is it lawful for you to do good on the Sabbath and what is God what good is God calling for you to do? You could be asking that question, what good is God calling you to do this day and on other Lord's days? It's a good question for us to be asking if we want to be aligned with the purposes. Okay, question number two is also on page 85, and so he says What man shall there be among you who shall have one sheath, and if it falls into a fit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it And lift it out. And that's in verse number 11 of Matthew chapter 12, if you were to go back to that Says, according to their man-made laws, although it was unlawful to heal on the Sabbath, if one's livestock fell into a ditch, one could lower food and water to it. Their laws made provision for getting an animal out of a ditch on the Sabbath, and he is asking, do you do more good to your livestock on the Sabbath than to people? And once again I am reminded to never get into an argument with Jesus. Question number three in 86 comes from Matthew 12, 12. Of how much more value then is a man than a sheep. He says by implication, your laws allow your law allows you to feed or save one dumb animal on the Sabbath. but forbids one who has the divine power to heal a man. On another occasion he phrases the question even more forcibly, after healing the woman who had been bent double for eighteen years, he answered the indignant synagogue official who rebuked the people for seeking healing on the Sabbath. In Luke thirteen, fifteen through sixteen it says, You hypocrites Do not each of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or his donkey from the stall and lead him away to water him? And this woman, a daughter of Abraham as she is, whom Satan has bound for eighteen long years Should she not have been released from this bond on the Sabbath day? And that's uh quite the logic that he uses there. And then we find in Matthew 12, 12 a really interesting Conclusion, so if you go back to Matthew twelve twelve, you'll see here the whole point that we're supposed to be getting is you'll you can see um the conclusion is drawn out in verse number 12 with the word therefore and then you can see the conclusion that's highlighted it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath And then you see the kinds of good that Jesus is talking about, and these kinds of good that he's talking about are all falling under the title of mercy or compassion. And that's the main point here. So let's go ahead now through a couple applications that are that will take us through the rest of the or most of the rest of the chapter And they begin on page number 87. The first application is something now I wonder if you're familiar with or if you had questions about this, but the first application is that The professions and deeds necessary for the protection of life and the promotion of the well-being of our nature, of our neighbor, are not inappropriate on the Sabbath. Can somebody give some examples of what he means there? Professions and deeds necessary for the promotion of life. What are some examples? Yes. I'm sorry. Abigail. Sorry. Doctors and nurses, yeah. Very good. Yep. Is it not lawful to do nursing on the Sabbath? Yeah, to do to do that kind of good, absolutely. We have a a member right now in the hospital with a Severe uh stomach pains who might need emergency surgery and thank the Lord that He's able to go and there's people there at the hospital Darren, were you gonna add something? Okay, she beat you to it. Alright, very good. Yes, Jen. And our um like police officers, military, we need them. They need to be Yeah, exactly. Police officers, uh fire department, yep, uh uh nurses and doctors. Uh pharmacy, yeah, depending on certain situations. Right, all of those y are connected to the different questions that Jesus was asking and saying that it's lawful to do mercy or to do good uh on the Lord's Day and so um that's that helps us to understand if you're in one of those occupations. Now is anybody here in an occupation like that No, because you're working. No, not right now. You're not here because you're working. Yeah. So we ha we do have uh one gentleman who is in the fire department, uh I think just one, right? Micah Fonce. And he sometimes needs to work on the Lord's Day in order to put out fires. Yes? We have children. Like our Alex is in the military, he has to work on Sunday. Yeah. And his fiance is an ER nurse, so she sometimes comes in. Has to work. Okay, yeah, very good. So those are each asked us about this. Oh okay. Yeah, good. Well I'm glad they did. So there are some examples for you Another application that we have is that the principle reminds us that the Sabbath day is a day for doing spiritual good to our neighbors. It mentions he says specifically, therefore, in addition to corporate worship and times of private and family reading and fellowship, It is a day for Christian service, for example, to do good by ministering in nursing homes, visiting those who live alone or cannot get out of their homes. and to do evangelism. Does anybody have any experience in watching others spend their Lord's Day that way, or have you spent your Lord's Day that way? And could you share your experiences? Could you share your experiences or the experiences of others in ha in um fulfilling that purpose of the day Anything or have you heard any stories of anybody doing things like that? Well I'll go with Miss Alt first and then Sarah. Um we have a family friend in a nursing home who's beyond yet And my sister's arranged that Sunday afternoon she has visitors. That's a perfect time. You're very good. And your sister has arranged it for people to be able to visit on the Lord's Day. Yeah, very good. Excellent. I imagine she enjoys the visits and looks forward to Sunday. Yeah, very good. Thanks for sharing that. Okay, so it's something for us to think about, Sarah. Well before Zach and I were marrying, he and uh a couple of his buddies, including one of the alt always would go to Baltimore and pass out food to homeless people and talk to them. Um they would do that especially on the Lord's Day. Yeah. Okay, very good. All right, that's a good example. Excellent. Good example. What's he saying? I need an inter I need an interpreter. Um there was a period of time when a group of us would go Bradley would take a group of us to emergency homes at St. on Sunday. Alright, sing you just bring a music in. Yeah, so singing on Sunday evenings after church. Did you say after Sunday evening? Is that what you said? Yeah? Derek? I don't know if this is the same or if it's in a different category, but on any Sunday I can call my mom and dad. And the first question, without them even saying, I say, hey mom, who's at the house? Because my mom, you know, it's two or three families that she'll have over on Sundays. Oh maybe that's a different category, I'm sure we talk about that, but always just has people at her house to to feed them and to fellowship on Sunday's for lunch, so that's what she does. Yeah, I uh when I first became a Christian that was uh one of the things that helped me to grow was that there was a family who had people over for lunch afterward. And so the discussion about the sermon or other things would continue, and I was also able to develop relationships with Christians for the first time. Uh all of my old friends were still sleeping at that hour on Sunday because they had drank so much on Saturday. So it was neat to g to become involved with a new community and that happened on the Lord's Day, not only in the service But um having lunch afterward. So that's a great use of the day. It's just what we're talking about. That was a kind of evangelism and discipleship. Any other Yes, Holly. The same thing. I would say my parents, especially growing up, having a Sunday lunch where they would bring home whatever the shipment were at church whatever missionaries were there so that they could encourage them and hear the work they were doing and in terms of mission provide a family environment and a home to feel. um at the church and then um and really anyone who was new or didn't have a plate they always would include them Um and then the same thing growing up, going to the North Angola, they used to visit my grandfather but also other people there and doing with other members of it for singing hands and you're hearing different testimony as to how what the day looks like when it's well spent Um and actually it was her parents that had me over for lunch. So you can see their ministry affected me personally. But I remember them having missionaries over and that gave me the opportunity to meet missionaries too. So Alright, very good. Well those are those are good experiences. And so you'll want to ask the question, what is the good that God is calling y for you to do on this day and perhaps some of you could uh think about offering lunch to people, uh people that are just showing up in the congregation or um well you heard the ideas so we could Yeah. My my wife is such a gracious host. and um some of our uh sphere of influence uh comes from life research and a lot of that community goes out for lunch uh to buy lunch somewhere So uh our house is always open for some of Amelia's friends and different friends to come and um we really try to encourage them not um going out and commercing on the Lord's Day and then we've also converted that encouragement into a come to evening service with us also. So it's just a way to help others see that you know. But worshiping the Lord on his day is great for us to do. Yeah, that's great. Very good. Thanks for the example, Dwayne very good. And thanks for your thanks for being the hostess with the most All right, the third application uh teaches us that we may do things necessary for the preservation of society at large. And I wonder if some of you were surprised by that principle because he says that in some cases, uh because the health of the society and the good of society depends upon certain things. It is lawful for factories, for example, to remain open. You could think of an electrical company. for example. And he gave some other examples that were in law aligned with that. Now what was the biblical case that he used to develop this argument? Does anybody remember He used a spiff specific uh biblical example to derive this ethical principle that if you're helping society at large Then they can continue to do good on the Sabbath rather than having people suffer. Anybody remember? That was from Second Chronicles. It was the flea yes. He mentioned that Solomon and Jehoshaphat had fleets of ships and a ship at Sea Yeah, very good. Yeah, thank you. So a a ship at sea can't lie idle. What does he mean by that? Can anybody give us a picture of what's going on with a ship and why people will need to continue to do that kind of work. This is a ship at sea. This isn't a ship in harbor. Anyone? If you're at rest at sea, your your ship will be tossed to and fro. It's not it's not going to be directed anyway. You'd lose a whole day of sailing in a direct path where you need to So you need to be vigilant because you're operating a vessel. Yeah, very good. You are operating a vessel and for everyone's good you'll need to stay on top of that with the basic maintenance. He mentioned specifically here is um there are a number of necessary duties had to be done even on the Sabbath for the well-being of the crew. Sails had to be trimmed, the course charted, general maintenance carried out, and the physical needs of the crew met. All of those things. So the reason why I'm going over each one of these things is because they give you examples for you to be able to make decisions yourself on how is it that I can best fulfill the purposes of this day. And how do I do that in a modern society that has factories and things that go on twenty-four-seven every single day? Well some of them shouldn't go on, but others they do go on because they're for the well being of society. That's another principle that we're deriving here in terms of it's right for us, it's good it's lawful to do good on the Sabbath. I should probably put that principle up here because it's the main one that's getting us to know what we can be doing for Mercy. It is lawful to do good On the Sabbath. Okay. And it's lawful for us to do good on the Sabbath. Yes, Jen. Also falling in the category of like a pastor or the people that run like the church building needs to be opened, it needs to be functioning. There's you know things that need to be taken care of. for worship as well. Yeah, and there's some um Jesus I think mentioned that close to this passage in terms of the priests working on the Sabbath And um yeah, that that would be a good fit in order for the well being of the people to be able to worship There are you have deacons who are turning on lights and opening up the building and making sure the HVAC works and when it doesn't work, they're crawling around upstairs and all and all that kind of stuff. Carol? So I've been wondering about technology and how that plays in to working on the Sabbath because I think uh Pipa's book was written twenty fifteen or thereabouts before the you know the I've been a smartphone and now we sort of that's the whole focus. Um, you know, but How do we deal with technology on this happening? My son, he's like twenty four seven has to respond to things because you can be act you can be um receiving. Um things um twenty four seven. So it it creates a a problem because technology tells us we can live without limitations. Yeah, right. So I'm wondering how do we think about that ourselves and what do we do with our cell phones Yeah, well I'll say one thing and then I'll just open up the floor for just a moment. And then I want to go to the last part of the this uh so of of the teaching. But one principle he's giving us is he's saying that there if it's lawful to do if Uh under the principle if it's lawful to do good on the Sabbath, then we can bring uh well-being to society, and there's some things that we have as a technology that are doing so And there are people that have to operate that technology. And so there can be judgment calls where that is lawful. But I imagine there are a bunch of other things that are interesting questions in terms of how are we supposed what are our ethical decisions with regard to technology. Does anybody have any feedback for Carol's question? Uh-huh. Yes? So principles they use maybe. in a more difficult position. But as a business owner, I try to make it clear to my clients to never call or text me. And if they can avoid it, don't email me. on Sunday that I'm available every other day of the week. But if it is an emergency, please don't hesitate to let me Okay. So although they have the technology at hand like email and text and they can get a hold of you twenty-four-seven. and on the Sabbath and I just have to be try to be disciplined and just don't look at it. Uh-huh. Um it comes down to self-discipline. But for her son, her son could work for a company that doesn't receive that well. That if he said, Hey, I am not looking at my email, don't send me emails, don't send me work one Sunday I'm not some companies um don't care. So it really it has to do with personal conviction. Yeah, that's a that's a it's Sabbath observance is tough because you know what one person does, uh they can't tell another person they should be doing it that way. So Okay, the the case by case basis on these things. Yeah. Okay. I thought I saw Abigail's hand go up first and then Elaine. Go ahead. Um so yeah, I've been doing a lot of reading about how much like social media and technology have really just eroded, you know, our attention spans and relationships with each other. And Sunday to the day that I try to touch my phone as little as possible. I have a do not disturb rule on my phone that lasts for the entire day and the only thing that gets through are phone calls and texts from family members and that's it. Okay. So I don't get any notifications or anything else. So that makes my phone really boring. So and I try to keep it like closed up and put somewhere so it's not in my pocket. It's not within reach Um and so that helps me a little bit, but it is really hard because you've got the roll at your fingertips in your hand, you know. Um but I continually trying to find like new tips and try Of trying to like limit cell phone use because it truly is quite damaging in the long run. But using your do not disturb and other kind of like app timers or like my brother and sister in law they've been using the bricks survivors. You know, and they rave about it, they love it, you know, and so that's nice with like you you have to physically go to the brick to unlock it. Yeah. Why don't you say just a little bit about the brick because that's actually I'm hearing more and more people find that a good solution Yeah, so they set up like different rules where it's like so if you you have physically tapped your phone to this brick and you leave it somewhere in your home. So like theirs is on their fridge and there's So there's a little device on their fridge. Yeah, it's like yay big, it's like really small. And then like if they tap their phone to the bridge, that automatically locks up certain So like Instagram, Facebook, or email, whatever. They can choose whatever those settings are. And if you want to unlock those apps, you have to physically go to the brick and tap your phone to it. So it's really good if they're leaving the house and spend time with family. Because like we had brunch yesterday and they were like, oh I can't access this app. I need help to do this thing. So it it was funny because they had to get creative. Their print was in their home and they were out in and about, but it kept them off their phone because all the social media apps were locked up and everything and so that help them be more present in the moments. So they were raving about it, something like, maybe I need to get one of these. Yeah, so there's some management that we can be doing in order to control that's a this is a different scenario than um like if you're an employee of Google, that sounds like a different e ethical situation But then th there are other ethical situations in JET in that if you have your phone set up a certain way, it literally can have your attention all the time. So Abigail is has different ways of managing that and is uh bringing to light the brick and she does not work for them. This is not a paid promotion. Not sponsored yet. Alright, very good. Well thanks for giving some feedback on that. And that's uh I see this topic all the time with regard to the Lord's Day. And it's important to think right about it. So um hope you all keep thinking about that Okay. It's only $59. Okay. There you go. One thing I wanted to mention was at the end of Page or in the center paragraph on page number 91, this is a good summary and encouragement to us. He says I urge each one of you, whatever your view of the Sabbath, which I really appreciated him putting it that way. I urge each one of you, whatever your view of the Sabbath to examine your use of the day with these two sets of questions. First, does this thing you are doing promote the purposes of the day? Does it promote the cause of the gospel in your life and the lives of others? Does it promote the worship of God? If, before God, you can honestly answer yes to that question, then do it to God's glory. If you cannot, then you ought to turn away from it. After all, is not your desire to do those things that promote the cause of Christ and advance his kingdom both in your life and in the world? Second, is good being done to my neighbor, physically and more importantly, spiritually? What spiritual benefit is there for the waitress in the restaurant who has to work because churchgoers are eating there on Sunday? Does your act promote her salvation? Does your act free her to be able to worship? Is she able to enjoy the purposes of the day? The issue is not that uh she would be doing it whether or not you were there. The issue for you is whether you are doing those things that promote or hinder her spiritual well-being. Apply that question to every decision you make, to every choice you contemplate, to everything that you do. Because this is what we all should desire as Christians. Well, that was a good ending there, and good questions for us to consider. That's two main questions Does this align with the purposes of the day and does this bring good to my neighbor? Okay, so we have one minute left. Is there any maybe one or two questions with regard to this chapter? And then we have a two-week break I would like to continue on the the question of uh development of technology. I think there is opportunity for us to be more rigorous in how we think about developing technology. For instance Certain minds are running into them all the time. So if you go below a certain depth of in mining that or body, the mind will flow And it's not economical to mine or it's impossible to mine. Ah, okay gotcha. Okay, gotcha. But you get the position that we will not mind PDC license if someone do work on Sunday, saying that limits the depth to your mind. Huh. And the same goes for the power generation. The reason many of these power stations are running as speakers that they are so large that the the steel takes so long to put down and uh eat up again the the the calculation won't won't have you can do it you can switch it off on Sunday. So that's why they have two to until sufficiently uh cheap electricity. But if we decide that we will not run them on Sunday They will not be operators there on Sunday. Then we have to switch them off on a Saturday and that is limit their size. It's a great company cost. So many of these questions become obscured once we are used to it. But at the time when it was developed, that is where those questions were not um both two days. So it it yeah, he it comes to the point of uh what is really the principle that we apply When developing development. Ah, okay. And am I also picking up in the way that you're that's fa that was fascinating. And I wonder I'll have to talk to you about how did you end up finding out about mines That was pretty wild. But the uh as part of the point that you're making is that if we were to start considering the Sabbath and the development of our technology, that we would stay within the bounds that God intends for humanity instead of going too deep or too large or that um that we tend to be unmeasured in our developments and that considering this Sabbath would help us to stay more measured. with how big we build things or how deep we dig things. Is that part of what you're saying? And that we would be healthier as a society as opposed to a kind of greediness with mining. or a kind of greediness with the development of large power plants. Okay. Interesting. But if that principle is not a part of our thinking as human beings, then we will go beyond what we were created to go for. I'm just wondering. I'm just wondering. It sounded like that was one of the implications you were drawing. Well is that the same how long useful is that a good thing, but Yeah, okay. Yeah, very good. Alright, well thanks for bringing up those examples. That's good for technology. All right, well thanks ever thank you everyone. Let's go ahead and we'll close our time in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you have given us your word, and we pray that you would help us by your Spirit to understand your word and to apply it. We thank you, Lord, that you've revealed your will to us summarily in the Ten Commandments and in loving you and loving our neighbor. And we pray, Lord, that you'd help us especially to understand and to apply the fourth command We pray, Lord, that you would help us to see the needs that are around us, especially on your day, and that we would be merciful and compassionate Pray, Lord, that you would help those whose consciences might be burdened, who are nurses or doctors or firemen, that you would help this teaching to spread so that they can realize that they're doing what is lawful on the Sabbath, namely doing good. Lord, please help us to keep the questions in mind as to whether or not we're staying in line with the purposes of the day and whether or not we're helping our neighbor. I ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.