You'll see why that's so. So it's so um today we're looking at Acts chapter two, or Acts chapter four, I'm sorry. I'm right, not the bulletin. Don't get confused. It's uh verses 23 through 31. And I will give you This is Acts four, twenty three And being let go, they went to their own companions and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said to them. So when they heard that, they raised their voice to God with one accord and said, Lord, you are God, who made heaven and earth and a sea and all that is in them, who by the mouth of your servant David have said, Why did the nations rage and the people plot vain things? The kings of the earth took their stand, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. For truly against your Your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together to do whatever your hand and your purpose Now, Lord, look on their threats, and grant to your servants that with all boldness they may speak your word, by stretching out your hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may be done through the name of the thing. And when they had prayed, the place where they were assembled together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we ask that just as this first community was filled with the Holy Spirit, that you would fill us with His illuminating presence. presence, that we would see your word, that we would see Christ, that we would see the Father, that we would see the Spirit, and that we glorify you. In Christ's name, Amen. Please be seated. Yeah. If we look throughout Proverbs, having a family or you can liken friendship also to this Is is uh likened to arrows in a quiver. And you can see at the prime of your life or the prime of your friendship, it would be like pulling the bow back in full strength. with arrows in it, one after the other, able to accomplish things. Now this could be uh applied in many different ways, but I was witness to this. Uh many times at my dinner table. I remember having to do everything with Holly. We would make dinner, we would set the table. We would clean up dinner, we'd unset the table and uh and and and everything else that surrounds all of those things, but now the children set the table and And then when we're done, Nora takes the salad dressing to the refrigerator, and Jack will sleep sweep underneath the dining room table, and Ellie will wipe down the tabletop uh before Jack sweeps. And and I maybe that's trivial to you, but it feels so good to have those arrows in a in a quiver in order to be able to accomplish things You know, we've really been in this series looking at arrows added to our quiver for the sake of not cleaning a table, but for the sake of witness. In chapter one, we were seeing that the Son ascends on high and sits at the right hand of the Father, that Jesus Christ is in our And then we saw in chapter two that if that that one person of the Trinity was not enough, but that He also sends His Holy Spirit to us, a second heir. And now here, whether you caught it or not, in chapter four, we see a third arrow in the quiver, and that is prayer to our So here you have three ultimate arrows in the quiver for the sake of being able to witness to the nations. And so we have this excellent truth before us today that in the midst of Opposition, the sovereign Lord who we can pray to, he empowers his people for witness through prayer. This is that third arrow, and it's in the context of opposition. In the midst of opposition, the sovereign Lord empowers his people for witness through prayer. I'm going to unpack that. This is very important. You can see each of these sermons as a kind of foundation stone so far. far. We have the Son, we have the Holy Spirit, and now we have the Father. And so we're gonna we're laying this Trinitarian foundation for evangelism or for witness or t or being able to testify to Jesus Christ to all the earth. I'm breaking this down into the report, the prayer, and the power just for you to be able to hold on to all this information that's getting ready. The report, the prayer, and the power. In the midst of opposition, the sovereign Lord empowers his people for witness through prayer. So the very first thing we see is this report, which is going to shoot us right back up, even all the way over into chapter three. Take a look at 20 in verse 23 of chapter 4 very quickly. You can follow along with me. And being let go, they went to their own companions and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said. So we're picking up in the middle of a story. And so that I'm not reading several pages of the scriptures to you and making you weary. I uh am choosing to instead go back and tell you what this report was would have consisted of at least in part. The whole thing began, what they're talking about, they're gonna report something that began back in chapter three. If you want to flip back there, you can. There's gonna be a heading That says lame man healed. Peter and John decide to go and to start their ministry, and right before they walk into the temple, there is a lame man there. And uh he he is placed there, he's been lame since birth, and he's placed there by his family in order to collect alms uh since he cannot work. Work. With Peter and John going into the temple, they draw attention to the man. They ask the man to draw attention to him. He thinks they're going to give him some money. And Peter says instead, I don't have any money to give to you, but what I do have I give to you in the name or by the authority, since I'm his follower, by the authority of Jesus Christ, stand. Now can you imagine seeing someone lame from birth All of a sudden getting up and not just standing like he just had leg braces taken off or something like that, but it says that he leapt into the temple, grabbing on tightly to Putin's okay. Peter and John following them into their teaching moment. Well, you can imagine with this kind of predicament or this this Circumstance that crowds would form. I mean, wouldn't you go and see? Crowds would form, and they did, and so Peter took this as the opportunity to immediately launch into what we had just heard In the Passion Week. We had heard about Jesus being anointed at Bethany. We heard about his triumphal entry. We heard about him going through that Roman trial and being crucified and being raised again. And speaking to the eleven apostles, and then the twelfth, uh, who is um why did that just fall out of my head? Thomas, thank you. Thomas. Yes, sorry about that. Uh Thomas. He tells them all of these things and he says, We it's this isn't just some story or myth that we heard. He'll say this later in his letter. also Peter. He's not some myth or story that we heard. We were eyewitnesses to the fact that Jesus resurrected. He not only resurrected, we didn't just hear that. He spent forty days with us. He spoke to us in this room, and he told us all about himself coming from the prophets. He even cooked us fish next to the sea. Excellent story, Jesus cooking breakfast for his disciples. familiar with and they are gripped by the message. The Holy Spirit descends upon them. And it says later that 5,000 were converted at that moment. Now if we had five thousand, imagine we wouldn't even have enough communion trays today in order to be able to do that. We'd have to the the deacons would be super extra busy. It would be an amazing occurrence. And you think it would be amazing, but what you end up finding in the story, instead of people being excited about the 5,000 conversions, there's dread that overcomes the chief scribes and the Pharisees. And they begin to move into a kind of opposition against the apostles, Peter and John. They were disturbed, it says in the The text. This is exactly what it says. They were disturbed because Peter and John taught the resurrection from the dead. Here we have a group of men that don't believe in the resurrection from the dead. They have another theology. Jesus had debated this point with them several times. Drawing inferences from the God who is the God of the living and not the God of the dead. And so being disturbed at this teaching, they decide to threaten them. They bring them before the entire Sanhedrin. And they are threatened or warned, do not teach in the name of Jesus Christ any longer. They could not do anything publicly because the people were so thrilled at this miracle. The man was at least It was upward of forty years old who had uh risen up and is now leaping, and so they couldn't do anything publicly. Now I want you to notice from the story before we get back to This is the report that he's telling. But notice that encapsulated within the story that you see Peter and John, it ends up being a summary of what we've seen so far in the Acts series. Witnesses primary. Do you see that witness is primary? It's almost as if Peter pushes the lame man aside and doesn't draw any attention to it, to him, except for the sake of being able to It's natural laws being suspended. That is only a partial definition. It is natural laws being suspended for the sake of the word being preached. It is always an attestation or an authentication that the person who is speaking has the authority from God and that you better listen up. It's like your mom calling you not just by your first name but by your first your middle and your last name Jack David Crutchley He's getting your attention. There's an authority present. That's exactly what is going on here. There's a hierarchy of witness, and witness is at the top. So even if you could do miracles, which you can't But even if you could, it would be for the sake of you being able to preach the word, to share scripture with another person, which you can do. Which you can do. And notice also that it's a sign Summary of what we've been saying, and that he is preaching about Jesus. And it's nothing complicated. It is his person, it is his work, it is his words. Jesus Said, I am the resurrection and the life. Jesus did the work of resurrection to be justified as a representative for us and to be accepted in the Father's presence so that we could be accepted in the Father's presence. presence and so that he would reign on high and subdue all his and our enemies. And it also has to do with his person, that he is of such infinite value as the second person And as the great Messiah that must suffer for his people. All of that is in this testimony that Peter is giving. Exactly what we are to be doing is that there's an example set here For what it means to witness. And notice that opposition comes immediately in at this very specific task that we have in witnessing to the person, the words, and the work of Jesus. I don't know what you think persecution is. I don't know what what uh how you have imagined it. People pulling out your fingernails. Or banging your feet with clubs, or whatever it is, but it will always be in the form of them contradicting you in terms of the person, the word, and the works of Jesus Christ. Christ. That's where the persecution comes in. You are pro you are professing who he is, and so they physically intimidate you, even sometimes To the point of death. Every time we see in the first, the second, the third, in the fourth century someone professing the name of Jesus Christ, they say, Give up the profession, or we will kill you. They don't give up the profession, and so they die. That is where the true persecution lies, is that Satan and his forces want the person, the words, and works of Jesus Christ to be silenced. No glory given to the Messiah. It happens across the board. It's exactly, and it contextualizes us in America. They want you to be silent. They consider you to be implausible. It is what our uh culture dire it's how our culture ends up directing us. I had an experience uh the other day where I had been working for some time with with someone Trying to tell them about Jesus Christ all the time. And they uh for years have been antagonistic to the point of violence with me. And that went away. Isn't that glorious? Isn't it glorious? That it went away, but here's what replaced it: a redefinition of the person of Jesus. I don't need to be angry about Jesus anymore because he's just an inspiring moral teacher. You see what's being you can see what's being done there. I don't mean it's inspiring as in like inspired from God. I mean inspiring as in like when I went to New York City and saw a Broadway play, I cried, I know. I I cried. You weren't supposed to cry at this play. It was about like making money. I don't but the acting was so good. The human production so moved me. The singing and the dancing, I was inspired. That's what they mean. That's what they mean when they say that. So just take note that we're on the right track. We're moving through this series. We can see see what witness is. We know that we have to preach Jesus. That's how it that's what it boils down to, preaching Jesus, his person, his words, and his work, and expect opposition. This world will bring you much trouble, but I have overcome. So this is the report that he ends up giving them. You can see in 23. He comes back to the companions, he gives them this report of Everything that just happened to them, the threat that was now against the community, and what do they decide to do? They decide to hire someone for public relations so that they are so that they are more accepted within society. No, they don't. They turn to what you may consider to be the most ineffective and implausible means for their victory. They turn to the prayer. Which brings us to our next point. They turn to prayer. When tossed on the waves of life's storms, we anchor ourselves in prayer. Specifically, prayer for the promises of God. I want you to notice something here throughout these verses. So when they heard that They raised their voice to God with one accord and said. Now we're we're gonna I'll step you through each of the things that they said very quickly. But the thing I want you to To see here that they're doing when they pray their prayers, they're praying promises. Has anybody here ever prayed the promises of God? Anyone ever had that practice? That's what they're doing here. They're pr each one of these prayers is uh is the promises of God. So when they are tossed on the waves of life's storm, they not only anchor themselves in prayer, they anchor themselves For instance, take the very first phrase that they mention, Lord, despite Lord, ruler, you are God. Lord, you are God, who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them. This is said so many different times throughout the scripture. Scriptures. In fact, this word God here, does everybody know what the Septuagint is? Anybody give me some nods? There's a Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible. And so since the New Testament is all Also written in Greek, we can see how they use their words and what Hebrew words they would correspond to. In other words, do you know what the word here corresponds to in the Hebrew Bible? Elohim. And that word is used over a dozen times within the first couple chapters of Genesis to talk about who? To talk about the God who makes heaven. And that's exactly what you see them spelling out here, who made heaven and made earth and the sea and all that is in them, and what this this phrase comes out of people's mouths throughout the scriptures as they As them stirring up and rehearsing a promise that comes with him being the creator and them his creation, that he would always provide for them Jesus says that even those who are not a part of his community, he gives love to by sending rain and allowing their crops to grow and allow their hearts to be merry through wine. Here they're calling upon the creator of sovereign who has sovereign control, and they are saying, You promised that you would take care of your creation, and so we lean upon you to take care of us. We are trying to be fruitful and to fill the earth with godly people through the preaching of Jesus Christ, just as you told us in the Great Commission. And so we ask that you would give us every food that we need, that you'd give us our daily bread. And then they continue with Psalm 2. Why did the nations rage and the people plot vain things? And we just sang this, so I won't read the rest Of it to you. Kings and rulers, notice, are equated in verse 27 to Herod and Pontius Pilate. And Gentiles and people of Israel. So in other words, they're seeing in Psalm 2 A fulfillment, Jesus fulfills Psalm 2, and the fact that the Sanhedrin has just pulled John and Peter aside and are arguing against them. And they formerly had crucified Christ, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, that this is the fulfillment that all nations would rage against God's anointed one. And so, in that same psalm, it was promised that God would from heaven laugh and despise those who rail against the sun. And so they claim another promise. You promise to laugh at our enemies in victory, and we ask that you would look on their threats and that you would laugh now. We ask that you would give us power in order to be able to move forward and preach the word. And there was another prophecy in Joel 2 that they allude to. Give us prophecy, give us signs, give us wonders, showing that the day of the Lord has arrived. It's another prayer of promise or leaning on the promises. Do you pray the promises? Our prayer life can be so weak. And so feeble and so unstable simply because we do not pray the promises. We can shoot up all kinds of prayers to heaven and we have no idea if God would ever answer those or not. We could even ask him for things that would directly contradict his holy will. And why in the world would he ever do? Why would he become the servant of your selfish desires? In fact, the James says in James chapter 4 So it's no wonder that they have become so weak. When we often But here we see them, and it's instructive for us. Here's the first church. And it instructs us as a church that our prayers should be based on the promises of God. God. This is not new. Jacob prayed. Deliver me, I pray, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau. Jacob and Esau. Remember this? For I fear him, lest he come and attack me and the and and the mother with the children. For you said, I will surely treat you well and make your descendants as the sand of the sea. Which cannot be numbered for multitude. He leans upon the promises. He says, God, you said this, and therefore I will pray this, because it's consistent with that. Are you praying the promises? Or consider 1 Thessalonians 5 23. It says that he what he has begun he will finish. That he is the God who will sanctify you and he will complete it In the end. Do you pray that prayer when you're struggling with sin? But remember, it must be according to the limits of Scripture. This is another place that we can pray become discouraged. When we're praying the promises, that 1 Thessalonian promise says he will do it by the end. And so you have to remember those qualifications. And so what is it that you would begin doing? What would you begin praying if if you have this besetting sin that you struggle with for years? You would pray that the Lord would keep you from From that sin turning into something too severe, you'd pray for contentment, you'd pray for comfort, you'd pray for those to surround you and to pray for you. Because you understand the nature of the Promise itself. In fact, if you want, you can divide the promises into two main kinds of promises. There are absolute promises, like I just mentioned to you. And then there are conditional promises. For instance, God does care for you. He cares so much for you. He wants to be your great provider. But when you ask for financial relief, he doesn't So you have a conditional promise here where you can say, if you desire in all of your holy will to allow me to have such But if it doesn't, then please allow me to be content, which is also a promise that we would receive contentment and then we're not sure. Comfort from the Holy Spirit. When all else fails, the ultimate promise that we can rest on, whether it's absolute or conditional, is that God is faithful and that He is good to His people. And that can get you through everything. This tends to be one of the most abstract subjects, and yet when we look at it in the scriptures, praying the promises is supposed to be the most Comforting. It is supposed to be the most tangible. You're supposed to feel the greatest connection to God at this point, and yet we don't. It feels distant from us and And I think it's because we have fallen into thinking about our mediator as some kind of disembodied spirit. I have mentioned this to you before, but Jesus Christ has a Ascended on high. Jesus is by definition in the flesh. It is the second person of the Trinity incarnate. He does not shed his flesh and then just become the second person of the Trinity. He remains Jesus, who is also God. That means that you have someone in heaven that you can relate to. He's like me. He would be like Like me. It would be like talking to me. Now I'm not trying to be blasphemous. I'm just saying that he's human and I'm human. I have a human nature. I'm just not God in person and he is. So you would never pray to me or any saint because prayer is an act of worship. But you can pray to him because he is both human and he is God If just think about it this way. If you were a disciple with Jesus on earth and you asked him a question, that is by definition. Or if you told him something or asked for something, that would be by definition Prayer. If he were physically present standing next to you and you said, Jesus, could you help me with this? And he said, Sure, I'll help you, he just answered your prayer. But now he is in heaven. But don't lose his human nature. Don't become a heretic. Don't lose all the comfort in the way that he can sympathize with you in your way. He wants to relate to you. He wants to become better friends with you. He wants you to pray to him and feel a connection. And you can do that by the promise that See what we end up doing is we end up thinking about promises as some kind of abstract philosophy that I would end up agreeing with and live my life in consistency What we are saying is that when things fall out from underneath our feet When we don't understand what is going on around us, we trust that Jesus Christ, as a person who is both God and man, is faithful and he is good and he always does the purpose. Perfect thing. So if I end up having to wait, or if this ends up having to hurt while I'm praying these promises, there's one promise that never fails. It's his person, it's his work. And it ends up being his word. And it's from those experiences experiences that we can begin to witness. We can rest on the promises in the I would pray that you'd begin praying the promises with your children. Start reading your scriptures to see what all of those promises are. Well, after this report that the apostle gives in verse 20 Of everything that he did and all the threats, they turn to this prayer and they pray these promises. And wouldn't you know it? We immediately see that the power of God. In verse 31. And when they had prayed, the place where they were assembled together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit. And they spoke the word of God with boldness. Here we see the power. He chooses to grant their prayer immediately, and there is an earthquake. It's just like Exodus 19 and Psalm 68, it's a sign of the divine presence. We would say that they're still in the upper room also And so it's like what we first saw in chapter one where that where that r or chapter two where the the room is filled and there's the shaking with the presence of God showing up. And so you see here just You know, receiving the Holy Spirit, you know what they were doing in the upper room with one accord? They were praying. And you know what they were praying for? The promise. They were still praying the promises. They've been praying the promises since chapter one, the first church. I mean, what an example for us. And here we see the promise fulfilled. Not that the Holy Spirit is given again, that was already happened in Pentecost, but he comes alongside of them and now will minister to them Through the Holy Spirit. The Father, they have prayed to the Father, and the Father has answered. The third arrow and the quiver: the Son and the Spirit, and now the Father, telling the Spirit to minister to us through the Son. And they end up being filled with the Holy Spirit. Now, what do you think that means? It's not another Pentecost. It doesn't result in them tumbling and rolling around on the floor like someone just said stop drop and roll because there's a a a kitchen fire. It doesn't result in anything weird at all. Actually, if you take a look at this phrase it says, and they were filled with the whole Now it's interesting because if you go throughout the rest of uh Acts and the Scriptures, those two things are often with each other. Other. They were filled at Pentecost 2. 4, and they began speaking. For eight, then Peter, full of the Spirit, said to them, and he began to What you see here with the filling of the Holy Spirit, more generally considered, is that the The Spirit brings wisdom to a person to perform a particular task. He did that at the first temple, teaching them how to make the articles for the temple. But here you see them being filled with the Holy Spirit so that they can wisdom. Again, confirming this entire sermon series about witness. Here they are filled, they have the Holy Spirit, which is extraordinary. But they're able now to move forward and to bless people with the gospel, even in the midst of opposition and in the midst of threats. Now you look at this passage as a believer Today, and you just wish that every time we had a prayer meeting, there was an earthquake. Although that would really do something to this building We we we would have to meet in the field. Uh but y and you know, i it never happens. I've been in an earthquake before, but it was during a a teacher's meeting for the Make such a difference in our life. And we say that of our children too. If only I could pray and then that and then there would be an earthquake, my children would become Christians, or they would finally be the Christian that I know that they are But you know that's not what we're given. And I'll remind you of the Easter sermon here, that this passage is not calling us to have confidence in the message Of Jesus Christ or confidence in prayer because of earthquakes. It's asking us to have confidence in those people that saw the earthquake. In other words, blessed are those who believe in the apostolic testimony. Why do you need an earthquake? Why can't you just believe the apostles? Are they not good enough for you? Jesus Christ, in all of his kingly glory and administration, has said, I will tell them, and they will tell them. And so he gives them all of these extraordinary signs in order for you to have confidence in the apostle. Testimony. Think of all those that don't accept the apostles. They become the enemies of God. Is that really what you want to be? Just because you want an earthquake in your life? What you have is the apostles, and I'd ask that you'd be content with that Because that's what Jesus Christ has given to you. And here we see, therefore, that the Apostle Luke, in writing this book of Acts, that they prayed, and then God showed up in an earthquake. Here we can witness it through their witness, what confidence we can have within our own prayers and of his presence being with the church. And here's the other thing that we have to see throughout this entire thing that may be the most shocking. The first shocking thing would be that in the midst of opposition they turn to something as paltry as prayer, which we consider powerless based upon our prayer life. But here's the second thing. They never ask to be removed from pain They only ask that they would have boldness to speech, boldness to speak in the midst of pain. Now, how many times could we say that? How could we say that we take the gospel and instead of comfort. Comfort is our great idol in America. And yet we don't see that here. In fact, keep reading in Acts. They are getting ready to go through the most intense persecution. This church has seen. Stephen will be killed soon. He'll be martyred at the hands of Saul. They will be kicked out of the synagogue. They will be thrown out of their homes and dispersed across the nations. And throughout the centuries to come, they will have their heads chopped off and their children will be killed. And they never asked anything different. They only asked that they would continue in boldness of speech. And it did continue. It continues to this day. I know a man I go to seminary with who is from Eritrea. He's just below Egypt. And every morning until he would give up his confession of Jesus Christ, they would bring him out and they would smack his feet with a wooden club. And he never gave up the profession. He only prayed that he would have boldness of speech. And he finally made it to America, and his children and his family were left behind because the river rose too high. And they finally made it to America. And he came before an Orthodox Presbyterian church in order to be able to t to And the men sitting out there doing the ordination exam refused to examine him because of what he had been through for Jesus Christ. Christ. The boldness of speech that had been given to him. Now that's not the glory of the man, that's the glory of the continuation of the power of the Holy Spirit answering this very prayer of this first century church So you have here not just a report from back then, not just prayers and not just power for us to think about in history, but But these are our reports. And they are our prayers, and it is the power that we receive from apostolic testimony. It's the report and it's the prayer and the power that in the midst of opposition The sovereign Lord empowers his people for witness through prayer. I think we only get a little bit of that. If we really allow that to settle into our hearts and be sealed, we'd have so much conviction and so much confidence. Confidence. We should pray for that. We should pray for that and many other things. Now, the first thing I want you to see as I bring this to a close. is the great comfort. I've already mentioned the three arrows in the quibber. We're really in his quiver, but you see, I'm using an image for the sake of this sermon. Think of the comfort that you Where does the world stand against you? Think of those people that are smarter than you, who have all these philosophical answers to everything that you that you just want to talk about this when you want to talk about Christ simply, they just bring all kinds of confusion. Do they stand a chance against you being filled with the Holy Spirit and having their mouths shut? Shut. How do you know? What comfort do you have that you have victory? What more than the entire Trinity? It is the Father here to whom we pray. It is the Son who mediates our prayers. He prays for us. And it is the Holy Spirit. Spirit who was given to us. We have the whole Trinity on our side. What greater comfort could we have in the act of w in the act of witness? And let me just say one other thing too. I think that prayer can be a bit confusing and feel powerless for us when we and I'm hoping that this can bring some light. But let me bring out a modern application. So you not only have comfort from what we're hearing here today in this passage. But let me bring this out. Let me back up just for a second and orient us. When we look at Genesis 1 and 2, what we see, we are all about work. That's why God has put us on the earth. We are meant to be stewards of the garden of our lives. Each one of us has been put into a different garden. You must tend to the things. that end up coming in there. You some of you have some snakes in there right now and we need we need to crush their heads. Others of you have uh thorns and thistles growing. That's promised because the curse hasn't been released. But those are the gardens that have been given to us, and we're to be serving the Lord and those things. We're created for the sake of vocation. I could I I saw the most glorious vision of what God always intended, believe it or not, at Cat North. I went there yesterday and Wyatt was competing uh for uh s the state competition in auto body repair. And Kirky was there doing carpentry and masonry. And then there were also uh young men who were learning to do electrical work and I I just thought this is awesome. This is so cool. This is what we're made for. Look at all these young men and women learning to work with their hands and to do this vocation. I would love to have a Bible study with them and tell them how Pleased Christ is that those who have been purified by the Spirit working for him, that that's what he's after too, and how much sense their work could make. Picture that we have of life in the garden doing all those different things that God has given us to do. And then, you know, we run into problems. And what are you supposed to do? Do then? You receive opposition to the vocation that has been given to you. You pray. Did God promise that He wants you to be working? That he wants you to provide for your family, that he wants you to contribute to society, that he wants you to be a non consumeristic member of the church? Of course he did. Then pray those promises that he would support your invoke that you He would support your vocation, that you'd be able to do the things that you are meant to do. And then when that happens, when you as a business person are presented with the option of Either being lawful or unlawful, and you choose to be lawful, but you almost lose your entire business. Someone will come to you and they will say, What are you thinking? How could you do that It would be like you when you were walking into a temple and you healed somebody and the lame man sprung to his feet. You'd attract the crowd and then he'd have to say something about it. But you're not going to talk about a lame person You're going to talk about the decision that you made that was ethical. And then you have the opportunity to tell them about how Jesus Christ is creating in you good works for the glory of God. And what he had to do in order for you to be able to do this. That just as the Father sent him, so too he sends me. There is no other option for me. And this is an answer to my prayer. My portion is not my business, my portion is my God, and I will serve Him, me and my family. Imagine the witness that would be there It's exactly what we see over and over again in all of our vocations. Whether you're a student, students, that is your vocation. That's your full-time job. That's why parents allow you to work on your homeworking institutions. Instead of constantly getting you to work on something else. Because you are a student. And you should be a good student and you should pray for that vocation. And then when other people notice how you live your life differently, you You would use that as a kind of miracle to testify to Jesus Christ's work within your life. That's what I'm saying. But here's the problem. The problem ends up being that when we have those opportunities to explain the person, the words, and works of Jesus, we forfeit these opportunities. We end up not saying something. I remember doing this just a couple weeks ago. I had just become the pastor and I went to the hospital to be with my father when he was going to have his prostate removed because it was full of cancer. And I remember sitting there and he was getting ready to be wheeled off into the operating room. And you know what I did? Nothing. I didn't even pray for my father because I felt like it might intrude on the domain of the hospital. But do you know what God did? God had another Christian in the room and it was a good idea. was the doctor. And the doctor said, You're a pastor, aren't you? You need to pray for your father. And so I stood and I laid my hands on my father. Father, and I prayed. And you know what I prayed? I prayed that there's no dichotomy here. That God, you have given the doctor all the skills, and I pray that you would work in his vocation to your glory by taking You see how that all comes together right there? That whole the whole sermon in that in that moment. But I still haven't testified. I still haven't testified to the person or the works or the words of Jesus after after the operation. And don't you have moments in your life that are like that? Can you think of anybody right now where you had the opportunity to testify to them and you didn't because you chicken out. Don't you need the church to pray for you for boldness of speech just like they did here in this initial passage? And that's why I've put the prayer time here at the end.