Scriptures together to Judges chapter fifteen. Our portion this morning is Well, the whole chapter. Uh one through twenty. Please follow along as I read. After a while, in the time of wheat harvest, it happened that Samson visited his wife with a young goat, and he said, Let me go into my wife, into her room. But her father would not permit him to go in. Her father said, I really thought that you thoroughly hated her. Therefore I gave her to your companion. Is she not her uh is not her younger sister better than she Please take her instead. And Samson said to them, This time I shall be blameless regarding the Philistines if I harm them. Then Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, and he took torches, turned the foxes tail to tail, and put a torch between each pair of tails. When he had set the torches on fire, he let the foxes go into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burned up both the shocks and the standing grain, as well as the vineyard and olive groves. Then the Philistines said, Who has done this? And they answered, Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he has taken his wife and given her to his companion So the Philistines came up and burned her and her father with fire. Think of the house being lit on fire there. Stanson said to them Since you would do a thing like this, I will surely take revenge on you, and after that I will cease. So he attacked them hip and thigh with a great slaughter. Then he went down and dwelt in the cleft of the rock of Etam. Now the Philistines went up and camped in Judah and deployed themselves against Lehi. And the men of Judah said, Why have you come up against us? And they answered, And so they answered, We have come up to arrest Samson, to do to him as he has done to us. Then the three thousand men of Judah went down to the cleft of the rock Itam. And said to Samson, Do you not know that the Philistines rule over us? What is this you have done to us? And he said to them, As they did to me, so I have done to them But they said to him, We have come down to arrest you, that we may deliver you into the hands of the Philistines. Then Samson said to them, Swear to me that you will not kill me yourselves So they spoke to him, saying, No, but we will tie you securely and deliver you into their hand, but we will surely not kill you. And they bound him with two new ropes and brought him up from the rock When he came to Lehi, the Philistines came shouting against him. Then the Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon him, and the ropes that were on his arms became like flax that is burned with fire, and his bonds broke loose From his hands he found a fresh jawbone of a donkey, reached out his hand and took it, and killed a thousand men with it. Then Samson said, With the jawbone of a donkey, heaps upon heaps, with the jawbone of a donkey, I have slain a thousand men. And so it was, when he had finished speaking, that he threw the jawbone from his hand and called the place Ramah Lehi. Then he became very thirsty, so he cried out to the Lord and said, You have given this great deliverance by my hand of your servant. And now shall I die of thirst and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised? So God split the hollow place that is in Lehi And water came out, and he drank, and his spirit returned, and he revived. Therefore he called its name En Hakor Ray. Hakore. which is in Lehi to this day, and he judged Israel twenty years in the days of the Philistines. Let us pray. Lord, all of your scripture is profitable for correction and rebuke and the health of your bride. I pray, Lord, that she would drink deeply today. And I pray, Lord, that you would all of us not just be hearers of your word, but doers, unto your glory and the good of our neighbor. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated Last week we talked about two hands. On the one hand, the church is filled with the Spirit and stronger than lions. But on the other hand, the church can give up its strength for the world's sweet temptations. Now may God preserve our strength, and may we be instead a sweet aroma speaking of Christ We continue with the Samson episode this morning. And so I have a few observations and then we can really get into it with some applications here. uh as we go along. So please take notice to the things that I bring up. First thing I'd like you to see is in verse 1 Samson returns to his father-in-law's house. Essentially, this is a little unfamiliar to bringing a woman a goat. I do not want to ask if any of you have brought a woman a good. Tell me later. But I think it's essentially about at the level of bringing a box of chocolates And you're asking and you can see Samson is asking for access to his wife. And the father says, if you were following the teaching last week, that's actually quite surprising. Because he went off in a huff, remember? Went back north and just forgot about her. It already had mentioned that she was given away. And so we're pretty surprised that he's upset by this, but Samson, obviously, in verse 3 does not see things that way. And what you're going to witness is that the words of the father-in-law, in the face of Samson, the one who's impulsive, who always must have exactly what he sees at the time that he wants it, he's not going to be able to have what he wants. He's going to have a stop, and you're going to see him have a temper tantrum, and there's going to be a cause and effect relationship running throughout this whole thing. I almost felt out of breath reading it to you, because there were so many verbs and actions going on. And I think that the Spirit means for that to happen. You should be out of breath, and then you get to this rock and it's broken and you can drink Well, that's the this first observation is just noticing that the whole thing gets set off by the father-in-law's words. Second thing I want you to notice is this strange uh response from Samson where he catches, it says 300 foxes. There were actually in that area many jackals. They look just like a fox. So whether it's a fox or a jackal, he joins them by the tail and he places torches in the binding. I want you to picture taking dogs that have tails, and I want you to picture taking wire and wrapping those tails together so they can't get apart, and then you have attached a torch also. And now what would those dogs do? They are not going to be happy, number one, and they're not going to run straight. And that's part of the point here, is that they're going to zigzag in a chaotic fashion, trying to get released from each other. And they're going to do so through this wheat field, and it's going to burn everything up. That was his plan. That's the point. Samson wanted the jackals to wend their way through the fields of wheat, torching the whole harvest And actually, when you look at verse 5, Samson does worse. He torched not just the standing grain, but the gathered grain. So you could look out on a field and you could see all those sheaths tied up together in big bundles. Today we see them in circles in the fields, or hay bales. Well he burns all of those also, and we can even go further that he burns all of their vineyards and all of their olive groves. So what you have to see here is the degree of the crisis that Samson has created By doing all this, he, a military leader from one nation, has just destroyed a year's worth of another nation's agricultural economy. You now have on your hands, on these pages of Scripture, an international crisis created by one man and the collapse of another nation's economy. So accordingly, the Philistines, verse 6, are upset, and they go to Samson's known Timnite family And they burn them alive in the home. We've seen this several times already in Judges. And so Samson in verse 7 is further inflamed than he slaughters them. There is a catchphrase during this part of the episode. Did you notice it? The Philistine says, as he did to us, we do to him. And then Samson says, as they did to me, I do to them. It's evil for evil all the way through, keeping this cause and effect relationship where everybody's destroying everybody else And that is continuing here, as now the Philistines add further fuel to the fire. They invade Lehi, where Judah dwells. Judah is a uh former version or a different version of its former self, and it wants no conflict with the Philistines And they therefore agree to track Samson down themselves and deliver him to the enemy. So now you have the nation itself rebelling against itself, brother turning in brother. But this does not go as planned. Because Samson is filled with the Spirit of the Lord, he breaks the handcuffs, so to speak And he grabs a fresh jawbone of a donkey. If it wasn't fresh, it wouldn't have done this kind of damage, but it was fresh. And he kills a thousand Philistines. Then Samson in his rage, his conceit, and his arrogance, we've got to make sure we know who this guy is His rage, his conceit, and his arrogance, in verse 17, he memorializes the work that he has done. And he says, this is Ramach Lachi. Jawbone Hill. Now, the reason why it's jawbone hill is because the hills refer to the mounds of bodies that he has piled up from his kills. Jawbone Hill. Now when you get to this point, you should feel tired. For all that you have witnessed here. And the same thing happens to Samson in verse 18 with all of his escapades. It's put in the terms of thirst. And that he is not overtaken by the Philistines, God splits the rock to refresh his soul with water, and his strength is revived. Now, I think I heard somebody when I was just reading the story, I think I heard someone gasp. And that is appropriate because the carnage in the episode is striking, what you see here. And what makes it more striking is that Samson is accomplishing these grotesque acts by way of being filled with the Spirit of the Lord. And it can cause quite a bit of conflict within us when we see things like this happening. Is it it is reasonable to wonder what in the world is going on here And I think that the well I know that the author of Judges has given us, by way of the Spirit, a way to make sense of this. I want you to Think about verse three of this chapter. Let me read it to you very quickly. Just think about this so we can make sense of all the carnage that we just saw. Verse 3 of this chapter, and Samson said to them, This time I shall be blameless regarding the Philistines if I harm them. Now this gives us insight because the word harm here or to do ill to them is the same word that we have seen in Judges before. In chapter 9, verse 23, it says this. God sent a spirit of harm or ill will between Abimelech and the men of Shechem, and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech. Do you remember those cause and effect relationships where one did to the other and the other did back to that one what they had done to them, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, evil for evil, fire for fire? It is the same thing that is going on here. That we see in 923, when God sent his spirit of ill will or harm, so too do we see the same thing taking place with Samson. And we can actually gain even further bit of insight Why the spirit of ill will? We can gain further insight into this by remembering our capstone verse from chapter 14, verse 4. That is the answer to what's going on within the episode. It is the key to understanding Samson. And it says this in Judges 14, 4 But his father and mother did not know that it was of the Lord, that he was seeking an occasion to move against the Philistines, for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel. The Lord did not want there to be peace or complacency between the nations, but for them to be stirred up into war against each other. And what you're witnessing here Is that despite all of that carnage and mayhem, underneath of it is a divine order, with God accomplishing all of his good purposes. And that's our doctrine this morning, actually. Despite all of the carnage and tragedy and chaos on the surface of human endeavors, God, though camouflaged or hidden. Is there accomplishing his good purposes? I'll just say that one more time because, my friends, that is good news. Despite all of the carnage and tragedy and chaos on the surface of human endeavors, God, though camouflaged or hidden, is there accomplishing his good purposes. Well, I want us to look at two main things with this truth this morning, this heavenly doctrine. And I have two titles: The Hidden God, and then God's Perceptive People. The hidden God and God's perceptive people. So let's begin with the hidden God. It is good to remember That sometimes God camouflages himself and he is hidden That is a good thing for us to remember to be able to make sense of our lives. And I just want to step you through a couple scriptures where you can begin to see that this is not the only place where this is recognized. The Apostle Paul speaks about God just like this in 1 Corinthians, and he says this in chapter 2, verses 7 through 8. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery. The hidden wisdom which God ordained before the ages for our glory which none of the rulers of this age knew, for had they known, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Now, here we have these two hands again. Paul, on the one hand, points out that those who are meant to be wise have no wisdom. And this is proven by the fact that they just crucified the long-awaited Lord of glory or Messiah. If they had eyesight to see, they would not have committed the act, but they cannot see, and so they stumble along in blindness, killing their own salvation People get themselves into places of pride, and they accept the wisdom of this world, and it blinds them from being able to see what is exactly in front of their face. And thus God remains remains hidden. Because they are ignorant and blind due to their own moral failure on the one hand. But there is another hand. I just gave you more of like the human perspective and how we contribute to it, but there's another hand, and it is this Hidden to those, there are those who are where God is hidden to those with an evil conscience, but on the other hand, looking at the exact same event of the crucifixion of the Lord of glory Listen to this from Peter's sermon. Acts chapter 2, 22 through 37 is the total passage, but I'll just read portions. Listen to what he says to this group of people. Same event referred to in 1 Corinthians. Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs which God did through him in your midst, as you yourself also know, him, being delivered by the determined purpose and foreknowledge of God, you have taken by lawless hands, have crucified and put to death. And then we were to go down a little bit later into the passage. He's going to start wrapping up his inductive sermon, and he says this. Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. And then we have this as a response from the crowd. Now, when they heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Do you see the human moment and the hiddenness of God? In other words If we were there watching the event unfold of Christ being moved to the cross and then executed on that cross, If it were standing right in front of us and you didn't have the theological insights and descriptions of the fourfold gospel or any of the Pauline letters, what would you see What did they see? Why isn't it until there's an explanation that they're able to see? What could they see before they could see? You would see a crowd saying, Crucify him, crucify him. You would see soldiers mocking this guy. You would see the sorrow of women looking on to the carnage of Jesus of Nazareth, who had been flogged and flesh-torn. We would see the sky covered in black clouds, making it like night. And we would say, as we watched this carnage and chaos before us, how fitting that in the middle of the day it is like nighttime. And we would probably say, Where is God in this hour? It makes you wonder if across the minds of the disciples and the women who were disciples who were watching the whole event, if it ran across their minds, where is God? And yet, when we have the apostle here who can see, and he tells us the story He reminds us that though God was camouflaged and hidden underneath all of it He was accomplishing Acts chapter 2, his eternal purposes at every moment, and therefore was always present. Friends, what we end up seeing in the crowd to whom Peter declares the eternal gospel. And plans of God, as we see when they say, Peter, what should we do? We see their eyes opening to see what had been there all along. And it was God and his plan of redemption. God accomplished his good will despite and even in the momentum of the evil of mankind. Now I bet you if we just open this up for conversation here this morning, which we're not going to do, even though I know you'd like that We could come up with a whole list of examples where God is camouflaged or hidden, but then when we're able to see with theological depth, we could see underneath God is there controlling the whole situation and accomplishing his plans. In the midst of evil and carnage, like we see with Samson. We would say the doctrine ourselves, despite all of the carnage, despite all of the tragedy and the chaos that we see on the pages of Scripture or broadening out to all of the acts of humanity, all of their endeavors, God, though camouflaged or hidden, is there accomplishing his good purposes. It is a universal statement of the most universal degree. As to what he is doing. That is the hidden God. That is the reality of how God operates. But there is also his perceptive people, the church who has been given eyes to see and ears to hear. Years ago, at night for some reason, now some of you have heard this story because you've been around here for a while. There's so many new people I get to retell all my stories This is so great. It's like, you know, I already have the sermon material. It's good. Years ago, I don't know why, because I don't normally do this, but I glanced out my door at nighttime. Before we went to bed, and I saw in the glow of one of the street lights something that looked like a long stretched out cloud of fog like you'd see in the early morning over a soybean field or something. I saw that up at the it was all collecting around the streetlights that were going down my street. So I decided to step outside. I thought this is so strange. Why is there a fog? I I don't know what's going on. Is there a weird cold front moving in or something? And I stepped outside and I could smell right away that there was burning wood. Specifically, this is going to get even stranger for you, but I smelled it and I said, that's actually burning Douglas fir. And I knew that because I had done some work on my house and remodeling, and I don't always cut very well, so I just kind of burn through the wood. So I decided to go out into check this out because I knew that the homes in the neighborhood are all made out of this wood. So you can see where this is going. I checked the ne I check my home, I look up at my roof, there's nothing going on there. I start to look at the other homes, I don't see anything, but then when I go down a couple houses away, I see that from the ridge vent there's smoke pouring out. of this person's bridge bent and the sides of the home. And so I start banging on their door. They answer casually, like nothing's going on. I step in, the whole place is full of smoke, and I'm thinking Did you not notice? But they were confused. They didn't notice. And so I uh ushered this older couple out of the home, called the fire department And the fire the firemen arrive and they determine that there's an electrical fire in the attic and they have to make sure that it is not heading down into the walls so they have their they're breaking things open and We're standing out in the driveway with other neighbors. There's flashing the lights and the noise of what the firemen are doing. They're washing certain things down with water And the older gentleman, who had kind of just been staring at the ground, he raises his head and he says, Where is God in all of this? And I have all my neighbors standing around and I'm the pastor. So I said, I have no idea and I went home. No, I I'm just I'm just kidding. I'm just joking, I didn't say that. Uh I actually don't remember what I said. But for whatever reason I keep reflecting on that moment. Now it's been years since that happened, but every year I think about the moment. I think because the I think about the question, where is God in all of this? And I actually think at this point, perhaps my brain will grow and I'll have some developing thought But at this point, I actually think that what he was doing there in that driveway with those flashing lights all around us was the cry of humanity. Where is God? And then go ahead and substitute for the word this, whatever it is for you. Where is God in the middle of this? And I have also determined At this point, that I think this is one of the major reasons why the church is present in the world. The church is present, and it is not always to have a quick answer to it. But it is at least to be a witness, whether in word or deed, to say, we may not see where God is right now, but we do know that He is here and that He has good purposes. Now that may sound like a cop-out to you, but I actually, as I'm telling you this story, I remember not coming up with some kind of catchy answer for him because the guy's house was burning. You want a two-second answer when this when misery strikes your life? It is more honest to sometimes say, I do not know. In this particular situation, but I know that he's here and that he's good, and that he has good purposes. He has proven that to me a thousand times. Now, what am I doing here? I'm pointing out that as a church, we must be a perceptive church and acknowledge that he in one way can be hidden, but by faith he may be seen. Because we know who he is. I really think we keep going back to this as a congregation, I'm not sure if you've noticed this. But I really think the more deeply I think about that moment and that question, Habakkuk chapter 3, 17 through 18 really summarizes it very well. Listen to this again. Though the fig tree may not blossom, nor fruit be on the vines, though the labor of the olive may fail and the fields yield no food You getting the picture? Though the flock may be cut off from the fold, and there be no herd in the stalls. Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation There is literally in that poetic passage no evidence by sight that God is present. And yet at the end, by way of faith, he acknowledges that he has joy in the Lord and his salvation. That, my friends, is the confession of the church in every age until the return of Jesus Christ. And even then He is essentially saying, though God be hidden amidst disaster, I know by faith that God is good and brings good. And it raises certain questions. That guy's question on the driveway raises questions for us as a church once we realize that we are meant to be the perceptive people. You must ask yourself and do daily inventory to see if you have begun to lose your hope. Because if you have, you only see with your eyes, which means you do not really see at all. Have you been living by sight instead of by faith? Are your spirits down due to all that you see around you? If you don't live in a cave somewhere with no electricity, then you're starting to see plastered across the screens of your TVs, nuclear. Surely, as the Church, we should never become calloused to evil. In fact, I believe that in every age the church should constantly cry this How long, O Lord? Which is what we heard in Psalm 13. Thank you so much, Brother. How long, O Lord? But we give that cry knowing That though camouflaged, God is always present, and even when he is silent, there will come a time when he speaks justice into the world. And all shall be changed in the twinkling of an eye. When we start to see things like this, and we can re-evaluate even our own lives relative to the chaos and the carnage that is around us, when we can do, when we can look at it theologically by way of the scriptures. We all know that we can hold close to our heart our main doctrine this morning. Despite all of the carnage and tragedy and chaos on the surface of human endeavors. God, though camouflaged or hidden, is there accomplishing his good purposes. My prayer is that you would be strengthened by that. Could you this morning not just be a hearer, but a holder of that word? Oh Lord, how long? But in the meantime, Lord Jesus Christ, give us strength to see by faith. Lord, when you are camouflaged and you are hidden, give us the eyes of faith And Lord, may we, even in the midst of the most profound tragedies and misery As the houses of our neighbors go up in flames, literally or metaphorically, we pray that you would always give us hope. That we would always see beyond the fire and the smoke, that we would see through the burning flames of the furnace, and always see one who stands like the Son of Man. Over all things, bringing about his good will, that his creation shall return to paradise And Lord, please help us to give such good news to our neighbors who are downtrodden. We ask these things in your name. Amen.