Our sermon this morning is from Luke chapter 2, and it's verses 8 through 14. I encourage you to turn there with me and thumb through these verses. As we go through, you can find, of course, an outline of the sermon in your bulletin with the big idea and all that And I will go ahead and read 8 through 14. You can turn me down a little bit. It's ringing. This is verse 8 of Luke chapter 2. Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them And the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were greatly afraid. Then the angel said to them, Don't be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. And this will be the sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes lying in a manger And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. Amen. Please pray with me. Father, we ask that you'd give us the heart of an angel, that we'd be able to sing these same things to you today. In the name of Christ, amen. The word Carol not Carol Young, but Carol as in Christmas Carol means uh a joyous praise of song or dance. So if you think of it, there and throughout history you'd have many carols. You know, I think there are a lot of carols probably still happening in bars on St. Patrick's Day. Carols were sung at many festive occasions, but nearly only the Christmas carols today remain. If you go back in history to look at the idea of the Carol in 1223, now we're getting back there. Francis of Assisi wrote plays for Christmas, and the actors would sing carols to relay parts of the Christmas story. They'd turn it into song. But you could go even further back. It says 760. There's a Christian hymn that was written then that's considered a carol. It was by Komas of Jerusalem. But you can even go back further than that in A. D. 129, where a Roman bishop instructed the church to sing the Carol Angels Hymn during the Christmas season But I think, at least since the birth of Jesus Christ, the oldest Christmas carol is perhaps in this passage. It is the carols that the angels are singing right here. In this carol that we see, glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. This is a song from the angels declaring the great purpose of the birth of Jesus Christ. It's declaring or testifying to us. The priestly purpose of Christ's nativity. Nativity just means birth. So when we say the nativity of Jesus Christ, we mean the birth of Jesus Christ. The angels testify to the priestly purpose. of this nativity. Now you can see that big idea in your bulletin if you want to follow around, follow me pretty easily there. And you'll see that the passage is divided. Into two parts. We have a surprising witness and then a body prepared. We're looking at understanding the purpose of Christ's birth from the voice of angels. The first thing we see within the passage is a surprising witness. God reveals his will through witnesses. This is something that uh maybe you remember from last year's Easter sermon. If you do, let me know if you remember that sermon, and I'll give you a prize. A witness is an informational authority. Someone who has sensed some event and can testify concerning it. We rely upon eyewitnesses in our culture all the time Your life is built upon it. Our history books are filled with it. We know from others about Napoleon. None of you have ever seen him, except maybe in Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. You know that a man walked on the moon. Some people question that, but you don't because you trust the testimony of other people One young gentleman told me that he is abandoning Christianity because he didn't get the opportunity to see the things that actually happened within the scriptures. Now I pointed out to him, is the only time that you believe something when your eyes see it? He said, no, of course not. I said, well what's the difference here? He said, I don't know. I never thought about it that way. I'll reconsider Christianity again. That's the whole point, is that God reveals through human witnesses, and it's and it's a part of our normal life To accept the testimony not only of our own eyes, the testimony not only of our own ears, the testimony not only of our own touch, but the testimony of others. Must only our eyes see it to believe it? No, of course not. That's silly. And so, throughout centuries The basic confession of Christians is that we rely upon apostolic testimony. That is to say, the apostles have seen, they've heard, they've tasted, they've touched. And 1 John 1 1 through 2, that which was from the beginning, speaking of the eternal Christ, which we have heard, which we have seen, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled concerning the word of life. This life was manifested, and we have seen, and we testify to you as apostles. We declare to you that eternal life who is Christ Which was with the Father and was manifested to us. You see that basic foundation for us is the apostolic testimony. Whatever the apostles and the prophets have written down for us, it's called being inscripturated, and so we have the scriptures. Whatever they have written down, that forms the foundation for all Christian beliefs, and Christian beliefs are the foundation for all Christian feelings and actions. The apostles were given special gifts to establish the authority of their testimony in particular. Today, if someone has charisma and a PhD, you tend to listen to them until they discredit themselves. Back in that day, Paul and Peter were given signs from God to show that you should listen to them. They could raise people from the dead. They could heal people from paralysis. These were signs to that culture saying, listen to these people. They are in fact carrying the very words of God. Interestingly, if you notice in this passage, this is the testimony from the Apostle Luke. And he is witnessing from other eyewitnesses. If you were to just flip through the Christmas story, you would see Mary. Her testimony, Elizabeth, her testimony, Simeon, in the passage right after this, and Anna, the prophetess, another testimony. All eyewitnesses God reveals not only through these human eyewitnesses, though, but surprisingly, in this passage, He is going to reveal from the eyewitness testimony of angels. Now get a load of that. Luke's testimony includes angels. Look at verse 9. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them. And they were greatly afraid. And this angel tells them various things throughout the passage. In one sense, this isn't surprising that an angel would be present And letting us know the will of God, or letting these shepherds know the will of God, because when you look throughout the scriptures, angels were always near Jesus Christ. They declared his conception and his birth in Matthew 1, 20 and 21. They ministered to him after his temptation in Matthew 4. They strengthened him, and you might have missed this one. I'd encourage you to look this one up. Really need. They strengthened him in his agony while swe while in the Garden of Gethsemane in Luke 22, 43. There's an angel present. in the garden with him, helping him through the pain. And they were eyewitnesses both of his resurrection, standing at the tomb, and of his ascension, why do you look to heaven? And you see that in Luke 24 and Acts 1. But in another sense, this is surprising to us because we don't often think about the testimony of angels, and yet there they are within the passage testifying to you. According to other scriptures, they are God's messengers to his people. That's what they do. God sends them as servants to us to tell us about his will. They have an intense interest in watching God bring us salvation. They are called in Ephesians 3. 10 the watchers And consequently, they are given great insight into God's will, which then they relay to us. Now, this moment, if you take into consideration Luke, Mary, Elizabeth, Simeon, Zacharias, Anna, and the one angel who's held in glory, and then the army of angels, the multitude of the heavenly hosts What you end up seeing here testifying to a single truth about Jesus Christ is heaven and earth. Angels and men testifying to you with things they have seen with their own eyes, heard with their own ears, have handled themselves. They are testifying to you A profound truth about Jesus Christ. And the question for the passage is: what is it that they are in fact revealing to us? If it's the concern of both heaven and of earth, it better be your concern also. We've moved into a profound realm here. And what they communicate is found in point two in that in the bulletin that I've given you. And it's a body prepared. Perhaps surprising turn of events for you. The angels testify that the purpose of the nativity, the purpose of the birth of Jesus Christ is reconciliation between his people and the Father. God the Father. The message of the angels is broken down into two parts. You can see it in verse 11. They reveal that Jesus Christ is the Savior in verse 11. For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord, the long-awaited Savior. However, in verse 14, The angels are rejoicing over one particular kind of saving that will take place. Jesus Christ, of course, is the Savior in many acts of saving throughout the cosmos. But the one in particular that we're speaking about here is the focus of the angels, and that is reconciliation. A reconciled relationship between parties that are at war with each other, namely God and men. Peace and goodwill toward men. The two parts end up informing each other in the song. Glory to God in the highest. Why? Because his glory will be the accomplishment of peace with men. This is not talking about uh a time where where men would figure out a way to be at peace with each other. O of course our all our our authors are right when they say that human history is a a human boot stamping on a human face forever. That's what humans do Here it is speaking about what God will accomplish between Himself and man. The apostle, in fact Whenever he speaks of God sending his son and the peace he will accomplish, it is the peace of reconciliation. I'd ask you to flip through your scriptures just throughout the holiday. Maybe you have some time off work and look at the idea of this peace and notice how many times reconciliation is the topic of conversation. In fact, there's a great summary in 1 Timothy that we just prayed for in 1 14 through 15. Listen to it again so that you can hear the emphasis This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance. That Christ Jesus, why did he come into the world? Why would the angels be singing? He came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. Saving them in the sense of reconciling them with the Father. Thus, one main purpose of the nativity of the birth of Jesus Christ, according to these angels, of both heaven and earth, is for God the Father to reconcile Himself with the Father. with sinful man. Now, have you ever wondered what in particular caused the angels to sing? The angels did not sound like this. Glory to God in the highest. And on earth there's some peace, and there's going to be some goodwill towards some men. That's not what they sounded like. This was a grand choir. Something that you may have never heard before. Sounds of rushing wind and perhaps the most beautiful choir sung on earth. What had caused them to sing? You know, we actually are in the same family as angels. Is this getting weird? Yeah. We're in the same family as angels. If you think of family in the terms of um, you know, do we share something in common? with something. We have we are also rational beings. We're also we're we're both created. We're both rational. Very different than other creatures. And if you think that this angel, these angels, have similarities to us, what causes a rational being to sing about something? It's the heart and the mind being filled with something so delightful, so delightful in the case of a joyous song, that it must quite naturally express itself. In song. There was something so delightful that the angels seen that they had to sing. And now the question becomes: why were they so delighted? Why were they so delighted? Is it just because the king is born? Trumpets are blaring. The king has been born. That's not what the song is about. The song they they choose to announce that Christ the King is born, he's Lord, but they don't sing about that. That's not the song. The song is that they are delighted with God making peace with men. Now, what did they see in Jesus' birth that cued their hearts to begin singing about peace between God and men? What did they see? That showed that reconciliation will begin. The author of the book of Hebrews gives us great insight here. And this also may be surprising to you, what the angels see. They see Hebrews 10, 5. The author of Hebrews answers this question. He says, Therefore, when Jesus came into the world, speaking of this very moment, When Jesus came into the world, he said, sacrifice an offering you did not desire, but a body you have prepared for me. The angels saw his body, and they knew it was a body to be offered in perfect obedience and sacrifice The angels know that the purpose of the birth of Christ was for Christ to offer his body to satisfy the perfect justice of God the Father on our behalf. It's the body, it's the incarnation that causes the song. The angels, if you were to flip through the Old Testament, had seen God make planets See, they watch God populate an infinitude of space and they sang songs when he made his creation. But now their carols in this passage have reached a higher exaltation. God has taken on flesh to refloor to restore flesh to himself. Veiled in flesh the Godhead see, hail the incarnate deity, pleased with us in flesh to dwell, Jesus our Emmanuel. Hark the herald angels sing, glory to the newborn king, peace on earth and mercy mild, God and sinners reconciled. That is the point. It's a surprising witness. It's a witness of both heaven and earth, but particularly of the angels in this passage. But they are testifying to you that may be something surprising when you think of Christmas It's about the body, the human nature of the Son. Why did he have to take on flesh? And it's because he needed to satisfy the perfect justice of God in atoning for your sins. and being a sympathetic high priest for us in his presence. Now, that's the truth of the passage, the big idea. The big idea is the priestly purpose of his nativity or his birth. That's what the angels are pointing out to us. But there's a problem that we can run into here, and I'll start to close with these things. Due to God's ultimate control over all events and the fact of the events of suffering, many have formed, and they hide it during Christmas, the hypothesis that God is at worst an evil lunatic. And at the very least, he is a stick in the mud that doesn't let me go to spring break and Daytona Beach. However, I would ask that you would consider the angels' insight into Christmas. God enters into the suffering of his creatures, and he sacrifices his own life to end this suffering. The Father so loved the world that he sent his only begotten Son Jesus willingly takes up the mantle and the offices and offers his life in perfect obedience. That's the Christmas story And if that's the Christmas story, if you're going to consider the angels' insight into Christmas, that God enters into suffering Then the hypothesis that God is evil or is a stick in the mud has left out all of the evidence of this season. And therefore, it is time to reconsider your hypothesis. Those of you who embrace Jesus Christ, I ask you to consider the carols of the angels also. They declare to us that God's main purpose is to love you and for you to love Him. He sent his son so that nothing can get in the way of your loving relationship. He is issuing to you his design. Now this illustration is so overworked in this congregation at this point, but I have no other one. So if you think of a different one to bring across the same point and let me know There was once upon a time a person that received their first computer that had a CD drive. The CD drive opens, and they think, oh, what's this for? Oh it'll fit my coffee mug. They put their coffee mug in the CD drive and it cracks off. And they wonder why it cracked It's because it was never designed for a coffee mug, it was designed for a CD. We all know that. But the point here within this passage is for you to recognize that the angels are revealing to you the ultimate and the main design of God the Father for your life. He is giving you, through Jesus Christ, reconciliation with him What does he have to do in order to accomplish bringing you two together? He must rid you of your sin. He does that through all of the work of Jesus Christ And then when Jesus Christ ascends on high, the Holy Spirit begins to work out and achieve victory over sin in your life now. The whole emphasis, therefore, of the story of the angels that they're singing, the whole emphasis of God the Father is for you to get sin out of your life. In other words, that there would be nothing in the way of his love for you and your love for him. Have you ordered your life with this same emphasis? Is your greatest ambition to know him and to love him? I will admit to you, I am sucked into the same conversation as you. We talk about college, we talk about family, we talk about work, we talk about making money, we talk about becoming powerful. And these are totally incidental to the main purpose of life. We make our lives so complicated when the main event, the main event of our life is simply to receive God's love and to love Him. All of life is boiled to that simple thing. The love of God is greater far than tongue or pen can ever tell. It goes beyond the highest star and reaches to the lowest hell. The guilty pair bow down with care. God gave his son to win. His erring child he reconciled. and pardoned from his sin. And we, from that day forward of our pardoning, are to continue to mortify and to kill our sin, that sin would not be killing our love to God. O the love of God, how rich and pure, how measureless and strong, it shall forevermore endure the saints and the angels' song. Let's pray Heavenly Father, you have given us this love in the face of Jesus Christ. You have pardoned us of your sins, those of us who are who are your family. And we ask, Lord, that we would now in our lives, hearing what the angels have said, that we would order our lives around the same purpose that you have. That we would not follow our will, but that your will would be done as it is in heaven, so on earth in our lives. Lord, we ask that you would teach us that college and work and family are just incidental arenas And that the main event in the center is love from you and love to you. We pray, Father, that our greatest ambition, whether we are a mechanic or managing a major hedge fund and new hedge fund in New York City, or we own the world, that it would simply just be to love you and to love our neighbor. And to receive your love in the name and through Jesus Christ. Amen.