We now come to a time where God speaks to us from His Word, and we'll be looking at Acts chapter 1. It'll be verses one through eleven, and I'd ask that you'd stand for the reading of that word. This is God's word, Acts 1, 1 through 11. The former account I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach. until the day in which he was taken up, after he, through the Holy Spirit, had given commandments to the apostles whom he had chosen, to whom he also presented himself alive after his suffering, by many infallible proofs. being seen by them during forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. And being assembled together with them, he commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which he said, You have heard from me. For John truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. Therefore, when they had come together, they asked him, saying, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom of Israel? And he said to them, It is not for you to know the times or seasons which the Father has put in his own authority, but you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of Now when he had spoken these things while they watched, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel Who also said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will so come in like manner as you saw him go into heaven. Please join me in prayer. Father, we read here of your Spirit, and we ask that your Spirit would illuminate our minds and our hearts that you'd seal these truths to us. In Christ's name. Amen. Please join me. Please be seated. I'm starting to know more and more people that have sciatica. Is everyone aware of what sciatica is? Sciatica yeah we are yeah well well uh looks like everybody has it. Great sciatica is the pinched nerve uh the muscles stay tightened and the muscles are deep to where you can't really reach 'em. You start to lose feeling in your leg. It can tingle. And actually when it becomes really bad the muscles can so severely that it will over time with other muscles trying to compensate pull whatever leg is has the sciatic The muscles will start to pull it higher than the other leg. And so you have really you end up with one leg shorter than the other in some sense. There's a funny picture of that where you imagine if it gets too short and you keep trying to step that you all you can do is walk in circles. You know the church has a picture like that too. that I've shared with you before. The church can end up having one leg shorter than the other, and that ends up being really detrimental, and the church can begin to look deformed when that takes place. The church basically has two legs. We see within our confession that the church is purpose is to gather and to perfect. Now that's funny language for us, but to gather is like what we were reading here in Acts. And what I was praying for, that is a blessing. Thank you so much. I was just thinking about that. Thanks, Jeremiah. To gather uh is to send out the gospel and to watch Jesus Christ bring people into his church. church membership. To perfect is not a heresy. To perfect is to watch people grow in Christ. So they're gathered into his community and in his community they grow. It's a story of our lives. Those are the two legs of the church. And what you can end up seeing within different churches is that one of the legs will become shorter than the other, and they begin to walk in circles Some churches will be all witnessing and all bringing the gospel to different nations and talking about Jesus Christ and having mission conferences, but the people that are their members are languishing and are weak and and uh are falling apart. And then you can have the other side of things. You can have where the members are very strong, there's a strong sense of community, but there's no sense of out outreach whatsoever. Where do you think we are? And where do you think you are personally with that? You know, uh every church has one leg shorter than the other. And uh it's our job to start noticing which one's getting real short and try to strengthen those things. And and so I think um uh that's why I have the series of acts in front of me. Is I do see a good sense of strong community amongst us, we still need to keep working very, very hard. But I I see little outreach community wise And then when I hear about you individually outreaching, you have a lot of questions about how to be a Christian in the world today. And so Axe is really Of course, we're not um it's not totally absent from our life. I don't want you to get that impression. But we can always strengthen our legs and that'll do And so this morning what we end up seeing for the first first chance for us to strengthen our legs and to have them a bit more even so we're not walking in circles or something. The very first thing we see here in Acts 1 through 11 is that the ascended Jesus empowers his church for witness to himself. Now this is going to be a really important truth for you. write that down. It's a principle that you can really hang your hat on. The ascended Jesus empowers his church for witness to himself. I want to look at three things that correspond with that ascension, power, and message. Ascension, power, and message. The ascended Jesus empowers his church for witness to himself. So I want to begin with ascension, which means we're actually going to go backward in the verses because it's a little bit more understandable. We're going to start with 9 through 11, and then you'll see we'll go the uh with each paragraph up. So the very first thing we see in 9 through 11. Is Jesus ascending? Now, we really need to talk about this. When you go to the grocery store or you go to the Hallmark store, And you're there to get your friend an ascension card, good luck. It's not there. Although this is a primary confession of the Christian church. That Jesus has ascended to heaven and sits at the right hand of the Father, but when you go to the card store, you will not find an ascension card. If you do, please bring it to me. And so we can really miss out of the beauty of this primary doctrine of the Christian church of Jesus' ascension. When he had spoken these things while they watched with their eyes, another thing that they had witnessed, you heard a lot about witnessing over Monday, Thursday, Good Friday, and Easter. Here they witnessed yet another thing, and it is his ascension while they watched. He was taken up. Passive. He was taken up. And a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel. And the story continues. The word ascend. The word ascend. Now you you've heard of that and and it has different meanings within our culture, and we've kind of lost this one because we don't really see any Ascending into authority in the way that they did of old. Now there used to be chairs of ascension or coronation chairs. There's the coronation chair, known historically as Saint Edward's Chair or King Edward's Chair. It's an ancient wooden throne. If you want to look this up on Google, it is the coolest chair. Carved, uh and I don't forget the man's name, but it's a wooden throne on which the British monarch sits when he or she is invested with regalia and crowned at the coronation. That is what this passage here is communicating to us. Jesus did not just fly up into heaven like he's in the movie Matrix. It doesn't have that same significance. What you see here is a coronation You in fact could go to Westminster Abbey and if you could get past the security guards, you could ascend into the throne also. You could sit right there in that wooden chair. And then you would immediately be ushered off to jail because you're not supposed to be doing that. But even if you did, would you really have ascended into that power? No, of course not. The throne, there's more to it than just the throne. There's more to it. The ascension is a signification of something deeper and more profound, and it is the same here with Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is not ascending just because he is a part of a bloodline like you would see with the King of England, where the sun rises up and he eventually takes the throne as the king. Instead, in verse 9, he's taken by the Father into heaven because there is a huge backstory to what's going on here with Jesus receiving receiving and being crowned with many crowns. The first Adam, way, way back when, was given a task God said, You shall be fruitful and multiply. You should do all the work and take care of this temple, which is the earth, for me. Everything will be an act of worship toward me. You must not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and then you may have the tree of life. But what we know of Adam, the first Adam, the vice regent or king of the earth, the very first one, is that he fails And instead of sending good things or bringing a blessing of rulership over all of his subjects, he ends up sending us curses. It is the reason why I am sick today. is because of Adam's decision. It is the reason why your family has been sick. It's the reason why your young boys and girls sin. It's the reason why you sin is because the first king was a failure. However, hearing this story all the way through Easter and seeing again with within this passage, the second Adam, who is Jesus Christ, was given a task. We have heard all about his task through the Gospel of John. How he came and was born of a virgin, and then moving forward through his life in perfect obedience, even obedience to the death of the cross. We see him being completely obedient to the Father. And therefore, because he was obedient and he did not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good evil And now we see him rising to his glory. It was not a bloodline, it was his obedience that earned him the right to sit as king at the right hand of the Now this is very different than your story. If you're a true Christian, you do not have a foundation of your own personal merit to recommend you before God. God and to earn any rewards whatsoever. But with Jesus it's different. Jesus must be obedient to the Father. But the glory is for all of his people also. And that's what we see here. Jesus has in fact done it. The sign of him doing it is that he now will ascend to the throne of the universe. There is such an interesting take on this in Daniel chapter 7. I'd encourage you to read through that. The youth are going through it now. high school in high school in the high school or Sunday school we with the disciples from this account watch Jesus go into the clouds But Daniel watches from the throne room and watches Jesus come up from the cloud. It is the neatest thing. Section, I was watching in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man coming with the clouds of heaven. And he came to the ancient of days. And they brought him near before him. Then to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion. And you can also think of all of the different imagery throughout the book of Revelation of the Lamb that was slain before time began, going before And everyone worshiping him, and him having the right to open the seal, him wearing the crowns or having the horns. That's the great image that we see of Christ ascending to the heavens. To be at the right hand of God the Father. He is presently, Jesus is presently alive, Christian or non-Christian, that could be news for you. And I've got one other piece of news for you. He's alive as the God man. Does Jesus have a body? Yes, he does. And he has a body right now. I think oftentimes we move into some weird Greek mythology that was around called Gnosticism, where we think that Jesus has shed his body and it's no longer embodied. But but when you picture it and and don't work too hard with that, but just Having the outlines of the human, Jesus the Christ, is physically present Somewhere. He is still the God man, but he is literally physically present. Now I want you to think that's not an impossibility. Aren't there other created beings that exist within heaven? I mean, Jesus has entered into the creation. He's not just a created being, he's also the second person of the Trinity. So it's not an impossibility. And in fact, if you begin to look at what Jesus is like after he has ascended, like for instance, if you were to turn to the book of Revelation, Revelation 1-1 starts off saying this: the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave Jesus. Now, what does that tell you about Jesus? If the Father had to let Jesus know, it lets you know that Jesus is still the God-man because he's not exercising Spiritual omniscience. Why didn't it just say Jesus knows all things and therefore he just delivers it to his servants? Why does the Father have to let him know? Because it's the same kind of situation that you see here within this passage. The authority for when the last days will come, I don't know. That's with my Father. He knows, and you won't know either. That's what it just said there in Acts. Jesus has said that multiple times. He said that in his earthly ministry, and that's an indication to you that he's still of the earth, that he is still God-man. Don't picture some abstract spirit that can't relate to you. He specifically came to be able to relate to you, even in your weakness. Another proof is the Damascus road with the Apostle Paul. He sees the Lord He's the Lord. Now, what you end up picturing then is you see Jesus as on earth, now reigning in heaven as king. And now that he is king, he is given things just like any other king would be given. He receives all power. We can work more of this out from other parts of Scripture. There's not a lot here specifically. But when he receives all power, you have to think about it like this. Winston Churchill When he became Prime Minister of the UK, he received a military power that he could deploy in World War I that he did not have prior to becoming Prime Minister. But then all of a sudden once he becomes Prime Minister, if there is someone over there threatening his country that he needs to take of take care of, he has all of the military that he could then deploy and send to take care of it. And it's the exact same thing with the God man, Jesus the Christ. He sits reigning on high with all resources at his disposal, and all it takes is for him to decree, and it is sent. That is the kind of power that he has. When you're praying to him, you're asking him to decree and to send the answer to the prayer. And when you see the answer to the prayer, there was a decree in heaven, and the king said, Let it be done. And perhaps angels were sent as servants or ministers of flame or fire to accomplish the task. Or maybe he just worked through ordinary means. Or maybe he just worked directly. But whatever it was, he was the king decreeing from heaven That it would take place. Do you see the picture and how intimate your relationship is to the king of the universe who has ascended on high? Now that should be in the cards section. But that's not my argument. Now Jesus ascends on high, and the reason that he does so is then given in the paragraph just above He needs to do something. These things, these resources, just like Winston Churchill receive resources, so too is he going to receive a resource and send it. Do you see what it is in the passage? And being assembled together with them, he commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father. What's the promise of the Father? Which he said, You have heard from me, for John truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with water. And then the disciples go on, and they somehow get from this conversation that he is going to fulfill the land promises of Israel and help Israel to establish their kingdom right then and there. He has something totally different in mind, however, and lets them know that yes, I will in fact have a kingdom that you can see, but not now, and you do not know what the time of that will be. will be, but you must wait for the power which is the Holy Spirit. And so here's the promise that is given to him. Not to establish a kingdom now. That doesn't even make sense with how the story goes as the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit have planned it. You know how the story goes. He will receive the Holy Spirit, and that Holy Spirit will be sent out to his disciples first. And then it will be or his apostles first, and then it will be sent out to all the disciples of every tongue and tribe and nation. But look in verse 8 at what he points out specifically about the Holy Spirit. There's a lot of Holy Spirit talking about the in America. But look at what he says about the Holy Spirit. It might surprise you. You're expecting this power, right? We know that the that the Holy Spirit worked in the apostles to be able to do great healing gifts. But that's not mentioned here. That's interesting. At the premier party or the release of what Jesus had been waiting for for all this time You think he would mention the most important thing, and he does not mention the gift of healing. He doesn't mention the gift that Paul will have in bringing back people from the dead. Or ridding them of leprosy, or bringing back their sights. What does he say that the Holy Spirit will give them power to do in verse 8? But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem. Amen. This is the power. Before, in the first point, we are seeing The ascension, but here is the power. Jesus ascends on high. The Father has given him the gift, and he has decreed That he would send the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit is going to accompany his apostles, and then he will accompany you in order for you to be able to witness to the nations. Whether it's globally or locally or regionally in Ronald County, or just Millersville, or to your children. This is the gift that has been given. It's the power that Now the Holy Spirit here in this sense is known as the Advocate, which should immediately bring to mind the uh Holy Week series that we did from the Gospel of John. Advocate is legal terminology. It's someone who will come and plead your case for you or help you to make your case against those who want to oppose your case. And that is exactly what the Holy Spirit is promised for. It's promised for these disciples here and for us that as we go out from Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and the ends of the earth, that the advocate will be with us that when we speak, he will help us to plead the case. That he will actually work within their hearts to receive the case. And he'll give whatever measure of gift of that that he wants to everyone. Some will have more of a measure of gift than another. You know, this really brings you back to, I mentioned this in Easter also, for you to see your identity here within the kingdom during the Easter. these days, this power that has been sent. John nineteen thirty-five, there's the soldier. And I asked the question on Easter, why all of a sudden are we going to see the testimony of a soldier once the trial has been done. What is the need of a lawyer if the court case is finished? And yet we see the lawyer continually showing up In John 1935, after the crucifixion is over, one of the soldiers that pierced Jesus' side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out, and he who has seen has testified And his testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you may believe. And then he ties that into the scriptures. Testify, testify, testify. Do you see the advocacy language? And I guarantee that the Holy Spirit was even present for this soldier to be able to see with heavenly eyes what he was supposed to see, tie it to the scripture, and now he becomes an eyewitness in the case, and that is what is being said to you. That upon Jesus Christ's ascension and the sending of the Holy Spirit, that he gives you the Spirit to be your comforter or advocate that you might be able to plead his case before the nations just like the soldier did. That you would be known as the testifier. That people would begin to think of you as an advocate because the advocate dwells in you. That is what your job is. is to testify. And you have the power to back you, which is the Holy Spirit. So you can see the ascension, you can picture it now as We go in this order with him on high, and then him sending down power for you, and the power specifically to be able to witness. You can already see that Jesus, the ascended Jesus, empowers his church for witness That's the first part of that statement that I made in the beginning. Jesus, the ascended Jesus, empowers his church specifically for witness. It's at the top of the list in the hierarchy. But there's one other part that we need to answer. And that is, to what are we to witness? What is the message of the witness? And this is an important question to ask. You have the ascension, you have the power, but what do I do with the power? You give the message. Now, this is where it can become confusing. If you look right there in the beginning, the first paragraph here, the former account I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach. until the day in which he was taken up, after he, through the Holy Spirit, had given commandments to the apostles, whom he had chosen, to whom he also presented himself alive after his suffering, and it goes on. Look at what he's listing. He's listening in all the things that Jesus taught the apostles that eventually would be recorded in Scripture. Now their experience would go on He began everything that he began to do and to teach is what you are to proclaim. Oh really? Oh well that's great. I'll start memorizing all 66 books of the Bible. Start now. Or let's just limit it to the New Testament, the before the resurrection, he says. The 40-day ministry should be included. The commandments to the apostles should be included. Presentations of himself alive should be included. We should be able to defend the resurrection. We should be able to talk about things pertaining to the kingdom of God. Or if we were to go back and realize that the book of Acts is part two of the book of Luke, then now we need to start talking about all the things that Jesus Jesus has taught there, the necessity and significance of his suffering, the explanation of the prophecies of the Old Testament in light of their fulfillment, the glory and power to which He has now been raised, his enduring presence in the church, the equipment of his apostles for the office of their ministry, the restoration of Peter. the proclamation of the gospels to all people, the nature of faith in his name, the benefits to be obtained by it, the meaning and administration of baptism. The future of the kingdom of God, the promise of the Holy Spirit, His deity, and the full revelation of God as Father, Son, and Spirit. Go and do likewise That is your task. Or if you want to take what the Apostle Paul says and really simplify things, because we Christians are a simple people You must preach the gospel. Now, he's not expecting you. I'm being funny, if you're not catching it. And I'm sick, so I don't know that my sense of humor is coming across. I'm being funny. I meant to say that's why people think that Christianity is so confusing, because It seems like a fire hydrant of information. And the eternal plans of God are inexhaustible, of course. But what you are responsible for is the basic message, what they call the gospel. And if you want to reflect on what that means, we'll see what the gospel is throughout this book of Acts, but just reflecting on what that means. You look to the apostles, and the apostles reflecting on it. The Apostle Paul in Romans chapter 1, verse 16, says, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now that really gives us some insight. If you want to know what it means to witness, that is to say, what is the message you're supposed to give, you're supposed to give not just the gospel, but according to Paul, the gospel of Jesus Christ. I'm not ashamed of it, is what Paul says. And if you follow that shame word, it'll take you right over to another thing that has been said by Luke. in chapter nine, for whoever this is Jesus, for whoever is ashamed of me and my words, of him the Son of Man will be ashamed when he comes in his own glory and in his father's and of the Holy Angel. Luke 9 26. Now what this ends up telling us when we glue these different things together is that the gospel that Paul was not ashamed of, picking up the language of Jesus from Luke is about the person, about the works, and about the words of Jesus Christ Himself. Let me put this real simple You are witnessing to Jesus. Just like every other single example throughout the scriptures, you are in the trial, you are in the court case, you are called as a witness. And you must testify to who Jesus is and what he has done and what he has said. And that includes everything. That's the way that we have to summarize it. And so you can see your task would be to get to know him more and more, more and more, not only with your mind, but also with your experience. And then you would share your communion with Jesus Christ with other people. Not just the facts, but the significance. And we'll go over this more. And the Lord's Supper. That really completes it. Do you see it? It ends up coming full circle there when we see that ascension, you can picture it, the ascension sending power in order to proclaim a message. That's the whole sermon. The ascended Jesus empowers his church for witness to himself, to his works, his words, and his person. Jesus empowers his church for witness to himself. Now, this does a couple things as we come to an end here. I want to bring this home. And I pray that the Lord would seal these things to your heart. I've already mentioned confusion in the church, and that's one of the reasons why one leg begins to be shorter. It is becoming more and more difficult now to have conversations about Christianity or to even talk about it. Do you feel that, by the way? When this church was first started, they had a telephone campaign. I said, Arch, let's do another telephone campaign. We're gonna call twenty thousand people. He said said it'll never work in this culture. So something has shifted. He's not the only one that recognizes that. Something has shifted where it has become difficult to testify within the culture. And I think that's that's part of why we feel confused. But here's the thing, what you can't do is allow the leg of witness to grow short and just focus on things that are not confusing. Because in this passage there's a hierarchy. When Jesus could have said any other thing about the power that the Holy Spirit will bring, all the examples of the witness of the Holy Spirit throughout the New Testament He chooses to focus on witness because it's what the Father had intended from the beginning, that his word would go out to all people and they would stream into Mount Zion. He is looking for worshipers from everywhere. And he is gathering them. And therefore witness goes to the top of the list. The proclamation of the gospel, in fact, goes to the top of the list. Now, let me let me picture this for you. Think of all the things that the church does Think of church discipline and church fellowship and church preaching and church sacraments, and tell me that the hierarchy should not be the proclamation of the gospel. Why else are you having church discipline if the purity of the gospel is being uh uh Dirtied by a act of profession or deed. That's the whole purpose of discipline, to help a person to remain in the teachings of the church, both in what they say and what they do. Or if you think of fellowship, we get together to encourage one another to stay true and faithful to the teachings of the apostles, the apostolic testimony. And what is true about Jesus Christ, or the preaching itself is a proclamation of the gospel. The sacraments are a sign. Of the thing signified, which is the person right there, the person, words, and works of Jesus Christ. There are many marks of the church, but the proclamation of the gospel is right there. At the top. The preaching of the gospel. How would they know unless we are sent? And so this helps us. It lets us know we can't give up on that task. And it should give you confidence that that is the reason why he has given you the Holy Spirit, or a primary reason, and therefore we should go forward, knowing that he wants us to learn how to witness and how to tell. If you went to a court case for the very first time, you probably wouldn't give a great testimony. The lawyers would tear you apart. But over time you can learn and you become better and better at testifying in this world with those people that call you quacks or insane. Now here's the other thing that this teaches. It allows you to know what that what you are doing is of great privilege and significance. I want you to think about what's happening. Here. Don't forget that Jesus is alive. He is reigning on high, and he has specifically said. I will not leave you as orphans. Now, a lot of you don't believe that. A lot of you and a lot of people in our country believe that Jesus Has abandoned us. And he has been reduced to some kind of principle, abstract conception about human religion. You can't see that in this passage. Jesus is communing with his church actively through the power of the Holy Spirit, and I want you to be comforted by this. I want you to realize the privilege that you have of telling this message to other people because of the implications. Jesus passes through the cloud and we can no longer see him, so we feel like our parent has left us. We feel like orphans. There's a wonderful Puritan. Puritans are my favorite. Goodwin. Thomas Goodwin. His congregation and he himself struggled with this problem of feeling like an orphan. And so he wrote a book I would really encourage you to read. The Heart of Christ. Christ in heaven. This is the question. What does Jesus feel now? If I were To ask that question about him being on earth, you'd think about him with human feelings. But now, in ascended glory, what does he feel now? What does he feel for you now? Is he too busy to think of you? Or does the heart of Christ in heaven burn for you? His first official act as the enthroned king was to pour out his Holy Spirit upon his church. Therefore, since the Holy Spirit is his sending, the Holy Spirit will testify to us of Christ's present love for his Any past, present, or future work of the Holy Spirit will be a sign of how Christ feels. That's the argument Does a minister preach the gospel by the Holy Spirit here at this church or anywhere in America? And if he does, it is because of Christ's heart for sinners. If you ever speak to a person who is not a Christian, or if you're a non-Christian here and a Christian speaks to you, it is because Jesus has a heart for you. He is inviting you to be reconciled to the Father. That is how Jesus feels right now. He feels like inviting you into his kingdom. He is very generous. His heart is full of warmth for you. Does the Spirit move you to pray? Has that happened for you this past Has the Spirit moved you to pray? It is because Christ is praying for you that the Spirit would cause you to pray. Christ is praying for you. Think of the intimacy that you have with Him, our living Jesus Christ. Does the New Testament express Christ's love for sinners? Did you not realize that the New Testament Was written after his ascension and by the power of his Holy Spirit. Every word penned in the New Testament is a reflection of the feelings of the ascended Jesus Christ for you and for the world. That is the message. That is the great comfort. That is the great privilege that you are given not only in receiving The benefits of the Holy Spirit from the ascended Lord, but also telling those same things to another person in this world You can tell them how Christ thinks and how he feels and who he is and what he's done and the significance of it. There is no greater privilege that you will ever have in all the world than to be the bearer of the gospel. Let me close with this. Dr. Bennett Amalu, has anyone heard of this man? Dr. Benad Amala. He's a Nigerian forensic pathologist. And you would know him if you watched the latest Will Smith movie called Concussion. He uh fought against the efforts of the NFL or the National Football League to suppress his research on concussions suffered by many professional football players. They were going insane. them from the inside out. This could be easily substantiated, but the NFL kept pushing back because you know what it would do to them if all of a sudden it was killer. You know what it would do, the lawsuits that would arise. They refused to acknowledge it in order to be able to hide. They pushed him So hard that he ended up having to move out of state after the pressure that he and his wife were under when she miscarried. Late in term, by the way That's what they did to this man. And he was getting ready to give up. He was sitting on a park bench with his wife saying, I was the wrong person to discover this. I should have never discovered this. And she reminds him, I am not going to repeat all of the Nigerian, whatever the language was, but she reminds him of his name and the meaning of his name. And she says, your name means that you must tell the truth if you know it. And what this sermon is doing for you is sitting you down on the park bench and saying that if the one leg is going to be strong and grow out to be as long as the other, is that your name is truth. You have the name of the gospel that you must tell. It is in your very being that you must proclaim it. Jesus has ascended in power, and he has empowered you to witness. to him. Now we're going to continue to see this as we move into the Lord's Supper. So I'd ask that you would uh sing with me this This invitational song, I want you to think of the Lord's Supper as a continuation of the sermon