Calling on you a lot just to see what are the different practices that you have installed or ones that you may want to install. Uh before we get to that, I want to do a little bit of review and give you one little A model that might be helpful to you as you're continuing to work out does God require anything of you in the fourth command? That would be probably the most general way to put it without presuming on you. And if you already think that the fourth command is still obligatory, or God is pleased when we work out the fourth command. Then you could change the question a little bit. You could say, okay, well, what does it look like to live that out? What does that look at look like? uh day to day as well as on a particular day and um So we'll be looking at that. And I think that's it for today. Next week is the last week. Or next Sunday is the last Sunday on this particular book. And so if you have more questions, feel free to follow up with me. I'm happy to have more and more conversation. I honestly think it takes a lot of conversation. Morning, guys. uh on this particular issue. Okay, so I wanted to offer what I did we didn't meet last week because we took a break for Easter But the week before that, the Sunday before that, we I went through a list of things that I I was just trying to go back through my own history. in seeking to understand the Lord's will with this particular command. And so I shared a bunch of stuff with you from my own personal experience. I hope that the Lord uses that to help you. Some of I'm getting a thumbs up that the Lord is already doing so, so that's good. Some of the things, if you remember, are that we have to really watch our hearts It's easy for us to try to justify ourselves. And that can happen also with the fourth command. I did give you the the example of justifying ourselves with other commands nevertheless. I don't think it's just a fourth commandment problem. I mentioned to you when I was a a young man and wanted to r to rush things in my dating relationship with Holly, I had a way of justifying what was actually required in the seventh command And I know that you know people in your own life and in your own heart where you've done the same kind of thing. You g you get your mind and your heart set on something And it's easy to try to excuse things and to justify it even by way of the scriptures. We can see that even with the greatest scholars in the world. Richard B. Hayes. He's a very well-known New Testament scholar who has figured out a way in his own system of thinking to say that just as the Gentiles are now entering into the church, it no longer consists of Jews, so too is that the case with the gay community. that they're to that that has changed also. And so you can twist all kinds of stuff. My point is I don't want to get into what Richard B. Hayes thinks, I just saying it's easy to to twist things. And I'm not saying that you are trying to twist things. I'm just saying it's a inclination that we have as human beings. So I had mentioned that. I'm not going to go through all of them again. One of the things I will uh two things I will mention Uh one is that all of the officers here I I think pretty much hold on to what the book teaches So why do I bring that up? I don't bring that up in order for you to rest your faith on the activity of the officers, though I think that should contribute something I bring that up for you to keep taking the fourth this figuring out what the fourth command it means for you and your life and the life of your children. I bring it up for you to take it seriously. Don't just say, well, I went through a Sunday school class, I don't need to think about it anymore. I'd encourage you not to do that. It's not just the elders and not just the deacons, all the officers are holding to this particular view And you may have other people that aren't even here who have been your pastor beforehand or something like that who also hold the view who are very serious people. So it's it's just something that takes serious. I'm not asking you to base your faith off of theirs absolutely Um I'm just saying it's an argument to take it seriously. So what would it look like? This is where I wanted to start this morning. What would what would it look like? Kind of what's the idea behind continuing to take it seriously? And what I'll what I'd like to introduce to you is a way of reading your Bible that is a reading of your Bible throughout your entire life. This is how I actually think it goes Could somebody here tell me the difference? We have a whole new section of youth here, so I'm going to call on all of you. That's what I'm trying to do. No, just kidding. You can elect somebody from among your group, or you can just pass and shoo me off. What is the difference? This is the easy one. What is the difference between a circle and a spiral? Talk among each other if you need to What's the difference between a circle and a spiral? Okay. That if I answer that, then I'll start to give the answer away. That was pretty slick. Difference between a circle and a spiral. You can't answer. I'm I'm gonna call on the students first. I'm getting them warmed up. What do you think? Okay. That would be a good that would be a good way to say it. A spiral doesn't always connect. Alright, it's kind of like something that's easier to to draw than it is to like say in words. Would you agree with that? Yeah? Okay, so circle would look something like this And then if we wanted to do a spiral, we do see the circle, but a lot of times we narrow the spiral, but you can keep a spiral the same size each time if you wanted. And it's moving down in that direction. Right? Okay. So these are two, this was given to me in seminary as the two different ways in which we have thought about reading the Bible and that the second one is more accurate. So when we think about the first one, we we think about that there's this one iteration, like for example, we go through a Sunday school class We read all of these things about the fourth commandment, and I made that circle. I already did that thing. Whereas in seminary, we were taught what is called the hermeneutical spiral. Now that's just a fancy way of saying that throughout your entire life, as you spend your time filled with the Holy Spirit, Walking in the Spirit and in the community of the Spirit, reading God's Word. Then as you go through your life, he will help you to mature in your understanding of the word. It's not just a matter of rereading the Bible over and over and over and over again. It's rereading it after you have matured in different areas, going through different events and circumstances. met different kinds of people, different light bulbs going off with this, that, or the other thing. A lot of the times you'll see some things change in folks like Um uh uh I'll just recall a couple things for for me. On the day of Completing my ordination exams, which was a very stressful time for me. I I almost had a nervous breakdown. I was working full-time I was in seminar seminary, my final semester was eighteen credits and I was and I was taking all my ordination exams in s in a couple weeks, and I finally had finished them And in the evening when I left here on the way home I received a call from my father and he told me he had prostate cancer. And for whatever however it was, however that worked out, God brought those different things of like the relief of finishing and then also the contemplation that my dad's not going to be here forever Though my dad is still here, he's doing very well. In that moment who you get the news, you have no idea what the future is. So you don't know. You have just a couple d I didn't know what any of it meant. During that time uh and in those particular circumstances the Lord deepened for me what he means by honor your father. There was no way I could really know what honor your father meant until I contemplated that my dad was going to die and I won't always be with him And it changed something in me in the way that I wanted to respect him, the kind of time that I wanted to give to him, the patience I wanted to offer him when he was explaining something to me. If he wanted to do something and I wanted to do something different. Something happened in my heart where let's just do what dad wants to do. That kind of a thing. Uh whatever it is. Right? And I think what I'm describing to you And if you were to put it in just kind of nerdy acad academic way, there was a spiral that was happening here and and maybe we should have the spiral going up because I think the the life is going and bigger. Yeah, there you go. So the going up in that um that's really the understanding of the scriptures that God intends. If I had the fifth commandment memorized It's still very shallow. The deepening of it is him working and kneading it into your life in all of the ways that he does in his providence. And my so my main thing to you in saying all of that is just to say he'll do the same thing with the fourth command. There'll be different things that happen in your life where he's gonna force you to look at things a little bit differently. I have an uh oh one more example and then I'll move on. I have an example of another spiral. I had a um back in the Early 2000s, I had a number of friends who adopted, whether you know about this or know what this is or not, it doesn't matter, but they adopted what was called New Covenant theology. And in the adoption of New Covenant theology, it basically means that there's this hard break between the Old Testament and the New Testament, and one of the things that changes is that the law does not go forward like we thought it did. that um and that is especially true for the fourth commandment. Now these people that were my friends were the kind of people who were very, very intelligent. And they wrote books on it. They literally published books on New Covenant theology. So then um I spoke with one of them the other day and through the spiral of their lives, particularly with what happened with COVID And particularly what happened with the political situation with COVID, their new covenant theology, according to them, couldn't hold any longer And it br it started to break apart in their mind. They started re-looking at different things, and now they're they've totally abandoned it And they're and they're holding basically to this position at this point, which they would have rather stapled their arm to a burning building in the early 2000s than to have anything to do with this. So that's interesting. So those stories go in my favor in what I'm teaching. I imagine you could tell that story a little bit differently, but my main point in telling you the story is Please keep trying to take these kinds of things seriously, whether it's the fourth command or any of the commands, whether we're just focused on the fourth, and keep a lookout for the spiral that that spiral of God's providence in your life, helping you to draw more closely to Him and seeking His will Yes. Interestingly, circle is two dimensional. Okay. Okay. So that would be one of the differences, ladies, is that Natalie's saying a circle is two dimensional And the spiral is three dimensional. Though it's here, it's two dimensional. That's why it's hard to draw. Maybe we need to get into conics and that kind of stuff here. Apollonia, is that his name? Yeah. Great. Not me. That's as good as it gets right there. Okay. Does anybody have before I move on, does anybody have an example of a hermeneutical spiral in their life? I gave you one about my dad. I gave you another one about someone who had actually switched over into covenant theology as opposed to a new covenant theology. Yes, Christina. I have one that is continuing to grow, but I think um The idea of having faith and what that means, to have faith that God will save you and that He is sovereign over all things and different things but in it was in various life experiences but then also going through Exodus with Carol and Carol's Bible study. And that idea that when you're without water for three days and you're without food and you're looking at death after crying out to the Lord for salvation. Faith still requires that you believe that he is going to take care of you. And faith is not complaining and despairing even in that situation. And that's such a stark picture a faith. And we so often are like, well it's so understandable in those circumstances for you to be despairing, you know? Yeah, yeah. And so that has been and as Since that time, just in reading more and more of the scriptures, seeing that over and over again, um I was reminded of it Um also in my dad's Sunday school class last week because he was talking um But anyway, um it was a New Testament example of um Jesus with his disciples or but then facing something similarly despairingly. Oh, Jesus calling the storm. Yeah. Again, looking at death and when they cry out to Jesus after he has done all of the miracles, after he's fed the five thousand at that point. And then And then raising Jesus up and Jesus basically saying exactly what God says to the Israelites at that same time, like, Why were you afraid? Yeah. It's so easy to say because death is right here next to me. And yet God still says Why are you afraid? And so just that idea that death of faith being what faith is talking about in scripture has been something that has been growing um over time from you know I'm a I'm a cradle Christian so from the what's that From birth. Oh. Gotcha. Before and after moment. Um, but I had the wrong image in my mind. My life is absorbed with lacrosse games right now. So I'm just thinking of like she keep things. She keeps The ball in the pocket. I don't no I got ya now. Anyway. Sorry. Okay, that's great. Yeah, and I noticed similarities in the way that you're telling that story to the way I was telling my story is that it was more than just like defining some words Right. God really uh was is actually working through all the different aspects of your life to bring in a relationship with Him and what faith looks like to where it's looking more and more like what you would see in Christ, which is the ultimate. Okay, that's great. Thank you so much for that example. I really appreciate it. Um okay, so then that's this that's one way for you to be looking at this. And this is a again, this is a recommendation and maybe even an argument that you would keep taking the fourth commandment seriously by continuing to spiral. The other way in which I think that you can do this is to become very specific. So if you look back through the book, you'll see that this whole argument consists of several parts. It's not just one line of thought. There are many different lines of thought that are going on here, and depending on where you take your position on that, it changes and moves things in a certain way. A way to do this is just take a look at the Westminster Confession of Faith. Look at the, if you if you can, just write out the separate sentences. and say, is this something I agree scripture teaches or not? And then if you say, I do think it teaches this, or I don't think I teach it, then I still would encourage you to take it seriously as to say, well why do I think this? Be a Berean who examines the person who examines the scriptures Talk to the people in your life that you know take God seriously. But I would go through those different sentences What I think you're probably going to find is that there are some things you accept from the book and some things that you either don't accept right now because you're confused or whatever, or you don't because as it just I know that's dead wrong. At least that's what you know now. So uh for example, let me just go through it with you just very quickly on how you could be specific. One of the first questions you could ask is you could just say Is the fourth commandment moral? And if we say it's moral and we define that term, that it's obligatory for all people at all times, under the under God Okay, so if you were to say first the f step number one, is it moral? If you said yes If you say no, then we can go through that. Let's just assume that you say, yeah, I do think it is moral. Then we would go with, okay, well what do you think God requires in this command? And you may say, well, I think that he wants us to worship him. on that day. So I think he wants me to go to worship service. And If I were to ask you, okay, well what day should we do that on? And you say, well I'm can still confused about that. I don't really know the answer on what day we should worship. It seems like we should worship every day. But that's not very practical because we still need to get together as like a group of people, and not everybody can get together every day. So it seems like, practically speaking, whether I ask the question or not, everybody's getting together on Sundays. So I guess I'll do the same. Right, so what this ends up revealing to you just in that little conversation is that you do think that there should be some kind of corporate worship, which you should look at the scriptures to see if that's the case I just spoke to someone the other day who told me he's going to have a few people on his boat today and that's counts. And we do giggle at that, but how do you say he's not right? No, there's a fishing. So I'm I'm just saying you gotta w you gotta you gotta talk through these different things. So then this one here, you're s with this conversation, you're starting to get into the specifics where It seems like by default you're holding to a position where I don't know that there is a specific day, but for practical reasons we've chosen to go to the church when everybody else goes to church. And they chose it on the day on the we' where where we would observe the resurrection, so that kind of makes sense to me Well, that's already starting to adopt a theological position. I just articulated actually a theological position on that. So it would be good for you to just list out that this is where I am on those things. This is where I've kind of defaulted. And then as you're going through your life and you're talking with people in your life, you can see, well, is that the best position to to accurately represent what God is teaching us in the Bible You could say things like, I believe that we should worship. I'm not exactly sure why. It just seems like a good idea. Everybody else is doing it And they're doing it on this day, so I practically, if I am going to go to worship, I've got to do it on that day too. And then number three, you s you might say, okay, well, uh does he require anything else Well no, not really. As long as I make the worship service, I can do whatever else I want to do. All right. And that is the position that you're taking. So my own I I'm not trying to beat up on anybody here or be silly or anything like that. I'm just saying if you could list out for yourself what you actually believe, then when you get into conversations, you'll be more aware of the ways in which the Lord is working on you. in specific areas. You may find through a different conversation you're like, oh wait a second, I never saw that scripture before. I think it really is supposed to be here. I think it's apostolic authority that puts us here Or once you start studying Isaiah 58, you might say, oh, I've never seen Isaiah this way. I think we're getting ready to go through Isaiah. Right? So after if so if you attend the Isaiah study with Carol, I think you have to be a woman. That is so sexist. You after you go through that the Lord might work on you and be like, well wait a second, I actually think there's more required of me than I had ever realized. But if you never went through the specifics and you don't and it's and the whole force command is just like this giant jumble of a Sunday school and you don't remember any of the things you ever thought, I don't think that'll be as helpful to you. So I'd encourage you to just start listing out what do you think. And if you need help doing that, I'm happy to walk you through it. I hope you noticed I have not been like pushy or humiliating or anything like that. I am trying to just walk through it from wherever you are in order so that you would understand God's word. I think that's what I've been trying to do. Anyway, hope you picked up on that. Okay, so those are just two different ways of saying the same thing. I think this is what the kind of the spiral looks like. It's becoming more and more specific as to well what do I hold And um and the the presupposition to all of this is that you would take this seriously enough to keep thinking about it. So that's how I started the talk. Okay There we go. Uh you can let me know if you need to talk about it more. And I'd be happy to do so. So let's go ahead and jump into chapter 12. Now with chapter 12, I'm really hoping to get some of your own experiences on this. We have some real veterans here on walking out the fourth command And so that's what the uh chapter twelve is all about, and the title of it is called Making It a Delight I really enjoy the story that is implied in the first paragraph that Dr. Piper gives. He basically, well let me just read it to you really quickly on page 183. This is a great way to start. He says, On more than one occasion when I have taught on the beauty of the Lord's Day, I have been approached afterwards by a person who said that having been raised in a home that strictly observed the Christian Sabbath He would never submit his children to such torture. As I inquired about the practices of his home, I learned that Sunday observance consisted of morning and evening church services, family worship And a list of things that children could not do. For these children, Sunday was only a form of dreary punishment. I think sometimes you can't help that depending on where the child's heart is. But insofar as we are able to help that to where it is a day of delight, then that's really what we should be striving toward. Now, before we get into this chapter, we have here a chapter that he has written in the second paragraph. He says these are suggestions that he's gleaned from books, conversations with friends, and family practices. One of the problems with a book is it doesn't represent exactly how this looks in reality. So you could read a chapter which is however many pages long and you could be excited about this. Or you could think, yeah, I really do think that we need to start doing these things in life, and then you could think, but we're not doing any of these things. So I'm gonna So that starts to feel really overwhelming, installing everything in this chapter all at once. I would encourage you not to do that. I really would encourage you instead to think of your life more of like a craft So uh is anybody here good at carving spoons? I don't mean good in your own mind. I mean like other people think you're good, not just your mother. Yeah carving spoons, anybody? If you had a piece of wood you carve a spoon. What do you mean what is that? You are so modern. You need to get off your telephone and spend more time in the outdoors. Yeah, you're right. Spoons are made from different materials. But even if you were a blacksmith So the re I just think it's a good analogy for how you should be thinking about this. If we sat down with a professional spoon maker and you started to pump out a spoon I mean it would drive you nuts if you pointed out every judgment call that you made that was wrong relative to the grain, the sharpening of your knife, the kind of wood you chose the way you're moving the knife. You know what he's gonna do when he first sits down with you? You know the only thing he's gonna do? He's gonna get you to not pull the knife towards your stomach. He just doesn't want you bleeding all over his workshop. So it's just basically, let's just get this down. Right? And then after that, after we have your thumbs are still attached from the first session, there's just little tiny things he's going to keep working on with you. And I would encourage you, and that's how every craft works And unless you have a machine doing it. For human beings, that has that's how craft works. And I would encourage you to think about the chapter that way. So if there's some things in here you think are kinda neat and you want to go ahead and put them into your life, I just would Take your time. The Lord sees what's going on within you and He understands. So the second thing I was gonna say about this was I forget. Uh Kate, I'm really having a hard time this morning with my memory Uh there was another thing. And I don't rem oh. I didn't see him uh talk about resting So there is a kind of spiritual rest which is also synonymous with worship. But there also is a physical rest, I think, that is taught by the confession itself. So I do I think that should be added more than I see in books. Sometimes people need to chill out, take a nap in a hammock or something like that I think that could be really good. If you happen to live on a beach, you know put your toes in the sand until the evening service. Just brush off the sand before you come into church. Okay, so those were my caveats. And so he begins by saying that some of the practices for the positive view is that this could be a day wherein our children are learning. And so there is a teaching. And he uh mentions on page one hundred eighty four That a positive number one, a positive view of Sabbath keeping for children begins by instructing them about the privileges of corporate worship and training them how to worship. And that's really where I'm going to jump to. And that is on page 185. Is there anybody here that would like to share their experiences in training their children in how to worship? How that went? Any fruit that you saw from that, how you did it? I think it could be helpful for people to hear how you maximize the privileges of that day in helping your children learn how to worship. It does seem like the greatest time to be able to teach them that. I don't know of another time where that really can happen. I know family worship, but it's still just different. Anyone have any saying? Yes. I will say it was we had very active children, so they were they were long arduous years. But um now that they're in adulthood Oh it was Can you make sure you're speaking up? Oh now they're we all want to hear what you're saying. Now that they are all adults, it was it's been very satisfying on the rare times when we're all worshiping together to have them all in worship, to see them with notebooks out, because either we modeled it, modeled taking notes in service, you know, and they were given paper to take notes. Um Um but it was it was hard work for many years to teach them to attend and to step out at times and bring them back in Alright, very good. Thank you for that. And thanks for acknowledging that it's hard work. Yeah, that's and Darren's like, oh yeah. Yeah. That's great. Anybody h else have anything they want to share on just how you and your family did it or are doing it or how that's going or Anything that w was modeled to you? Yes. I know in the very early years ha being in places where everybody with kids that age is is all trying to do the same thing together. So you're probably not the only parent now with your kids. I remember Brian Lee coming during one Sunday evening. And he's so calm and placid most and and he just said I'm You know, struggling with the the anger but also right discipline and just being honest with that with me in a way that was so calm I thought, I don't believe you, Brian, that you're struggling with this because my anger looks a lot different. But just being able to be there together outside with other parents, seeing other kids struggling with the same things, and being here, I know. Um I have friends wanting to do that with their kids, but their church culture is different and their church culture is put the kids away. And so that um just having that community and knowing that we're all doing it together, we're all struggling with it, we're all you know, that was so encouraging Oh great. So the whole community was able to contribute to that as a culture. That's great, Carol. Yeah, and I'll add to that, I when I raised my son, um it was in a unequally yoked marriage. My ex-husband was not a believer. And so raising him in the church, which I did, um required a lot of others coming alongside him when he became Oh yeah. And there were a lot of uh men, especially some elders, who particularly poured into him as a young man and he I think was that modeling of their behavior was instrumental in him becoming the man he is today. Uh so I think there's a a lot to be said for the broader family of God, not just your biological family, that we have to think more broadly about those who are part of our family in the local church who can be models and can step in in those difficult teenage years and um where there's just is friction against parents, but you can be that voice into their life that isn't creating that friction. Yeah. Similarly, you know, what it looks like to walk with God. Any of that in the book, but that is beautiful what you're saying there. So it's not just a a family that's isolated and it's the only group of people that are responsible for the children learning how to worship As a community, both in the way that Christina has said, but then also the way in which you've experienced Carol with Kyle, as a community we can help the children to learn how to worship. You know, um, I think that I'm telling the truth here. I don't know if I'm making this up in my head or not. Holly, you can let me know. But didn't When didn't um sometimes James Maccus take Jack when he was a little boy and they would worship together here in the service? What's that? Yeah, so James Mackis would say that. Jack, you know, not Jack, but Jack. Uh and James Maccass had done that. And that ha still has a lasting effect on how J my Jack looks at his relationship to the younger children here, actually. So that's another example. And by the way, thank you so much for teaching here at the church girl. Seeing the fruit on your right there when she gave you the example from Access. So thanks so much for that. Alright, any other exp well well Christina brought up one. This tends to be a hot topic. Um that Uh Christina told a story about her next to placid Brian Lee. Placid Bri Brian Lee. that she had to take her children out of the service. So in the book, Dr. Pipa does talk about keeping our children in worship Uh what do y'all think? Should the children be in worship? To what d to what degree? Um he mentions uh some rules that he looks to me like he followed or heard from other people that there's a certain point in which you take them out. Did anybody have any wisdom that you gained Well when is it time to take the child out or should they just stay the entire time? Or what? Yeah. I don't know if it's wisdom, but I I do agree with him that There there is an age in which they are yet able to sit still. So we would we came in with the baby, whatever that thing was, baby carry thing. But if he starts to cry, when Al started to cry, we we took him out. And then at some point when he was capable of seeing still, whatever age that is, I think he says two years or something. Twenty. That's true. You know, then you have him with you in the seat. And and then and then and then it's a requirement at that point that he would sit still. And if not, then you could sit still and attend and so on and so forth. And if not, then you do Take him out. You take him out to bring him back in though. You don't take him out because if he learns that you can take him out or if he learns that a lot of la la la will get him taken out, then you've just taught him how to get taken out of church So you don't want to take them out and leave them out. You want to take them out, correct, just from whatever you do, and bring it in the expectations of the people in the other. My father's technique was to grab me right under the thigh, right there. Squeeze nice and hard. And that made me sit up straight. Absolutely. Yeah, I gotcha. I'm not saying I recommend that. I'm just saying that's another option. I'm telling you about this. Alright. Are you any other thoughts on this? Yes. Yeah, just Um I agree with that and just to maybe add a little bit that I think it's important for um parents of young children to know that we as a Congress Sure. Okay. And that um there are definitely times when it's better to take them out, um, and you just have to use your wisdom to know where those times are and everything Every child is different because it can't be a certain age when it works for every kid. Um, but that um the the noises and the little comments they make these Okay. Alright, thanks, Kate. Yes. I remember Richard for a an older woman who would come up to me and say And just say, I just want you to know I love hearing your kids in the service and I'm praying in the service. You know, so a lot of times that prompts me in the service to also pray for parents who are taking the kids out or two. you know, just that we are as a community on the same page where we want them in here and we want to support each other. Okay. Just as a quick follow-up, what are some of I'm hearing just like a general consensus that we want the children to stay in the service even if it means some crying or some interruption. Has anybody w is anybody here willing to share some of the thoughts that Satan puts in your mind when children do start to cry during the service? By the way, I never hear them. I'm just focused. I can't answer your question. I don't want to ans I don't want to answer your question directly. I do think there's a point in time for the nursery. Like, you know, I serve in that capacity and I think that that um I love that its children are here. Like it's not for e I think I love that families in our church have the option. Let's put it that way. Yeah, we've made a real point of putting it that way. What? We've made a big point of putting it that way. And I I love that because at some point there is it is nice. Um Usually it falls to the mom with the little babies. So it's nice to have the option of somebody safely caring for your um twelve to eighteen month old or two year old who's starting to get a little rambunctious so you can focus on the sermon and be be taught well. And different children, children have different frames. Like some are you know have My firstborn, I was like, Whoa, I'm a great mom. My second born came along and I was like, Whoa I 'cause it's 'cause he's different. But it's okay. Right. So um and so it's nice to have I think that option for families that during sermon time. I like that it doesn't start from sermon time, but during that teaching time, which we value, there is an option for the children and for um the families. I want to move on to the next point, but if something does cross your mind, let's just draw out the thought a little bit. If somebody is trying to teach their children how to worship here within the service I mean just ask the question. If they're letting the child cry a little bit, they're trying to get through that moment. Are they doing it because they want to destroy everybody's worship? Like did they show up thinking I'm I really hope that you cry as much as possible today so that everyone's worship is totally destroyed. That's not what's going on inside of them. They're doing their best as parents to be able to make this work Uh so I think it's good to be as charitable as possible and to commend them actually. And I'd encourage you to do that in uh like privately. Just say, I see what you're doing, I'm praying for you. Hang hang in there And there's not there I can't think of anything more important for you to do today than to teach your children how to worship. So I think uh some encouragement could could go a long way. Now let's take another step forward Is there any way things that we can use to help our the to help ourselves and our children to learn how to listen to the sermon? That was also in the book Anything that you have found, I'm just looking for practical advice, not theory really. Anything that you've done that has worked well on how to listen to the sermon can depend on the kid. Yeah. When we had younger children Um, we were part of a congregation that taught the importance of family devotions. And one of the purposes and functions of family devotions Was um teaching our children how to sit still, how to listen How to pay attention and the purpose of worship on Sunday. And we were taught as parents to consider family devotions as practice for Sunday worship. Oh okay. I like that. If your children is the only time that they have to sit down And be quiet for that long Sunday. It's gonna be really hard. Yeah, so some practice during the week. So you know as a dad it's it's really hard doing family devotions, it's hard figuring that out and I wasn't I wasn't always good at it. But when I remembered that the whole one of the purposes was not only teaching my family But it was modeling for my children and helping them to practice what Sabbath observance is about. Okay. Very good. So practice beforehand. Thank you, Dwayne. So that you're not trying to accomplish everything on one hour or a hour and however long we go now. Uh um Anything else? Uh some peop things I've seen that were successful. I want to keep adding some stuff so I'll move us along a little bit. Some things I've seen that have been successful, this might bother you, what I'm getting ready to say, uh depending on Well you think about this, but I have seen uh you know different kids are different. So um I have seen uh parents encourage their children to draw the sermon. Something like that, make a story, and then they're able to recall and step through the story that they drew or or why don't you draw something that you you hear the preacher saying and then They would draw that and then it would end up being the thing that caught their attention the the most uh for example. That was something that I've seen use. I've seen people use outlines, I've seen churches include outlines in bulletins where you could like fill in different parts, all part of learning to listen, uh to the sermon. Anything else that you want to add to that? Yes Well well I've shown this before but we have family dinner after church. And we have family devotions at the dinner table And on Sunday we would review the sermon and each of the kids would get a question or two at their level of understanding. So that even the little ones could remember the characters in s in the past. And then the older ones may be talking about the theology. But It was really instructive and we also saw when they had their friends over. Uhhuh. Um, it was interesting to contrast the difference in their ability to listen. Like some of the older friends would have to get a grammar school question Yeah. Just because of the practice, I saw the value of the practice. Okay. And I also just wanted to say uh to keep in mind if you're in that stage that it's worth the effort It feels like it will never end. But it does. I mean, it does bear fruit. And then you wish it. The thing about bearing fruit is you don't plan it and it doesn't come up the next morning. Yeah, that's true. months and years of, you know I remember my firstborn when we were trying to say, you have to you know I am whispering. Um, you know, now he's fifty years old and he's like Alright, so a lot of the times the Sabbath can be geared more towards a person who loves books and writing and sitting still. And none of that really describes me. So what do you do with people like me? I love that Dr. Pipa included two things, dress up and wrestling. What do you all think about that? Any thoughts on that? Anybody remember that part of the book? Dress up and wrestling on the Lord's Day. It seems like the the wrestling was an example of like, well hey you could do this for like ten minutes. But then make sure you stop and then get on to the things you're supposed to be doing Oh okay. So so uh Alexa set ten minutes for wrestling. Yeah. Yeah. What would happen if he went into the eleventh minute, do you think? Maybe you're sinning. So what so so what is your point in bringing it out the way that you have? Your tone sounded like this is legalistic and as another example of how we're taking the Sabbath wrong. I think his point his point is that if you just wrestle on Sunday afternoon and that's all you do, that you're missing a point. of the day. But it's not just a day to like just hang out and have fun. Okay. That the Um you know, the goal of the wrestling is to help get somebody with a lot of pent up energy to a state where now maybe I can productively engage in something that's you know helping me to focus on the Lord or any of the other ends that he listens in the book. Yeah, what do you think about that I'm still thinking about it. Okay. I I mean I think it it sounds good. Um Okay. Zim. Alright, any other thoughts? Yeah. Dress ups and wrestling. That's what we're on right now. Only wrestling and Well these are I think those are like um what would you call them? They're like archetypes or something. Like I treasured Sunday was a day in my house growing up where we worship the Lord morning and night and then in the afternoon it was the one time I really remember my parents being available like and we would go on a family walk and we would Um because I was a late baby for them. So I would have some one on one attention and we would be often outside and you know, my dad would be telling me about different trees. Like it was the one time I ha that they laid aside their work and were more we were between services and going to serv that is what we did. And so it So it was just very treasured that we had that. And I remember them they say setting boundaries like no, we're not gonna do organized sports. Like so as a result I never played on a sports team because it never until high school because community sports were always on Sunday where I lived. Yeah. And um but I just remember that being a very a special time of availability. Because some of the other things were set aside, whether it was family dinner or and so there was more conversations happening as we walked along the way about the Lord in spending that time together between Okay, great. One, we talked about the worship one because that's definitely something you would delight in, in my mind, that your children are learning to worship God. That's very exciting. But then what are the other ways in which we can make sure that Sabbath has a delight and not um Fun but on the eleventh minute of dread or whatever it is. And it sounds to me like the Sabbath became a delight to you because your parents gave a special attention to you on that day and you enjoyed being able to walk also in the woods. That's great. I'll give an example too that goes along with these kinds of uh activities I always loved, I started to learn to love the Lord's Day because uh we would gather at Doug and Barbara Smith's house for lunch, so free lunch And then um I would with and they would invite other people over that were kinda like they knew that I would be able to talk to. So I enjoy I'm a very social person, so I enjoyed that aspect of it. And then we would continue the conversation going about theology or the Bible or whatever while playing some kind of a game. Like we play Frisbee, uh uh ultimate frisbee or whatever it is. We'd have subs and drinks on the side that she had made us. We'd stop and eat and keep talking. I remember one time we were we were taking a break from Ultimate Frisbee for a second and we went over and kept some kind of conversation going and we said I don't remember that point in the argument that C. S. Lewis was making. I think it's like Romans 8 something. And we had a fun a friend named John Milburn. Anybody know John Milburn? John Milburn was a champion uh in Bible memory. He actually went to competitions. So then we was I said, well what John, what was John ate something And he was like, well, you actually you need the context because that thought starts back in chapter six, so why don't I just recite from chapter six all the way through into chapter nine of Romans And then we can look at the argument together. And he did it right there on on the ultimate Frisbee field. You know, I thought that was like in my in just thinking of my history, that to me seems like a great combination of all of the different things that Dr. Pipe was talking about Um so anybody else have any other stories and being able to delight in the Lord's Day? And the way that it was functioning. Maybe family meals are a big part of that, family and friends, yes? But I've heard people talk about this. The guys on Crosspolitic talk about making that meal something that the kids look forward to. So whatever your Sunday afternoon family and even to the degree where you say that's when they get to have the soda Or that's where they get to have that cake or whatever that thing is. And then therefore it's uh and and so as they are enjoying that feast together, making a feast and enjoying that feast together And as they're talking about the sermon or whatever, the kids are also experiencing the delight of being able to just to feast and to enjoy as opposed to make them green bean casserole or something like that. Hmm. Some people like green bean casual. So that brings up to mine. I know not everybody loves uh Doug Wilson. I think he has a lot of good things to say and there's some things I disagree with. But uh one of the practices I love that he does is he he practices the Lord's Day from Saturday evening to Sunday evening. I know there's some people here that do that also And uh on Saturday evening, correct me if I'm wrong, I think uh uh Jimmy you would know. But uh is it tr isn't it true that on every Saturday they have a Lord's Day feast? Yeah, they try all day Saturday and then the Oh I summed down, yeah. Okay, very good. Yeah. So they they have that kind of a thing and from what I can tell just looking at Uh and he listening to their family. They they all have really enjoyed that and it has gone down from like the parents to the children to the Grandchildren. Do they have great grandchildren? Do the great grandchildren now all look forward to that. And I like that you use the word feast. That really is supposed to get at the heart of what we're trying to accomplish. All right. Any other examples on the Lord's Day actually being a delight and not um a dread and a resentment? Yes, Jeff. Just as far as the parents go, almost this whole book, but especially this section, I would encourage people to tie it to our last book that we read with uh the covenant promises of God. Yeah, yeah. And and the motivation that you're having here is not just the fourth commandment, but it's the all the covenant promises that God gives you. And that as i He has commandments to train up your children this way. And there's promises that go along with those. And just keeping that motivation uh in what you're doing makes it more a delight for you because you know the meaningfulness of it and the promises that go Yeah, and that's how the book started off, right? In and pointing out the promises that are attached to in Isaiah fifty eight. Yeah, very good. Thank you so much. Well Jeff was pointing out we should connect this book to the last book we had with the covenant promises to our God that this is a practical way as a secondary means that works out Yes, Christina. Um we growing up did a lot of canoeing and kayaking One of the things that I value about the Sabbath is The end of striving. And I'm wondering as a reflection of Christ's accomplished work And I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about how how that like Can you have full enjoyment in an activity even if you aren't consciously talking about this is what God created, this is a God thing, we're gonna keep talking about God Is there room for tr enjoying lawful activity and a cease from striving on the Sabbath without necessarily consciously making it a spiritual activity Meaning like can we if I'm understanding you correctly is like do we have to turn everything into a teaching moment? Yeah. Is that kind of what you mean? If we hadn't had the C. S. Lewis conversation on the Frisbee field, could we have simply enjoyed the ability to freely enjoy this game together? without the CS List conversation and have it still be a lawful activity in this framework on the Sabbath. Yeah, I would imagine that we could. Um that was just my story. Some of the people there didn't get involved in that conversation at all and they could give a crap about C. S. Lewis. So or they could care less about C. S. Lewis, sorry. They could care less viral. They could care less about C. S. Lewis. For them I think it was just important for them to have human connection. There were a lot of other things going on besides the ultimate frisbee, I guess I I would uh I don't know how to answer that question. I think it would be nice if on that day You are connecting it to other things. I don't think everything has to be a teaching moment. It was important for me to have J I recalled it the way that I did because I was very young Christian and I was very excited about learning about Jesus Christ and how all this stuff works. So I was pumped that there were other people that were also interested. And then I discovered this guy named Lewis. Yes. And so that was how that unfolded for me. For other people it was nice that they just had someone who would actually give them the time of day and play a game with them. Uh that to me looked like an act of mercy in a sense Uh um at the end of those I don't know that there needs to be a t I don't know how to answer the question exactly. I don't think there needs to be a teaching moment. I personally find that after a day of like let's just say we enjoyed a great salad with artichoke parts At the end of the day I do find myself like giving thanks. Like there is like a connection to God still, but somebody didn't need to talk to me about Hey, can't you see all of the attributes of the Creator in the artichoke hearts? Let's list them. Like that's that that didn't need to take place. But I was thankful in my heart even to this day for all of the human connection I made over those artichokarts. Uh so it's hard for me to like divide it's hard for me to separate it 'cause it's all like giant ball that Just rolled together. And it didn't always include teaching though. Maybe that helps. Yeah. Well I guess I think about that. I didn't think about my thinging up and I don't think that was always the teaching wasn't always part of what we did, but I am so grateful for those moments like for the ability on Sunday even to sit outside in the sunshine like a tent and just absorb it and not have to think about all the things that are maybe that could just be included under the kind of rest. Like rest could look like a nap. Yeah. But couldn't rest look like like I did mention putting your toes in the sand Yeah. And And we don't need to talk about I don't need to like while your toes are in the sand and be like, hey, you see the sand on your toes? You know the Abrahamic promise? People shall be like stand on the you know, I don't know. Yeah. Yeah, so so there might be room to also bring our children along by saying what's something that you really enjoy that is difficult to do on the other days And can we just praise God for a little bit of time of doing that thing today? I think that's perfect. When and have that be enough. Yeah, I think that's cool. I love that. Uh real quick, Chase has been waiting patiently Well uh the question I ask myself, and I think it came up earlier in the book, is d whatever the activity is, does it distract from the focus the day. Right. So if I catch my you know, if we've had lunch and I see my kids start to throw up frisbee in the yard I don't counce on them and say, no throws me strong it's a Sabbath day. But I don't consider what they're doing in the in the moment as necessarily distracting from the day. But I might say we're not gonna go hang out with the neighbor's kids I don't because I want to be together as a family. So I'm that's or I wouldn't, you know Putting the kayak in in a certain situation might not get worse as a family walking down the water. That might be It might fit into the day, but I wouldn't plan some fishing trip for it because that is taking the focus off that day. But it's hard to give just a rule that applies to everyone. Yeah, I don't think it works that way. It's just like everything else. Yes. I was just wondering as as Christina and Chase were talking, you know, I wonder if uh a good principle is just as our children are growing up training them to, especially on the Sabbath as we engage in lawful activity to reflect on to like if you are canoeing and it's just silent and you're just gliding across the water in this beautiful setting Ensure that your mind goes to God and his goodness and how this reflects his attributes and you don't necessarily have to have a conversation out wow, maybe sometimes you do, maybe sometimes you don't, but it's you're training your children up in the way that as they go through the activities of the day, they are intentionally trying to steer their mind forward to help those activities contribute to the ends of the day as opposed to just our own like going after our own pleasure. Yeah, yeah. Um so a lot of it probably is is your mindset and your heart as you engage in those things. Because you could also engage in those same things in a way that is not honoring the maybe that's a key element. train up in that practice. Yeah. Okay, very good. That's great. I think that's good. Holly, this will be the last one. Although I'm not showing favoritism to you as my wife. couple times. Okay. I I would think too trying to like as an act of it's a huge act of discipline, I feel like, as a as a wife specifically of planning my week so that my Sabbath is different. It's a mental I'm not saving all my laundry for today to just put load after load in to then dry and then have the full because Saturday is like a free day. You having to be very intentional of I mean I had to put towels in the laundry this morning because I waited too late. But I'm not like I in my head have to be very planned of how this how my Sunday can be different than every other day. So I'm trying not to like meal plans or put a grocery list together and try to think through my whole week and that is very hard for me as someone who likes to be efficient and check things off and so to know that I've got everything. together. So trying to be intentional like that and then teach my kids this is a different day set aside like that. We're not doing all this housework. I'm not asking you to clean a bathroom or a health vacuum or I mean there's messes. You've got to clean up somewhere. You've got to load the dishwasher or unload the dishwasher, but we're not doing major house cleaning projects, we're trying to keep it free for that time to make the big difference, to have time to focus on each other and the Lord, to have that time where you're more available I think as a parent because you're not distracted by stuff. But it I find like as a As a mom, it takes a lot of extra effort to let it be a different thing. But when I have done that, it's very freeing to know I'm not doing these things today. Like I need to put my mind to rest and I need to move on and this is something for tomorrow. Yeah, that's very good. Thank you. And have more discipline in those things too. Very good, thank you. And that's a perfect segue. We didn't plan this, but the next chapter is on planning ahead. You can see her again next Sunday. So all right, well um you can I really would encourage you to start talking with each other as a community. Just Your different experiences, how are you working this out? I think we're supposed to be thinking about it together. Don't silo yourself off. Really talk to each other about how this has worked out in your own lives. That would be the case with any command, honestly. You would need to talk to other people about all kinds of different circumstances you haven't thought through. Um how long should a skirt be? How high can a heel be? Whatever. That's all relating to the seventh command So um same thing with the fourth. I hope as a community we can keep talking with each other about what pleases the Lord. Okay, we're ten minutes over, so I'm going to go ahead and close us in prayer. Heavenly Father, I thank you for your word. I thank you that your people here are committed to it. I pray, Lord, that you would help if you would continue to give us uh gentleness and patience for each other as we Try to follow the dictates of our conscience, molded by your word, as well as growing in understanding what your word is over time. I pray, Lord, that how we conduct ourselves and working these things out would be salt and light to the world, that we wouldn't condemn each other. I pray, Lord, that we really would have this day set aside to delight in you. Pray that you would keep us from self-righteousness and that form of legalism But also the kind a kind of legalism where we're morally policing each other or we're too harsh in our judgments or we put under people under a burden that they cannot cannot bear I pray, Lord, that our children would grow up seeing your day as of the light. And Lord, may our observance of this day contribute by your sovereignty to our children being the new creation to carry forward the gospel in the future. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.