Colossians 1, 1 through 8. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy our brother. to the saints and faithful brethren in Christ who are in Colossae. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and your love for all the saints Because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel, which has come to you as it has in all the world, and is bringing forth fruit, as it is also among you since the day you heard and knew the grace of God and truth As you also learn from Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf, who also declared to us your love in the Spirit. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, and we pray that you would attend the preaching of it, that you would make it effectual I pray, Lord, for your congregation that they would at least begin more and more to see what you have done in them and around them, and that they would be thankful. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. You can be seated. When Holly and I first bought our house, we made a lot of different changes. We t tore down a central wall and put in a beam. for there to be more open spaces for the kind of thing which we wanted to do, which was to host a lot of people in small groups for what or uh whatever it is that we were hosting. We not only changed the inside, we also changed some of the outside I remember taking a part of the backyard and that had uh was just grass and converting it into a garden. And that year when we converted it, there hadn't been a garden there for before, and so the soil was very, very good, had plenty of nutrients At that time uh we didn't have a lot of variety of plants. We were just kind of trying some things out about the and the first plant that I chose was tomatoes. I had a vision of having tomatoes that actually tasted good. It seems like the ones from the grocery store look good, but then they don't taste good. And so we grew the tomato plants and to this day here I am telling you, I would think we bought the house in like 2005 or 2006 or something like that, and here I am today still talking about those tomatoes That's how good they were that summer when I would slice them, sometimes I would put them on sandwiches, other times I would just put a little salt and pepper on them or True let me just be honest. I would put Old Bay on them and enjoy the tomatoes uh all through the summer, just slicing 'em as they were ready You know, I tell you this story because there's something similar here going on within the letter of Colossians. There is a garden that has been planted in colossae and there is a lot of fruit coming from them. And just, you know, this is a little bit uh s silly in a sense because the two don't really compare tomato plants and a church plant. But nevertheless, the similarity is that Paul likewise is really thankful that the garden is doing so well. The Garden uh in the Colossian Church. And so I'd like to begin by just going through this passage and and What is it that Paul begins to write to this group of people? And how is it that although we're many miles away and many years away, how is it that the Lord wants us to benefit here this morning from what the Holy Spirit has included in this letter to the Colossians? If you like taking notes, I'm going to look at this under three main parts. It'll be the planting of the garden, the growth of the garden, and thankful for the garden. The planting planting of the garden, the growth of the garden, and thankful for the garden. So let's just start right at the in the, we'll just jump right into this passage with the planting of the garden. Now this might surprise you. Some of you might be thinking, oh, I'm so thankful that, and Paul was so thankful because Paul planted this new church at Colossae. Well not directly. If you were to take a look at the letter, one of the first things we find in terms of planting of the garden is that his co-worker, Epaphras, planted the church at Colossae. There's universal consensus, as far as I know, on this. In verse number 7, you can see that Paul appeals to this when he says, as you also learn from apaphris our dear fellow servant, who was a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf. And then a little bit later in the letter, Paul mentions that he's never seen this group face to face. So this leads us to conclude that someone else planted the church and the way that he speaks about his co-worker Epaphras here, that it was Epaphorus who was doing so Now, although it was a Paphrist who planted this church in Colossae, the letter is in fact coming from Paul, and Timothy is with him. You can see that in verse number one Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy, our brother, to the saints and faithful brethren in Christ who are in Colossae. Colossae is probably about a hundred miles away from Paul when he's writing this. There's a little bit of a debate here, but the Apostle Paul is probably in a prison in Ephesians or in Ephesus when he's writing this. Ephesus is really close to the sea and inland by a hundred miles is the church at Colossae or the Colossians 100 miles, you can look on your Google Maps. It's about Annapolis to Philadelphia. That's what we're dealing with. And I think Annapolis to Philadelphia is 118 miles, but that's close enough. If you want to think of uh a quainter, more enjoyable town, you could think of Annapolis to a little past Cambridge. I think Annapolis is about 60 miles from Cambridge. But that gives you a sense in your own travels of what's going on here in terms of Paul having co-workers going out and planting churches and Paul receiving information and sending out letters. here to Colossae. Epaphorist, you can see as we go through the rest of this portion here, especially in verse number four Epaphorist has reported to Paul how well the Colossian Church is doing. Take a look at verse number four You see that Paul and Timothy have heard of their faith in Christ Jesus and of their love for all of the saints because of the hope which is laid up for them in heaven. of works of which they have heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel. So the gospel has come to this group of people and there's all of this fruit that is starting to blossom, namely faith, hope, and love, which we see within the other New Testament scriptures. Epaphras has reported back to Paul how well these Colossians are doing here at this church and all the fruit that is coming from them. What Paul is doing here, you can see that I'm using this as a basic way to introduce you to the letter. But what Paul is doing here with this letter of Colossians is that Epaphras, though he is the church planter, he's the one who has planted the garden as Paul's co-worker. Epaphras has given this information back to Paul, and Paul is now writing a letter to the Corinthian church, and he's going to send that letter with a group of people. Take a look at verse number four as to who's going to deliver this letter. I'm sorry, in chapter number four, verses seven through nine You can see here towards the end where he's starting to say his farewells that Titicus, a beloved brother, faithful minister, and fellow servant in the Lord, will tell you all the news about me. So this is a messenger that's going out. I am sending him to you for this very purpose, that he may know your circumstances and comfort your hearts with anissimus A faithful and beloved brother who is one of you, they will make known to you all the things that are happening here And you see that there in Colossians 4, 7 through 9. Now, Tichicus we don't hear much about, but Onesimus we do hear something about, because he is a slave owned by Philemon. Is everyone here aware that there is a letter in the New Testament called Philemon? So it's quite likely that not only do we have Paul sending the letter of Colossians to Colossae, But we also have Paul sending along that letter to Philemon. And so what we'll be doing here over the summer is we're going to have a series not only on Colossians, but an immediate follow-up to Colossians. with Philemon. And that'll be about 17 sermons that we'll enjoy together. We should uh end a little bit after September. A couple weeks after September, we'll take this through, and then we'll see where the Lord takes us from there. And that is the basic introduction here in the in uh the planting of the garden. Who planted the garden? uh who who is he reporting to, what letters are being sent out, and how are we going to proceed within this within this series? You know, I can't help but to mention, as soon as I start to talk about the church planting effort of Epaphras and Timothy and Paul and others that were involved in this church planting team. That we just received received excellent news in the last Presbytery meeting that the church plant of uh that Brad and Ashley are a part of, that that has been approved by the Chesapeake Presbytery and has received official mission status. The vote was the uh the motion was made on the floor and it was unanimous. There were it was such a good idea, there was no discussion, which is really hard to believe among Presbyterians. Everybody really uh we all agreed, which was a first experience of mine. And so that's good to remember that here we not only have a church plant that we're seeing many, many, many years ago, long, a long distance away, we're still seeing Jesus Christ. do the same thing. And I can't wait for us to hear, Jeremiah Horner is on their standing session. I can't wait to hear news of the kind of fruit in that church plant. I can't wait to hear about people who have never heard the gospel before. And Jeremiah will come in and he'll say, you wouldn't believe the faith they have. You wouldn't believe the love that they have for each other, and you wouldn't believe the hope that they have discovered in Jesus Christ. Let's keep that church plant in prayer, please. Let's keep that church plant in prayer Now that's the planting of the garden that we have here. There is also the growth of the garden. The apostle calls Epaphras his co-worker. But he attributes the growth of the Colossian congregation to the gospel itself. He acknowledges that Epaphras is his co-worker and that he has done faithful work there. But the way that he writes this is that he attributes the growth and the fruit to the gospel itself. Now when he does that He means God behind the gospel, that God is working through the preaching of his word. But when you look here just in the way that he has written it, he assigns this kind of power to the gospel. among this group of people. Take a look at verse number five, for example. We'll look at five and six. In verse number five he says that Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, sorry, this is starting in verse 4. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus And your love for all the saints because of the hope which is laid up for you, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel. You see that? So they've already heard this message Paul's not giving it to them for the first time. Someone has already come and discipled them. Now Paul's writing to those who have been discipled, and he's relaying to them, hey, I heard that you've heard the gospel, and now look at verse number six. Which has come to you as it has also in all the world, and is bringing forth fruit, as it is also among you, since the day you heard and knew the grace of God and truth. And that's what reminded me of that tomato garden. I was amazed at just how tasty the fruit was, and it reminded me of this exact situation where the gospel has gone out to this group of people and it says that the got since the gospel has come, it has borne this kind of fruit that is among you. And he listens to what kind of fruit that is. The gospel came to them and is bringing forth fruit as it is also among you since the day you heard and knew the grace of God in truth. Now do you notice sometimes we don't catch this, but did you notice that he describes the gospel as the word of the truth? I think it's a good question for you to be asking, well, what is the gospel? And the way that he first describes it here is he says, well, it is the word of the truth. Now that's good for us to remember. Sometimes we boil the gospel down to a religious experience. Sometimes we hear the gospel talked about in fifty different ways, and no one would really know what the gospel is. And I've mentioned this to you before, there seems to be a kind of fad that might be fading, where every single book is called Gospel Something. Gospel living, gospel knitting, gospel fishing, gospel whatever it is. I'm being a little silly there, but actually not too much. So we start when we start to hear that word overused that way, we begin to wonder, well, if it refers to everything, then it really has come to mean nothing. So what is it specifically that it means? Well, Paul gives us a real hand here when he says that it is the gospel of the truth. And if you were to look at how he describes this elsewhere in Scripture, you'd start to see some of the truths that he goes over with people whoever he is discipling. And that's valuable for us to know. It was valuable for the church at Colossae to know. It's valuable for us to know. You can write this down and just listen, or you can flip to 1 Corinthians 15. Verses 1 through 11, if you'd like, with me. That's up to you. I'm just going to go ahead and read it here because this is what Paul preached This is what Peter preached. This is what John preached. This is what they were all preaching. It actually says at the end of this passage, we all preached this same thing, and you all believed it. And I'll read that to you in a second. But listen to the kinds of truth. That were given. It says in 1 Corinthians 15, picking up in verse number 1, moreover, brethren, I declare to you the gospel which I preached to you. which also you received and in which you stand, by which also you are saved if you hold fast that word which I preach to you unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you first of all that which I also received. Now listen to this. Here it is. That Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. And then I'm jumping way down. Therefore, whether it was I or they, so we preached. And so you believed. Now there's some of the content of the word of the truth that would have gone to the Colossian church that a Paphrist would have handed down also. You notice Paul isn't making up these doctrines. He says that he has in fact received them, and he's just the messenger delivering them to people. He receives the word of truth and he delivers the word of truth. That's the only kind of authority he has. He's not allowed to make things up. And the the word of truth included there that Christ dies for our sins and that he is raised again. Now, what's really important here, this is just 11 verses if you were to read this whole section. What's really important here though is the phrase according to the scriptures. When he says that, we now have volumes to talk about. Because what he's saying is, if you follow the story that God has given to us, especially in the Old Testament scriptures, Then all that we were expecting in the Messiah, the long-awaited one, has been found in Jesus, and Jesus is the Messiah. Everything that you need to know about atonement for your sins. That is found within the scriptures, we're seeing that fulfilled in Jesus. You could do the same thing with buried three days and raised again to life. All that is taught to us from the secret counsels, though revealed from God Himself about the importance of the resurrection found in the Scriptures. Those things are true in Jesus, who is the Messiah. And Paul will develop all of these kind of summary points out into all of those things, developing various scriptures. And that is the gospel. That is the gospel, and it is spoken of in our passage in Colossians as exerting a power because God especially works through the telling of this truth. God works especially through the telling of this truth. Now that is really relieving for me to hear Some of the people that I meet, I think, how in the world will I ever be able to persuade them to see the truth about Jesus? And the answer is that I won't be able to. It doesn't mean that I don't have conversations. It doesn't mean that I don't preach. It doesn't mean that I don't talk But what we end up seeing here, which is a great relief, is that God Himself is working through His Word. Now I'll give you a couple different examples. One is my personal one, which you've heard. After they after they had done the intake work for me as when I went to the drug rehabilitation center, they pulled a Bible out on the desk, you already know this, and the guy uh use Noah and the Ark as an analogy for me to understand Christ and his judgment and in five minutes I was in the kingdom of God Now do you really think it was because that guy was so profound that he was finally let me just tell you, my you know how in yearbooks they write down what most likely you're gonna be Like um most likely to be an entrepreneur. I would be interested to know what those were for you, by the way. What were you most likely to be? Do you know what mine was? Most likely to be a criminal Most likely most likely to be a criminal and uh that was that was true. So When I when I was in there, I was still, you know, pretty much of that mindset, but then once the word was spoken from the scriptures, Christ used it like that. And it started to exert a power within me to where, as I've told you before, even my family members, even though they did not believe in God, ask, could we get other people in our lives involved in the church? Because we've seen the difference it has made with you. Now, besides myself, there are plenty other examples. There are examples of a bunch of examples here sitting in this room. I'll give you a scriptural example which is more exciting. I think that what's going on here in part can be explained from a larger vision from Isaiah chapter 11 verse 4. Listen to this. This is what I think is going on in the background, by the way. But with righteousness he shall judge the poor, speaking of the Messiah, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth. He shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth. And with the breath of his lips he shall slay the wicked. Now this speaks to a specific work in which he'll do with his word. But it also speaks more generally speaking to the kind of power and what he accomplishes just by his word. Don't forget that we're talking about the same God here, is the same God who said, let there be light. Just in the speaking and him working through his word, so too does that happen here in the preaching of his word. Acts chapter 16, verse 11 through 15 is such a beautiful picture of this with Lydia. It says this. It says, therefore, sailing from Troas, we ran a straight course through Thamistris. And the next day came to Neapolis, and from there to Philippi, which is the foremost city of the part of Macedonia, a colony. And we were staying in that city for some days. And on the Sabbath day we went out of the city to the riverside where prayer was customarily made. And we sat down and we spoke to the women who met there. Now a certain woman named Lydia heard us. She was a seller of purple from the city of Thyatira who worshipped God. The Lord opened her heart to heed the things spoken by Paul. And when she and her household were baptized, she begged us, saying, If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay. And so she persuaded us It was the Lord who worked through the word to where she was then able to believe the message or the gospel of Jesus the Messiah. And then you immediately see, even in this account, that fruit is already beginning in her life and that she is showing love towards the saints by offering hospitality in her home. We already have faith and love in this passage If we were to look a little bit further, I'm sure we could find hope. The same kind of fruit that we see within the Thessalonians, we see in all of those who know Jesus the Messiah. It's not just religious experience or blind faith. Sometimes that's the message that is given to us. We see here in this point that it's the truth of the gospel. That it is the truth of the gospel and that God works powerfully through this means. Thank God. Now, the next point I wanted us to go over is that there is not only the planting of the garden, and there is not only the growth of the garden, the growth happens by way of the gospel. But there there is also a thankfulness, or we are thankful for the garden. This is the last point. Just as I am still thankful for the garden that I had that one year, So too is Paul thankful for the garden that God has caused to flourish in Colossae. I was thankful because of the fruit. It really boiled down to that. And the same thing is true of Paul. Paul was thankful for the fruit. Epaphras told them of the fruit. Take a look in verses 4 and 5. We've gone over this a little bit already. He says, since we heard, well, what did he hear? He heard about fruit. He heard of their faith in Christ Jesus. He heard of their love for all of the saints. And because and he heard that because of those things, there is a hope That they that they developed a hope which was laid up for them in heaven in Colossians four one four through five. They faith, hope, and love We're there in the individual Christian. They were in the community. They were there from the beginning. And by God's grace, they're there to the end. Now we've gone over some of this, so I don't need to spend a lot of time, but the faith here spoken of, this kind of fruit, the kind of tomato that formed on the vine of the Colossians. It's a faith which reached out to grasp what God offers in Jesus Christ. It was not a bald Uh intellectualism, where I know everything about Jesus, but he's not mine and I'm not his. That's not what he's talking about It's a covenantal knowledge, if you want to talk about it that way. They had a faith which reached out to grasp what God offers in King Jesus. The love that they had was a love which would bind the community together. A community that really didn't belong together But they were bound together anyway. And the hope, it was a hope that looked eagerly forward to the time when God would complete what he began in Jesus. Paul heard all of these things, and that they were all there in this new garden in Colossae. And in verses 3 through 8, he declares That he is repeatedly thankful to God who has done all these things in this place. Essentially, he probably said something like, The garden is in good shape, and I'm delighted. That was his heart. Now that is the planting of the garden and the growth of the garden and the thanksgiving for the garden. I want you to take a look at verse number eight here in our passage. You notice he already stated faith, love, and hope. in the main body of this paragraph. But then Paul can't resist because of who he is. And we remember what he wrote in 1 Corinthians 13 about love. He can't resist, but to come back to verse number eight and to label an ultimate mark of that which he's most thankful for. He lists love and hope, but then in verse number eight, he comes back and he says that Epaphras has reported that they have love in spirit. Love in the spirit That they have love in the spirit. It really got me thinking about us. There are a lot of different standards out there to judge if your garden is going well. And it's easy to feel deflated when you compare your garden to the garden of other people. You know, for example, I have tried gardens in my backyard, but then I see these English gardens. Or these other people that garden for a living, it almost makes me want to quit. Their gardens are so beautiful and I I have I end up having stray thoughts like, well, if we could just buy another eight acres. I could do the permaculture thing. And the same is true when we compare ourselves to the standard of the garden of the church. You know, we can look out there and we can see a lot of different churches and we can see a lot of buildings that are way bigger than ours. And we can see a lot more people there on Sunday mornings. We can see that because they have all of those different resources, they're able to have parking attendants. Uh kind of like King's Dominion. Waving you through. They have police officers that help the traffic get back out so you can get home. A lot of the times in a situation like that, the pastor has become a celebrity, and so have other the other pastors, piggybacking. They're on the news, they write books, they own publishing companies. And there's a lot of pressure. You feel it? The kind of resources and programs you think that we should have around here? A lot of the times those ideas come from us comparing ourselves to something else and what does it look like to be successful? What does it really look like to be mature? By the way, that's probably the main question that Paul is going to ask through this entire letter. I want to make a note of that. What does it actually look like to be mature? Here what he tells us is um, you know, maybe the church at Antioch was pretty big actually in Paul's day. And maybe we would have some of those things, maybe we don't. But you know what? No matter what we have, we better have love as a congregation. Love in the spirit, actually. is what he says. And that was refreshing to me, because I do see love in the spirit here at Severn Run. Whether we have those things or not does not matter to me. I wonder about you. I believe that Paul and the Holy Spirit are teaching us here that no matter what, the one thing we should have is love What matters is that the behavior which marks us out so much from the world, such as lust and anger and lies and so on, the kind of things that split up families and communities That instead we have become a community that has replaced those things with kindness and with gentleness and with forgiveness. And with acceptance of one another in the Lord as members of the same family and the household of God, even where there are major differences of race, background, and culture. That's what's going on at Colossae. And it gives me great delight and thanksgiving to the Lord to see that happening here. It is the true sign of God's work at us. It is the true sign of maturity. If you have a publishing company and you are seen on the news but have not love, it means nothing. Let us be thrilled and grateful to be a congregation with that kind of fruit. Amen. And let us pray.