Continuing in our study of the Gospel of Matthew, today we're up to chapter twenty-three. We're going to be taking the first thirty-six verses, which by its very nature of the fact means that I'm not going to be able to touch on any one of them to a great deal. of uh uh demonstration, thirty-six verses, uh give two minutes each, and you guys would be champing at the bit to get out of here. I heard you back there, Pat. However, I do believe that we can address the overall impact and the primary thrust of Matthew twenty-three and that if the Lord is uh so gra uh gracious. To grant us what we will try to do today. Look at chapter 23, picking up with verse 1, we will be reading through verse 36. The Lord is speaking Speaking from his position on the temple in the temple, on the temple steps. And Jesus spoke to the multitudes and to his disciples, saying, The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' See, therefore whatever they tell you to observe, that observe, and do. But do not do according to their works, for they say and do not do For they bind heavy burdens hard to bear, they lay them on men's shoulders, and they themselves will not move with one of their fingers. But all of their work they do, they are uh to be seen by men. They make their phylacteries broad and they enlarge the borders of their garments. They love the best places at the feast. the best seats in the synagogue, greeting in the marketplaces, and to be called by men Rabbi, Rabbi. But you do not be called Rabbi For one is your teacher, the Christ, and you are all brethren. Do not call anyone on earth your father, for one is your father, he who is in heaven. And do not be called teachers, for one is your teacher, the Christ But he who is greatest among you shall be your servant. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you shut up the kingdom of heaven against men, for you neither go in it yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering to go in. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. Therefore you will receive greater condemnation. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you travel land and sea to win one proselyte, and when he is one, you make him twice as much a son of hell as yourselves Woe to you, blind guides, who say whoever swears by the temple is nothing, but whoever swears by the gold of the temple he is obliged to perform it. Fools and blind For which is greater, the gold or the temple that sanctifies the gold? Whoever swears by the altar is nothing, but whoever swears by the gift that is on it, he is obligated to perform it. Fools and blind, for which is greater the gift of the the gift or the altar that sanctifies the gift. Therefore he who swears by the altar swears by it and by all things on it. He who swears by the temple swears by it and him who dwells in it. And he who swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by him who sins It's on it. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you pay tithe of mint and anise and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you cleanse the outside of the cup and dish, but inside they are full of extortion and self-indulgence. Blind Pharisees first cleanse the inside of the cup and dish, that the outside of them may be clean also. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you are like whitewashed tombs, which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but inside are full of dead men's bones, and all unclean Cleanliness. Even so, you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you build the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous and say, if we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have And partakers with them in the blood of the prophets. Therefore, you are witnesses against yourselves, that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets. Fill up then the measure of your father's guilt. Serpents, brood of vipers, how can you escape the condemnation of hell? Therefore, indeed, I send you prophets, wise Men and scribes. Some of them you will kill and crucify, and some of them you will scourge in your synagogues and persecute from city to city. That on you may come all the righteous blood shed. on the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, son of Barekiah, whom you murdered before the temple and the altar. Assuredly, I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation. May the Lord have his blessings. to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. What do you do with a passage like this? I mean the primary intent of the passage is obviously negative. Jesus is going all out, isn't he, in condemning the Pharisees and the religious leaders of the day. And his language, his choice of words, they are very sharp. They are very biting They're tough to hear, even now. It is this particular chapter is considered the most specifically anti-Jewish teaching in all of Scripture. Although in my estimation, some of Paul's estimates statements can give it a run for its money, but they are not the extended type that this one is. But we've got to get our minds right here. Jesus is not just having a bad day. You know, the scribes and the Pharisees haven't just gotten his goat, and he's letting the pressure off by coming back at them. Jesus is here speaking as God. Notice how he says that. I send my prophets. I send my folks to you. Some you will murder, some you will do this, that, and the other. Jesus is here speaking as God speaking from the temple. He is God, the divine judge. And he's not saying anything new either. Don't think that the This is something that just cropped up in the New Testament. Jesus is here speaking almost specifically the same thing that Ezekiel says in chapter 34 of his book. What he's doing is specifically telling all of the religious leaders of his days the same thing that Ezekiel said, but that it is now coming true. What Ezekiel prophesied, Jesus is saying, here it comes. It's standing at the door. There's only one way to understand it when God speaks and says, Woe to you. And that is, you better get your act together, for God is not going to restrain his anger much longer. And Jesus in this chapter is Making that very clear. Assuredly, I am telling you all of these things will come true in this generation. Jesus is here looking forward to God's hand at work on in condemnation and uh judgment on the people of Israel that was coming down to commence in seventy AD and finish up up in 125 A. D. There's not a lot of wiggle room here. This is God speaking. The judge has rendered his verdict, the hangman has built the scaffold, the deputy is on his way to drag you to it, and that's the force of these words. Have you ever stopped to think about Have you ever imagined what it was like to be on death row? To sit there in your cell knowing As the clock is clicking down, that in the next hour, the next few minutes, they're coming to get you. And you're going to die. I don't care how painless it is advertised as being, the idea of a scheduled, merciless death is horrible to consider. And yet that is just what Jesus is doing here. He's trying to put these religious leaders and their followers into this frame of mind. Time is short. The clock is ticking down. Another forty years or so and it's gonna Come folk, God's anger is going to fall, and you're living under God's wrath at this moment. And as long as they persist in rejecting Jesus as the Messiah, as The Christ of God, the Jewish race to this day remains cut off from the blessing and fellowship of the God of Israel. Jesus is here speaking words that were intended to call them back from that rest. What we should see here is that this is a negative passage, but brothers and sisters, That may sound sound contradictory, but it is not so. The great grace that Jesus is showing these religious leaders and through them all of the Jewish people that follow is that now No, even now, while you're still alive, there's hope. Repent of your arrogance and hypocrisy. Repent of your stubborn responsibility Refusal to give up your man-made traditions. Turn to me, turn to your Christ. The Christ of Israel, the Christ of the entire world. That's what Ezekiel proclaimed in Ezekiel 34. That's what God, through Jesus Christ, is doing in this passage to Second Temple Judaism. And that's what God is saying to the Jews today, and is saying to everyone who is outside the Church of Christ. The announcement of John Judgment is the last act of God's mercy. It is the final call issued to all who stand under the Turn and be saved from the wrath that is coming. That's the overall framework in which we need to read this chapter. And it's from that overall framework that I think we can answer the original question I first asked. What are we going to do with this? What do we do with this? with this but this chapter. Well the first thing I hope I've already established is that we can't just skip it over. We can't just say, oh well, you know, that was Jesus having a bad day. Let's go on to the good stuff. It's not only that our sin makes these words unpleasant. God's justice is righteous. It is also the work of Satan in us, seeking to move us into the direction that these same scribes and Pharisees We're seeking to move the people of Israel. So, how should we understand and apply these teachings? First thing I think we need to do is take them as Jesus. Jesus is here speaking not so much actually, even in pronouncing the woes, to the scribes and Pharisees themselves. He is speaking first and foremost to the crowd that is standing around them. Those who might be subjected to false teaching. The first twelve verses, Jesus is not speaking to the scribes and Pharisees at all. He shifts his fo his attention to the crowd, including his own disciples. That are standing there, and he speaks to them about the religious leaders, about those who are trying to teach them and to lead them in the wrong directions. Now, what do we see here? The first thing we need to see, I would call Passage such as this is that we need to be silent. That all the world be silent before him. And that's the first thing I believe we can apply. Because, brothers and sisters, we've got to come to grips with this. This is Jesus, yes, he's our shepherd, he is our loving Savior. He is God. And that That means he is holy, holy, holy. And when he speaks to us through these verses, we need to pay attention. God is a God of grace. That is epidence. Absolutely true. Jesus is our grace and Savior. But God is the God of judgment, and he is jealous for his name, and Jesus, our Jesus, must be taken seriously when he talks about hell and judgment Because he talks about them more than anybody else in Scripture. God is speaking from His holy temple to us. Let us be silent. We have no right, brothers and sisters, no one has the right to separate Jesus from judgment No one has the right to draw a distinction between an angry God and Jesus. As if we are the object of hatred by this angry God, and if it were for Jesus, all of that anger is going to fall on us, but God is still mad. And he kind of grudgingly gives up his anger because Jesus did some nice things for us. God. God's wrath and Jesus' wrath Are the same thing, God's mercy and Jesus' mercy are the same thing. And as a result of that, we must see here that Jesus is teaching us about that which He Himself As ordained. We must not put Jesus in a box that makes him more palatable to fallen sinners. Jesus is God. He is the God of grace. He is the God of mercy. He is the God of judgment. And so now let's look at what's going on here. What John frame calls the existential situation. How are we to understand that? What's going on? Well Jesus is dealing first and foremost with the scribes and Pharisees. religious leaders of his day. And he's effectively shut them up. The last thing that we see in chapter twenty two is that they had tried to engage him and trip him up, and he had treated them so uh definitively there that they said that they weren't going to ask him any questions anymore. So we see Jesus as having here, standing on the temple steps, having to And now he directs his attention to the crowd that is standing there. Even when he pronounces woes on the scribes and Pharisees at the last half of this chapter. I am fully convinced that he's doing it in the presence of the crowd, so that the crowd, in fact, is getting the benefit of it. Who are subjected to teaching. And he is giving them guidance. If you wish, we could say that his church is there in embryonic form. And so So what we must understand and take to heart is that Jesus thinks that these teachings that he's giving here is very important. And so we must hear these teachings and follow them. Which leads us then to what Frame calls the normative context. What is it that Jesus is teaching us, and what is the obedience of faith that should respond to it. What Jesus wants us to do is to visualize ourselves standing there. We need to join that crowd We need to hear and realize what he's teaching as being applicable to us. And that we are facing The same danger that they were facing. Now you see, that requires us to recognize that these scribes and Pharisees represent far more than just themselves as they existed there. on that day. They represent the same false religious ideas that have attacked the church in every generation. We don't actually have any scribes and Pharisees specifically in our congregation. If one was to walk in here all dressed up in his long robes and all of those little funny things that they wore over their heads with I'll say, who is that guy? So we don't see them directly. We don't see them being represented. And a guy doesn't would be foolish to come up here and say, I'm a Pharisee, follow me. Okay. It just ain't gonna happen. We don't come to church to hear rabbis teaching us about the rules and regulations of the Torah. But that doesn't mean that the same false religious idea that they proclaimed have gone away. The constant threat, the constant threat throughout 2,000 years, and even before That the people of God have faced in every generation is the threat of man-made religion. Man-made religion. This is what the scribes and Pharisees were teaching. They were teaching a version of man-made religion. Now we don't have to speculate about this. Jesus tells me Tells us exactly this in Matthew 15. These people draw near to me with their mouth. They honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me, he said. And in vain they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. Now, here, brothers and sisters, is the great threat to our souls. Here is where many in the Church of Christ fall subject to false teaching and are led astray even to the gate of Many, as a result of this, choose that broad path that is wide and easy to walk and leads directly to destruction. They turn away from Christ because they turn to the doctrines of men. Jesus says here, in vain, they worship me, identifying himself with God. They say they're Christian, they call this Christianity. They say they worship God, but they don't. Why? Because they have turned aside to the doctrines of men. So So the first step of the next step of obedience that we should follow here is to recognize this threat and to be aware of it. Brothers and sisters, we live under a constant Barrage of false teaching. I want you to ponder what it would be like to try to go to sleep in the middle of an artillery barrage. Imagine yourself back in World War One, for those of us who are old enough to remember where it was two of them. Okay. Imagine back in World War One when the May And these artillery shells would fall all over around them 2,000 pounds of of ordinance or a thousand they didn't have any that big but they had uh hundreds and hundreds of pounds of ordinance in each shell and they They're coming over for twenty-four, thirty-six, seventy-two, forty-eight hours or uh even longer hours, constantly falling, thousands of guns so that That there is no break in the shellfire. Men went absolutely insane under that. Now think of the false teaching that is coming at us. Every day and think of it in terms of that. A constant barrage of false teachings that are coming down from various places that are subjecting the people of God You cannot go to a mall without being pushed into false ways of thinking. You cannot watch TV. without being subjected to it. And far too often we find it even coming in the Church of Christ. Now take this very judgment that God is or Jesus is putting on these people. Woe to you, he says. God's wrath is coming on you on this generation. The terrors of Sodom and Gomorrah are going to be nothing compared to what you want you're going through. And understand this. God is the God of love and mercy But God is not a God who excuses sin, nor does he forget sin. God will bring judgment on those who Reject him by rejecting his son. What I want us to see here is that there is really no difference here than what the scribes The idea that God is not angry at sin is actually what underlay what they were talking about. Now that's in they knew that nationally they were un in exile. But think of it this way. Essentially, what they're saying to people is you can be justified by works. Because it reduces down to this. God is not going to judge you if you're basically a good person These Pharisees were were supposed were, Jesus said, putting heavy burdens on the people. Yet in one sense, they were saying that God's wrath and anger is no big deal. deal. Why? Because if you wash your plates before you eat off of them, if you don't do this, if you do do that Your salvation is within your power to achieve. You can do what it takes to get God to overlook your sin. Now look at that. You can wash your plates, and God is going to overlook your sin. What does that say about your sin? It's no big deal. Be a good Jew, and we will Will tell you what being a good Jew is about, and God's going to take care of you. So, in one sense, they were making it hard, adding up all kinds of rules and regulations. But in another sense, a more deadly sense, they were making it too easy. God will save you if you did the just do good stuff. Brothers and sisters If anyone is living under the threat of God's wrath, if there's anyone in this room that's living under the threat of God's wrath who is sitting here listening to me today and is unsure Then let me assure you of this. Doing more religious good deeds is not going to make up for the sin that's in your life. False religion will always seek to put the possibility of salvation in False religion minimizes the power that sin is in our lives. It teaches us that we are not so far gone that there's not something good in us that God will still see. will take care of in the face of final judgment. And it will teach us, reach out and grab the salvation. All we have to do is be religious and do religious stuff. And then man-made religion will tell us what that good stuff that we are to do ought to be. The first and most common element in false religious teaching In every generation, is this. One way or another, it puts salvation within man's grasp. It takes away from the holiness, glory, and sovereignty of God. And it makes man the author of his own salvation. The next thing that Jesus wants us to see here is that man-made religion is always based on That's why the scraps and scribes and Pharisees were being condemned by Jesus. They were teaching that there's some kind some other kind of righteousness available other than that. Which God has extended in His covenant of grace. They were teaching that there's another kind of righteousness which man can be saved, by which man can be saved from the wrath of God. And they're teaching that this is Is a righteousness other than the righteousness of Jesus Christ Himself. Other than a righteousness which God imputes to us, assigns to us, credits to us. And he does this only because we belong to Jesus. Because Jesus has claimed us as one of his. This righteousness is not imputed, assigned to us, credited to our account because of anything we've done in the flesh. It is only because in his sovereign grace he has reached down in time And space, the righteousness which is that God's uh had called us into relationship with Jesus Christ. At some point in our lives Young, old, whatever. God has acted and said, You belong to Christ. And from that point on, our faith consisted in that That God has so acted in my life that I belong to Christ. Now my faith may go up and down, but that bedrock never leaves. God has declared that everyone who falls into this category, and only those who fall into this category God will declare to be righteous. God is the only one who can so declare it. There is no other righteousness by which man Man can be saved. There is no other righteousness that will cause us to stand before God the Father and Jesus Christ his Son in the day of judgment, other than that righteousness Which is completely apart from law, the righteousness of God which is in Christ Jesus. Now, false religion teaches us, teaches people to look elsewhere for their righteousness. Perhaps it tells us, as one denomination often does, look to your baptism. Look to the tithes you give, perhaps. You may have heard that Like uh some guy that's telling you to just send me some money through the through the mail and I'll make sure all your prayers are answered. Look to the good works that you do. You hear from others. Be a good person. God will take care of you. You see, these things we are taught is the stuff of righteousness. And it's there that your confidence should lie. You should look at your life, and you can see that you've done those things. Therefore, God owes you salvation. Satan whispered Don't worry about that sin that is so deep inside of you that you can't even bring it up to your closest friend. Don't worry about that stuff that you do when nobody's looking. Don't worry about all of those things that you have said to people when in the heat of You see, God knows your heart, He knows you're a good person. You see you're righteous in God's eyes. Why? Because look, you know, look at all the good stuff you do. Yeah, you fall every once in a while, all that stuff is kind of bad stuff. But when you look at it on balance, you're essentially a good person and now we're talking like a scribe. God is going to look at this and He's going to say, yeah, you do more good stuff than bad stuff. Yeah, come on in That is the voice of the scribe. That is the leaven of the Pharisees. And it did not die with them in 70 AD. When the temple was destroyed. We see the heart of false teaching clearly before us in this passage down in verse 23 and 24. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees! These hypocrites. Who strain out a gnat and swallow a camel? Jesus here very clearly indicates to us that we should be doing good. It's not, as Jesus says, as if our ties of mint and anise and common mean nothing. He absolutely says just the opposite. But it's when these things become given the status of the essence of our religion. It's when things Are to be such as these are considered the substance of our righteousness. That's when we become followers of the Pharisees. And the describes. When we forget the weightier matters of the law, the justice that we ought to be showing our neighbors, coming from The mercy that should flow from us in recognition of the mercy we have received. The mercy that can only flow from a born-again heart, hearts that are no longer made of stone but a flesh. And of course, faith. The center of it all, the foundation on which all good works are built Faith in Jesus Christ, faith trusting in him, the Lord of the temple, who speaks to us today from the temple in heaven, even as he spoke to those people. That day on the steps of that one in Jerusalem. Faith in Jesus Christ, which means confessing Him and Him alone as Lord, and then embracing Him as our Lord. Our teacher, as this passage says, looking to Him every day for the hope, living in Him as the source of all good things consciously directing our steps by seeking to understand his will in every aspect of our lives. But brothers and sisters, draw nearer to me right now and listen carefully. These weightier things that we have just spoken about justice, mercy, and faith, they still will not save you These are not things that we just choose to do in order to put God in our debt. These are conditions of the heart that come from a transformed life, but even here they are not The substance of our righteousness. They are the fruit that grows on a tree. These things, even of themselves, do not make us righteous. For this is the heart of the matter. Our righteousness before God, the position of righteousness that we have been given, does not derive from Anything within us. It comes to us as a gift. It is a gift received by faith and signified by faith, but our righteousness before God is first foremost and always the sheer good pleasure of God, our Father, to declare us righteous because of the work of his Son. Because Jesus has claimed us as his own, his righteous obedient to God is counted to our benefit, it's logged into our account so that we are infinitely rich. Okay, here's a quiz. What amount of money Is up for winning this week and Powerball. Go ahead. A lot. Close to a billion dollars. Close to a billion dollars. No, you won't. You leave and we are reevaluate everything. What if all of that was just credited to your account? Nine hundred million dollars showed up on your bank account. Would you be rich? Did you earn any of it? It's just there. Brothers and sisters, that's what the righteousness of Christ imputed to us is. The infinite riches of God's mercy and grace is according to To us by Jesus Christ as his righteous inheritance. And it just shows up in our account. We don't do anything That's called grace. This and this alone is the essence of true religion. Brothers and sisters. God has made a way to be both just and the justifier of those who have faith in Jesus Christ. Man-made religion will all Always minimize this. It will minimize sin, and it will minimize the righteousness of Christ, and it will maximize the ability of the sinner to gain salvation. On his own. Oh, it's all around us. We have to guard against it. And we must remember these words even as we live here today, and even As we approach this table. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. Let's pray. God, how can we stand and acknowledge that we, as sinful as we are, are the beneficiaries of such great great grace. That's all we can do is just acknowledge the fact that we don't deserve one penny of it. According to the riches by the riches of your your glory, Lord God. A billion dollars is nothing. And yet, Lord God, today and yesterday and I don't know. I don't know if anybody wanted or not, but Lord God, we know that many people are lining up to buy tickets because they want that righteous, they want that money. And yet, Lord God God, to be righteous in your sight is worth far more than any amount of money could ever bring us. And yet, Lord God, this is what you came to do is to accord to us, poor sinners, the status of righteousness through the work and the obedience of your Son, our Lord Christ. Grant us, O Lord and God, grant us that we will know this. If there be any here today, Lord God, who have not yet discovered their need need for Christ. And that are still trusting in what they can do. I pray, Lord God, that you will touch them even as we draw near to the sacrament which celebrates That the righteousness of Christ is imputed to fallen sinners through the sheer grace of God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost. We pray this in your name. Amen.