Therefore, whatever you want men to do to you, do also to them. For this is the law and the prophets. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you have preserved your word. by the power of your spirit, so that your church would continually get to know you and the vocation that you have given to them. Lord, we run into a problem in that even after you have given us your spirit, sometimes we do not have ears to hear. So I pray, Lord, that you would give this congregation ears to hear, that you'd give them eyes to see. I pray, Lord, that your word going out would not return to you in vain But Lord, that people would become more serious-minded about you, that they would love you, that they would love each other, and that the world would know that Jesus Christ is Lord. To your glory. Amen. You may be seated. Okay, I have a couple serious questions for you. The very first one is we are getting ready to end the Sermon on the Mount. Uh really this is a the last sermon on the Sermon on the Mount in a sense, though there is a little bit more that we need to tidy up that's still considered the sermon on the mount, but the main points of the sermon and the instruction in a way has ended. So I wanted to know if someone asked you what was the sermon on the mount about What would you tell them? Or if you had to give some kind of instruction on it, what would the instruction be? Now, in my mind that's too easy because I know that you all have memorized everything. From the sermon series and other people's sermon series. So let's make it more difficult. You have to tell them everything that you know about the Sermon on the Mount. For as long as you can do a handstand. So that's my second very serious question. Brothers and sisters, how long can you do a handstand? Now when I was younger, I I know some of you in your minds have said, not as long as I used to be able to. When I asked myself that question on how long can I do a handstand, I was thinking back to the glory days where I could do a handstand walking up and down steps I could walk I could do handstands going down the street or in the lawn. I don't know what it was, but me and my friends all of a sudden would break out in handstand competitions. Did that ever happen to you? No. Well, we wouldn't have hung out. No, just just kid it. Now, um the reason really why I'm going after it this way, it is fun to think about those kind of things. But I would hope that you would really just need to know verse number 12 of chapter 7. Because in a way, the Jesus here is summarizing for us. what he has taught. And we'll get into this a little bit more, but this is one thing you could do. If you really did have the challenge that you had to instruct somebody on the main point of the Sermon on the Mount while you were doing a handstand And you didn't, and you weren't great at handstands, you could just memorize verse number 12, which says, Therefore whatever you want men to do to you, do also to them, for this is the law and the prophets. Jesus is summarizing here. Now in order to unpack that a bit and to understand really what he's doing, I want to go on a l a little bit longer and I just really want to bring out two main points here. from this text. The first is I really want us to remember again the context of the Sermon on the Mount. Getting the story right is really important. If you twist the narrative or if you're in the spin zone, so to speak, you're not going to read the scriptures well. So I do want to get the story right, and so that's the first point is the context of the sermon, and the second point is the summary of the sermon, which we'll consider the summary that Jesus Himself gives us here. So let's begin this morning with the context of the sermon. And here's just like a way for me to model it all up and to give you a sentence as to a summary of everything I'm getting ready to unfold for you. It is this. Remember that in this sermon, this sermon on the mount, Jesus renews the vision for his people as the people of God. That's what he's doing. Jesus is renewing the vision for his people. as the people of God. And he really needs to do that because they have forgotten what it means to be his people. They've actually been misled quite a bit as to what it looks like to be his people. in the world. And we want to get that story straight. One of the best ways to to keep the story in front of us is to just follow the story of the scriptures. And you can do so by beginning to look back at The first evidence we have of that this is Jesus' focus, that he wants to remind us of who we are as his people, is to remember that the sermon begins with the Beatitudes. And he's showing you this is what the blessed people look like. Now, there are all kinds of definitions of blessing in the world and what it looks like to be blessed, but I'm telling you, it looks like this. And then he goes on and he continues to speak about us being the people of God in terms of our purpose. And you could circle this or write it down and to just remember he says in Matthew five sixteen, the beginning of the sermon, he says Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven This wasn't a new addition to the story of what it meant to be the people of God. Jesus is reminding them of what the purpose of them on the earth was from the beginning. Let me just remind you of a few things from the Old Testament. For example, what are the ways in which the people are meant to be a light to the world? Well this is talked about in in in different ways. In Genesis chapter twelve, one through three, one of the earliest times that we see this, though we do see it earlier, it says this to Abram The Lord says this to Abram. He says, Now the Lord had said to Abram, Get out of your country, from your family, and from your father's house, to a land that I will show you. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you, and in you all the families of the earth. shall be blessed. Now this kind of talk happens earlier in the scriptures than this, but this is a major moment. This is a major moment that's picked up in all of the Gospels, in all of the teaching of the apostles that is preserved for us here. They are still talking about the blessing of Abraham and who are Abraham's children. And the surprise to them was that the children of Abraham were not those who have a physical circumcision only, but those who have been circumcised of heart. by the Spirit. And that includes, to their surprise, not just the Israelites or Judeans or the Jewish people, but also all of the nations whom God selects. That was a really big surprise, but it still goes back and ties into that statement in Genesis 12, especially verse 3, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. So you can see that one of the marks of the family or the congregation or the church, this family of Abraham, or this church of Abraham, or this congregation of Abraham. is that we are to be a blessing to all of the peoples. Now one of the ways in which that is going to happen, which gains prominence, is that from that line will come Jesus Christ, who will bring blessing to the whole world. But another way in which that happens is that not just Jesus Christ and all of his work that he does to the glory of the Father in and of himself, but all of the work that He inspires within his people, let's put it that way, by way of the work of his Holy Spirit. All of us are continuing are to continue to be a br a blessing to the world, a light to the nations, and as they are blessed As they see us as a light, it doesn't stop with us. They start to give glory to our Father who is in heaven. That's what Jesus says in 5. 16. And that's the focus of his sermon. This is where the story begins. We were always meant to be set aside to enrich the world. Now this continues, we could see in Deuteronomy chapter 4, verses 5 through 6. Let me read this to you too. So this is going a a little bit further away from Genesis as Moses is writing these things so that we can understand who we are. It says in Deuteronomy 4, 5 through 6, Surely I have taught you statutes and judgments, just as the Lord my God commanded me, that you should act according to them in the land which you go to possess. Therefore be careful to observe them, for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples who will hear all these statutes and say, Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people. It doesn't take much of imagination to go ahead and see how they were meant to be a light amidst the darkness of the world. They were meant to be a salt to a world that was rotting away. And this is the story that Jesus is a part of. Jesus isn't picking up some news story. Jesus is not a Greek or Roman philosopher. Jesus is tying into this story. Now the problem here is that as you follow the story and as you see within Matthew, something went really wrong. Something went really wrong where those who were meant to be the light and the salt of the earth ended up not becoming the salt and ended up contributing more to the darkness. And so something needed to happen, which is called an exile. And Jesus is speaking to people who really believe they're still in exile. If you were to think of Matthew, the exile theme is all the way from the beginning. I mentioned to you in the genealogy, captivity or exile is mentioned three different times. And then there's all this discussion about, out of Egypt I have called my son. That's another exile. Herod has become Pharaoh. There's there's a whole new exodus that's getting ready to happen. And in and when people are Exodus, it's because they were enslaved in a kind of exile You could be Exodus from a Babylonian captivity, you could be Exodus from an Egyptian captivity, you could be Exodus from a a Roman and a Gracian or Greek captivity. Jesus has exile on his mind because that's where the people are. And the reason why they were placed in exile is because they became just like the world. Now we see this all over the place, but one I wanted to point out to you, which would be really fun, by the way, fun isn't the right word. Helpful it would be to read this in your homes and with each other and with your with your brothers and sisters in Christ. And that is a section from Jeremiah. It's the first eleven verses of Jeremiah 13. Really you could read that whole section and read that whole book. But in Jeremiah 13 What the Lord does here is he gives Jeremiah a prophetic illustrative task. Have you seen this before? God will tell the prophet to act out something. And in the acting out of that thing, there is a great lesson that is to be learned from this dramatic action for the whole nation to take note of and really to change. relative to what has just been communicated to them. And in Jeremiah 13, Jeremiah is instructed to take for himself a beautiful garment. That would be a sign of royalty. I'm trying to uh do some cross-cultural work here because men don't wrap beautiful garments around their waist. exactly any longer. So uh you could imagine I uh imagine uh put on a um a very expensive suit and tie or something along those lines. And then uh Jeremiah was to take this beautiful garment that adorned him And he was to take it to a place where the soil was moist. And he was to put it there to leave and then to come back at a much later time. And when he returned and he found what used to be a beautiful garment that would adorn, let's say, a king, it had become uh rotten. Do you have any familiarity with that? On how if you were to bury a shirt in the desert, you could probably go back and get the shirt and it'd have no problem. But if you leave a shirt on the bottom of the Chesapeake Bay or in the soil around it, you'd see it gets torn up pretty quickly. And Jeremiah was to do this whole action in front of the nation, and he brings back this piece of clothing, and this piece of clothing, when it used to adorn the king and show forth his glory and his regality but has now become useless and trash. This is the story of my people, God says to Jeremiah. And Jeremiah is meant to act that out. Now I just summarized for you a kind of a paraphrase there from Jeremiah 13, but one of the specific phrases where you would see this is he says in In Jeremiah 13, he says, Because as a garment sticks to someone's hips, so I made Israel's entire household stick to me. to be for me a people and a name and a praise and a splendor. This is what I always planned for you Is that you would uh adorn me and show my glory to the world. We would be that close Like a garment that is tied on tight. That's what you and I were going to be like. And then the final words of Jeremiah in this section in 13, verse 11, it says, but you didn't listen. Actually says, but they didn't listen. And that's the story that Jesus is tying into here when he's talking to this group of people on the Sermon on the Mount. Is that they didn't listen and and they're still a kind of exile, though some have come and come back from Babylonia in captivity, they all still feel like they're in exile because their land is occupied by Rome So there's still something more to be done. And that's why Jesus is still talking about the forgiveness of sins. They committed all of these various sins. They had become a rotten garment, and those sins need to be taken care of. Like I mentioned before, the big surprise will be that Jesus will not only bring Jews out of exile, he will bring Gentiles who have been in exile really from the beginning. He'll be translating them from one kingdom over into another, one sphere of existence over into another. He'll be redeeming them Is the way that this ends up working out. The Father has sent Jesus to bring Israel and the Gentiles out of exile. For example, forgiving their sins that put them there, and conquering the satanic kingdom which keeps making them fall away or is a part of the cause. The flesh, the world, and the devil, Jesus conquering them all so that there's no longer a dominion of any sort that keeps them away from God. And here As a part of that action, he is renewing with his people their commitment to the law by giving the true intent that God has always meant for his law. Though they were exiled, though they were committing sins, they were still claiming to follow the law. And one of Jesus' main point here is you really got the intent wrong. So as a part of this renewal effort, this new covenant that is coming to birth, Jesus is bringing correct instruction with the correct intent to his people Really, what you could do is as you look at the sermon, and Jesus goes up on a mount, that's how Matthew wants to frame this entire situation, is that Jesus is going up on a mountain In the same way that the law was delivered to Moses on the mountain, but here we have God Himself in the flesh giving the law to his people But you remember that event is after they were redeemed and brought out of and had the exodus from Egypt And you could think of this situation as Jesus picturing doing a kind of prophetic illustration here and going up on the mountain and having all of the covet his covenant people before him and bringing them the true intent that God has always wanted to establish with his law and with his people. There they are, having, in a sense, passed through the Red Sea of their baptism. And then God giving them the law here with the correct intent. You could picture those people to be just like that. If you'll remember in Exodus 20, after they are Exodus from Egypt, it says, I am the Lord your God. Who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. So there's the Exodus. Do you know what happens after Exodus chapter 20, verse 2, after the sentence that I just read to you? Do you know what Jesus do you know what God does? He gives the Ten Commandments. That's the preface to the Ten Commandments. And Jesus is doing something similar. Jesus is prophetically acting this whole thing out. So that he can speak to his people and deliver them to the true intent of the law. This really happened in history. Jesus really taught these things to real people. And the wonderful thing is that it didn't stop right there on that particular mountain, but that you, as the followers of Jesus Christ, who have been called to be his servants. You are invited to join him on the mountain and to hear the true intent of the law so that the salt and the light didn't stop. In the first century, the salt and the light continues in every generation as Jesus Christ continues to build his church. And that is what he's doing here within his sermon. Jesus has you gathered together with those people that were on that mountain. And he's working for you to understand this is what it means to be my people. in the world. Now, how does Jesus get that through in a nutshell? That's the second point. So you have the context of the sermon. That's the real story behind this. That's the context of the sermon, but now we have the summary of the sermon. All of the ethical instruction, especially with regard to our neighbor, is summarized by Jesus, and the spirit of the law is summarized by Jesus and captured in verse number 12. This is one of the ways in which Jesus summarizes it. He summarizes these in different ways. And it's in verse number twelve, he says, Therefore, whatever you want men to do to you, do also to them, for this is the law and the prophets. This is the summary of the sermon. The reason why I say that it's the summary of the sermon is because this is acting as a bookend. Jesus already said in the beginning of his sermon, I have not come to tear down the law and the prophets, but to fulfill them. Now we have a repetition of law and prophets here at the end, acting like a bookend, so that you could see his intent in giving all of the instruction between those two things. He's saying if you really want to know what the heart is of what of the intent of the lawgiver, it's not to tear down the law and the prophets, it's the fulfillment. Well what does it mean to fulfill them? It means this in verse number twelve that whatever you want men to do to you, you do also to them. And this, of course, has to be a this is this is a teaching understood within the story that I already gave to you. This is not to be applied in the story of a madman. The reason why I say that is whatever you want men to do to you, depending on who the person is, some people want really weird things to be done to them. And that's not a part of this story. We're not talking about how sociopaths apply this. We're talking about what Jesus means and the story that he's giving. And he already showed you What it looks like to do good things for other people and the good that other people want done to them. He did that specifically in the verse that just went before this. And I can't help but to think Matthew arranged this exactly like this. For that purpose. He specifically talked about how the father knows how to do good things to his children and to give good things. And he also said that, as a part of his argument, that we as parents know how to give good things to our kids, though we're evil. How much more does God know how to give good things? So there's some sense, there's an assumption here that Jesus is working with in his argument. We know what it means to receive something good. And from that knowledge of what is good for us, we should take it and we should do to others what we would want done to ourselves. This is a way for him to boil it down and to get it into a nutshell. This is his summary. It's not the only summary. Sometimes we hear things like this and we feel like We have to make everything fit within this one sentence of Jesus, and we can't take any of the other scriptures in mind anymore. That's not what he wants you to do. He wants you to take all of his scripture. But he definitely wants you to take seriously this summary and others. Can you think of other summaries of the law and the prophets that he gives? Matthew 22, 37 through 40. He'll give that a little bit later to a lawyer. Jesus said You shall, when when asked what is the greatest commandment, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the first and great commandment, and the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself And in a different way of calling it a summary, he says, on these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. Same discussion. He's figuring out different ways to, as a good teacher, to teach his audience the intent of what God intends with his law. And here he summarizes it as love. In the one that we have before us, it's good, the good of the person, the well-being of the person, the flourishing of the person that is before you. That's the way that he chooses to summarize it. In fact, you could go ahead and summarize it like this, just to maybe get rid of some of the contradictions in your head. Whatever good you want people to do to you, do also to them Whatever good, now it has to be good according to the way God defines good. Don't get weird on me. Whatever good you want men to do to you, do also to them And this is brilliant, by the way, because it taps into our nature. I was reading a commentator from the 1600s, and he wrote this. He wrote Where our advantage or good or well-being is concerned, there is not one of us who cannot explain minutely and ingeniously what ought to be done. We're really good at knowing what's good for us. And Jesus taps into that and he's saying, okay, well if you know what the good is If God's grace still upholds that in the world where we still know what the good is when we're not twisted, well whatever that good is, you would do that good to another. You would do that good to another. And I think part of the good news here, and maybe the major part of the good news here Is that now that Jesus is the Messiah, we actually can do good for each other. That's part of the good news, by the way. Not only that you have been forgiven your sins, but you have been brought and made a slave to righteousness where sin no longer has dominion over you. Because Jesus has come as the Messiah, this is possible. We can in fact be God's people. This was seen on Pentecost when Jesus sends the Spirit. And then you see the congregation starting to form. And by the time you get into the early chapters of Acts, they're all looking out for each other's good. Making sure that there was no need among themselves. It's already starting to come to life. And we see that here as a mark of our congregation, considering each other's goods and how we could help each other to flourish. With the sending of the Spirit, as it is pronounced in Galatians 5, 22 through 23, but the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness. self-control. This is the same conversation that Jesus is having. Paul's just he's been meditating on it. He's bringing it to us in another way. And Paul at the end he says, against such thing there is no law And there will be another way of saying these kinds of things. This is what the law and the prophets are talking about. And it's made possible because Jesus the Messiah has come. No more exile for my people because Jesus is king. No more dominion under sin because Jesus is the Messiah. That's the verse 12 here. That's the context of the sermon, and that is the summary of the sermon. Now Though I did pronounce the same ethical principle and I did give different restatements to what Jesus was saying, I would like to end by just asking, how could we get started with that? Are there some practical ways for us to think about that? And that's the question that I have been asking myself ever since this text has been hitting me between the eyes for in in my study and my meditation of it. I try not to just study to understand the words. I try to sit under the authority of Jesus Christ and His Word. And what I want to do now as an ending is that I just want to share with you some of the experiences that I've had over the last several weeks in trying to apply this ethical principle or this summary of the law and the prophets that Jesus has has given to us. And I pray that it is helpful to you. So here we go. Experience number one. This is what came to w this is one of the first things that came to my mind. My uh you all have heard this story before. My grandmother uh used to pick me up and take me to Baskin Robbins. He used to be in Saverna Park. And I and she would ask me about my life. And I would tell her things like, I made the lacrosse team. Or I kicked a home run and kickball. Or whatever third graders say. And with genuine sincerity She would be happy for me. That was a different experience because in other areas of my life my experience was anything that I ever anything that God gave me that was good. where that was accomplished. People just wish it happened to them. And that, brothers and sisters, is called coveting and jealousy. But my grandmother didn't interact with me with covetous with a covetous heart or with a jealous heart. She was glad to see good things happening to her grandson. Wouldn't you love it if people interacted with you that way? That they were sincerely and genuinely happy? for you and the different things that God has brought into your life. Isn't it a very poor experience when you see on the person's face, even though they're trying to hide it? They're just why does that get to happen to you and not to me? You see it. It happens instantly. You read it on people's faces right away. So if that's what you think is good, to be happy for other people when good things happen to them, Jesus is saying, well, if that's what you would want done to you, do that to them. So, by God's grace, let us begin praying that we would be happy as we see God bless each other and not covetous or jealous. That would be a remarkable community. Okay, so that was just the first one. Here's the second one. I had the opportunity this past week to visit a nursing home as assisted living. And I was walking down the hall and and each each person has a apartment. That was a very nice place. Everybody has an apartment. There's like a little kitchen and a bathroom and a sitting room and then a bedroom. But all the doors are closed. So I I'm just going off of the one that I was in. All the doors are closed as you're walking down the hall, but on the doors are things that they care about. So one guy, he's got a big poster of uh Florida State. He's excited about that football team. Other people have other things. Somebody had just a wreath of flowers. The one that touched me the most. Was that somebody had taken a uh uh there's a you know like um you have what are the coloring books? Remember those And then and children when they're really young they won't really stay within the lines. That a piece of a coloring book had been torn out of the coloring book and all the colors were outside of the lines. But that grandmother had taken tape and taped it to her door. And that told me a couple different things. That she loved that she was a part of a family. And I think this is my imagination, but I was trying to put myself in her shoes. I think she was really happy that somebody came and visited her and thought enough of her to color something before they got there. It was good that her family still paid attention to her. A little bit later, in a line with that theme, I saw a son who had just showed up to visit with his mother. And they were just sitting and talking to each other, and she was thrilled. And what that brought up in my mind was the fifth commandment. And it thought and I got to thinking about, well, wow, that's really beautiful that she has that on the door. Seeing the son and the mother together in that situation, that is really beautiful. What is going on there? Why am I so stirred? And it was because I started to think about my good. And this is what immediately popped into my head. I'm gonna be I'm just gonna share with you something that immediately popped in my head, which is a little dangerous, but this is what I said I hope my children give me their attention when I'm older. Boy, would that be good. I think that's a good that I hope for for myself, that my family won't forget me I then immediately made the leap and I said to myself, well, if that's the good that I want, I really need to start giving more attention to my parents. I need to give more attention to my parents. So that's the second experience. That one was really meaningful to me, as you can see. There's a third one, and this is um, listen, I don't want to hear anything about this third one Okay, I'm just gonna tell you. It was a really cool experience at by the end of the day. I have been working on a boat and I got the whole thing ship shape and took it out for a test run. From Sandy Point State Park, a beautiful launching facility, by the way. Went around Sandy Point State Park over into the mouth of the Magathe. I turned off the key. And the boat never started again. I checked all the electrical, all the work that I had done was fine, something new had popped up, which is why we take test runs, and the starter had died. And so for 45 half hour, I guess, I was hitting the boat horn and waving a seat cushion. to some dude that was fishing. And eventually he turned down Motley crew that he was listening to. And he shot on over on his boat and he gave us a tow. Now if you if you take a look on the map, that's not a short tow. Mouth of the Maggothee, all the way over to the docks at Sandy Point. This this guy, praise God for him Uh he's he's uh from Pasadena and I really appreciate him. So when we get when we finally got around over into the park, I had whatever cash I could find on me and the person that was with me. We were going to offer it to him just to say thank you. And we got the cash out of our wallets and we held it up to give it to him. And this is what he said. This is uh word for word. He said, put that away People helped me in the past. I'm just doing to you what they did for me. There's no need for payment. He was actually by God's grace following verse twelve. Isn't that cool? Neat guy. Didn't break down at all But that was the other experience that came to my mind. People helped me in the past. I'm just doing to you what they did for me. No need for payment. And he drove off. And that was it. So I hope those different examples get you started on thinking about the good that you would want to receive. And that you would give that same good to others. That's what Jesus teaches us here. Oh, brothers and sisters, if we could just start here. This is the summary of all the law and the prophets. This would be the way in which we're the light and the salt of the world. And may God use that to bring glory to Himself. Let us pray.