Our text this morning is from Hebrews chapter 11. If you please turn there, if you need a Bible, I'll be happy to bring it to you. Oh no, I won't, but someone will. You raise your hand. I can get someone to bring it to you. Okay. So Hebrews chapter eleven is our passage this morning. We're continuing with the cloud of witnesses. And I'll be reading verses four through seven. By faith, Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. through which he obtained witness that he was righteous. God testifying of his gifts, and through it he being dead still speaks By faith Enoch was taken away so that he did not see death, and was not found because God had taken him. For before he was taken he had this testimony that he pleased God. I think that's in quotes too. But without faith it is impossible to please him, for he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. By faith Noah, being divinely warned of things not yet seen, moved with godly fear, prepared an ark for the saving of his household. By which he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for being so practical with us. Holy Spirit, you know exactly what we need. Jesus, you are an excellent high priest. Help us to hear these words and to put them into action. That is to say, to be faithful. Foods are preserved by different preservatives. A duh. Meats are preserved by salt back in the old days anyway. Dairy may be preserved by refrigeration, and certain fruits are preserved by canning. You get the picture. What we're talking about is what does God give to us that we might be preserved? It's not salt, it's not refrigeration, and it's not Canning. What is it? Well, we discussed that last week. God preserves his church with the preservative of faith. That's your great preservative. Therefore, you cannot afford to be an amateur in your faith. Is really the implication. If that's your preservative, don't separate yourself from it. You risk microbial contamination. And eventual death and rot if you separate yourself from the faith. You cannot be a faith amateur, you cannot be a faith dilettante. You know what a dilettante is A dilettante is a person who cultivates an area of interest without real commitment or knowledge. You can't be that with your faith. Faith. You must be a faith expert or professional, which is why we have a whole chapter set aside here for faith. Now last week we looked at the general nature of faith. God gives you promises You take God at His word so deeply that although those promises are not present by reality, they are by faith so strongly present that they are substantial and evident to you. That's a summary of the The whole sermon from last week. Temptations and persecutions no matter what. And you'll remember the Peter Pan example and how it's kind of like an imagination of having something present that's not really there, but only by way of promise. But we reduced it to its essential and it's taking God seriously at His Word. This week we're going to continue This week we the last week we saw the general nature of faith, and this week we are now moving into very specific examples. If you're gonna move away from being a dilettante and you're gonna be a professional, you can't remain in the abstract and just a general knowledge of something. You have got to have specific experiential knowledge of what it means to have faith. And that's why we're going to get into the examples of faith. Abel, Enoch, and Noah. Now here's the big idea. Faith is living like God is telling the truth. In worship, walking, and when you are under pressure. Faith is like living, is living like God is telling the truth in worship, walking, and under pressure. Some of you have read this chapter 11 and you said in your mind, oh, I know what he's saying. He's saying have faith. That's too general. We need to get down to the particulars. He is giving these examples, not so that you can discard 90% of the facts. But so that you can take them into the uh actions of your life. So faith is living like God is telling the truth. We're going to look at worship, walking, and underpression. Now, the first thing that we see, faith is living like God is telling the truth, particularly in our worship. And the example that is given is Abel. Abel expressed his faith in worship. Like we see here in verse 4. By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained witness that he was righteous. God testifying of his gifts, and through it, he being dead, still speaks. The situation was worshiped. Do you see that there in the passage? If you're familiar with Old Testament worship, you can see the sacrifices there. Verse 4 recalls the famous passage really from Genesis. Starring Cain and Abel. We're all most people in Western society are familiar with the story of Cain and Abel. The author of Hebrews is not focusing on every emphasis of the Genesis passage. though, but like other passages in this letter, he wants to draw upon it for authority and instruction. The author of Hebrews focuses our attention On the differences between the worship that's going on between Cain and Abel. Genesis 4 adds some information that's very important for us. He says that Abel offered the firstlings of his flock. And the fat, and Cain offered the fruit of the ground. before, what have you set in your mind to understand why God was pleased with one and not with the other? Why is it that one is by faith And not the other. There are different readings. Some of you have read the Genesis passage or this passage, and you thought, well, God must like animals more than he likes fruit. He's on a paleo diet. Or you could say the emphasis here is really on being half-hearted versus foolhearted, right? Have you ever done that kind of thought? Those aren't wrong The first one's really missing the point. The second one doesn't really miss the point, but it kind of does. That's not really the focus of what's happening here within this book of Hebrews. The point is about faith. And if you remember what faith is, you can start to understand why he's using the example of Abel. The point is that Abel offered worship according to faith, and that Cain did not offer worship according to faith. Now what would it mean for you to give worship According to faith. Now let me repeat for you what faith is, and I'm going to restate it a couple different ways because people make this confusing for you, and I just want it to be clear. That's really my main goal. I just want to die being clear. Faith is trust in the Word of God because of your trust in God. Faith is living for God because you believe God. Faith is living like God is telling you the truth. Faith is living like God is telling you the truth So then we have to ask, or what we see then is that Abel worshipped in accordance with the truth that God told him about worship, and where would we find such a thing? We kind of have to read between the lines a little bit in the beginning chapters of Genesis in order to find out. We know that the mere fact that there is a sacrifice being offered by Cain and Abel that Adam and Eve taught their boys. That they should go to church. They go to church. They're churchgoers. What else would have Adam and Eve taught them? What did Adam and Eve learn about worship themselves Well, if you were to look at Genesis 3. 15, and then if you were to look at Genesis 3. 21, then they learned a lot about worship and that it needed to be accompanied by sacrifice. Because of what the sacrifice force signified, which would eventually be the sacrifice of the Messiah, of the great high priest. Which we've been reading about all through this book. Mom and Dad, Adam and Eve, told Cain and Abel that because of your sin, because of our sin, really, you cannot approach God except through a sacrificial atonement. Hebrews 9. 22, in fact, if you remember, says, without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness, no relationship. Abel worshiped how God desired, because he believed God. In essence, Abel said, God said there needs to be a sacrifice for us to be reconciled. God said, without the sacrifice or without blood, there is no remission of sins. And so Abel offered a sacrifice to the best of his flock, the firstlings and the fat. And Cain did not. Cain, in essence, in this very moment said, Well, perhaps the remission of sin could be through fruit. It doesn't require a sacrifice, which is missing the whole point of redemptive history. Not that it could just be offered through anything and not the force signification of it being offered our worship through Jesus Christ. And therefore Abel had faith. He took God at his word He lived like God was telling the truth, and the truth came to him from his mom and dad as they taught the boys how they are to worship. Now this example would have been especially relevant for the Hebrews to whom this was written originally. And this entire letter has been saying, God does not desire for you to worship that way any longer. You are not to offer sacrifices that are animal sacrifices any longer. You are not to offer sacrifices through an old high priest in the garb of the old high priest. You are not to offer sacrifices in the old worship place or the temple. Don't even be caught thinking there God, through this apostle, tells them instead to worship through Jesus' sacrifice and through the only high priest who is Jesus. This is all review. But the point is that just like Abel, you could see how relevant this message would be for them to be able to be preserved with 70 AD facing them in the collapse of the temple with the Roman See. Like Abel, in fact, some of the members of this congregation, this Hebrew congregation, some of these members will be killed because of their worship. If you remember in Acts 6, 13 through 14, Stephen gave a speech, and he said something like this. They also set up false witnesses who said, This man does not speak to This and well when he w did speak against the Jews, they set up false witnesses against Stephen, and this is what they said. This man does not cease to speak blasphemous words against this holy place. meaning the temple, and the law meaning the sacrificial law. And what do they do with Stephen? They stone him to death. The example is uh all uh very realistic for this group of people. It's very relevant for them, and it actually is relevant for us too. The blood of Abel, it says in verse 4, still cries out. Seeking to teach us a lesson, and not just them. The Christian church, although Abel dead, he still speaks What has God told you about worship today? How is it that you can live like God is telling the truth in your worship? How are you to have faith relative to worship? If faith is living like God is telling you the truth, then what truth about worship has He given you? Now you could answer that in about a thousand ways, couldn't you If you were to focus if you wanted to, this is where you could go back to that one interpretation or the one emphasis within the passage about the full-hearted versus the half-hearted. Are you coming into God's worship half-hearted or full hearted Do you come here like you mean business, or do you come here half asleep? You know the difference, this is not a joke, but do you know the difference between a butterfly and a butterfly a botanist than a bee. Sounds like a joke, doesn't it? A butterfly, this is just my basic observations, no science here. A butterfly is beautiful and it flutters from flower to flower. And some people are like that with their worship You get all dressed up and you look beautiful and you flutter from service to service, but all you are is a flutterer. That's what you do, you flutter. But you look good. I'll give you that. Your hair is Gorgeous. A botanist studies flowers, and some are like the botanist. Some come to worship, they bring their laptop, they bring their notebooks. They get the sermon notes from me. They get full transcripts. They can quote the Greek and the Hebrew. They wish I'd preach in the Greek. They write down everything, but they are transformed by nothing. And others are like the bee, and you know I like bees. So this is going to be the good example. The bee goes into the flower and extracts all of the nectar. The bee goes into the flower empty, but the bee leaves full. And those are the good worshipers. When you come into God's presence and you're empty, do you leave full? Do you suck everything out of this service that you can in order for the promotion of your faith? Here's the question. Which worshipper does God tell you to be be. Are you a butterfly, a botanist, or a bee Christian? And which one is he asking you to be by faith? Now that's the first point We live like God is telling the truth in worship, but we also are to walk like God. We are also to walk in faith. We must live like God is telling us the truth And this example is given to us with Enoch. Enoch expressed his faith in walking. Enoch had faith that God is real and that he is a rewarder. Look at verse five. These are set off in paragraphs, because each is a different example. By faith Enoch was taken up so that he did not see death and was not found because he God had taken him. For before he was taken he had this testimony. that he pleased God. But without faith it is impossible to please him, for he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. When it says that he believed that God is, and that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him, in verse 6, it is not an academic discussion here on the bare existence of God. This is really a reference to Exodus 3. 14, where God declares that he is the God of the covenant, and he says, I am who I am. This is the same notion that's happening at least. This is the God whose covenant name is Yahweh, or I am who I am, and who was invoked to To fulfill all of his promises. And therefore Enoch lived like God was telling the truth about his promises. In other words, he walked with them. This is walking. This is what it means to walk with him, not against him, not apart from him, but with them. Enoch didn't want the promises of the world. And that's why Enoch didn't walk with the world. Enoch wanted the promises of God, and so he walked with God. Who do you walk with? Genesis 5, 21 says that Enoch lived 65 years and begot Methuselah. After he begot Methuselah, Enoch walked with God 300 years. And had sons and daughters. So all the days of Enoch were three hundred and sixty-five years, and Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. In Hebrews, at 65, there's a conversion within the man's life. He walks with God 300 years in faith after that. And he knew the basics of what it means to walk with God. You can look throughout the scriptures to see what it would mean for Enoch to walk with God by just looking up the word walk. It's all over the scriptures. In Amos 3. 3 it says, can two walk together unless they are agreed? And so there's a presupposition here that if you want to walk with God, there needs to be peace and agreement between the two of you. You ever walk try to walk with someone that you're not agreed with? That doesn't work too well. Usually I separate myself from them It's the same thing here. And the way that we see in Psalm 2, for you to have peace and agreement with God so that you can walk with him, the most basic is that you would kiss the Son, Jesus. Jesus Christ, lest he become angry, that you acknowledge his person and his work, yet unless wrath be kindled but a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little Blessed are those who put their trust in what the Father has sent who is Jesus. There's another part to walking though besides peace and agreement. Once you get the peace and agreement down, you also have to be walking in oneness of purpose and design. You ever had a vision for the day and then someone wants to walk walk along with you and they have a totally vision different vision for your day? I'm going to get to Target by 9, but the person I'm going with doesn't get up till 2? That doesn't work. We will not be walking together. Unless one person's purpose outrules the other person's purpose But with God, we are to have oneness and purpose of design. Acts eleven twenty-three says, When he came and had seen the grace of God after the preaching had come to this group of people. He was glad and encouraged them all that with purpose of heart they should continue with the Lord. Have you ever thought about that? That you were to have an intention and a purposefulness and a design that is a part of your life. A destination, a way of walking, and that way of walking is to be a purpose of heart, and it is to be continuing with the Lord, not with your own plans. Matthew 16, 23 puts this in the negative when Jesus turns to Peter and says, Get behind me, Satan. You are an offense to me, for you are not mindful of the plans of God, but the plans of men. To walk with God, you have to be of one mind, you have to be of one purpose, you have to be of one design. Now, what is God's main design? Proverbs 16:4 says, The Lord has made all for himself, yes, even the wicked for the day of doom. What does it mean for him to make all people for himself? When speaking about all of his work of salvation in Ephesians chapter 1. He says that all of it was done to the praise of the glory of his grace, by which he made us accepted in the beloved. And Paul summarizes the whole thing in 1 Corinthians 10 31 when he says, Whatever you are doing. Whether you are eating, whether you are drinking, or whatever you do, your design, your goal is to glorify your God. That's what it means to walk with God is to glorify Him. God communicates that to you. Now, let me ask you. Now, some of you have been asked this question. It's like an icebreaker in uh industry meetings and s school meetings if you're a teacher and and they'll say, if you were an animal, what kind of animal would you be? And you say, I'm a tiger because I'm ferocious I'm not even gonna ask you that today. You can tell me after. Service, if you were an animal, what animal you would be. I want to narrow it. And I don't want to speak about species here. I want to talk about attitude and behavior. If you were a dog, what kind of dog would you be? Attitude and behavior, not species. I don't want to hear golden doodle versus golden retriever or whatever. Although I would be interested to see what you think. of yourself in terms of species of dog. But I mean in terms of behavior, what kind of dog would you be? If you sit in a park, there are in my mind two kinds of dogs. There is a dog That has power and has agenda. No matter what you see the dog owner or master trying to do with that dog, the dog is off in a thousand directions. Have you seen this dog? They sniff this tree and they sniff that tree. They're barking at this and they're barking at that. They're running the leash in circles around the master's legs. And really, what you see here is that the design of the dog is in control. The dog is setting the agenda. Really, have you ever seen an owner get walked by a dog? That's what's happening here. Other dogs, the ones that I like, are the picture of discipline and loyalty to the path of their master. You ever seen a dog like that? Stays on the Hip of their master and will heal. Sometimes you could even see the master just move their hand like that, and the dog knows what to do. That's a beautiful sight. They stay at their owner's hip and they walk to the master's destination. Now here's the question. Are you trying to walk God or are you walking with God? Because if you're trying to walk God, that's not faith. That's not what it says about Enoch. It doesn't say Enoch walked God. Said Enoch walked with God. Although you don't know all the details of your life, do you stay in step with him towards the destination, which is his glory? Are you sniffing around at every tree that serves you? Or are you walking the path that glorifies, promotes, and pleases your master? That's the picture of faith. And Enoch provides that for us. Now, you've seen that we live Faith is living like God is telling the truth in terms of worship. Very practical. Faith is living like God is telling the truth in terms of walking, you not walking God, but God walking you. Or walking with God. And then lastly we have Noah, which is perhaps the clearest of all the examples because of the details, where we live like God is telling us the truth under pressure. That's Noah's faith. Noah could not see the promise. Take a look at the passage here. Let me read verse 7 for you. By faith, Noah, being divinely warned of things not yet seen, Moved with godly fear, prepared an ark for the saving of his household, by which he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. Now some of that is a little confusing. Some of it is very clear, and we can put the pieces together. The thing you have to notice is that Noah very clearly and explicitly could not see the realization of this promise. It's some odd hundred years that he's building the ark without the fulfillment of the promise. It was not part of his natural history either. Up to this point, I don't believe there's any any rain. Just water bubbling up from the earth. He's a hundred miles off the ocean. Why build a boat? Not rain there's no rain He's simply going off of invisible promises from an invisible God. Can you imagine doing such a thing? Going off of invisible promises from an invisible God? I hope you can imagine Because it's called faith. It's the faith of Noah. He lived like God was telling him the truth, though. God said, I'm going to cause rain until it floods the whole earth, and I want you to build an ark And so Noah, with godly fear and reverence, it says in the passage, builds the ark, never having seen a drop of rain. Now look at the emphasis here. Later on in the verse is where it can become a little confusing, but look Look at the emphasis, it says, by which he condemned the world. This isn't that tough. It's really just the language by which he condemned the world. If you read the Genesis account, what's going on here is that everyone around Noah was wicked. The culture was permeated with godliness, godlessness. Everyone would have been looking at Noah, therefore, and mocking or condemning or laughing at this man who is now building an ark. When there's never been a drop of rain, they would have condemned his life work because he was working at it over a hundred years, because they would not believe what God had said. And however, this is his point in the rest of that verse, in the end, who are the ones that stood condemned? That's the point of the author. When he says he condemned the world, let me put it this way: Noah's building his ark The ocean is a hundred miles away from Noah. There's no rain yet. Noah is spending at least a hundred years building an ark. Do you know how big the ark is? I mean, you really can't miss that he's doing this. The ark is one and a half football fields long and four stories high. It is bigger than this church. And he's going off of this, and the people in the culture are laughing at him when they walked by with their children on play dates to the park. Look at this joke. What is wrong with this guy? They condemned him, they mocked him, and they laughed at him. But here's the question: when the flood arrived and the ark is picked up, and Noah and his family are on the deck of the boat, so to speak. Who's laughing now? That's the point. And I don't mean that crashly or insensitively, but that's really what's happening here, if you wanted to put it in a kind of slang way. Who's laughing now? It's the one who puts their faith in what God says, who lives like God is telling the truth, who in the end will never be ashamed. That's the point of Noah. The world was condemned to not Noah, because even though there was cultural pressure, Noah was not moved with the fear of man, but he was moved with a godly. Fear. If your friends came up to you and said, What are you doing cutting down all this gopher wood? Don't you know you can't be in our club and our group if you cut down I know that's a silly example, but what would you do? Just search your life for the analogous example on how you fold so often under cultural pressure. Faith is not like that. Faith is believing God and living like He tells the truth in the face of cultural pressure. Let me give you some cultural pressure Intimacy is meant for marriage, God says. What kind of cultural pressure are you getting to have intimacy out outside of marriage. And will you get caught up in all the rationalizations and the volumes of literature saying there's no difference? Or could you just say to yourself, like, no, and And say, this is what God has said. Because that's faith. It would be living like God is telling you the truth. One man and one woman, because God said so. How much pressure is a part of that cultural movement for you to fold? How many churches are folding on the issue because they've entered into the rationalizations instead of You know you can make God in the image of the culture. What about this? Did you know I just mentioned one man and one woman? Those are hot topics. Do you know in the same list is no gossip And not remaining estranged in your Christian relationships God says that you are, as far as it depends on you, to be at peace with everyone. God says that you are to forgive others as He has forgiven you in Jesus Christ. And are there people here today who are not as close as they used to be because you still haven't dealt with what is between you? I don't care what age you are. Maybe you're in college right now. Maybe you're in h High school. Did you used to have a close friend and now you don't have a close friend? Why? God says that shouldn't be. What excuses are you making to not live like God is telling you to do Truth that you need to forgive and not be estranged, but look at the interests of other people. Those are some examples The culture will laugh. The culture wants you to gossip. The culture wants you to remain estranged. The culture wants you to put stuff up on Facebook that makes fun of your friends and further estrangers But when Christ returns, I want to ask you who's gonna say who's laughing now? Now those who were estranged and those who didn't forgive? Those who did the forgiveness. Those who kept intimacy for marriage. Those who kept one man and one woman. Faith is living like God, is telling the truth in worship, walking, and under cultural pressure is that last Now I want you to notice one last thing as I close. In all of the examples, hopefully you're familiar with each of these now and you can begin to notice, but even before the examples, look up into chapter 10. And I want you to see some synonyms that are happening. It's called in Hebrew, at least within the scholarly world, poetic parallelism. And you can see it in verse 38 and 39. The just shall live by faith. Now look at the parallelism here. He repeats himself. But if anyone draws back, now look at this. My soul has no pleasure in him. So what he's saying is that the just or the righteous are the ones that live by faith, and those are the ones that I have pleasure in. I have pleasure in the ones who are just and who are righteous. Those are the ones that live by faith. So what you would expect to see in each of the examples is that they would be either pleasing to God or righteous. Now scan through the accounts and tell me that each one is not mentioned as one of those terms. You have with e with Abel that God witnessed that he was righteous, testifying to his gift. You have with Enoch that he did in fact please God, and you have with Noah that he would become the heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. Notice throughout all examples that they either pleased or were called righteous. And here's the thing If you could transport yourself to the end of your life right now, do you know what? If I'm with you at the end of your life, and I may very well be, you know what I'm going to say to you? The only thing that matters Is your relationship with God through Jesus Christ? And I'm going to look you right in the eyes and we're going to talk about that. It's the only thing that matters is what Jesus thinks of you and what you think of Jesus. What did God through Jesus Christ think about Abel and Noah and Enoch? He was Pleased with them. God smiled upon them. Now here's the other question. Why? What made him what made them pleasing to him? Do you see the power and the pleasure of faith that's being promoted within this passage? Can there be a more important preservative that you would center your life around? That you would become not only those who profess faith, but who are faithful, knowing that it pleases God to the saving of your soul, a faith that is given to you as a gift by the work of the Holy Spirit. Because they lived in faith, they lived like God was telling the truth in their worship and in their goals and even under cultural pressure. And you're now confronted with a moment. Will you live like God is telling you the truth? That your faith is the most important thing for you and your faithfulness, particularly in worship, particularly with your goals, and particularly under cultural pressure. Let's pray