Quiet real fast. Didn't even have to ask the pianist to play anything. Welcome to Seven Run EP Church. So glad that everybody's here. That we're here to worship the living and true God this morning. There are announcements in your bulletin that you can see there at the back. And a schedule for you to pay attention to after the service is done. But right now, let's give ourselves 30 seconds. Quiet our minds, quiet our hearts. get ourselves prepared for what is before us, and then I will start us with a prayer of invocation. Father, we still our minds and calm our nerves in preparation for what is happening here this morning. What an amazing gift you have given us that we are able to gather together as one family to worship you. You have given us your Holy Spirit that moves us. That empowers us and enables us to give you true worship, worship that is pleasing to you. We know we cannot do it without you. And so, Father, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, your only begotten Son. We beg you now to send your Spirit that He would be here with us, that He would knit us together in every prayer, in every song. As we hear from your word, He would move us and show us the truth, and He would transform our hearts to make us more like Jesus. Jesus. We pray, God, that above all things you would be glorified, you would be honored, you would be blessed by our attention given to you this morning. morning. Fill our hearts and our mouths with worship, and God, may our minds be filled with your wisdom as a result of what we do here. today. We praise you and we thank you for all that you do for us, and most especially for your son, in whose name we pray. Amen. Please, if you're able, stand for our call to worship, which comes from Psalm 30, verses 4 through 5. Sing praise to the Lord, you saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holy name, for his anger is but for a moment. His favor is for life. Weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. Brothers and sisters, with a heart filled with joy this morning, let us sing together, Come thou, Almighty King. Help us to praise our glory for all victorious somewhere. From when my people bless can give my words success, given our policy all our Come on wear by neighbor women. And never spirit of God. To be And ever more my God is being solid and will be currently. Amen. Indeed. We now come to a reading from the Old Testament as we confess our Christ. It's from Exodus chapter 30, verses 11 through 16. Feel free to follow along as I read out loud. Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, When you take the census of the children of Israel for their number, Then every man shall give a ransom for himself to the Lord when you number them, that there may be no plague among them when you number them. This is what every one among those who are numbered shall give. Half a shekel, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, a shekel is twenty geras. The half shekel shall be an offering to the Lord Everyone included among those who are numbered, from twenty years old and above, shall give an offering to the Lord. The rich shall not give more. And the poor shall not give less than half a shekel when you give an offering to the Lord, to make atonement for yourselves. And you shall take the atonement money of the children of Israel, and shall appoint it for the service of the tabernacle of Meeting. that it may be a memorial for the children of Israel before the Lord to make atonement for yourselves. Please pray with me. Father, this passage that we have just read speaks about atonement. It speaks about what we need most desperately. We have come now to this time in our worship service where we will confess our sin. And we will confess our sin to you, and we are in desperate need of forgiveness. Atonement. Our God, we beg you that you would move by your Spirit within us to convince us of our sin. Show us the areas that we have fallen short in this past Week, show us show us the sinful plans we've made for the week ahead. We ask God that you would grant this to us, that we would be able to confess it to you now. And that we would hear your wisdom through our elder. Beg you that you would give us all that is required That we can serve you, that we can accomplish the great works you have put before us. We know we cannot do it if sin is reigning in our lives, and so we beg you, keep us Hear our prayers and our confession, that we would be cleansed and enabled and empowered to serve you with our whole hearts. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. Good morning, brothers and sisters. I think all of us that are professing Christians know that the gospel has a miraculous two-way transaction. The first way whereas on the cross our sins are taken away so far as the East is from the West. And the second way is that God's Son's own righteousness is given or imputed to us. And if that second way want to Highlight today specifically the sin of self-righteousness. I think we all understand on an intellectual level what it means that we're not righteous in ourselves. We're only righteous in Jesus' righteousness. But on a practical level, since the culture teaches and it's all around us that we're all innately good, it's very easy to fall into the sin of self-righteousness. And a real test for that is what we think of other people that are worse sinners than us. So my favorite parable is actually the this parable, because it's so short and to the point. I'll read it to you from Luke 18, the Pharisee and the Tax Collector. Jesus speaks right to this issue. This is what he says in six short verses. He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous. and treated others with contempt. Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed, prayed thus. God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers. Or even like this tax collector. to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified. Rather than the other. For every one who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted. Want to do a little role play here. Pretend that there's two men. Instead of the Pharisee and the tax collector, call them the elder and the used car salesman. And I'll be the elder. And what I what I what I say has a surface level of truth to my own life So I'm gonna pray. Oh God, I thank you that I am not a murderer. I've never killed anybody. I thank you that I'm not an adulterer. I've never actually committed Physical real adultery against my wife. I thank you that I'm not a thief, except for that time I stole a permanent patty at a seven eleven when I was a teenager, but I bought another one and returned it so we're even I thank you that I'm not a scoundrel, a lying, cheating scoundrel like all the politicians we see out here, and I thank you that I'm so religious I I go to two services a week and I give a tithe and sometimes above a tithe. I just thank you that I am not like those bad sinners out there representation of self-righteousness. And that's a very easy representation to see. But again, the test is how we treat self-right Sinners just like us. Do we look down on them? We all do. We all play the comparison game. So we all are in need of forgiveness for this sin of self righteousness because we know that to please Christ, yes, we do need to be Obedient servants, but that obedience is a result of his changing of our hearts. So let's pray. We'll pray a two-part prayer. Our sins individually. Let's pray. Oh Father, we thank you that you give us your word in such clear Easy to understand parables like this. I thank you, Lord, that you you show us Our self-righteousness. I thank you, Lord, that you reveal it to us through your word that that we see the sin in our hearts from the way we Have contempt on those that are made in your image. It is not our place to Judge them. Father, forgive us for being contemptuous. Forgive us for Setting ourselves up on a higher standard than others. Lord, forgive our sense of self-righteousness. We have nowhere to go. Go but to the cross. I thank you, Lord, for dying for us. I thank you, Lord, for giving us your righteousness It's a hard thing to believe, but it's true. We are righteous. We are white as snow in Christ. So Father, drive that home to our hearts. Drive home, drive out any self-righteousness, Father, that we may know we are bought and sold. yours by your son's blood, and we are holy in your sight. Not and none of our works will ever earn a grace of your salvation that was paid for on the cross. Thank you, Lord, for hearing these prayers, and now we each confess to you privately. We thank you, Lord, for hearing our prayers. We know that you are faithful and just and will forgive them in Christ's name. Amen. We'll forgive our sins. Hear now this assurance of pardon from Galatians chapter 4. Even so, we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world But when the fullness of the time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law that we might receive the adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying out, Abba, Father Therefore you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ. Please rise as we celebrate that we are sons and we are heirs of Our most holy God, as we sing By grace, I am an heir of heaven. This also was the two. I think the most interpret. I praise these pressures for remember when story by your simple breath. When they come to make your fear with double conscience by for I know why sin of this one My war to my joy gives me since I have my great grace. Amen. Please remain standing as we sing the doxology as the usher comes forward with the tithes and offerings. Oh reason of research Pray with me. Dear Father, we thank you so much that you have adopted us into your family, that you chose us before the world was created. that you love us and you have shown that love by sending your son to redeem us. We offer you these tithes and offerings as a small token for our thankfulness For your redeeming us, we pray that you will use them to build up your kingdom in tangible ways to share your love in this community. In Christ's name, amen. Well the cause before being in me his thou shall be Please remain standing for the word. Children three and younger are dismissed to the nursery. If you have a copy of God's Word, you can open up to Matthew chapter 17. I'll be reading verses 22 through 27. It's also printed there for you in the bulletin. Matthew chapter seventeen, starting in verse twenty two. Now, while they were staying in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men, and they will kill him. And the third day he will be raised up. And they were exceedingly sorrowful. When they had come to Capernaum, those who received the temple tax came to Peter and said, Does your teacher not pay the temple tax? He said, Yes. And when he had come into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth take customs or taxes? From their sons, or from strangers? And Peter said to him, From strangers. And Jesus said to him, Then the sons are free. Nevertheless, lest we offend them, go to the sea. Cast in a hook and take the fish that comes up first. And when you have opened its mouth, you will find a piece of money. Take that and give it to them for me. and you. God's holy word for God's holy people. Let us pray. Lord, would you please open up your word to us? By the comforter, by the Spirit of Truth who dwells within us, would you lead us into the truth? Show us what we are to believe about you from this passage and show us God. what you expect of us. And I pray, our Father, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I believe it was uh Benjamin Franklin who said that there are only two things certain in this world: death and taxes. And though that might be true, very few people volunteer to die. And I'm quite certain that there are no people who volunteer to pay taxes. Ask anyone you know. I doubt that any of them willingly pay more taxes than the law requires. Yet that is precisely What our passage here this morning deals with, there is one who volunteers to pay the ultimate price, though he knows it is not required of him. Now, up to this point in the gospel according to Matthew, the Holy Spirit has been showing that Jesus of Nazareth is indeed the Christ. And that his kingdom, the kingdom of heaven, is at hand. He has delivered a new understanding of God's law to his people, and he has taught his true disciples about his kingdom through parables. He's demonstrated his power through many, many miracles, and yet even though his disciples had witnessed it all, they still just don't get it. Chapter 17 begins with the Son of God supernaturally revealed on the mountain to Peter, James, and John. While they are there, the other disciples find out that they are unable to drive a demon out of a possessed man because of their unbelief. They are Still confused about exactly who Jesus is and exactly what he is going to accomplish. And so for us The Holy Spirit has included this scripture, knowing that we will need encouragement in our faith to believe that Jesus is the Christ And so he he gives us this passage that we would learn this morning that the Lord Jesus Christ, with certain knowledge of the cost, freely and miraculously paid the Pays our ransom. The Lord Jesus Christ, with certain knowledge of the cost, freely and miraculously Now we're going to examine this passage in three parts this morning. We'll first look at Christ's knowledge, and you can see that in verses 22. We will then look at Christ's freedom, which we see in verses 24 through 26. And lastly, we will examine Christ's provision, shown to us in verse 27. So let's jump right into this passage looking first at Christ's knowledge in verses 22 and 23. And if you look at verse 22, the first thing that we see is that Christ's knowledge. is shared. Look at the very beginning of verse 22. It says, now while they were staying in Galilee, Jesus said to them, Christ shares his knowledge, and he shares his knowledge for good reason. He knows that this is going to be a very difficult time for his disciples. The future will be very challenging for them. In fact, look at how they react. He is preparing them for the suffering that is surely going to come He shares it to show his disciples that he is the Christ. He is the only Redeemer of God's elect. He's the great prophet. And so he shows that he knows what only the great prophet can know. Now, this isn't the first time that he's shared this knowledge. He has shared it before. He told them. Of his death in Matthew 16, 21, after he had fed the multitudes, rebuked those who asked for a sign, and confirmed that Peter's confession was from God. The confession that Jesus is the Christ. the Son of the Living God. And this time, just like before, the disciples don't fully understand. In 16, Matthew 16, Peter unwittingly acted like Satan. He was trying to convince Jesus that there just had to be some other way. Some different path. And Jesus says that Peter is not mindful of the things of God, but he is thinking of the things of men. He can't see the wondrous benefit that Christ's future suffering will purchase for him and for God's people. Peter can only guess at what the future holds, and like all of us, try to avoid that which seems negative. But Jesus is not limited as we are. His knowledge is certain. Jesus says that he is about to be betrayed, and by saying about to, he shows that he's not guessing at a possible future. He's not guessing at something that could happen. Rather, he is communicating what is certain and what is imminent. Let's look at the rest of verse 22 together. It says, the Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and the third day he will be raised up. Jesus has certain knowledge of his imminent future betrayal into the hands of men. And this word that's translated betrayal is literally giving into the hands or giving over to the power of another. It implies an intimacy and a closeness on the part of the one betraying Jesus. Only one who was close to Jesus, only one in his inner circle would have the knowledge needed to hand him over. And I think we all know who that is. Even unbelievers and non-Christians know the name Judas, and they know that he was the betrayer of Jesus. The hands of men here indicates the power of those to whom he would be delivered. They're not just any men. Think about this. Jesus has delivered himself to the multitudes for his entire ministry. He has healed and taught them. He was often so crowded by them that he had to find an escape and go up on a mountain to be with his father and to pray. The multitudes and the crowds, these Are not the ones to whom Jesus will be delivered. They are not the ones to whom he will be betrayed. They are not the ones who will torture and kill Him. No, he will be betrayed to those who have been seeking him. Think about John chapter 7. Jesus is teaching in the temple, and people are getting pretty upset about it. He's saying some things that are pretty challenging. And he eventually asks them plainly, why do you seek to kill me? And the people answered and said, You have a demon who's seeking to kill you. And just a few verses later it says, and it tells us, therefore they sought to take him. But no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not come There had always been those who were threatened by Jesus' authority and his healing, and threatened indeed by who He is, the Son of the Living God. But they had not taken him because his hour had not yet come. But Jesus is now communicating that that hour is at hand. He knows he will be betrayed. But he also has certain knowledge of his imminent future suffering and death. He is fully aware of the horrific path that is in store for him. He knows what is about to happen. He's fully aware that he will not escape. He will suffer. He will die. Those into whose hands he's being betrayed will not show him mercy. They will kill him. Well, Jesus also has certain knowledge of his imminent future resurrection. He knows that his death is not his failure. He knows that his death Is exactly what his people need. And he knows his own power. Think about John chapter 10. In verses 17 and 18, it says, Therefore my father loves me Because I lay down my life that I may take it again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of myself. Father. Jesus knows that though he will suffer and though he will die, he will certainly rise again. And the response of the disciples to this shared knowledge from Jesus shows all of us that having knowledge is not the same thing as having having faith. They know what is coming, but they can't make sense of it. They are exceedingly so Because of their unbelief. The very same unbelief which kept them from acting in God's power to cast the demon out of that poor man in verse 20 Though they had been told what would happen, they did not have the faith to properly understand the goodness of it. They did not realize how it is necessary for their greatest possible blessing. If they had, they wouldn't have been sorrowful. They would have rejoiced. They would have leapt for joy at what Jesus the Christ is accomplishing. But they don't. And I'm grateful that the Holy Spirit has included the account of what happens next, because it helps me, and I hope it helps you to understand what Christ's suffering accomplishes. So let's look together now at verses 24 through 26, where we learn about Christ's freedom. We'll see that Jesus is free from the cost of sin. So in this section, let's first examine the collectors. There in verse 24. When they had come to Capernaum, those who received the temple tax came to Peter. Now, a lot of times tax collectors, a lot of people in the New Testament, they get a bad rap, but I'd like to give these guys the benefit of the doubt. Let's assume that they aren't trying to trap Jesus. That they aren't money grubbers or extortioners. Let's assume that they actually love the Lord And they are actually zealous for the work of his temple. Perhaps they're motivated by a love of God's people themselves. They don't want anyone to be guilty of not paying the required temple tax. If Jesus' closest disciples didn't understand the full ramifications of what it meant that he was the Son of the living God, how could these men really understand? I want you to notice that they don't demand payment right then and there. They simply ask a question: Does your teacher not pay the temple tax? And Peter answers, yes. Either because he knows that Jesus has and does, or he is assuming that he will. Either way, if you'll notice, the collectors end there. They're questioning softs there. They don't pursue him. They don't follow him home to get the money And though it is a simple one-word answer, Peter's yes is significant. We have to notice That he's not just assuming that Jesus does and will pay the tax. He's assuming that Jesus is obligated to pay the tax. And so now we have to examine that tax itself. Let's examine the cost. Think back to our reading from Exodus chapter 30, verses 11 to 16. In the passage here, it's called a de drachma. It literally means two drachma, which is the same value as half a shekel, which is that exact annual tax that was required of all the Hebrews who are over the age of In the Exodus passage, it's called an offering to the Lord and atonement money because it was used for the operation of the temple. It was used to fund all those sacrifices, those daily sacrifices. Which were for the atonement of sins. It's called a ransom, a kofer, which is related to a word you may be familiar with, kippur, as in Yom Kippur, the day of atonement. But Jesus the Christ has no need for a Yom Kippur. Does he need the temple sacrifices for the atonement of his own sin? Does he need the activities which the taxes fund? He is the atoning sacrifice. He is the Lamb who takes away the sin of the world. He gives his life as a ransom for many And what happens next clearly shows that Jesus is free from having to pay the tax because of who he is. It's because of him. His birthright. Now, I've already mentioned Peter's confession in chapter 16 that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. A confession we're told was given to him by God the Father. And Jesus knows that sometimes the best way to strengthen our faith is to increase our understanding. And so we're told that he anticipates Peter. And he, when Peter comes into the house, Jesus asks him a question. Look at what he says. What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth take customs or taxes? From their sons or from strangers? Peter gets it right. Kings require taxes from strangers, not from their sons. And then Jesus declares the point. Then the sons are free. Now, even earthly kings do things that make sense, don't they? Even earthly kings do things that are wise and just. How much more will our Father in heaven Heaven, the eternal cosmic king, who is all wisdom and all justice, do things that make sense. He always does. And so, brothers and sisters, we see Christ's freedom The temple is the Father's house. The Father is not going to require his only begotten son to pay the costs of that house, the taxes for that house. The cost of sin. Is not on Jesus to pay. Do you realize that? He is not required to pay it. And he knows this. He knows exactly what the cost is. And he knows that he's free from paying it. Yet what does Jesus do? He does pay it. He freely pays the cost of sin, and he does it in a way so marvelous and so miraculous that it proves beyond shadow of a doubt that he is exactly who he has claimed to be the true Son of God. And so let's look now and be confronted by Christ's provision that we see in verse 27. We see that He provides out of His great love He says, nevertheless, lest we offend them. Now, this is part of the reason why I give the benefit of the doubt to those collectors. Because of them here is referring to them. Jesus doesn't want to offend them or scandalize them. He doesn't want to cause them to stumble. And so, even though he doesn't have to pay this atonement money He's going to pay it. Jesus loves his people. He will not do anything which could cause them to stumble or take offense at his holy He's careful to fulfill all aspects of righteousness. Think about when he received the baptism from John. Well we also see That Jesus provides miraculously. Look at the rest of verse 27 and the instructions that he gives to Peter. He says, Go, go to the sea, cast in a hook, and take the fish that comes up First. And when you have opened its mouth, you will find a piece of money. Take that and give it to them for me and you. The Lord orders all things Unto his glory, and he has determined that he is to be glorified through the redemption of his people. He has ordered all past events to guide his people, to bring them into salvation. Think about Noah. Was there any miraculous provision for Noah? Think about Abraham. He was called out of a land of sin. Called out of the land of his family. Did God provide anything miraculously for Abraham? His name's Isaac. Did God provide anything miraculously for Isaac? Her name was Rebecca. And on and on and on. Look at how he saved Israel from Egypt How he guided them through the wilderness into the promised land. Think about the exile and their return. God is always miraculously providing for his people. And here, even in this scenario, our awesome God does exactly that. It's not the first time that Jesus has ordered creation and it responded to him as God, is it? He had given a command to the water, and what happened to it? It became wine. He orders the wind and the waves, and what did they become? Became still and silent. He ordered the sea itself and it became solid. Solid enough for him to walk on it. Solid enough for Peter to walk on it. So once again Jesus proves himself to be all that he's claimed to be. He is God. And he orders all that is required to fulfill his designed future, his prophecy. And so a coin of exactly this value Exactly the value for two payments of the temple tax is found. And it's found where? In a fish. Now most fish that eat things, they swallow stuff and it goes into their belly, so it would be kind of hard. to know if this is the right fish. But this fish didn't. It stayed in its mouth. And think about that, just the miracle of it. Of all the millions of fish in the sea This one fish is the first fish that gets on a hook. And there's not even we're not even told there's bait on the hook. Well, we also aren't told that Peter did what Jesus said, but we don't need that. The Holy Spirit has determined that we don't need it. We trust. What Jesus says. It's enough that he has said it. And faith in our God rests entirely upon his words. And so we trust that everything that Jesus said would be happened. Exactly as he prophesied. Brothers and sisters, I hope you are encouraged by this passage. Our Lord Jesus Christ knows the cost of sin. He knows what is required of every one of us because of our sin. And he knows that he alone is free from having to pay that cost because he alone is free from sin. And yet he willingly and miraculously orders his universe to provide exactly what his people need for righteousness. That is your God, Christian. That is the God who pays your ransom. The Lord Jesus Christ has certain knowledge. He goes to the cross fully aware that he's not obligated to give his life for anyone. Yet he is also fully aware that you have no hope if he doesn't. Well, I asked you this morning: do you think that God has made a mistake? He knows the depths of your heart. He knows the sin in your life. Did he make a mistake giving his life for you? He knows every sin that you are going to commit up to the day that you die. Did he make a mistake saving you? He didn't. He loves you. He knows that you have no chance. No hope if he doesn't pay the cost. And so he goes to the cross and he pays the price for you. He would do it for you if you were the only sinner on the face of the planet. If everyone else somehow were without sin, and only you needed your sin to be paid for, he would still Endure the suffering, the flogging, and the crucifixion. He would do it all to pay your ransom. He went to the cross for all the sinners around you. Look at your neighbor. Look at the person next to you. They're a sinner. Wife, look at your husband. He's a sinner. Husbands, look at your wives, they're sinners. Look at your children. I don't need to remind you He has done this. He has paid that incredible cost, not just for you, but for everyone around you who is being Saved by his blood. There is no sinner that you know who is outside of the power of Christ to be saved. There is no sin, no sin That is outside of the power of Christ's blood to spare you from hell. All of your family All of your friends, all of your coworkers, every person you might meet randomly at a at a stop sign, they are able to be saved because of Of the great power of Jesus Christ and his marvelous sacrifice on the cross. This should fill all of us with wonder. We should marvel at the Lamb of God who freely and willingly gives his own life as a ransom for yours and for the people that you've loved. Do you realize that just as he knew the great suffering he would endure, he has certain knowledge of all that will happen in your life? Every challenging scenario, every difficult situation. No matter what you are facing, embrace Christ. Embrace the Lord. Follow His word. Trust in His wisdom No matter what happens, cling to the truth of the gospel. If you have to, every single day remind yourself how much he loves you and how wonderful his plan for you really is He loves you so much that he pays the cost he doesn't have to pay. His plan is wonderful for you because he does it, that you would be with him forever, that you would be spared from the pain. Of hell. He who began the good work in you is also the one who will complete it. He is the author and the finisher of your faith. And he's given his own body and his own blood to ensure that you will be with him in true communion forever. It's why we Do this every week to be reminded that this is what it's all about. Christian God has made you his sons and his daughters. Not slaves, but children adopted into his household. You are now heirs of the kingdom of heaven You are sons of God, and the sons are free. You are free In Christ, you're freed from the bondage of sin, and you are now enabled and empowered to choose obedience to God and to choose obedience to his moral law. Choose obedience and to live in a way that pleases him. As Elder Mack has reminded us, it's the obedience that we're saved to, not the obedience that saves us. But you have Have been made free. You are now also free to devote yourselves wholeheartedly to God. You can devote yourselves to serving Him, to serving His people. You're free to confess your sin Did you realize that? Without Christ, you're not free to confess your sin. You're free to hide it. And try to hide it from yourself, try to hide it from everyone around you. But in Christ You're now free. Confess it to him. You're free to confess your sins to others. You're free to seek forgiveness from those that you have wronged And by the power of the Holy Spirit, you are free now to forgive those who have wronged you. You've been adopted into his household, an heir of heaven. You have a right to all the privileges that you That comes with being a child of God. His gifts are yours. And we're told in the scriptures that the gifts from God to his church are the officers Elders, deacons. Do you realize, Christian, that those gifts are here for you? God has put officers in this church for you. To help you. If you have a physical need, go to the deaconate. We're here for you. If you're struggling with sin or with a difficult situation in your life, go to the elders Bring it to the church that we can bring the wisdom of God's word to bear on your sanctification. And finally, brothers and sisters, do you recognize God's miraculous provision? Do you see how he orders all of your life to bring you to saving faith and to give you exactly what you need for your Righteousness. He's brought you to saving faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He allows you to receive and rest upon Him alone for your salvation. But even if you're not there yet, even if you haven't made that confession and profession, look at what God has done for you. He has brought you to this family. church. A church where we try our very best to take him seriously, where we try our best to trust in his word. And though we fail miserably most of the time, we try our very best to love each other. To love, regardless, even to the very bitter end. The Lord provides all of us with what we need. And he gives us all our daily bread, doesn't he? It's not just a spiritual provision. We're not just Floating around, happy at what God gives us. He gives us what we need to survive in our physical lives Now, history is full of stories of churches who have abused their positions and their authority, and they've taken advantage of God's people in order to store up vast amounts of wealth. Because of this, there have been a lot of misconceptions about Christian tithing and about offerings. The Christian tithe is not a temple tax. Do you realize that? Though some churches may treat it this way, the Christian tithe is not your membership dues. It's not like your union dues. The Christian tithe must be a gift which we give back to God in true gratitude and true thanksgiving. We are bringing to God out of liberation, not out of obligation. And we bring to him what is already his Giving it to Him, showing how thankful we are for His wondrous and steadfast love. He provides for us physically and spiritually that we will be able to fulfill His purposes To accomplish his work here on earth. And so I'll close with this: asking you: is this how you see your life and your possessions? Is what God has given you there for you to accomplish your will? Or has he given it to you to accomplish his? Do you view tithes and offerings as a burdensome tax on you? Something you would rather not give. Or do you experience the joy of giving from a thankful heart? Giving to God as one who knows the immense price that He has paid for you May our awesome God grant you the power by His Holy Spirit to overcome your own unbelief and to live as one who knows this truth. That Jesus Christ, our Lord, has certain knowledge of the costs of your sin, yet with absolutely no obligation, he freely chooses. To pay your ransom. That is the God who pays your ransom. Please pray with me. Holy Lord, our Father in Heaven, it is appropriate as we move into this week to celebrate Thanksgiving. That we would focus on what should be the source of our ultimate gratitude. We know there's nothing we can do to deserve such special treatment from you. We know there's nothing we can do to earn salvation, to earn righteousness, to earn forgiveness. And so we recognize that we are. Completely vulnerable. We must lay ourselves at your feet, begging you for the mercy that is required that we might be spared And so, Lord, as we go through this week coming up, would you keep us mindful of how much we owe you? Would you keep us mindful of how much we have been forgiven that we are then able to forgive much in others? Would you remind us every day how much we are loved by you, that we would then know that we have so much love we can give to the rest of this world? And God, would you help us never to forget the steep cost of our sin And I beg you that it would enable us to turn from our sin, to turn away from our daily temptations, to turn away from those habits and those patterns of speech and thought and behavior. That sometimes we we just can't imagine overcoming it. Would you help us, God, to leave our sin behind and to embrace you only To seek you only. We know that we will fail. And when we do fail, God, would you recall to our mind that you have not done this, you have not made a mistake. Our sin has not negated your great work. Instead, Lord, please remind us that you went to the cross knowing that we would commit even that sin. And would you fill our hearts with a desire never to feel ashamed for our sin again? A desire that leads us into seeking your wisdom in your word, to seeking all the help that you have given us, to seeking the fellowship and the love of a church like this one. That we would be strengthened and able to glorify and enjoy you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Brothers and sisters, as we prepare our hearts to receive the the physical signs and seals of that great cost that was paid Let us stand and let us sing our invitational hymn, Behold the Lamb. And as we do so, I ask the elders to please come and prepare the table. So, And we have to take the ball on the boy. And we believe for this and the song for the bond of peace. All we got to say all the kingdom. Send me free on this bank with the story of the bottom law Go around the table of the city. Because I'm not the only strength in this breath of night every three. On his battery, and the song of our brain All round the table of the still And so the table is a big life to respond and to remember. I walk in following the steps on the right standard. And the door is the beast of Please be seated. And uh I want to remind you all that we are welcoming Reverend Bill Dorfel. He's with us all the time, and you may not know he is a minister, a teaching elder in the Um Orthodox Presbyterian Church, the Presbytery of the Southwest. Thank you. Thank you for preaching the word. Let's give thanks for this table. Lord Jesus Christ, it is of your mercy that you give us this table to remind us of your sacrifice, which alone can take away the guilt and penalty of our sins. We thank you, Heavenly Father, for sending your Son to redeem us from our futile way of life and bring us to yourself. Thank you, Holy Spirit, for renewing our hearts Bringing us from death to life. And thank you, Lord Jesus, for paying the debt that we owed, laying down your life as a ransom for us. us. Thank you for this table, for these symbols of your sacrifice, the bread signifying your body broken for us, the cups signifying your blood poured out for us. Be present with us, we pray, as we share this meal in your name. Amen. Amen. We grow weary. Our souls grow weary. Weary from our strivings against sin day after day. We live in a dry and thirsty land where there is no water. With the psalmist, our souls thirst for God, for the living God. And our Savior, who knows our frame, invites us to come to Him and find the nourishment and strength that our weary souls need. He said, If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink, and out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. At this table, those who know the Savior, who hope in his word, who have yielded their lives to him in faith, May calm and drink of that life-giving stream and find their souls renewed. But not all have faith. And so I must fence this table. Scripture warns us that this meal is not for everyone. The apostle wrote, Whoever eats this bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this reason many among you are weak and sick, and some have died. If you have not Yet come to Christ in faith and life-changing repentance. Let these elements pass you for now. But I do implore you in Christ's stead, be reconciled to God. You need a Savior. And Jesus is the only Savior. Pray that He will deliver you from your sins. Feel free to speak with one of these elders. or any mature believer to help you come to that faith. But those of you here who truly are trusting in Christ alone for salvation, who desire to live a life of repentance and are a baptized member in a church that professes the gospel of God's free grace, this table is for you You calm and welcome. Let's pray. Our God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ, we be pleased, we pray, to set apart these elements from their everyday use. And sanctify them, that our souls through them might be nourished and refreshed. In your name. Amen. We will begin with the distribution of the bread. The smaller cup is gluten-free, and we'll take this together as a family after The words of institutional The Apostle Paul wrote, I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you, that in the night in which Jesus was betrayed, he took bread And after he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to his disciples and said, Take, eat, this is my body broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Let us take and eat and remember. Maybe I've had a lot of things. Oh Lord Jesus, we belong to you. You have purchased us, redeemed us for yourself at the cost of your own precious blood. Oh, may your blood ever be precious to us. Amen. We will now distribute the cup, the center portion. is in the colored glasses is grape juice and the outer rings are wine. After supper, Jesus took the cup, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for many for the remission of sins. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he come. Let's take and drink together. Let's pray. Our God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, how we thank you for giving us The ability by faith to see that it is only by your son's death that we have been saved. Thank you for giving us faith. to come to Jesus, to drink, to feed our souls on the very bread of heaven. Thank you again for giving us a fresh this day, the taste Of sins forgiven. Amen. Let's stand and sing our closing hymn That he should live his only How great the thing of hearing laws the God is away. As boons which more do I show them what he's used to glory. The spring that we are stuck in the world. It was my sister. I will not go with any God my propose. In Jesus Christ, if death and let the reaction Do I should I think not before? I said I'm in an answer, but this I know it all my dog in my But yes, I know with all my heart, before I Praise be to God. Receive the Lord's venediction. May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God the Father. And the communion and fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all now and forever