For others. Sharing is caring. Let's go ahead and make our way to our chairs. We are three, four, five seconds late for our service this morning. Well, it's great to see all of you. Welcome to Severn Run Worship. I'm glad that the Lord has gathered us here this morning. My hopes are flying high for what Christ is doing in each of our lives. And if your hopes are low this morning, it's our prayer that the Lord will boost those hopes in him. That it would start in faith and then an expectation to see that faith as real. Please make sure you're checking out all of the different things that are going on. our different communities in the back of the bulletin. Tonight we have uh tacos. Very exciting. And uh stay tuned with all the other stuff that's going on. We know that I'm gonna say it, just do not throw anything at me. We know school's starting back up soon. So make sure you're paying attention to all those different changes in the schedule and that kind of thing and keeping our teachers in prayer. I think 75% of us are teachers. So let's just keep them in mind. All right, enough talk. Let's go ahead and move into worship and we're going to start with a word of prayer and then we'll stand for the call to worship. Please join me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you. Lord, we thank you that you have given us hope, you have given us faith, and you have given us love Lord, each of us here have been blessed by you. Even if there are some here who are unwilling to acknowledge it, the blessing is there nevertheless. And we thank you for that, Lord. We thank you for all the good things that you've given to us in Jesus Christ. Lord, sometimes we can get down a bit, we can lose our perspective, and sometimes our perspective is realistic and things are really difficult. But nevertheless, Lord, you still give us little blessings throughout every day. And these are but a sign of what you have in store not only for us but all of the nations across the face of the globe. Your angels have been watching your marvelous plan of redemption and it involves us. I pray, Lord, that you would enlarge the scope of our Our vision this morning. Help us to see again. We can become awfully narrow-minded during the week. Help us to see what we live for, who we live for. We ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship, which is from Psalm 47, 6 through 7. Sing praises to God. Sing praises to God. Sing praises to our kings, sing praises, for God is the king of all the earth. Sing praises with understanding Let's turn to hymn number one and sing, come people of the risen king, and let's sing it nice and loudly. So you can tell you can't be a very important thing. On the grace came to divide to bring him praise. Come all enter to our points is needed to the voice of grace. From the spirit is to have the unbelievable. Where's the person We draw it, we join. We draw one more. What do you join? Some those whose joy is born is done, and us we don't mind. Um cara being a little bit. We draw, we join, when we don't return. One more price we do. Oh non everyone then they win the Over all the world is people to ensure we hear them all. And then you're going to be able to do that. One board for church free Amen. Let us now behold our Christ from Matthew seven, fifteen through twenty. And in this we can rejoice, in that Christ eventually removes all false prophets, protecting his people. Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes from thorn bushes or fig trees From thistles. Even so, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Therefore, by their fruits you will know them. Behold your Christ. Let us pray. Lord, we have, since the last time we've gathered in your name, in the last Lord's Day, we've been through quite a bit. And it is good to regather or to be regathered and to sing your praises, to sing a song where we are rejoicing that you are all and all. to sing a song where our hands can be held out and filled with grace to the brim and flowing over. It is good to remember what you are doing with this creation, your creation, and our part to play within it. We pray, Lord, that you would be with us now in a time of confession. We pray that you would work through the elder who will come up here. We pray that you would work through Him to give us instruction, not for the sake of just the head, but the heart. Not, Lord, just to hear knowledge, but to lead us to repentance. We ask these things in your name Good morning, brothers and sisters. Yesterday in the men's breakfast uh we had a brief discussion. I think Dwayne brought up the verse. It's a verse that we all know very well. Ephesians two eight nine and it's a verse that a lot of us uh memorized when we came to faith to realize uh the grace of salvation is all God and none of us. It says, for by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God. Not a result of work, so that no one may boast. Salvation. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. But I do I it would be a good exercise to go through the first three chapters and just underline the church or or you know the the household of God, the temple of the Lord. the different uh phrases that Paul uses for the church in those in those three chapters. It's a glorious it's a glorious uh portion of scripture about the blessings of Christ and the blessings of the church and God's purposes for the church. And he and he then gets and he ends it with a doxology at the end of chapter three, and then he then gets into the practical, the meat of it. I'm only want to go over the beginning of that, verse four. This is what Paul says. He says I, therefore, a prisoner of the Lord. Oh uh I haven't memorized. Now I want to get it that word down. I therefore a prisoner of the Lord urge urge you to walk in a manner worthy of your of the calling to which you have been called With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love Eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. That's our calling how we're to walk. And then a l a few verses later in verse seven, how, the the practical part of it in the church, but grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ. gifts. And Romans 12 does a really nice job of fleshing that out a little bit more, just a few verses from there, about the nature of the church. For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ and individually members of one another. Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them. And then he goes on to the different gifts. A couple important points I'd like to emphasize here. We've been called from all eternity to be member to salvation and to be members of the body of Christ. Christ. God is predestined not only your salvation, he's predestined that you're going to be a member of this little old church on Millersville Road. And our responsibility is not only to walk in a manner worthy of the gospel, our responsibility is to be members of one another. It's a high calling when you think about it. And and and we do that by exercising the gifts that God has given us. Not only the gift of salvation, the gifts that He has given us to build up the body of Christ, to encourage each other to bear one. So in that light I would like to consider how we have not followed God's calling to be members of a body of Christ and the importance of the Of that in our lives. You can really see from these scriptures, it is our highest calling. It's not about Jesus and me, it's about the Lord's church, and it's about Us. It's about us. So let's go to the Lord in prayer, confessing our sins, how we have passage together. Let's pray. Our gracious Father, we thank you, Lord, for your grace in salvation. We thank you, Lord, for your grace in calling us To be a member of your body, that you have preordained from all eternity, Father, that we shall be a member of your body with your Son as our head. We thank you, Lord, for this calling. We confess, Father, that we don't always walk in a manner that's worthy of your of the calling you have called us to. We confess. We don't take the church or roles as members of your body with the seriousness that you call us to. Father, this is our highest calling Father, forgive the selfish ambitions of our heart when our lives just look like we go to church on Sunday. Check that box. Father, forgive us for this attitude. Instill in us a great desire to be your people. To be your people and to do the good works that you have ordained us to work in your church. Father, you have knit each of us together as a as a household, as your household As your holy temple unto the Lord. Let us live out our callings. Now let us each pray individually, confessing our sins. Father, we thank you for hearing our confession this morning. We know that if we are in Christ We are cleansed, Father. You have forgiven us our sins of neglecting the high calling of being a member of your body. Strengthen us, Lord, through your spirit, that we may see the gloriousness of your gospel and the glorious gloriousness of your church, which you have, which you are the head of, and you and one day all rulers and authorities will know that. We thank you, Lord, for hearing our prayers in Jesus' name. Amen. Now hear this assurance of pardon from Titus chapter 3. But when the kindness and the love of God, our Savior toward man appeared, not by works of righteousness Which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us through the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us abundantly. Through Jesus Christ our Savior, that having been justified by His grace, we should become heirs according to the hope of eternal life Praise the Lord, and please rise as we sing, O sacred head, now wounded. Was called for To take the spread for this drug Let us sing the doxology as the usher comes forward with the offering. Let us pray. Father, we thank you, Lord, for calling us to life in your Son. We thank you, Lord, for calling us to life in this church. Father, we pray that you will Allow us to bear fruit for your kingdom, for your son's name through this offering, to spread the glory of your son to this community and to the world. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please remain standing for the reading of the word. Uh children, babies to three-year-olds are dismissed Thanks, Joe. Let's all turn together to Judges chapter nine. And our reading this morning is the first twenty-one verses. Raise your hand this morning if you've heard of Jotham's fable. All right. Great. Well it's in the Bible. And we're gonna yeah, and we're gonna read it this morning. We'll start in uh verse one and read through twenty-one. Then Abimelech, the son of Jerubal, went to Shechem. to his mother's brothers, and spoke with them and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying, Please speak in the hearing of all the men of Shechem. Which is better for you, that all seventy of the sons of Jeruvael reign over you, or that one reign over you? Remember that I am your own flesh and bone. And his mother's brothers spoke all these words concerning him in the hearing of all the men of Shechem. These are the m men of renown. Think of a a council that runs the city. the men of Shechem, and their heart was inclined to follow Abimelech, for they said, He is our brother. So they gave him seventy shekels of silver from the temple of Baal Barit With which Abimelech hired worthless and reckless men, and they followed him. Then he went to his father's house in Ophra and killed his brothers The seventy sons of Jerubal on one stone. Think of an executioner block. But Jotham, the youngest son of Jerubel, was left because he hid himself. And all the men of Shechem gathered together, all of Beth Milo, and they went and made Abimelech king beside the terebinth tree at the pillar that was in Shechem. So when they told Japham, he went and stood on top of Mount Gerizim, and lifted his voice and cried out, and he said to them, Listen to me, you men of Shechem, that God may listen to you. The trees once went forth to anoint a king over them. And they said to the olive tree, Reign over us. But the olive tree said to them, Should I cease giving my oil, with which they honor God and men, and goat to sway over trees? Then the tree said to the fig tree, You come and reign over us. But the fig tree said to them, Should I cease my sweetness and my good fruit and go to sway over the trees? Then the trees said to the vine, You come and reign over us. But the vine said to them, Should I cease my new wine, which hears both God and men, and go to sway over trees? And all the trees said to the Bramble, You come and reign over us. And the Bramble said to the trees, If in truth you anoint me as king over you, then come and take shelter in my shade. But if not, let fire come out of the bramble and devour the cedars of Lebanon Now therefore, if you acted in truth and sincerity in making Abimelech king, and if you have dealt well with Jeruval and his house and have done to him as he deserves, for my father fought for you, risked his life, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian. But you have risen up against my father's house this day, and killed his seventy sons on one stone and made Abimelech the son of his female servant king over the men of Shechem, because he is your brother. If then if you have acted in truth and sincerity with Jerubal and with his house this day Well then rejoice in Abimelech and let him rejoice in you. But if not, let fire come from Abimelech and devour the men of Shechem and Bethmela. and let fire come from the men of Shechem, and from Beth Milo, and devour Abimelech. And Jotham ran away and fled, and he went to Baar, and dwelt there, for fear of Abimelech His brother. Let us pray. Lord God, you give us all of the scriptures for instruction, reproof, admonishment. I pray, Lord, that those things would happen amongst your congregation today. We thank you for this time to consider the trees. I pray that it would sit in the hearts of young and old alike. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Last week we learned yet another symptom. of the canonization or the worldliness or the becoming worldly of the church. I wonder if you remember last week's. That was an easy one to remember. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is to forget the one God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And we talked about forgetting in a fixed sense. And what we did was we looked at the history of the black church to see what wisdom the Lord and his providence gave to them to not forget him. We learned at least two lessons. One is that we must hold on to our faith and hope. Faith believes that God is true. Hope expects that in due season he will manifest his truth. And we are to always remember that we are a people. You belong to a people. You are a part of a certain fabric of people. As a people, the church, we have been afflicted in every way, but we have not been crushed. That's your ancestry. We have been perplexed, but we're not driven to despair. That's your ancestry. We have been rejected by all manner of people, but we are embraced by the God who stands over all, and that's all that matters. And as we hold on to those things, may the Lord keep us from forgetting him, especially in this day and age. Well, we have a few observations this morning on this section, which is a continuation of the Gideon cycle, but we're now entering into a cycle that's his son. His name is Abimelech. which means my father is king or my dad was king. Uh y it's kind of an arrogant name. Um and you can see it kind of being worked out in this guy in the way that he thinks of himself and all of his self-confidence. Well, I want to look at this by a few observations and we'll end up focusing on that the little story about the trees. It's very sweet and helpful to young and old alike as we face our temptations. So let's begin with just uh uh noticing a few things. Here's the first thing I want you to take a look at. As I mentioned, we are continuing the Gideon cycle, but it's in the form of his son, Abimelech, or one of his sons. You can tell that right away, as soon as Abimelech enters into the scene, there's a kind of presumption with him that matches his name His name is My Dad is King, and he thinks that that should pass down to him some kind of royal favor, and immediately starts posturing himself for political power In that way. Did you see what he did, his strategy, and how savvy he is as a person? He is politically cunning and he divides his family in two. We have the mother's side and we have the father's side and he's going to divide them so that he can conquer. You can see that he gains the favor of his relatives on his mother's side in verses 1 and 2. Claiming, we are flesh and blood. And he gives this little speech of, would you rather have one ruling over you or 70 ruling over you? It reminded me of the speech in the Patriot by Mel Gibson, by the way. And arguments from the reformers of um one pope or a thousand popes or whatever, however you want to uh uh use that saying. But they agree to make Abimelech king. He has persuasive abilities. And then they not only agree, but did you notice that they support him financially from the temple treasury, from Baal Barit? We know that we're already in deep trouble, and there's canonization that's already happened. And then they're going to support and then with that money he will support himself by stirring up reckless men, hiring these outlaws, in order to then go ahead and conquer the other side of the family. When he goes to conquer the other side of the family, he executes all of the sons on the father's side, except for one. The youngest, it was Jotham. That's the first thing I want you to notice is him just setting up this political kingdom and what he did to get there. But in God's providence, hope is not lost because there's this one little son left. And this is the second thing I want you to notice. In verses 7 through 20, We have an extended speech or parable or fable from Jotham. Jotham verse 7. Notice the symbolic imagery that accompanies him so that you know how to read him. How to posture yourselves towards him. He stick goes to the top of the mountain as if he's speaking from heaven like a prophet. And he declares to the citizens of Shechem the heavenly perspective of God in the form of a fable about trees. You notice in verse 8 that we have the agenda of the trees. The trees want a king to rule over them. So they go out on a journey to appoint their leader. In verse 9, and then in verses 10 and 11 and following, you're going to see these different kinds of trees, and it is from here that I'll end up summarizing a little bit later where I want us to take our instruction from Christ. But just notice in verse 9, first the olive tree In a context involving an invitation to kingship, the olive appropriately cites its ceremonial value, writes one scholar The Olive would rather honor others than be narcissistically anointed with his own oil. That's a good way to put it, to just show you the different perspectives of these trees so that you don't miss the moral of the story In verse 10, we then move on to the fig, and this is again a premier plant for this area. These are all top-quality plants that the community relies upon. The fruit of the fig can be eaten fresh, it can be made into cakes or fig wine, it's used as a sweetener. But the fig refuses to stop producing sweetness and fruit for others and the the productivity already has. to go to a meaningless position that's not going to do anything. He refuses the promotion so that he can keep serving the community. And then we have verses 10 through 11, where we have the grapevine, and the grapevine declines the honor of kingship so that it can continue in its good work, which is to cheer the hearts of God and men with its nectar. so to speak. We reached the climax of the fable and the great contrast, so you know exactly what the story is here. In the fourth overture in verses 14 through 15, when the trees approach the bramble with the identical offer of kingship. Ironically, I mean I really just be in the moment here for a second. How absurd is it that the Bramble is going to offer anything to the community? And then look at the way that the Bramble thinks of itself in the language that is chosen in the fable. It tells them The Bramble invites the whole community and their leadership to rest in his shade. I mean, come on. Um I've never, never found any relief resting in the shade of a s of a a sticker bush. It's always an oak or something like that, but not a sticker bush. And this just shows you the absurdity of what Jotham is bringing out The image of trees seeking cover beneath a bramble is absurd, not only for reasons of its size, but because it has no shade and if you do get too close, you're all you're going to do is bleed to tell you the truth. It doesn't have any fruit to sustain you, but not this kind of uh thorn bush, which actually in the Hebrew it's buckthorn if you want to look up that plant. So that's the second observation when we can go through that fable. And then here's the third, and we'll deal with this more next week. But in verses 16 through 20, you can really see the conclusion that Jotham is He's bringing every funneling everything down into a head. And really what Jopham has done is he's constructed a lawsuit. And like Nathan would do for David, he put it in the form of a story. In 16 through 20, Jotham convicts the leaders of Shechem of murder. And that's the main point of the fable It is to establish that those leaders are complicit with Abimelech in the murder that has taken place among his very own brothers, those who lost their head on that stone. The leaders and Abimelech therefore are under a curse. Now, we'll get to this next week, but take a look at chapter 9, verses 56 through 57, just so you can see the end of the story. This curse from Jotham from Mount Gerizim is a but a foreshadowing. Judges 9, 56 through 57, thus God repaid the wickedness of Abimelech. There it is. That's the That's the fire coming from the men of Shechem towards Abimelech, which is part of the curse, and then we have the fire coming from the bramble towards the men of Shechem in the next verse, and all the evil men of Shechem, God returned on their own heads, and on them came the curse of Jotham, the son of Baruba. In God's providence, the whole thing works out towards justice. Here's the emphasis that I want us to take this morning, and we'll have other emphases next week. What you see here is a contrast. A contrast is given that we might see the good perspective. of the eternal Christ and his intention for human society, especially the Church of God. That's why Jotham is up on that mountain, representing with his lips the lips of the Christ. The fruit trees and their productive service. Stand against the thornbush and those societies which establish such thornbushes into power. Now I'm saying a lot here, but let me just go ahead and boil it down to the doctrine, and I thank you for your patience. I want to put it negatively first. Here's the main teaching. When the church becomes worldly, or when we are canonized, we will exchange Public service for self-promotion. And we will establish with power self-promoting leaders. That's going to be another mark or symptom of the canonization of the church. Now let's go ahead and put that positively, because I'm a positive guy. The church is meant to be fruitful for the good of the other. The church establishes leaders who bring life, not death. That's what we do. So let me just say that again so we can hold on to it, because this is the main teaching or doctrine. When the church becomes worldly, then we will exchange public service for self-promotion, and we'll gain self-promoting leaders. We'll actually get the leaders we deserve at that point. The church is meant to be fruitful for the good of the other. The church establishes leaders who bring life. That's our calling. Now I want to work out this calling under the headings of two application points, both beginning with a C, children. The first one is confirmation. If you need to know how to spell that, ask your parent after the service. Do your best. Confirmation and the second one is complicity. Confirmation and complicity. Noah, if you need to know how to spell that, I'll tell you later. Okay, let's begin with confirmation. I just want to confirm through this story that Jotham has given so much of what we've learned from the scriptures over the last three years. It is sweet to have just a nice little story to wrap stuff up. I am a bear of little brain. And I like it when somebody can just put something simply. If you're saying stuff and you sound complicated, I don't trust you. Just so you know. But here it is in a nice little story about trees Trees. And this, my friends, I don't want you to mistake, this is the gracious love of our Christ. Do you know how intelligent and wise our Christ is? Do you know how he could have said these things But he has chosen to bend down the knee and invite us up to the front, sit on his lap and speak to us, to where we can get right to the heart of the matter. And he does so through this speech with Jotham. And I have needed this refreshing breeze To know God's will through this story has been so refreshing. Do you know? And the answer is yes, do you know how morally complicated life has become? I mean is it just me? Okay, good. Going through COVID Going through social unrest, new political administrations, all of the ethical problems which we face, it's like, it feels like uh, I don't know, it's just confusing. And frustrating and exhausting, all of the different cases of conscience that we have to work through trying to figure out and discern God's will in our families, in the church, in the community And honestly, I left the construction industry, but it still feels like I'm working physically hard. And I wonder if you feel that way too. I wonder if you felt like you've had a shovel and you've just been digging for about three years. Trying to get somewhere. We take the spade shovel of our minds, guided by the Spirit, and we dig and we dig and we dig, looking for His will in His Word. just trying to figure out how to relate to people again, reading his providence in our situations. Seeking counsel from our community, trying to find the right community from which to seek counsel. The old ones that we had sometimes are falling flat. It reminds me too of the third petition of the Lord's Prayer. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And uh the catechism unfolds that and says that when we pray the Lord's will be done on earth as it is in heaven, we're asking God at the very least to make his will, make us able to know his will. Make us willing to obey it once we know it. I mean, haven't you felt this? Haven't you felt the stress of not knowing what God wants these days? Like you have a bunch of puzzle pieces out on the table and you're just starting to find some of the edge pieces. But there's a lot more to do. But here, and that's my point, here the digging is light. It's just some trees, and there's a moral to the story. The digging is light and it is confirmatory of so much teaching that we've had here at Severn Run. Christ graciously lays out his vision of our little lives With a little story about the fig tree and the grapevine. Like one of Aesop's fables, the moral is clear. Christ designed for us to be like the olive tree. He designs for us to be like the fig tree, all by his Holy Spirit, of course. And he designs for us to be like the vineyard, and guess who he does not want you to be like? It's just too clear the bramble. So if lately, this past week somebody said that you're prickly, we we need to go back into the time of confession. It's that simple, and what a refreshing breeze. Christ's will in heaven for you on earth is that simple. Bee trees that love your neighbor and promote their lives. Now I know that it can get complicated quick, but it's nice to at least have a rock to go back to. Now I want to give you a couple ideas. This is a little odd for me to get this practical But I'm going to, and I just want to give you a couple ideas on how we can embrace Jotham's fable that has been given to us by Christ this morning, that we might know what Christ requires of us in his kingdom. And here's the first thing that I want to say to us: I think it could be a great idea for us to set this fable up inside of our homes. It's going to be thoroughly practical, folks. Okay, no pyrotechnics up here. I don't have any fireworks going off behind me. We're just going to talk about some basics. I think that we need to set this fable up in our homes. I remember visiting Holly's parents' house once they finally let me in the front door. And that was right of you. I was a mess. Still am a mess. But before we even started dating, I went into their home and I noticed I didn't grow up in a Christian home, so this was a ver a surprise to me. But I would look down the hall and up above one of their closets, they had a little uh plaque, not not exactly a plaque, but a little piece of artwork, and it said, As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. So then to get to do anything in that house, including going to the bathroom or going back, every day you had to retire heading down that hallway and see it. As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. And I'm thinking that the fable could do something like that for us There's no images of Christ here, so I don't have to violate anyone's conscience in the room. So perhaps the children should draw and paint this fable showing the trees. and how they give life to their community so that they can have a picture of what it means to be under Christ's rule, who is the great fruitful tree. Perhaps you should print out the fable, and with big letters above it, it could say, as for me and my home, we bring life. Or love your neighbor, or whatever it is. But those are some practical ways to just keep going back to this touchstone to remember what this is all about. Because things can get complicated enough. The second thing I would mention to you, and these are just a couple of ideas or pastoral privileges of application. I would encourage you to keep the fable in mind as you structure your family life. As you structure your church life and as you structure your community life. And what I mean by structure is that you would put things into place that remain like they're stuck in concrete and start to form a frame in which everyone must behave or act or conduct themselves. One example of this is structuring, and I'm going to give you some examples from my own life. That's all that I got for you. I'm sorry. What and that's gonna be f my my family is still at home. I have a young f a semi-young family. For those of you who are older and you don't have family at home I pray that the Holy Spirit would help you to make some further applications. I think that we can all do that. We've been given the brains to do that. And I'm just going to give you some examples, and then I think you can draw it out for more and more. But one example of this kind of structuring of the mentality is a structuring towards work. Did you notice that all the trees are working? And I want to give you three rules that my family is definitely not the poster family. We have got a lot of problems. You know, we were in 102 fights on the way to church. Okay? But I'm going to give you some some ways in which the Spirit has allowed us to manifest something good. And here's rule number one. These are some rules that we have found really helpful in our family. Rule number one. This all has to do with structuring so that you can be like the trees. Never watch another person work Do you know what I mean by that? Have you ever had uh you ever been carrying like you know four plastic tables and six chairs and somebody's just sitting there eating their taco? Never watch another person work. Always go help. And then here's where you really know if you've got it. Take the work away from them if they let you. I've got that table. I've got that chair. But you don't ever sit there and watch another person work. That's rule one. That would be like these trees. They're always producing good stuff. Rule number two: make a distinction between being hurt and being injured. Don't slow down work for being hurt. I sound hardcore, but I don't know I don't know what to tell you. If I sound hardcore to you, you're weak. I don't know, I'm just kidding. Just joking. Rule number two, make a distinction between being hurt and being injured. Don't slow down work for being hurt. Just the other day, I was very proud. I saw blood running down Jack's hand. And he just kept working. Eventually the blood dried, no problem. You know we have a uh something that clots the blood in our bodies. He was aware of the blood and it told me that he evaluated the s situation and he decided that he was only hurt and he was not injured and therefore he could keep up the work for his grandfather. We didn't need to stop for 45 minutes and bandage him. And that is a rule that we have found wherein we can be quite fruitful like these trees. Make a distinction between being hurt and being injured. Rule number three: Know the end for which you are working. And be willing to sacrifice for that end. That's what all the trees are doing. Did you see the little ends that the trees are striving toward? The sweetness that they want to offer, they want to make the hearts of men merry with its wine There's an end that they have in mind. And we have to know the ends for which we are working if we are to be fruitful trees in Christ. And we must, here's the thing, you must be willing to sacrifice for the end. You've got to be willing to sacrifice for the end. Now, if you thought the blood and Jack example was bad, wait till you hear this one Several years ago, we decided to create a little extra money through a cottage industry in my backyard. We decided to smart start a small apiary. We got some bees and we were going to sell the honey. The only space we had was in the backyard by the pool Inevitably the children were stung. I'm not recommending this. I'm gonna tell you something though. You talk to my children and you ask them, children, was it ever an option to remove that hive? And they will tell you no. And then ask them, how did we get through it? The option was to remember the good of the family. And to make sacrifices for the good of the family, number one, by thinking ahead so you didn't get stung. And number two, when you did get stung, just stake out the stinger and get back in the pool and have fun. And that's what they did. The end was a kind of financial good of the family, and the sacrifice was an occasional beast thing, and my family actually learned quite a bit. About getting the stinger out before all the venom pumps into your body. Some of you here elected me to this position. Jeremiah warned you. In all seriousness, let me just ask you so that we can think, I'm just trying to think practically about the trees. I don't want to get lost. in a lot of conversation this morning. Where might you need to take a sting for the good of others? That's the kind of application we need to make. Where might you need to take a sting for the good of your community? What structures are you establishing in your spheres of influence so that it becomes a family tradition? And it will actually, if you work it by the grace of God, there'll be little proverbs that will form like know when you're hurt and when you're injured. We've all heard that. Little proverbs will form. You know what really helps some plants grow is trellises. You know, uh you don't stake your tomatoes, you're in trouble. And that's all I'm saying here. What trellises or stakes are you putting in place that you and others may be fruitful for the public? That's what we have to consider when we're under Jotham's fable. Now that's the first part, and I'm going to rush on this second part, the second application. Which is under the title Complicity. And this is very serious. I need you to listen up. One of our inclinations is to let other people take the responsibility. But with a title like complicity, you cannot do that with this sermon point I'm getting ready to make. You need to recognize that you, by definition, sit in a chair where you hold the responsibility. You hear what I'm saying? You hold responsibility Please make a note that God, through Jotham, held the leaders of Shechem, even though they didn't cut off a single head. He held them accountable for the acts of Abimelech because they established Abimelech in power. You have the same capability in various arenas of your life of giving power to people. And insofar as you are not careful with those people that obtain that power, you are complicit. Some of you are administrators and decision makers in schools. You give power to teachers Wherein we do not blink an eye if they meet privately with students. But what if that person is not trustworthy? As a congregation, you give power to elders and deacons. You elect them. You give us their names and nomination. Some of you are elders and deacons here, and you are the ones who are meant to credential and recommend certain men before the congregation. All of us in one way or another give power and we establish people. And the question that we have to ask that you need to ask yourself, and insofar as God has made you able, you must answer this question, do you do this establishing of a leader with sobriety and with seriousness? If you put the wrong people in power, if you give power to brambles and thorns, do not be surprised when people are bleeding. If you put the wrong people in power, the dishonor to God and the pain on people can be immense. Teachers will always have some kind of private access and power over students. You must be aware of that. Elders and deacons, my friends, are kind of by definition of their role. When they knock on somebody's door, they the people who own that house, they just let them in their house. But what if that elder or deacon is a bramble and gains the trust of the people that live there, including the children? What damage could be done? What did you just put into that person's hands? What power and what access? Do you understand the damage that can be done with brambles who have access to students and to people's private lives? When you eventually hear of the abuse, many of us were surprised, for example, when we heard of Rabbi Zacharias. I don't know that anyone could have foreseen that, but it's just another example. When you eventually hear of the abuse, just remember that in God's eyes, if you Put that person in power without due diligence and carelessly, you could in fact be morally complicit. That is not only true for local elections like I mentioned here, but it is true for our county, our state, our federal government. And it is true for those of you who put your little girl's hand in a man's hand and you haven't checked on him. And it is true of those who take your man's hand and unite it with a woman who is not trustworthy. I pray that we would take the complicity part of Jotham's fable quite seriously. And those of you who are uh I see, for example, pastors who are on different committees within our presbytery, uh you vote for leaders to enter into pastoral positions I pray that you would take John from Staples seriously. When you eventually hear of the abuse, just remember that in God's eyes, if you put that person in power without due diligence and carelessly, you could be complicit. I know that being filled with the Spirit, none of us want that. We do not want, by the grace of the Holy Spirit, to exchange our public service. for self-promotion. And we do not want self-promoting leaders in power. We want to walk with the Spirit being fruitful for the good of the other and establishing leaders who bring life And it's just my prayer this morning and even behind every word that the Lord is giving to me That through his grace we would be a congregation, in other words, that knows the moral of Jotham's fable. Amen? Amen. Yeah, let's pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, this is quite seriously it's quite serious. We cry out for your will. And then when you reveal it, we are humbled. You have a a clarity. That when you do bring it, we are brought to our knees. We can see where we've been careless, we can see Where in fact maybe we've been complicit in some pain. But Lord Jesus Christ, as we learned last week, our hope and our trust is in you as our great shepherd. So, first things first. We confess to you that we don't always structure our various communities so that we can be fruitful. And we confess to you that we are complicit in your dishonor and the pain of people. And, Lord Jesus Christ, we don't want it anymore. And we ask that you would make us a congregation and a people that take our conduct seriously before you. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would help us to remember your mercy, that we are forgiven, and that you would help us to remember your grace, that we are new creations. And by your power may progressively turn from the darkness. We pray that you would make us a society that is well ordered, and that there would not be reports of abuse among us. I pray, Lord, that you would give your congregation courage to stand up against those people that maybe have been their leader their whole life. And now they have to stand up against them, even though they feel like a father or a mother. I pray, Lord, that we would be more concerned. And fearful of you and your justice than the people around us. I pray, Lord, that we would be more in love with a healthy society. Than in love with ourselves, allowing and consigning people to their own sins. Lord Christ, you have made us your church. We are the temple of the living God. And I pray that we would look like it. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Amen Let us stand and prepare for the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. We're going to sing our invitational hymn before the throne of God above, and I'd ask the elders to please prepare the table. So you're going to tell you. By the most wrong and perfectly library through famous laws. Whoever is anti I make his grace on his heart. I love the ball in the standard Those on that will be fancy on. Those on that will be fancy, And tells me all the comfort things Country free for brother just is that his time to look on him and hard and be To the body. Be holy dead on perfect stress righteousness. A great unchanged I am a glory and of grace. What if it's self I cannot die? My soul is burning. Christ must be my God. And you may be seated. Let us give thanks. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for sending your only begotten Son to restore your creation. Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, we thank you for taking upon yourself human nature. We thank you, Lord, for submitting yourself to the wall. We thank you for submitting yourself to death. And we thank you, Holy Spirit, for raising our Christ from the dead. We thank you, Christ, that you have been appointed by the Father in glory. At his right hand in your ascension. And we thank you, ascended Christ, that you have sent us your spirit. And we ask that by your spirit You would give us enjoyment of you by way of the table today. We pray that we would see you by faith. We pray that we would see that we are bound together in you and that we would see this by faith. And I pray, Lord, for those whose hope is running thin, that you would strengthen their legs That you would permit them to finish the race. And I pray that this table would be a help. In the name of Christ. Amen. This is the table of the Lord Jesus Christ, and he's given it to us for the benefit of his church until he returns for the Great Supper. This is that we might see all that we have in Christ and not turn away to lesser things. Not turn away to lesser things. Jesus Christ, our great King, our prophet and our priest He has placed bounds around this table, like he has placed bounds around the sea, so that it is not washing onto the shore all the time. And the bounds that he's given to this table are that this is for Christians, those whom he has sent his spirit and can profess even from their heart that Jesus Christ is Lord and to know what that means. For those of you who are not Christians, there is a warning that is present within our scriptures that you would not partake of the bread or the wine as the trade passes by. But I would encourage you to come and speak to myself or any one of these men. If you are human, and you are, you have undoubtedly learned that you cannot absolutely trust people Except for one. And that is God who has become man, and his name is Jesus Christ. If you decide that you just want to lead yourself and you don't need a leader, Then you will self-destruct. You are not meant for it. I encourage you to speak to myself or one of these men or these crit or a Christian that you respect. about Jesus Christ being your King and you placing all of your trust within him. You'll never regret that. It mentions and or Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 11, therefore whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this reason, many are weak and sick among you, and many die. And that's the warning. And I've given a warning to those of you who have chosen up to this point to reject Christ. But those of you who just don't know him very well yet or aren't ready to make that profession, especially you children, I encourage you to keep up with your catechism talking about Christ. Seek after him as if he's a diamond. buried and you have to keep shoveling to get to him and understand who he is and what he's doing in this world. Answer this question for me sometime What is God the Father doing through Jesus Christ the Son and his Holy Spirit? I want you children to be able to answer that for me Talk to me about that after the service or after the service tonight. For those of you who are Christians, this table is for you. Do you know how many loaves of bread are being broken across the face of the globe on the Lord's Day? Is it not a picture of the fruitfulness of Jesus Christ? Is he not more fruitful than the fig tree and the grapevine? Do not we all rest in his shade? That's what the table is to remind us of when we take and we eat and we drink. These are agricultural products like you saw within Jotham's fable. Look at those trees in the passage and see Christ. And we'll do that together. We're going to begin by distributing the bread, brothers. The smaller cup is gluten-free. We'll take these things together after the words of institution. Thank you. By faith may we behold in the supper the one who took the sting for us, that we may now say, O Death, where is your sting? For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it. And he said, take, eat. Do this in remembrance of me. Let us take and eat. Lord, you actually said, Take heat, this is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me Lord, it is at a time like this when we must when we must confess. That in and of ourselves we are brambles. How many people have we stuck? And Lord Jesus Christ, we can look back now and recognize that there was never any expectation of gaining good fruit from a bad tree. But Lord, now we see that we at least cry out, Oh Lord, I have faith. Help me in my faithlessness. I have belief, help me in my unbelief, and we see other fruits of your spirit in our lives. Which means that you have made us into a new creation, a different kind of tree, no longer thornbushes, but fruit trees in Christ. Really, Lord, the image is that we are bound to you, and you are the great tree, and we are but vi or we are but branches And if we are disconnected from you, we are useless, but you have made us useful, bearing good fruit from your power. You have sent us the living water of the Holy Spirit. And we thank you, Christ, that we can remember these benefits of what you have accomplished through the breaking of your body, though you were sinless. You offered the perfect sacrifice therefore with no blemish, and you were raised again from the dead, that you would have new life, and you would spread that new life to all. of your children, all of your brothers and sisters. And as we have eaten of this bread, we give you thanks in remembrance of all these things. Amen. He has also given us the fruit of the vine. And we'll distribute this now to the congregation. We've heard it in our passage this morning, and we've heard it in many other passages, that it is meant for the merriment of our hearts. Let's remember that and not take this cup as a family with a sad face you may distribute In the same manner he also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Let us take and drink. Lord, that is one of the reasons why this is the cup of merriment and the cup of celebration. is because we know that it is a cup that that is a continual giving of hope of your return. O Lord Jesus Christ, when you first came in your incarnation, as you grew and grew in wisdom and respect of men One of the first things you did, even continuing into your ascension, was to remove corrupt leadership and to establish wisdom in your church where they were not re-established. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ as our great King, that you would rule over us, your church, that you would keep us pure, especially in our leadership. And we ask O Lord God, in cries and pleas that you would please do so for our nation and our local governments. Lord, giving them positions of power, how much abuse can be done. Oh Lord God, protect your creation in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Let us stand and sing to our great God and His glory. Rejoice the Lord is gave your Lord and be not no more. There are your voice, we do it, so then voice the voice Jesus saved your graze into the God of you and God. When we have first days we don't be home Live your heart, live your voice, rejoice on your joys. He said I got my hands for me. And I'll do his comment and for me is deep. Live on your voice, live on your voice, we joined my joy. And take his purpose unto every turn. The love your words, the of your voice before Amen, and now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God the Father and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all