Our text this morning, if you could turn with me, we'll be working through Hebrews eleven, eight through ten. We're looking at eight through ten. So please follow along with me. By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to the place which he would receive as an inheritance, and he went out, not knowing Where he was going going. By faith he dwelt in the land of promise as in a foreign country, dwelling in the tents with Isaac and Jacob. Of the same promise. For he waited for the city which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God. Let's ask for the Lord's illumination. Lord Christ, we ask That your spirit would be active amongst us this morning, and that you would eliminate our minds and our hearts, that we would diligently attend on this word, that we would seek no longer to be dilatant. Or amateurs in our faith, but experts, because faith is our great preservative. We ask, Lord, that you would preserve us through faith, that we would persevere unto the end to eternal salvation. Salvation and glory. We ask these things in your name. Amen. The goal of one of my children was to be able to be an excellent cook and in doing so apparently one of the standards is whether if you can crack an egg with a single hand. Now if you were to read a book about how to crack an egg with a single hand, you might find that there's a lot of egg everywhere. But if you were to see somebody do it on the food network or if your most excellent father already knew how to crack an egg with one hand on the side of the bowl and hinge it and let it drop in. Isn't it nice now that when you're putting together your stereo or your lawnmower, they give you a c quick guide on how it's supposed to go together. Can you imagine j only having the written word for Ikea furniture? Could you could you imagine how difficult that would be a pick That's what we see here within this whole gallery of the clouds of witnesses as a picture upon picture for us to be able to Imitate. These are the characters of faith, the ones who have made it to the promised land that we must imitate. They're not perfect. Read their accounts, but you know what? God gave them faith And he perfected their faith. Spirit is working in your life. That's the whole picture here. And this morning it is with Abraham that we might keep in step with the Spirit as he works Faith within you. Consider Abraham. Abraham is a premier example for our imitation. Next week it will be his wife. This week we learned from Abraham three main things about Living in faith. That you've got to leave, that you have to live, and that you have got to look. You've got to live Believe, you've got to live, and you've got to look. That's what it's going to mean to have a faith as a preservative and to no longer be a dilettante, but an expert in faith. Let's take a look first in verse eight at the leaving of faith. This is very simple and doesn't require a great deal of exegesis. Look at verse eight. By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to the place which he would receive as an inheritance. The example the example of Abraham begins with the obedience of faith, and the obedience is He's leaving three main things. It mentions in Genesis that he's leaving his country, he's leaving his family, and he is leaving his inheritance or his father's house or his legacy. So to speak. Family alone for Abraham, Abraham must have been very difficult, and family alone for you, it's very difficult to sacrifice. That's why Hollywood plays on You know, Hollywood plays on motivational values for us in order to be able to keep a plot going and for you to pay attention to the whole movie. And you would be surprised to see perhaps how often the motivation for the plot to keep going within a movie is the value of family. For example, for those of you who have seen the movie Take I don't know if you've seen that. I kind of liked it. Taken is about a man rescuing his daughter from harm, even at the expense of his own life. The whole thing is motivated by an implicit attachment that there's no argument in the movie that says Well, he's doing all this because he loves his daughter. You just know that you do things for your daughter, even things at the expense of your own life. Nine out of ten times the motivation is connection to family. Because family for us and family across the world is a value that doesn't need any arguing for. We care and we die for our family. You could say the same things with the other things in the list at different periods of time and different people for country and for inheritance for your future. You start thinking about what you're doing. All these things are valuable. People make businesses off of them. Jesus recognized these things as valuable. Particularly the family. Notice what he does in Matthew ten thirty-seven. He says, He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. And he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. What is Jesus doing there? Why does he choose those particular object lessons? Because they are intrinsically a matter of the heart and a value cross It is a timeless truth that these things are of value. Jesus mentions them because of their timeless value, and thus here we see within this passage popping back Now some of you You already say, Yeah, I've got some experience with that. And I know that's exactly what God calls me to. But others of you have got an attitude because God is asking you to do that. do the to do those things, to leave behind things that are valuable. Now when I say that God is asking you to leave behind things, I don't just mean good things. The family is a good thing. Sometimes that's true. But the point here I think if we're going to be very true to the The context is that God is asking you to leave things that are bad for you. Bad things that you and this is the trick. Bad things that when you're honest, you love them. You know that's what makes sin so difficult is you love it. That's why it's hard to pull yourself away from certain things is that you love it. That's what what makes it so difficult. The the context, for example, of Jesus' statement that I gave you is the context of allegiance. It was allegiance. There's a temptation to be allied to a group of people that you shouldn't be allied to. Over and above your Lord. That's his whole point. When your family is ashamed of Jesus, and you're going to be ashamed of Jesus just so you could choose your family, Jesus is saying you've got to get rid of the family at that point. Or at least separate yourself in that you have a different confession, a different profession, a different profession, a different set of priorities. And that will eventually mean that there will be a grievous separation that will have to happen between you and your family at some level. Sometimes more for some people than others. The context of Abraham is of him living Living in a land filled with idols and idolatry, and he's called, just as a a general call and an example for the whole church being called of out of ungodly And service to other gods, to the service of the only true God. He calls us from allegiances to one thing to allegiances to other things. And those allegiances are hard to sever. is the whole point, but God will call you to that. You know, those who are a part of Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous have a saying that capture the faith that's present here within the This passage. Those who live fighting addictions, they say you must choose every day to leave behind people, places, and things. You ever heard that motto? You gotta get rid of your people, your pe your place The old friends that encouraged the lifestyle of addiction, the places and old haunts that held so much mentory which cemented the addiction, and the things that sh Triggered the addiction. And those things have to be left, and God is calling me to leave them. And other people, other places and things, then the point here is that a faith that is set and cemented by the Holy Spirit will leave those people, it will leave those places, and it will leave those things. Sometimes it's a physical getting up and leaving. Other times the leaving looks different. We all have to make those decisions. You have to choose to leave, or you get to choose to leave choose to be like Lot's wife. You know about Lot's wife? Everybody here know the Bible story about Lot Lot's wife? Those are two different kinds of human beings there between Sodom and Gomorrah, bring Lot and his family outside to spare them since they are related to Abraham. And the angels say, Escape for your life. Do not look behind you, nor Or stay anywhere in the plain. Escape to the mountains lest you be destroyed. You jump down the verse twenty-six, you all remember what happens, right? Lot's wife looks back behind her and she becomes a pillar of salt. And now that's the choice between the two human beings that are presented and offered. things and one who looks over their shoulder. And that's the decision that you have to make in moving from a diletton To the expert by the power of the Holy Spirit, ask yourself the question right now: what kind of Christian are you? Are you a leaving Christian or are you a looking over-your-shoulder Christian? Are you leaving or are you looking over your shoulder? Now that's a process and not an event. We kind of have our head like this first when we become Christians and over time it's we're just kind of looking out of the periphery And I imagine that once we get to glory, we're just looking straight ahead. I understand that there's a progress to that, but the goal is to turn that head and only look forward to Christ and not be looking over Lot's wife's shoulder any longer. So that's the first thing that's presented for us is that he has to leave, and it's by command that he does so to reinforce the faith that he's being asked to. purely people, places, and things, his father, his country, and his father's house, his family. The next thing that we see within the passage is not just the leaving, but it's the living. Now you've got to catch this. It uses it Uses the word dwell. Do you see that in the passage there in verse uh in um in eight and nine? He says, by faith he dwelt in the land of the So he sets out on his journey, but he doesn't arrive at his destination immediately, but he's got to dwell for a while, and the dwelling itself is by faith. See, some of you think you're going to leave and you're just going to arrive, but God is saying How long have you been dwelling? Because faith needs to be exercised in the act of dwelling in verse nine. Foreign countries and tents is what's in store for you. I know you all I know y'all like camping for a weekend. But what if you had to camp for a real long time? I mean I'm talking no running water. Some of you I you know wouldn't be able to do your hair. Cosmetics would run out. There'd be a lot of frightening stuff going on. That's the kind of life that he was called to. Away from his father. He could have looked back over his shoulder and seen his father's house, remember his country, remember his family. And the leeks and the onions and the barbecue, or whatever it was, and yet he was called by faith to dwell. Now, interestingly, it is by faith that he dwells, and it is not just that he sits, it's not that as he opens up a lawn chair and just sips his iced tea and waits, that there's an act of dwelling that's going on with him He's dwelling in faith. To dwell in faith sometimes is pictured as continually holding on to the precious promises of the future. But it's a good idea. So it's not a focus on waiting here. Some Christians are really good at waiting, are looking forward toward that future hope. You couldn't shake them. They're like Christian Rudy's. You know Rudy from from the movie. I'm not going to go into it because I've used the illustration before, but Rudy had set a goal for himself, although five foot nothing. He becomes Wants to become a Notre Dame football player. He is able to have such a strong attachment to the future that nothing can shake him from seeking to achieve that goal. And some Christians are like That. But this passage is asking you to be more than a Rudy, to focus more on just promises, but also to have faith and dwelling in the providences. Not just the promises, but the providences. If we seek to have the blessing of Abraham, we must walk in the steps of the faith of Abraham. And you, of course, must have a firm and a stable trust in the promises of eternal salvation for the next world. Sing about it But it's saying also to your faith there is a dwelling, a living now. You must also trust in his providence now for your preservation and protection in the world and to do so it must be done by faith. Trusting God in the now is the same God that you trust for the future. It is inconsistent and shows an underdeveloped and lopsided faith to trust in the future and to not trust in the present. And that's what we learn from Abraham. Sometimes you may wonder why God doesn't just give you the promises. Why does he make us wait for so long? Why does he make us dwell? Why is there even a doctrine of The answer is implied in the verse, but it's seen more clearly in the whole life of Abraham. Abraham's life consummates in what? What is the climax of his walk with God? Is it not having enough faith to raise the knife to the child of promise that he had been waiting for for so long? And do you know why he's able to do so? So do you know how he reasons within his own heart? Do you understand the development of faith that had taken place within Abraham where he could say, Well, I just suppose he's going to raise him back from the dead. Because I know he's not going to violate his promises to me. Now that's dwelling. That's living. And what a What if that's going on with you? And of course it is based on other scriptures. You can see that's what's happening. My contention is the same for you: that God focuses on your development before He gives you your final destination. That's what he's doing with you now. He's helping you to develop for your final destination. You must learn to dwell in faith in this world in preparation for sight. in the next world. But actually, those are just implications that are from the text. If you move to the next verse, it begins to tell us how Abraham really was motivated to do this in this particular context. I'm trying to comfort you by recognizing for you to see that there's a development that takes place in you, and that's why you can hold on. That's why It's worth the living. But the motivation that the author ascribes to Abraham here is he says, you gotta look. You've got to be a looker. You don't just leave, you don't just live, you look. And that's key for excitement, for anticipation. for energy, for motivation, and for grit and for endurance is you've got to look. You've got to always be looking. The life of faith is looking. The word for here is directly connected with the prior verse. For, verse 10, he waited for the city which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God. It shows the Looking and waiting for the heavenly city. You know this is a major theme. If you were to just look through this book alone, you would see in verse sixteen, if you run your finger down there Heavenly country, talking about the same thing. Twelve, chapter twelve, verse twenty-two. Heavenly Jerusalem talking about the same thing. Example number three in in chapter thirteen Verse fourteen, a future city that awaits for us. The cloud of witnesses all hoped for this city, not looking back to their old countries or their father's home. But looking for the fatherly country or the or the city that the God is making for them, whose foundations God builds and makes, whose architect is God. Jesus, if we were to go outside of this context in John 14, 2 Jesus spoke of many mansions in his father's house that he's making for his people. And John again, in speaking in Revelation, a revelation from Jesus Christ, he says, Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth for the The first heaven and the first earth had passed away. Also, there was no more sea. Then I, John, saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride. And I had a heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God. Notice how it shifts from the new heavens, the new The whole earth where we have a new earth and dwelling with God. And then what's it going to be like? He shall be their God, and they shall be his people, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And there's not going to be any more death, and there's not going to be any more sorrow, and there's not going to be any more crying and heroin epidemics. There's not going to be any more pain because the former things have passed away You can see why they would always look onto this city and that it was worth giving up the old cities, all of which have heroin epidemics, for this one For this one city that has become their hope, their true liking, their true relish, and their true joy. You are meant, Christian. To look to the hope of life under the kingdom of God and the ethos that pervades that city, and you are not to be at home with your eyes cast on the ethos that is a part of the city of man. Do you really feel at home here? Do you like sickness? Spiritual and physical depravity? Is Is that your homeland? Or aren't you looking on to a next? And while you look on to the next, doesn't it give you patience and endurance to withstand the things that you're undergoing? Right now, you are meant to look to the hope of life under the kingdom of God, and that looking changes your living here on earth. Here, if you're missing what I'm saying, if you've been asleep, Or checking your email or whatever you've been doing, will you just hear this? If you aren't looking to heaven, then you aren't living well on earth. That's what I'm saying. If you aren't looking by faith to heaven, then you aren't living well here on earth. And insofar as you're looking to heaven, again, this is a process and not an event And you're working well here on earth. It's it's silly actually to dwell on earth. In first John two it says, you know what, the world's Passing away. All of its endeavors, all of its ambitions, all of the lusts of it. But you know who's going to abide forever? in 1 John 2, he who does the will of God, which is to trust him and act like he's telling the truth, to have faith. That's what our lesson is. If if you want to live by faith here on earth, you have got to keep your eyes on heaven. You've got to leave. You've got to live. You know, people are starting to learn this, at least analogously, this looking to heaven. I was just reading in some newspaper articles of the mass display Of hurricane victims, where they're not able to return to their hometowns and they have to go live with other folks. Kind of like a nation You know, I read the newspaper articles and I hear the first hand accounts, and you know they're very, very grateful for people opening up their homes, but you know the one pattern. that pervades through all of them. They say, this is a house, and I'm grateful, but it's not my home. I need to get back to my town. I need to get back to my culture. I need to get back to my Now they're living and they're living gratefully, but they've got their eyes set on something else, their true homeland, the city where they know they truly would dwell. It would never work for a Well, I was gonna say it was never never worked for a Texan to come up here and live permanently, but actually that's been proved false. Well Texans can do anything, they go big I remember learning this object lesson too. We finally were very it was 14 minute 45 minute commute to my high school Because I lived on the Eastern Shore and Kent Island High School hadn't been formed yet. The very first ride I got, so that I was no longer on the bus, which at some point you've got to get off the bus. Was in a Mustang 4. 0 convertible. Problem is, is the uh convertible was broken and it never went up, whether snow or rain. So we eventually graduated to a pickup truck, but the problem is that this guy who drove who drove the pickup truck somehow passed his driver's test His problem was that he looked out off the hood, almost off the bud bug deflector, immediately on the road. Can you imagine what that ride felt like where he was doing this and trying to stay within the lines. And we said to him, because this is what our instructor said to him, if you're gonna get us to where we need to get to get, if you're gonna get us to our destination, you're gonna have to look off on to the horizon and not just right in front of your face face off of the bug deflector. And that's an analogy for this too. That if you're going to drive your life well, you can't just have your eyes Eyes at the end of your nose. You have got to look out onto the horizon, onto your heavenly home if you're going to live life by faith here. You know, this is actually present also in one of our lovely stories on The Wizard of Oz, because Dorothy, she's looking for a home And she meets a wicked witch of the west or the east, and I always forget, I think it's the west because of the alliteration. And she's looking for home, a and and the good witch of the east or the west, whichever one it is, I think it's of the east She gives her a North Star and says, You have got to follow the yellow brick road. And the text is telling us the same thing. You know, and we as Christians kind of do something similar. to Dorothy. Dorothy came up with a little song to keep her motivated. Follow the Yellowberg Road. Follow the Yellow. And we have songs that keep us motivated about the heavenly city that's forward and she goes forward and she finds people that also need help and they're looking for a home. So she starts a small group with the scarecrow and the tin man and the lion and and he needs courage But that's uh they get distracted by flying monkeys, but they always go back to the yellow brick road which leads to a A kind of celestial city, a very dear story for us as Christians and Pilgrims Progress, in order for her to be able to live her life well, in order for her to be able to To get to her home, she always had to keep her little red slippers on the yellow brick road. And the same thing is being said here within this text Us as Christians, that if you are going to have the faith of Abraham, if you're going to be preserved unto the end, the Holy Spirit is working in you for that preservation and he wants you to leave. When things become a competition between you between Christ and them, whether it be people or places or things, you choose Christ, you leave, you flee like Joseph did. You've also got to live because you're called to dwell here for a while, and you've got to live by And that living by faith is going to be fueled only and properly if you're the kind of person that's always looking forward. That you'd see that yellow brick road, that you'd look past the bug deflector off onto the horizon, that you would be the kind of person that keeps their eyes On the heavenly city, that although displaced like a hurricane victim, you would never forget where your true home is and the city where you truly belong. This is life, living the faith. Of Abraham. Let's pray