Good evening. Greetings in the name of the Triune God we serve. We are here this evening for a very special purpose. It is not as a social club. It is not to be entertained. It is certainly not to hear good preaching. It is not even to be fed. We are here because the worship service is for the Lord. It is not for our benefit. We are here to bring worship to God. And every element of this evening service is something that God wants from us. Join me in prayer. Lord God, Creator of heavens and earth, ruler of every atom of the universe We come before you into the house of the Lord, into your sanctuary, with joy and fear. You are the great one. You are existence itself. And that is something to be feared. But you are also our Father, and because you loved us first, we love you. And so with boldness we come tonight to bring you worship. Amen. Please stand for the call to worship. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endures forever. Let Israel now say, His mercy endures forever. Let the house of Aaron now say, His mercy endures forever. Let those who fear the Lord now say, His mercy endures forever. I called on the Lord in distress. The Lord answered me and set me in a broad place. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear. What can man do to me? The Lord is for me among those who help me. Therefore I shall see my desire on those who hate me. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. Let us now sing nothing but the blood. What then was all we say? Nothing but the bottle Jesus. But can make me nothing but no tea God. Oh precious it don't know that we might come time. Nothing but the God of Jesus. For my flag seed, nothing but the God of Jesus. For my birthday for me, nothing but one God of Jesus. Oh precious is the no that makes me white as long Nothing buthing can for the Nothing but the God of Jesus, not the Nothing but the Lord of Jesus. Oh precious if no that makes me wine as so no Nothing but the blood of Jesus. They say all my righteousness, nothing with the Lord Jesus. Oh precious is the floor that may be white as so no fine laws. Please be seated. This is a fateful saying. For if we died with him, we shall also live with him. If we endure, we shall also reign with him. If we deny him, he will deny us. If we are faithless, he remains faithful, he cannot deny himself The word faith seems to have two very different meanings when we use it. There's the idea of a fateful saying that you can trust, a fateful dog that will love you forever. The idea of being faithful to our spouse by not committing adultery. And then there's the idea of faith as some kind of ethereal feeling. It's mysterious. Some people have it, some people don't. It's something that is utterly personal and private and tied to our sense of self. It's like the Baltimore believe sign. Believe Just have faith. It's very woo-woo. But that's not what Christians mean when we talk about faith. We think of faithfulness and fidelity and trust. A man who says, I'm not religious, but I'm a person of faith, is kind of like a man who says, sure I run around on my wife, but I'm faithful to her. It's nonsense. If we are faithful, then we act like we believe what God says. If I am a faithful husband, then I act like I believe that I'm married. Our actions speak louder than our words. To be a people of faith, we have to believe what God says and then obey it. Faithfulness means we are obedient to God's word. Because we trust that his word is sound. Join me in a prayer of repentance, in which we repent of being unfaithful by confessing God with our mouths, but not always with our actions. Lord God, of all the things in which we trust, only you and your word is completely trustworthy Every day we trust in gravity and we trust other drivers in the road. We trust the US dollar. We trust the weather report of all things, and we should know better. But you have given us so much more. Your promise is trustworthy, and you are faithful to your word. We repent of living our lives as if your commands are suggestions, and if your promises are just nice ideas that make us feel better when we're down. We want to be faithful to you, our Lord and Savior. We want to be faithful servants. Hear us now as we repent in our hearts for our lack of faith, our lack of fidelity to you. In the name of Jesus Christ, we call out for forgiveness. Amen But that is not where Christ leaves us. Hear now the assurance of pardon. The Lord has chastened me severely, but he has not given me over to death. Open to me the gates of righteousness. I will go through them, and I will praise the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord through which the righteous shall enter. I will praise you, for you have answered me and have become my salvation. Let us stand and sing from Psalm one eighteen. No, no, there's also a lot of getting to the whole rest of the thing. They are doing not the door and walk down. For no be such as great. Amen. Please remain standing for the reading of the Lord of the Lord God. Psalm one eighteen, verse twenty-four. This is the day the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Please be seated. Let's pray. Lord God, be with us as we turn to your perfect word. Let all the rough edges and flaws of the preacher be covered by you so they cause no damage But let the balm of your word heal your people. I ask this on behalf of your children, in the name of the word who is flesh, Jesus Christ. Amen. Psalm 118 is a poem, of course. Now I've tried writing poetry. And it did not go well. It was as beautiful and as illuminating as a charcoal briquette. And it ended up in the fireplace like it belonged. Psalm 118 is different. It is not a charcoal briquette. It is a diamond. It is so dense. And it is so clear and is so brilliant and created under enormous pressure. Psalm 118 has many facets. In studying it, I've become convinced that a preacher could spend his whole life on just holding up Psalm 118 to the light of scripture. and preaching on one beam at a time that falls from it. Sunday after Sunday, never running out of new, unique, brilliant light. But today we're going to ignore almost all of Psalm 118. We're going to hold it up, and we're going to try to catch just one glimpse of one beam of the spectrum. This is the day the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. That sounds beautiful. But so what? Now, in context, this is talking about the great things the Lord has done in the psalmist's life. And again, in fulfillment of prophecy. in our Lord Jesus' life. Out of context, it is one of the great Pollyanna joy verses. is best enjoyed without the parts about the God's hand about God's hand being against the psalmist And skipping over the parts where the poet poet is rejoicing in slaying all of the people that wanted to kill him first. They usually leave that bit of the psalm out of the signs they sell at Hobby Lobby. But back to in context, which is the only way to read God's Word. This song is a song of God's people, looking at how God has acted in their lives and responding. And from it we can learn how to look at what God is doing and how we ought to reply. Verse 24 starts off like this. This is the day the Lord has made. This is a creed. A creed is a statement of belief. It is an articulation of a foundation we use to make decisions on how to live and how to interpret the world There's lots of creeds. You might have heard one, I trust the science. Now I don't usually hear that from people who know much about science, but that's another topic. The Apostles' Creed is an even better creed. Some of our brothers and sisters in the faith have a creed that says no creed but Christ. Which is a bit of an ironic creed. But back to the creed for today. This I believe, that this day has been made by the Lord. This is a creed and a statement of faith. And we could turn it into a catechism question. Question, who made this day? Answer the Lord. It is simple, it is succinct, and there are at least three facets that we can see when we confess it. First, in it we confess that the Lord is. When Moses asked for God's name, God said to Moses in the burning bush, I am who I am. And he said, Thus you shall say to the children of Israel, I am has sent you to to you. God is identifying himself by pure existence, and all other existence exists in relation to him. And when we look at our text, we'll notice that the word Lord is in all caps. That's not an ancient way of shouting. That's the translators indicating that the word being translated as Lord, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D, is the personal name of God. It's not a generic word for ruler like lowercase or lowercase lord or at an I which should have a capital L in lowercase O R D. is a special word, sometimes pronounced Jehovah, which means the existing one. It is a proper name, the name of a person, the person. It means we're talking about and to a real person. It means we're rejecting atheism, which says there is no God, and we are rejecting agnosticism, which says we don't know if there's a God. And we're rejecting pantheism, which says that the whole universe is a God. And this simple little creed goes even further. By using God's name, it rejects all gods except Jehovah, the existing God of Scripture. It's quite a statement. We can acknowledge him by the name that he has given us to call on him with. Second, In this we confess that the Lord is creator. On this day, the Lord has made If the Lord made today, then our God is a creative God. This calls back to Genesis, when out of nothing, God made everything. This statement rejects the idea of a self-existent or self-creating universe. It rejects the idea that the world has no meaning. The act of creation creates meaning. And third, in this statement, we confess that the Lord is active God didn't just create the universe and let it spin off on its own. He's not the watchmaker of deism. He is the storyteller God of the Bible. He created the world. He created the first day. And then he created the second day. And then he created the third day. And he didn't stop. He kept going, got to the sixth day, and then kept on. He has created deliberately with forethought and love, every moment since he first said, Let there be light. There is a God, and he has a name that he has given himself And he is a creator and a storyteller, and we are living in a moment of his story. And so we're confessing all of this with a simple statement. This is the day, even this very day, that Jehovah, the existing one, the God of Adam and Moses, and Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. The God of the Old and New Testaments, He has crafted this very day. Therefore, we will rejoice and be glad in it. So the first part of the verse is a creedal statement. On this I stand. And the second part is our response. It is a promise that we are making. It's a vow. It's like a New Year's resolution, but it's much better because it's a new day resolution. Every morning we can say This is the day the Lord has made. I will rejoice and be glad in it. Francis Schaeffer famously asked, how then shall we live? And we can inject that question into here. This is the day the Lord has made. How then shall we live? We will rejoice and be glad in it. When we read scripture, one thing we can do while reading it is ask, how is God relating to man? And we'll notice that the idea of today is very important to God. When Moses was 120 years old, He called all of Israel together for his birthday to ordain Joshua. Just before that, in Deuteronomy 30, he gave a speech about a choice they had to make that very day And by implication, it's a choice that we have to make today. Starting in Deuteronomy 30, verse 15. See, I have set before you today, life and good, death and evil, in that I command you today to love the Lord as all caps, Jehovah, the eternal one. Your God to walk in his ways and keep his commandments, his statutes and his judgments, that you may live and multiply, and the Lord again in all caps. Your God will bless you in the land which you go to possess. But if your hearts turn away, so you do not hear, and are drawn away and worship other gods and serve them. I announce to you today that you shall surely perish. You shall not prolong your days in the land which you cross over the Jordan to go in and possess. I call heaven and earth as witnesses today against you, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing. Therefore choose life. That you and your descendants may live, that you may love the Lord, your God, that you may obey his voice That you may cling to him, for he is your life and the length of your days, that you may dwell in the land which the Lord again all came caps, swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, to Jacob, to give them. And we see a contrast here between the Lord, the Eternal One, and us who have to live in this day. And we see that the Eternal One has set before us a choice that has to be made, that has eternal consequences, and a choice that has to be made today. This is the day that the Lord has made. Therefore, let us choose life to be with him. And then something amazing happens. The offer to choose life is renewed every day by the Lord. like the rising of the sun. We see this in Hebrews, where the author quotes the Holy Spirit speaking to the psalmist in Psalm 95 and says, Today. If you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion. And he goes on to say, But exhort one another daily, while it is called today. lest any of you be hardened through deceitfulness of sin. For we have become partakers of Christ, if we hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast to the end. How do we know that we can follow Jesus? Is it too late for you? If today is called today, Then God is giving you and me a new day to flee from our sins and follow Him, be partakers of Christ, and live in confidence to the end. This is a good offer. Today is today, and so we should drop everything that holds us back. Follow him, encouraging one another on our journey. This is the day the Lord has made. It is today. So we have a fresh opportunity to run to him We do not know what will happen tomorrow, so we must act today. Romans 28 is very special. Joe quoted it this morning and pointed out Paul's repetition of the phrase, all things. Now we know all things work together for the good of those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. So what does it say? It says that all things work together. And if you'll forgive an error-Venn diagram, let me sketch this out. There are all things, and there are the things that work together. And what is left out? Absolutely nothing. It's all things, and they're all working together. And what are they working together for? It's the good of those who love God for us. Now, if this is true, and it is true because the Holy Spirit gives it to us, then the world is not a broken, hopeless mess. It sure feels like chaos most days, but we know it can't be. We are seeing bits and pieces of a story swirling around. Fitting together like a puzzle. The pieces by themselves make no sense. But when God fits them together, we see that He had a plan all along for every piece. Because he created every piece on purpose. Every atom in the universe is under his sovereign rule. He wrote a story for every sparrow and every hair on every head. He wrote the story of my life, and he wrote the story of her life. your life. And today he's woven those stories together for a moment. And all of these stories are part of one single big story. This is a huge claim. And it's an incredibly offensive claim to everyone who doesn't want to be part of his story. But it is the only way that we can confess our creed. This is the day that the Lord has made. We can see a beautiful illustration of this in the book of Esther. Once upon a time, there was a big kingdom that stretched from India to Ethiopia, and in that kingdom there was a pretty girl who is an orphan. Her parents were dead, and because of a great war, she was living far from her home. Now the king of that kingdom was lonely, and he found the pretty orphan girl And he made her his queen, and then she saved all of her people from death. And then they had a holiday every year to celebrate what she had done. Now it sounds like Disney and Hallmark got together, got married, had a baby, and that baby was a book of the Bible. But when we read through what actually happened, it's much closer to what we would call today human trafficking. It's a pretty dark story. What's happening is is not a cartoon for little kids. Bad people get together and do bad things to other bad people, and then the good people, through no fault of their own, get overrun by the bad people. And the whole story goes straight to hell. And then to kind of punctuate it, the villain of the story is glad. But we keep reading. We know the author of the story, so we read it with hope. And we end up finding out that every detail Every careless word, every impulsive response, every evil plan all work together for good. Esther's whole life, from rags to riches, to the point of near execution, came together for such a time as this. Esther's uncle knew that God is the storyteller. And he knew that God had made promises to his people. And he had no doubt that God would fulfill his promises. So when he stepped back from the ugly mess around him, He saw that this is the day that the Lord has made. We will be faithful to rejoice and be glad in it. And then he taught Esther to look to the storyteller Disney princesses ain't got nothing on God's princesses. I can see Esther and Mordecai, her uncle. at the end saying, This is the day the Lord has made. We will we will rejoice and be glad in it. But what about my life? It's, thank God, not quite as exciting as theirs. When the alarm clock goes off in the morning, wakes me up, and my brain slowly comes into focus, I think this is the day that what? This is the day the project is due. This is the day the project is overdue and I need to report to my boss on the status. This is the day the mortgage is due. This is the day the kids will fight and break my heart because I love them. And I'll lose my temper and I'll yell at them and I'll fall asleep knowing I failed again. Because this day is just like all the other days. Maybe you checked your phone when you wake up. This is the day that my inbox is further from zero than it's ever been before. This is the day people are mad at me because I haven't gotten back to them yet. This is the day there's already bad news all over the internet. People are hurting and dead. This is the day that, oh no, I'm late for work. So try this exercise. When you wake up, think this is the day that, and fill in the blank. Be honest. What comes to mind? And if you are like me, my first thoughts are not. This is the day the Lord has made. Yeah. My first thoughts are usually about me. But if we keep asking that question and we keep refining the answer and we keep remembering that we know the right answer. We can keep correcting the course on each iteration. This is the date at what? Until finally we start to see beyond the moment and the story and the storyteller come into view. And we can say, all right, I'm there. This is the day the Lord has made. Now what? Now, this might be overshare, but sometimes jumping straight into joy from there is gonna ring a bit hollow. This is the day the Lord has made and it's gonna be horrible. There's a dissonant note there, but sometimes it's a truthful note. So then we step back and we look at what we know. We know that the Bible does not deal in platitudes. Adopting an attitude of platitude is living a lie with a fake smile plastered on while we slowly rot from within. That's not good, and that is not what the psalmist is teaching us to do. Now I don't know if anyone here has experienced walking through a valley of gut-wrenching time of life and having that one special Christian friend Who is bubbly at all the wrong times, try to use Bible verses like band-aids to cover boo-boos. And our hearts are bleeding out. She's just sticking them on there, saying, gee, why aren't you happy now? And it's taking every last ounce of fiber not to lash out at her and the shallow God she serves. Psalm 118 is not a hallmark verse. We can't read the Psalms and think that. So how do we get to joy? We can look at David, who wrote many of the Psalms. And we can look at Jesus, who quoted and fulfilled many of the Psalms. Looking at them in particular, and scripture in general, there are two kinds of having joy. It's the same joy, but it shows up in different ways There is the joy of now, of blessings received. Psalm 122 talks about David's joy in going with his friends to worship David's son, Solomon, says that having wise kids makes us glad. In Luke, Jesus reads from Isaiah 61 and says this is fulfilled Isaiah 61 is overflowing with joy. And if Jesus fulfilled the prophecy, and he did, then he did it joyfully. It is a joyful thing to live in the palm of a loving God. This is the joy of harvest, the joy of being at the end of a good day, the joy of a good meal with people you love. I'll never forget a sermon I heard from Pastor Ben Devinder years ago when he talked about hiking with his son and he saw a beautiful sunset. And he told his son, yes, and God crafted this sunset on this mountain from before time began, and he had you in mind when he crafted it. The implications of that sunset shook me to the core, and I have not been the same since. This is the day the Lord has made. a beautiful sunset for me, and I will rejoice and be glad in it. There's another kind of joy. Not the joy in the moment, but a joy that comes from knowing what the future holds. This is the joy of hope. The joy of a good meal is a rich example of both To eat a good meal with people you love is good. But if you believe in the promise of the wedding feast, of the lamb, then you know that deep down this meal is an appetizer for something much better It is a meal of hopeful joy and hopeful gladness. It is a meal of now and not yet. But even when this day is not a happy day, there is still joy for the Christian. King David wrote about this in Psalm 23. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. This is the day the Lord has made. And right now it smells like death. But you are protecting me and guiding me. And knocking me back onto the path with your rod because you love me. And even in this dark place, I will rejoice and be glad. Pastor Crutchley mentioned the high calling of a mother cleaning peanut butter off of a wall a few weeks ago. That's a special kind of joy that lives with hope for the future. And it's a beautiful illustration of what most important ministry really feels like. You can scrape peanut butter off the wall bitterly, thinking about what you could have done with your life, or you can do it hopefully, knowing that this is the day the Lord has made. And he made the peanuts and the wallpaper come together, and I don't have a clue why, but it's his story, and so I will rejoice and be glad in it Now sometimes I'm not sure which takes more faith, the peanut butter or the valley of the shadow of death. But either way, living faithfully and hope is to live with the foundation of joy. And on that foundation, there can be days of smiles and days of tears, but they will be meaningful days and joyful days. Because they rest on the creed that this is the day the Lord made in particular When we confess that all things work together for the good of those who love God, it is a confession of a future state. Today might be a bad day. Jesus was a man of sorrows. Tonight might be a rough night. But for his anger is but for a moment, for his favor is for life. Weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. When we wake up in the morning, there is chaos all around us. But the Holy Spirit hovers over the face of the chaos. The Father is telling a story of his love for his children And his word has already become flesh. All other stories are a shadow of this one story. And the Son will show us the paths of life. And his presence with us today is fullness of joy, both now and not yet. And at the Son's right hand are pleasures forevermore. We woke up this morning to a new day. And God created this day. And God will pronounce it good because He created it. There are seasons of sorrow, pain, and loss. This is the day the Lord has made. Therefore, we will rejoice and be glad and Amen. Let us stand and sing, blessed assurance. Blessed Jesus is mine. Oh, he's a glory Every now nation, perfect to God, but his bear washing. This is my story. This is my soul. Praise me by saying. This is my soul, this is my soul. This is my day you want to Perfect commission, permit me, vision of nature, numbers of my eyes. Ain't to bring from the hall and who mercy is bringing up. This is my story, this is my story, waiting by saying This is my story, this is my soul, praise my save. I think the patient for your senior happy. Watching a big thing looking over his glory was This is my story, this is my soul, praying by single This is my story, this is my storm, bringing my state Now receive the benediction. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. Please be seated. We'll have a brief time of prayer. Going through