Our time of worship in which we go to the Lord's Word to hear Him speak to us. Where in the book of Colossians, Our passage for this evening is coming from Colossians 1, verses 21 through 23, but it has been so long since we've had an evening service. I'm going to go ahead and read all of chapter 1 up to verse 23. As a chance to get us and to remind us of what it is that the Apostle Paul, by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, has said. Starting in Colossians chapter 1, verse 1 I encourage you if you have Bibles to follow along the Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God and Timothy, our brother, to the saints and faithful brethren in Christ who are in Colossae. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of your love for all the saints. Because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel, which has come to you, as it has also in all the world, and is bringing forth fruit as it is also among you since the day you heard and knew the grace of God and truth, as you also learned from Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf, who also declared to us your love For this reason, we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding That you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God, strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, for all patience and long suffering with joy. He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of his love, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. For by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him and for him. He is before all things, and in him all things consist. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he may have the preeminence For it pleased the Father that in him all the fullness should dwell, and by him to reconcile all things to himself, by him, whether things on earth or things in heaven, having made peace through the blood of his cross. And you, who once were alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now he has reconciled in the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy and blameless and above reproach in his sight. If indeed Indeed, you continue in the faith grounded and steadfast, and are not moved away from the hope of the gospel which you heard, which is preached to every creature under heaven, of which I, Paul, became a minister. Please pray with me. Gracious Lord, this is your word. We pray that you would open it up and make it clear to us that we would see you And give you glory. Lord, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. Amen. Now I don't know if you're like me, but if you are like me, as you travel through this life, you accumulate stuff. And some of that stuff is hard to get rid of, isn't it? It's not necessarily good stuff, it's not necessarily bad stuff, stuff that may have been useful at some point in time, but it just gathers. And it's really hard to get rid of that stuff. But if you're also like me, there's another kind of stuff that you accumulate that is not easy, or is not is not difficult to get rid of It's that kind of stuff that is uh is left over after all of the useful things are used. We call that stuff trash. Is it ever hard to get rid of trash? Sometimes it's really pleasant to get rid of trash. And trash is uh all kinds of different things. It might be something broken, so broken that it's incapable of fulfilling its design purpose. Or it could be the leftovers of something that once was useful, like a banana peel. Or maybe it's even something that once was treasured, but after the passage of time it becomes useless. Becomes just a shadow of its former self, like that old favorite t-shirt with holes. You just can't wear out in public anymore. I'm sure you've heard the saying that one man's trash is another man's treasure. And sometimes people can take the very thing that had no value to us and transform it into something amazing. Now we had no issues with that trash, did we? We had no issues getting rid of that trash. And yet when we see someone transform that trash into treasure, it might make us wonder whether it was trash in the first place But rarely do we see someone repurpose garbage, and then we jump to the conclusion that all garbage should be gathered from its bins and brought back into our home It takes a very special person to turn trash into treasure. Well, if we think about it, sin turns mankind into something very similar to trash. Sin distorts our ability to function as we are designed, and sin can damage a useful person so badly that they become completely useless. Sin caused Adam to be transformed from the pleasing, beloved image of God to the cursed, disgusting, broken image in which all of us were Born. Sin caused the Lord to discard all the creatures which dwelled on the land by means of that great flood. And God had a right to do this. We should not allow ourselves to think anything negative of God, even if we don't fully understand Him and what He does. But we can, brothers and sisters, understand that God wanted to rid his creation of the filth and of the disgust that sin had brought And he wanted to do this by removing it as we remove trash. Now, Romans 3:23, and elsewhere in the scriptures, we're told that all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. There is none righteous, no not one. And everything we do is wicked and evil and heinous in God's sight. Yet if we think back to what Paul says in this first chapter that I just read It would seem that there's something about the Christian that is very different from the non-Christian. The blessings described for the believer is more like what we would expect for a treasure. And not trash. In verse 5, there's a hope laid up in heaven for the people to whom Paul is addressing. In verse 9, Paul and his crew they never cease praising God and praying for these people. In verse 12, he describes them as partakers of the inheritance of the saints in the light. In verse thirteen, he says that they have been delivered from the power of darkness and conveyed into the kingdom of the Son of His love. It's as if these Colossian Christians, unrighteous sinners deserving nothing but the pains of death and hell, have somehow been transformed into something completely different. Brothers and sisters, this is the hope of the gospel, the hope of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is addressed in tonight's passage, verses 21 through 23. And it is the only hope that anyone can have to become a treasure of God and not trash. Christian, this passage teaches that your only hope is in the good news of God's sovereign mercy and his amazing Grace. The only hope for the Christian is in the good news of God's sovereign mercy and his And I want to look at these verses tonight in two ways. First, we're going to look at it in verses 21 and 22, and we're going to see the God of sovereign mercy, and we'll look at verse 23 and see the God of amazing mercy. Now God is the God of sovereign mercy. He shows mercy to Look at verse 21. And you who once were alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works. Now, this word alienated can also mean estranged. Basically, what it's saying is it's talking about the broken communion that sin has broken. This communion that we had with God has been broken by sin. And linguistically, uh grammatically, Paul is using a type of word that is very specific in its definition It's a word that means to be in the state of something. It's a word that denotes a state of being. And he is saying That all of you who are in the state of being alienated from God. That's what he's saying when he addresses this. This is the condition of every man, woman, and child that has ever been born, with the exception of Jesus Christ. We are alienated. We are in the state of being estranged from God. But we're not just estranged from Him, we're enemies. We're enemies of God. And Paul tells us here that we are enemies in our mind by wicked works, quite literally, works of evil. This is the state of enmity, being an enemy with God. It is not merely the result of our own individual sins, but it is the complete corruption of our whole nature with God. The fact that men and women are enemies of God is shown to be true by these works of evil, these wicked works. This is how the doctrine of total depravity is to be understood. Without intervention from God Himself, all human beings in their natural state are enemies of God. Trash, even. But then we have these two wonderful words, my two favorite words in the Bible, but now. But now. But now God has reconciled. Now He has reconciled. And it's important that we see this for what it means. God is the one doing the reconciling. He has reconciled. And this is not anything which the enemies of God have done for themselves. It is nothing that you or I have done which reconciles us to God. He alone can reconcile you To himself. It is God's will that his beloved be reconciled to himself, and it is God's work that accomplishes this supreme mercy. Now God accomplishes this mercy through Jesus Christ. We see in the first part of verse 22 it says That God is, you are, but now he is reconciled in the body of his flesh through death. Obviously, the body of his flesh is referring to the incarnation. There were those who claimed that the flesh was evil and inferior to the spiritual things. In Colossae, there were a lot of false teachers. Who were going around trying to convince people that ancient philosophies, such as the Epicureans, that said that all of the physical universe was evil, they were going around and trying to trick people to think that God could never have evil taken on flesh, he wouldn't mix with the physical world. And so Paul is writing to the to these Christians whom he's never met with. met, and he's writing to them so that they would not be swayed by this strange teachings. And later on in the book of Colossians, in chapter three, uh or in chapter two, he says, Don't don't let anyone with these vain philosophies And this is what he's going on about. So the incarnation, the body of his flesh Shows that God does not have enmity with the created world simply because it's his created world. Not just because it's physical. Adam sinned and disqualified himself from being the image of God. But hallelujah! God did not leave us in the awful state of sin and misery. Jesus Christ. And Paul is reinforcing for those in Colosse that Jesus was indeed God. God in the flesh, the Son of God in the body of his flesh. And for this is absolutely necessary. Necessary if God's will of reconciling his enemies to himself is to be accomplished. The sacrifice of Jesus Christ is his Death. Jesus is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He is the final atoning sacrifice to remove all of our sin. This is the body of his flesh, this is the death that Christ dies to reconcile sinners to God. Now not only do we see that God shows mercy to his enemies Not only do we see that he accomplishes this mercy through Jesus Christ, but if we look at the second part of verse 22, we will see that God gives this mercy for our people. He has a purpose in showing mercy to sinners, to his enemies, in reconciling those who are estranged from him to him And he tells us that it is this: this is all done to present you holy and blameless and above reproach in his sight. This language is the language of sacrifice. The word here for to present is a sacrificial word used to present the offering. The language here of holy and blameless and above reproach, it's the same language used to describe the atoning sacrifices: the blameless and spotless Lamb, one without blemish. This is the whole point of Jesus' incarnation and sacrifice: that you and I would be justified before God. Now, that's a term that's thrown around a lot, the term justification. And it's important that we understand what these terms mean. If you look in the Westminster Shorter Catechism, question 33, it says, What is justification? And we get a beautiful answer. Justification is an act of God's free grace, wherein He pardons all our sins. and accepts us as righteous in his sight only for the righteousness of Christ imputed to us and received by faith alone. This is what God is accomplishing. When he looks at us, he sees a blameless, a spotless sacrifice because he sees Son Jesus. And not only is it significant that this purpose is that we could be presented to God blameless And above reproach, but it's significant that he says in his sight. The word here literally means in the presence of God So he has done this reconciling work so that you and I can be in God's presence without being consumed, without being destroyed. It's not a typical word that's used very often. It's used, and its only use is to denote the presence of God. It pleases God to reconcile us to Himself so that we can stand before Him, blameless and righteous, as Christ is blameless and righteous. Righteous. This is the purpose of God's salvation plan. Now we have to understand that when he says that he wants to present us Holy and blameless and above reproach in his sight, it is significant that it's his purpose The Father did not send his son to take on flesh, to die, to remove your sins, so that you would be the holiest person relative to most everybody else that you know. His purpose was not to make you the most pious people in this county. He did not create the church so that there could be a bunch of superior, morally superior people. That's not the purpose. The purpose is that we would be blameless before Him. We are blameless before God. And that is a truly special kind of blameless. That is Christ's blamelessness and righteousness. The mercy of God, which reconciles sinners to Himself, has been accomplished in order that God's people can glorify and enjoy Him forever. That with everlasting life we can be in full communion with Him. Do you see the great and living God in all this? He is the God of mercy, the God of sovereign mercy. He reconciles his enemies to himself through the Lord Jesus Christ, and he does this for his own glory and our blessing. This is the most supreme mercy. God has every right and is totally just if He were to allow every single person to perish that is apart from Him. And he has every right to discard the trash. It is within his power, and it is consistent with his nature to consume and destroy sin. Yet it pleases him To do otherwise. It pleases God to turn trash into treasure. This is the result of His sovereign mercy. And that sovereign mercy Which is worked out on our behalf, is worked out because He is the God of amazing grace. And we look at verse 23 and we will see That God and His amazing grace, that grace is so amazing because it is a transforming grace. It says, if indeed you continue in the faith, grounded and steadfast. Now, it's important for us to recognize that there are a lot of people who have twisted the meaning of these verses. Continuing in the faith, the word here literally means remain, and it's an objective statement. Describing the condition of those who have been reconciled. This is not a conditional statement. It's not saying that you must continue in the faith in order for these blessings to be yours. He is simply describing that those who are in the faith, those who remain in the faith, are those who have been reconciled as Enemies to God. No longer enemies, but now his children. This is a new state of being. A new state of being for this, for the enemy turned into the friend or the child. And by continuing in this faith, we know that this is an objective statement of condition because of what follows. He doesn't just end there and say, if indeed you continue in the faith. He says that you will be grounded Steadfast. And now it's an interesting thing what Paul does. He uses the same kind of grammatical word, a perfect passive participle, to describe those founded. Again, like in verse 21, it describes a state of being. Those who are in the state of being founded in the faith. This is a work that is done by God. It is the work that is done by Him who transforms us. It's interesting because this word That means founded is the same word that Jesus uses when he's describing those two men who build their houses. The same word as those who are founded, the one who founded his home on the rock. This is that same concept. We are founded on the gospel. We are steadfast and established in the gospel. These are all passive terms. They do not In no way is this something that you are doing. This is something that has been done to you. And this is the work of God's saving grace. Now we are also to see that those who have been founded in the faith, who are steadfast in the gospel, are not moved away. They are persevering, persevering through the difficulties of life. The one who remains in the faith is one who is in a state of being founded and established. Do you remember Psalm 1 when we were starting the Psalm series? How it describes that blessed man, the saint of God, as being the tree planted by the rivers of water, bringing forth fruit in its season, with leaves that never wither, and that all he does shall prosper. This is the condition that God translates you. His transforming grace takes you from being an enemy and turns you into being a child. A friend, one who is rooted in the faith and the hope of the gospel. Paul is writing to people that he's never met. If you look at the beginning of chapter 2. These are people that he has never seen face to face. And what he's basically saying is: it's been reported to me that you confess Christ. You confess him, and that you confess you have faith in him as your Lord and Savior. And if this is true If this profession is true, then this is true of you. If indeed you remain in the faith, you are one founded, unmoving from the hope of the gospel. So we are transformed by God's grace into a new state of being and given a new source of hope. That hope of the gospel. The hope of the gospel is this, brothers and sisters: it's simple. God reconciles sinners to himself through Jesus Christ. Enemies of God are reconciled to him through Christ's death and his resurrection. The hope is God's sovereign mercy, which reconciles sinners to himself in a perfect and everlasting way through Jesus Christ It's not hope in our ability to obey God. It's not hope in our ability to please God. It's hope in Jesus having already pleased God. It's hope in Jesus obeying God perfectly. It's hope that when God looks at us, he does not see the broken sinner in Adam's image But he sees the new Adam's image, the image of Jesus Christ. He sees the righteousness. He sees the holiness of Christ which has been imputed to you. This is the gospel. And this is uh the gospel is a story of grace. It is good news of grace, and it's unchanging grace. This grace has never changed. Paul says here that he once uh he says in verse 23 if indeed you continue in the faith grounded and steadfast and are not moved away from the hope of the gospel which you heard. Which was preached to every creature under heaven of which I, Paul, became a minister. This gospel which they heard, they didn't hear it from Paul, they heard it from Epaphras. We just read that. And it is no different than the gospel which all of the apostles have been preaching. In fact, if you look at the first chapter of Of the Gospel of John, you're going to see a lot of familiar language. It makes you wonder if Paul had a copy of John right there when he's writing the first chapter bit of this letter This is the good news, and it does not change from one generation to the next. It never changes. This is why Paul commends the Bereans who searched the scriptures to verify what he was teaching. If even an angel preaches some other gospel, they are accursed. The gospel, the good news of God's unchanging grace. It has been preached among all creation. From the beginning of creation, the good news of God is present and preached. Verses 16 and 17 of this chapter are talking about Jesus. We're talking about the Son of God, for by Him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible. Whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him and for him And he is before all things, and in him all things consist. The fingerprint of God is present in all of creation. And the fact that God even created a universe is a demonstration of his grace. He didn't have to. He didn't have to make you or I. He didn't have to make this cosmos that we dwell in. That you and I are even here shows God's grace. You know, he didn't have to spare Noah. He didn't have to spare his his family. It was his right. It's within his rights to discard the trash. There was nothing that required God to take trash and turn it into his treasure. And this very same unchanging grace, this gospel is the gospel of which Paul became a minister. Now, if you remember Acts chapter 9, you know that Paul has gone through this very same journey. He was trash. He was a murderer. Even worse, he was a self-righteous murderer. And he thought that he was doing God's will by killing those who were remaining in the faith By killing those who were founded and established on the gospel. He thought he was a godly garbage man, taking out the trash. Yet the truth of God's unchanging grace was manifested to Paul. He thought he was a friend. a Pharisee. He says he was the a Jew of Jews. And yet he was actually God's enemy, persecuting Jesus himself. And if you recall what happened to Paul, he was rescued from his blindness, both literally and figuratively. He was delivered from the power of darkness and conveyed into the kingdom of the Son of God's love. Now, brothers and sisters, this same grace which spared Adam and Eve in the garden, which spared Noah and his family, which called out Abraham and Sarah from their idolatry, and spared them when they committed terrible acts against God, their Adultery, their attempted murders. This amazing grace is that same grace that is extended through Jesus Christ for you and me. The sovereign mercy of our Lord is not earned. God's mercy is not the reward for your piety. It's not the wages of Bible study. It's not the product that is purchased by your tithes. God's mercy is a demonstration of His sovereignty. He controls all that is. He can reach into the trash and He can pluck you from it. Just as there is nowhere that one can escape God's wrath, there is nowhere you can go to escape God's mercy. His mercy is dependent on his will alone. So, brothers and sisters, don't be discouraged in thinking that you are not experiencing God's mercy because you aren't good enough, or theologically informed enough, or happy enough. He shows mercy on whom he will show mercy. It is entirely up to him. So take courage when you are praying for those that you love who are outside of the church. For children who have grown and strayed from the covenant into which they were baptized. Take courage as you pray for them, praying that God would be pleased To extend his mercy to them and reconcile an enemy to himself. It pleases God to reconcile enemies to himself. So pray that God would be pleased to reconcile these people to Himself. Beg God to glorify Himself by sparing the sinner and their just punishment. Just as he did for you. And remember, brothers and sisters, we're not talking about some abstract mercy. This is not Just, woo, oh mercy, mercy, mercy. No, this is a very real mercy, a mercy that presents you blameless and holy and above reproach This is a mercy that presents you as a treasure of immense and unparalleled value to God. He has spared you for his glory, and he will spare others for his glory. Take courage in this, and may it lead you into devoted and diligent prayer for those who have yet to confess Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. Now, brothers and sisters, I just want to leave you with one final thought. There is nothing more powerful for dissolving the dark clouds of depression, self-doubt, and self-deprecation Than to focus your gaze not upon yourself and on your situation, but upon Jesus Christ, the author and the finisher of your faith. Jesus Christ pulled you from the garbage heap. Jesus Christ reconciled you to God when you did not deserve it. He transformed you from his enemy so that you can be adopted to be his enemy. To be his brother, to be his sibling, to be the beloved adopted child of God. He loves you so much that although he knew every sin that you would ever commit against him And even though he knew that each one of your disobediences would mean intense pain for him on the cross, he knew this, and yet he still came in the body of his flesh. to endure the death that would reconcile you to God. You are such a treasure to him. Are so special to him. Do not allow yourself, regardless of whatever happens in your mind, regardless of whatever is happening in your life, to turn away from the hope of the gospel Turn to Jesus. Turn to that master carpenter who can take the discarded stones and turns them into eternal stones in his eternal temple. If you look at your life and you feel like God's trash, not his treasure, think again. Do you remember what life was like before he reconciled you to himself? Do you remember what it was like when you were his enemy? Do you remember what life was like when every thought of your mind was against him and every action was one of rebellion and wickedness? Do you remember what it was like when you were trash? Now do you know what it's like to be his treasure? To be treasured by Jesus Christ? If you're not sure how to answer that question, don't waste another moment. After this service, find an officer of God's church, an officer of this church. Speak with them. Talk with them about your eternal condition. If you are God's treasure, it is wrong for you to think of yourself as trash. And so if you find yourself dwelling upon that kind of thinking, speak to the officers of this treasure. Church, make an appointment with Pastor Jesse. Come and speak to me, call me, email me. I I'll I'll drop it, whatever I'm doing if I can, and I will come and speak with you. You are his beloved treasure. Don't Allow yourself to think that you are trash. And if you're not sure that he has made you his treasure, that by his sovereign mercy worked out through his amazing grace that Jesus Christ has reconciled you to the Father. If you don't know that this is for sure your condition, again, waste not a single Second, but fall on your face before him even now. Beg him to glorify himself by reconciling you, his enemy, to himself. Beg him to transform Trash into treasure. Please pray with me. Almighty and gracious God When we think about the great work that you have done, it humbles us. And it should bring us to our knees and to our faces. But you, O Lord, you have tied your blessing to your glory. It glorifies you to bless your people. It glorifies you to turn trash into treasure. And so, Father, I pray that you will help each and every one of us. Us, those who are your adopted children, that we would not think of ourselves as trash any longer, but we would see ourselves as your treasure. To you, that we would know that we are in that state of being, of being founded by you on the faith, founded by you, unwavering from the hope of the gospel. We praise you, O God, that you are pleased to reconcile sinners to yourself. We ask, Lord, that you will continue to glorify yourself through this church, that you will glorify yourself by transformation. Us more and more into the image of Jesus. We love you, Lord. We beg you to do this in His name. Amen.