As we have started and has been well received over the past few weeks, we've started a custom now of having a short prayer time in which we are praying that the Lord will open our hearts to hear his word and receive So I'd ask now that you would uh simply bow your head. We're gonna take just a few brief uh moments here to pray that the Lord will open our hearts. Let's pray. This we ask in our law. We're picking up in Matthew 14. We're halfway through the Gospel of Matthew, and we're going to try to finish up the last half between the So the passages are a bit longer. Today we're reading Matthew 14. We're going down through verse 21. I would invite your attention to our Lord's Word, recorded by Matthew. Matthew and the gospel that bears his name. Chapter 14, verses 1 through 21. At that time, Herod, the Tetrarch, heard the report about Jesus and said to his servants, This is John the Baptist. He is risen from the dead, and therefore those powers are at work in him. For Herod had laid hold of John and bound him, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife Because John had said to him, It is not lawful for you to have her. And though he wanted to put him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as But when Herod's birthday was celebrated, the daughter of Herodias danced before them and pleased Herod. Therefore he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask. John the Baptist's head here on a platter. And the king was sorry. Nevertheless, because of the oath and because of those who uh uh sat with him, he commanded it to be given to her. Then his disciples came and took away the body and buried it, and went and told Jesus. And when Jesus heard it, he departed from there by the boat to a deserted place by himself. But when he saw the multitude when but When the multitudes heard it, they followed him on foot from the cities, and when Jesus went out he saw a great multitude, and he was moved with compassion for them, and healed their sick. And when it was evening his disciples came to him him saying, This is a deserted place, and the hour is already late. Send the multitudes away that they may go into the villages and buy themselves food. And Jesus said to him, They do not need to go away. You give them something to eat. And they said to him, We have here only five loaves and two fish. He said, Bring them here to me. Then he commanded the multitudes to sit down on the grass. He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven. seven. He blessed and broke it, and gave the loaves to the disciples, and the disciples gave it to the multitudes. So they all ate and were filled, and they took up twelve baskets full of the fragments that remained. Now those who had eaten were about 5,000 men, besides women and children. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. The feeding of the five thousand is one of the most widely loved and widely known stories about Jesus in all the world. When anyone, no matter where, starts talking about If you ask them what was it that Jesus did, oftentimes they will tell you, well, he's the guy that walked on the water. Or else uh they may have mentioned the idea of feeding the five thousand. It's a very well known task. And why is that? Why is there such an appeal to the feeding of the 5,000? I think it's first of all because of the image it evokes I in my own mind it's such a beautiful scene. Just to picture Jesus standing out there. It wasn't a desert place. It was a deserted place. It was outside the city of Bethpage, we know from other scriptures And so it's probably a pasture area. It was probably an area just off of the beaten path somewhere. So Jesus could have a little peace and quiet while he met with his disciples and then The crowd followed him. And I pictured Jesus there as perhaps being on a on a rock with all of the people gathered around him. I think there was probably some shape there for him to sit under. And I see him gently and compassionately looking out upon this crowd of people who had gathered to him. And all of it, as I said earlier, This week it reminds me of that song Where Sheep Safely Graze. Breeze is is cooling to the skin under the hot sun. There's a sense of peace, joy, even excitement among the people as they see members who are sick being healed by our Lord. Can anything be more beautiful than that? What kind of an image does that evoke in your mind? It's just something that makes you smile. Wish you had been there. Another reason why I think people love this story is because of the human longings to which it appeals. Our common longings. There's something in the human breast that yearns for the things that this image pictures. We all want to be at rest. We all want shalom, the Old Testament word for peace, which is more than just simply peace, but it's the sense of well-being. We want to find the answers for the question. That burden us and nag it our minds. And Jesus does that in this picture. We long to be healed of our hurts, to not To have that broken heart repaired, to have our needs met. We want to find out what Where life can be lived with joy. And that's what we see here. We see people flocking to Jesus in order to gain from that. So much so that he couldn't get away from them. He couldn't even get a little piece of the other. And quiet for himself. People were discovering that Jesus is the one who could comfort them and heal their needs. And so they flocked to him. People love this story, I think. Because it appeals to the deepest longings of their heart as well as to being a beautiful picture that uh brings a smile to our face as we think about it. But this passage is designed for much more than just a warm and fuzzy picture of our Lord Jesus and the people who are gathered to him. Because after we consider the beauty of this picture, even as we look about it and think about it, we have to ask ourselves, well so what? I mean is this all I'm supposed to do? It's just sit here and and kind of smile that the scriptures as I look at it and have this mental image evoke in my mind. I don't think so. This passage, along with all of the passages of scripture, is supposed to change our life. We're supposed to react to it. We're supposed to have God's word come into our life and move us into directions of increasing sanctification and increasing So, how does this passage address that today? And that's the question I would like us to consider. As we ponder this teaching. Here's what I think this passage is designed for us to teach. And I'm talking about the whole passage now beginning with verse one. This passage, I believe, is designed to illustrate and make clear to us the contrast between the kingdom of this world, registered in Herod in his court, and the kingdom of Christ as it is registered in In the feeding of the 5,000. It calls us to turn away from that world of the flesh and of the devil, and it calls us to flee. And I hope to show you how I think it does that as we explore the passage. God doesn't want us to just love this picture of Jesus Jesus. God wants us to understand what it is that we see in this picture of Jesus. What we see here manifest before us in an acted out parable, if you will, is a complete or a depiction Of the kingdom of God as it is offered to us in the gospel. As it is offered to us, you and me. He wants us to embrace this picture. He wants us to embrace the kingdom that it represents. And he wants us to do this on a daily basis and to understand our lives in terms of this passage. Now I believe this is specific in some way to the Gospel of Matthew. God wants us to embrace this picture of Jesus in contrast to the kingdom of the world that seeks to draw us away from it. It's not that we just turn to Jesus when we're feeling down, or when we're feeling burdened, or when we're feeling hungry. No, we're to see that this picture That is presented to us is a picture of the kingdom in which we are to dwell day in and day out. We need to see ourselves in this picture as a manifestation of a our life throughout the rest of our days here. And to do that, in order to define our life and understand our lives in terms of this picture We have to consciously, intentionally, and in a disciplined manner turn away from the kingdom of this world that seeks to trap us so that we can't do it. We don't do this. In Matthew 14, 1 through 21, we see the contrast between the kingdom of this world and the kingdom of God that Jesus ushered. Matthew, alone of all the evangelists, draws out this contrast. Now, all four evangelists, Mark, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, all four speak of the feeding of the fourth house. of the five thousand. Now that's an inter that's uh in and of itself should commend to this action. God thought it so important to us that we to ponder this teaching that he presented it in all four of the gospels, and not everything is that way. But only Matthew of all the four Gospels accounts links this action directly to the passage about Herod and the beheading of John. In verse 13, Matthew's version, and Matthew alone says this, when Jesus heard it. And we have to ask, what does it mean? mean. Not what does is mean, but what does it mean? What was it that Jesus heard? And in order to do that it refers us right back to Back up to the previous passage. It could be that Jesus heard that Herod was thinking of Jesus and pondering Jesus and trying to turn or to cast Jesus. us in terms of John the Baptist. And that would be absolutely wrong. That would be heretical. That would be terrible. And so Jesus may have separated himself from uh the place where he was at and got this five thousand together to demonstrate that he was far more than John the Baptist, because John the Baptist never ever fit five thousand He didn't do anything near that. Or Jesus could have heard the story of John the Baptist's death. We see from the disciples that in verse 12 the disciples came and told Jesus there's no necessity that that's exactly the same thing that Matthew is referring to when he says that Jesus heard it. But it's possible there was some time pass between verses 1 and 2 and the killing of John the uh Baptist, because we see that Herod is pondering the uh the death of John the Baptist in the first ver two verses. But it could be that the it was was Jesus going out into the desert, uh deserted place or uh to get away from the city environment so that people aren't going to be popping out of alleys and giving it Both of these may be true. Both of the things may be what Matthew is pointing at. But the point is this. The whole point of it is that the feeding of the five thousand is linked in Matthew directly to what we see in the first verses about Herod and the killing of Of John the Baptist. In the other Gospels, it is linked to the return of the twelve from their ministry. Or in the Gospel of John, it is to the celebration of the Passover. So here we see a specific linking that the Holy Spirit through Matthew wants us to understand. So I think I think that the reason for that is that we are to not lose the major effect of a contrast that is being presented to us. The contrast between the kingdom of the world as it It is embodied in the story about Herod and his court and the kingdom of God through Christ, as it is embodied and pictured for us in the feeding Now let's think about that for a minute. Let's look at those first verses. Verses 1 through 12. Now here we have a picture of Herod's kingdom. We have a picture of a king, a Tetrarch. He was really an appointed official, appointed directly by the Caesar. He was son of Herod the Great. It's not to be confused with him. But he is an absolute ruler over the sphere that he has been allocated. For all practical purposes, he is a king within that kingdom. And what we see here is a picture of of an earthly kingdom that is under the control of the powers and principalities of the air, as the scripture speaks of it. Rome was the embodiment, the absolute embodiment of what is called the metaphorical Babylon, about which we read in the Bible. Book of Revelation. It is the outworking of the dominion of Satan. It is the kingdom of power, of ambition, of greed. We see all of this in spades as we we just take a look at this picture of Herod's kingdom as it is presented to us here. Here is Herod surrounded by his people and what we see is the worship of mammon the god of power and wealth and we see a kind of social order that is evolved Around that particular lifestyle. We see the lives that are characterized within this kingdom. Look at Herod. Look at the quality and character. Look at him living in superstitious fear. Worried that Jesus may be some Somehow another channeling John the Baptist. The gods of this world are scary demons, and don't ever discount the fact and talk about them as if if they don't exist. I take demons very seriously. I take spirits very seriously. And what we need to see here Is that the gods of this world are scary to those who are under their power? Here he is king, but his conscience Is haunting him. He feared John the Baptist because he feared the holiness of God that John the Baptist registered. And now his fears are filling his mind with wild imaginings. And it wouldn't take any of us here more than a minute or two to think about someone perhaps in our range of acquaintance who is subjected to this same kind of But brothers and sisters, what we need to see here is that in this picture we have what we would call life In the big times, in the big leagues. Here is life being lived at the pinnacle of power within the kingdom of this world. This is a man who is living by the sword. He is living by swindling. He is governed by his own ambition. And you see here that he's afraid that somebody's going to take away from him all that he has gathered together. To himself. And therefore, he is suspicious, always on guard against conspiracies, conceiving demonic powers in every dark place. Herod feared Jesus. Because now Jesus, like John, represents the holy power of God. And Herod cannot control that. He could not control that Not kill that. So he was afraid. Look at the people that are gathered around Herod. Look at the kind of lives they're living. Look at the pictured here among us. Look at Herodias, his wife, conspiring and plotting with her daughter. Herod did not want to kill John the Baptist, not because he was Compassionate upon him, but because he was a man governed by fear. He wanted to keep him shut up, keep him from continuing to publicly shame him. By pointing out his illegal and sinful marriage. And he feared the multitudes that uh thought of John the Baptist as A prophet. But Herodias' wife, he didn't care. Conditions of the state? No big deal. She wanted Him dead. So she is dominated by her anger, she is dominated by her hatred, she is dominated by her shame, and she is dominated by a A thirst for vengeance. Murder, violence, deceit. We see that as part of the everyday life of the kingdom of this world. Brothers and sisters, all we have to do is go wandering around the streets of Baltimore right now. And you see this acted out in space, whether it be a ruler or whether it be a it just be people in the streets. This is the kind of life that produces a bondage to demonic powers And that is the kingdom of this world. It may not be manifested within the degree that we see here. It may not show up in people's lives. We may see people who are very nice and very secular And very atheist. And they may be people that we enjoy. But, brothers and sisters, stripped of all of those things that we call civilization and put into a position In which their life and the things that they own are placed in jeopardy, we will see these same passions, we will see these same things surface. And that's what the kingdom of this world is about. It is ruled by the powers and authorities of darkness. Now look at the crowd that's around Herod. Herod. We shouldn't lose the fact that we see two feasts here. We see a feast in Herod's kingdom, we see a feast in God's kingdom. But look at how the feast is being celebrated. Think about the activities that are going on there. Think about the fact that in this kingdom of the world what we see is a passion Dance by the daughter of Herodias. Now, don't think of this dance as being just a production of Swan Lake. This was in the characteristic types of dance for an oriental secular pagan society, it was appealing to passions that were more oriented towards lust than esoteric appreciation of dancing skill. She was probably not the only dancer. Was given over to a celebration of the flesh. Herod was not a Jew. He was a mixed breed, and this party was more of an oriental bash. It was depraved. It was sinful. We see that because of the drunken oath that Herod takes. No man in his right mind would put himself in such a position to make such a promise to a girl who's just gone through a dance. That's what happens in the kingdom of this world. Men get draught up or women get caught up in their passions, they do rash things, and then they find themselves trapped because Because they are not living to a higher principle, but they are living to the pragmatic realities of what are they going to do with having made such a statement in front of witnesses And so we see here that in the kingdom of this world, people are not ruled by good sense. They are ruled by their passions. Those passions Can be manipulated, as we see here, and they can be inflamed, and they can get people to do rash things that lead to misery, to pain, to death, and to more sin. And Paul tells us in Romans that we That these people, thinking themselves wise, become foolish. And it is this image of Herod eating and drinking with his people. That furnishes for us a brilliant picture of what the kingdom of this world really is like when stripped down to its essence. We see People who are in bondage to fear and anxiety. We see people given over to intrigue and manipulation and sensual depravity, sensual depravity And who live day in and day out suspicious of their neighbors, even their family, because ultimately in this kingdom no one can really be trusted. And now let's look, let's shift over to verse 13 through 21, and let's look at this picture of another kingdom. A kingdom which stands in sharp and specific and I believe intentional contrast to the kingdom we see in Herod. Here we see a kingdom that is not a originating and the powers, the demonic powers of this world, the powers and principalities that Paul speaks of. Here we see A kingdom in which the power of God Himself is at work. Here we see a kingdom that has been promised to God's people. From the time Adam and Eve sinned. Here we see a kingdom where God is with his people, Emmanuel, God with us, and he's present. Not to condemn and punish, but it is a kingdom where God is with His people to heal and to teach and to provide them them with every good thing. This is the kingdom that Abraham was promised that he would inherit. In Genesis 15, God told Abraham, Abraham, Abram, Abraham, I think. I am your exceedingly great reward. I am your shield and your exceedingly great reward. Now think about that. God God promised Abraham that in his journey that his reward would be God Himself. And in this picture, what we see is an image of how that promise works out. We have Jesus as our reward. God with us. God in the flesh. God Himself here with His people. In the book of Hebrews. The life of Abraham is summed up. It says he obeyed God and left his family and went out, not knowing where he is going, but he dwelt by faith in the land of promise, for he waited for a city whose builder and maker was God. Brothers and sisters, what we see here in this picture of the feeding of the 5,000 is how that promise is being worked out. This is a picture of what it is like for people to enter into the house that God has created now. But it is also a picture of that for which we are to wait, as Abraham waited, living in tents in a foreign country. And Abraham is just one example of this kingdom that is foretold in the Old Testament, but which Jesus came to institute and to fulfill. It is a kingdom not made with human hands. In contrast to Herod and his achievements which he vainly attributed to the work of his own hands and his ambition and and it was taking credit for it that became his livelihood and his passion. Here we see that this kingdom that's represented by Christ in the 5,000, that's not something made with human hands. The foreign land in which we dwell celebrates the achievement of men. But in the story of the feeding of the five thousand, that which is celebrated Celebrated is the achievement and the works of God. Before he delivered the bread and the fish to his disciples to be distributed to the men women and children that were there, Jesus took these few things and he blessed them. That was a sacramental act, brothers and sisters. That was a call upon God To now do that which Jesus knew God was going to do through his Holy Spirit. Our great God Has revealed himself to Moses, saying, The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin Brothers and sisters, that's what we see happening here. As these men and women and children sat down to the food that our Lord had provided. They're in various states of sin, and yet God blessed them by innocence not holding it against them that they were sinners. The blessings which God gives to his people is not because they have been sinless, but because And those blessings are given freely and with delight by the God who is with us giving them Brothers and sisters, that is the nature of the kingdom of God. It is that which Jesus proclaimed and into which we are to enter, and it stands in sharp contrast to this picture of Herod. And his church, and his kingdom. It stands in contrast because we see a different kind of king. Look at Christ in contrast to Herod. Look at it. Think about it. Stop for a minute. Think of Christ and think of Herod Put a picture in your mind. Which one would you rather have as your king? Both of them are feeding the crowd around them. But look at what is motivating Jesus to feed the crowd. He's motivated by compassion. It says that. He is motivated for a heart that cares for them individually and as a group. These are his beloved flock. His emotions are directed toward them are warm and tender. The most Herod could feel towards the people that were gathered around his table, the best that could be said for them was that he considered them as drinking buddies. He at least trusted them enough that he didn't think they were going to pull out a knife and stab him when they got drunk. And that's about the best that could be said for it. them. He didn't trust them. He fears how they will view him if he doesn't keep his promise. There was no love between Herod and those people. But with Jesus Jesus, look at the love that is flowing out of him towards this people. Realize. These are the same people that in a few weeks or months are So we're not painting an overly rosy picture of this group, but look at Christ Himself loving them, even knowing that the other one is a very good idea. That was his future. Many did not love him back. But that didn't stop our Christ from loving them. Brothers and sisters, even when we were dead in our sins, even when we were enemies of Christ, when there was a wall of separation between us and And God, because of our sin and because of our heart that loves sin. Yet even then, while we were dead in our sins, Christ showed His love for us. God showed his love for us by sending his son into this world to die for us. On our behalf, even unto death. On the cross, Jesus came to purify for himself a people, a nation who would be purified under love and good works. That's the kind of king that we see pictured here. A king who loves us, though we are sinners. Who does not fear us, but is motivated by a heart of compassion. Doesn't that make you want to flee to him? Doesn't that make you want to embrace him? Doesn't it make you want to fall on your feet and worship him? Doesn't it make you want to turn away from the kings of this world who seek to use you and profit from you and manipulate you? Wouldn't you rather have the kind of king that we see here, rather than a king who is in the service of Mammoth. We also see here a different kind of feast. Look at how this is just barely touch this. But look at the different nature of these Two feasts. Look at the sin and depravity that you see around Herod and contrast it with this picture of the families who are gathered there. Sitting as families in small groups, delighting in the providence of God. Sitting with each other, delighting in each other as they Each separately delighted in what God had done for them. You don't see manipulation here, you don't see sensuality, you don't see murder in this picture. We see groups of people enjoying each other. And here we see what is the highest good of mankind. This is what we were made for. This is the image of humanity that God has designed the human person to show forth. We were not designed to be animals. Living for greed and murder and our passions. We were designed to live in community with a God-built house of people loving each other. Man was designed to be noble, to show forth the image of God in this world, and that is the nature of the feast and the people participating in it that we see here. And lastly, we see Jesus here showing forth the promise of a different kind of life. Historically, the feeding of the five thousand was a Single great one-time event. But it is a metaphor that provides us a teaching that this is not to be understood. As a one-time thing. What we see here is a picture of life, eternal life in the kingdom of God. A life that begins now. And which we taste and part now, but which is real and true, and will become even more so. Jesus tells us that He came together And this is a picture of the life that Jesus has for us. A life that is lived by going wherever Jesus is. day and in that minute seeking him throughout our life, wherever he is to be found. It is a life of knowing that he is there with us individually as we go through our life. Day by day, minute by minute, never departing from us, and that we are to be comforted by the thought that we are there with Christ, with God Emmanuel, with us. It's a life of knowing that no real harm can come to us, and that we are to find our nourishment from Him as we conduct our life. Nothing can separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus. Not death, not life, not angels, not powers, not things. Things present or things to come. No created thing can separate us from the love of God that's in Christ Jesus. And that's what this picture is all about. Brothers and sisters, in conclusion and in final application, I'd like you to consider this. We have to guard Against just passing over this picture of Jesus. We must not think of it as just a pleasant little thing that He did that does not have any immediate bearing on our lives. Rather We must see in this picture a bright beacon, a light shining in the darkness that Herod represents. We must see it as a picture of that which is real, not just a mind game. We must see it as a present reality to which we must flee. Paul in Colossians 3 says it this way. That we are to set our mind on things above and not things on the earth. We must see that God showed Moses a picture of a as God showed Moses a picture of the holy tabernacle or And then told him to build the earthly tabernacle as a pattern from that pattern, then we must see Jesus here as presenting to us a picture of the Christian Christian life and that we are to orient our lives toward living within that picture as a pattern for how we build our earthly tabernacle Of Christ. We do this by deliberately shifting our minds from the ways and methods of the world about us. When we leave this room and we go out into whatever our life is, brothers and sisters, the world goes and it collapses around us and seeks to draw us away from this picture of Christ and His kingdom. Point us towards that life that Herod embodies. And to tell us that that is the life we ought to be living, because there is the world of achievement, of self-worth, and all of those things So we have to live day by day in communion with Christ, receiving from Him our daily bread as He is here Embodied, and seeking his counsel and following his lead. And in doing so, the life that is pictured here, the life of Shalom That is inherent in this picture becomes a present reality in our lives also. The life in which we are to live and move and have our being. And one that is in its present state, an embodiment or a manifestation, or a downpayment of that which is to come. This This is the gospel of the story of the feeding of the five thousand. Let's carry it with us in everything we do. Let's pray.