Rejoice in the Lord greatly that now at last your care for me has flourished again, though you surely did care, but you lacked opportunity Not that I speak in regard to need, for I have learned in whatever state I am to be content. For I know how to be abased, and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I have learned both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you in your wisdom have chosen to use the priest word to bring blessing to your congregation, that they would be empowered to both know and obey your will And so I pray that you would in fact accomplish those things here today. You know each person that stands here. You know them inside and out. There is no privacy between you and them. And therefore I ask that you would use the word, make it effective, transform them into the image of your Son. Especially in the good works that they will do to the glory of your name, as a witness and light to the darkness that is in the world. Ask these things in your name on them. You may be seated. Each community is recognized as a separate community Because it has a distinct social identity. I think if you were to, for example, go to a larger city, let's say New York City, you would know pretty much what kind of community you're in, depending on what part of the city you're in. Because there are distinct features or traits of certain societies. In fact, they're even named that way, like Little Italy, for example, or something like that. Well, that's analogous to what Paul has been teaching us, is that we also are a distinct society. that we have been called together, and we have been looking at this under the name of the fact that we are a society of heavenly citizens or a colony of heaven. And we've been asking the question, based upon the way Paul has been uh instructing us through his letter, we've been asking the question, well, what does it look like? What are the aspirations and the hopes and the features and the character traits of those who are in that city? Well, last week we saw a very famous passage. And some of the character traits came through within that famous passage is that is that we are a people that strive for good, godly goals and endeavors. Last week Paul In Paul's words he says, whatever things are true, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report, if there is any virtue, if there is anything praiseworthy, then yours to set your mind on accomplishing these specific endeavors. It's another way of saying that you are committed to God's will in this world. Well, we're taking another step now within the passage in this next set of verses, 10 through 13, and we're seeing that there's another feature or trait that marks the heavenly citizen. It shouldn't be a surprise to you, based on the hymn selections and the confession of sin that Brad just did. And I bet you you know it already, that we're to be marked by contentment. That the heavenly citizen is meant to be marked or to have the trait of contentment, that as there as you and I are on these godly endeavors, As we are seeking to work out the calling and mission that Jesus Christ has given to every one of you. and all of us together, that we are to be content. And another way to say that, because contentment can get real tricky real quick depending on from which tradition you're talking about contentment It just means we realize that in Jesus Christ we've got enough. In Jesus Christ, we have enough. And that attitude and that mindset pervades all that we do Well, what I want to do is unfold that and build that up just by looking at this passage and let's discover a little bit more of what it means to be a people of contentment. I want to look at the situation here within this passage, and then I also want to look at the lesson within this passage. So let's begin in verse number 10. We're going to follow along. So that we can see that what God is saying, and not just what Jesse is saying. We want to see what God is saying, and we're going to begin in verse number 10, just looking at the situation. The first thing that I want you to see as we travel through this scripture is that The situation that Paul is in is that he's rejoicing in the care of his disciples. And verse number 10, but I rejoiced in the Lord greatly. Now At last your care for me, now that at last your care for me has flourished again, though you surely did care, but you lacked opportunity. This is a really interesting verse if you ever want to study it. The word, for example, care that you see there within your scripture is derived from the same word that he's been using when he says, have the same mind. as Jesus Christ. So what he's doing here, what he's rejoicing in, is that they have a mind to care for him. It's another way, we've talked about it this way before. They're concerned for him. That is to say, earlier he was writing and saying, I want you to have the mind of Jesus Christ. And here he's rejoicing because they do. They have the mind of Christ in what they pay attention to and what pursuits they pursue. They're pursuing, taking care of Paul, and he is rejoicing in that. He rejoices in this care because really his main goal, if you look again at verse number 10, his main goal is that this group of people, the Philippians, would be like a tree that has lots of fruit all over it. I wish I would have brought it, but I had a congregation member, I forget which letter it was, I think it was 1 or 2 Timothy, but based on one of the sermons, I was saying that you're meant to be a fruitful tree. Like an apple tree. And the congregation member here did a watercolor for me that had the verse with a picture of an apple tree with bright little red apples on it. showing what we're supposed to look like as a congregation. And that's Paul's heart. That's the Holy Spirit heart, not only for the Philippians, but for you And Paul is seeing that they're beginning to bear fruit. That's why he chooses the words that he does. Besides care, in verse number 10, he says that at last your care for me has flourished again. That flourished is a word that can refer to plants. It could refer for to a for example to a flower that had been tight like this and then it opens up. Or it could refer to what I saw when I came out my front door this morning. I stepped down off my front step and I said, Oh, all the flowers, the bulbs that I planted a few years ago, they're poking up out of the earth. And that's what Paul is seeing when these people are caring for him. The ministry that he gave to them and the preaching of the word and sh and and sitting down with them like a father would with his children, or like a mother would with her children. Working with them night and day to make sure that they're raised in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. Here, he's rejoicing because he sees something breaking up out of the soil. A flower opening, fruit on a tree. And the fruit is their care for him. And their care for him is the mind of Christ. They are becoming like Christ. And he is rejoicing. He will repeat this again. If you want to slide down and you want to be a real advanced uh Bible reader here, slide down and you can see a repetition of this in verse number 17. He says, not that I seek the gift. Think about this this group of people, Philippians, giving him a financial gift, so that he can go on. And exist and continue in prison and then be able to continue his ministry. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account. You see that? That's what he's after with these people. And so he is rejoicing that his disciples are showing this fruit of care and of the mind of Christ. Now this shouldn't be a surprise to us. In the first chapter, he started off the whole letter just like this. Do you remember? In chapter 1, verse 5, he says, I thank God for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. That fellowship is again hit their care for him. So now you have in the beginning of the letter to the end of the letter, he's rejoicing that this group of people are bearing fruit and that they care about the right things. They care about the things that Jesus Christ cares about. And he's excited about it. If he were British, he wouldn't be that excited. Because if you're British you don't really get excited So I've heard. Although I've met British people that get excited. He says here, continuing, thinking about this gift, that he's thankful for Epaphroditus earlier in chapter 2, whom they had sent. And they had continued to set their minds on that good work. Now take a look at verse 10 again. There's something here that's a little tricky that might be confusing to you. It says, But I rejoice in the Lord greatly now at last that your care for me has flourished again. And he says, though you surely did care, but you lacked opportunity. What he's saying there is he's when he says it flourished again, it means it had stopped. And now it's picking up again. So just to be clear with them that I know it wasn't because you were neglecting me. It's just that you lacked opportunity. You knew what the praiseworthy thing was to do and you wanted to do it, but you didn't have the means at that particular time to see it through. And so he makes all of that clear that he's just thrilled to finally see the fruit that he had been praying for this people, the fruit and how he had been, how they were going to take care of him. Now when we look at this situation, we not only see that he is rejoicing in their care for him, but we also see that he is going to extend care toward them to make sure they don't put themselves in a bad situation. And that's that next little set of words that we have within the passage. It says, in verse number 11, not that I speak in regard to need. Why does he say that to them? He does that for a couple different reasons, but one reason I think that's going on here, and uh comment and uh see this among the commentators also who spend their lives studying this letter Is that Paul wants to be very careful that though he is rejoicing the fruit that they're bearing, he doesn't want them to keep sending a relief team. Paul is concerned that they will respond by sending another support party at great personal cost in their poverty and with potential danger. Think about everything that Epaphroditus went through. in chapter two. And Paul's sending Epaphroditus back now, and he's hoping to send Timothy shortly. He's saying, I don't need you to keep doing those things. He's concerned that The Judaizers, for example, are circling them like wild dogs. That he doesn't want to weaken the church any further with a team heading off to him in Rome. He doesn't want another uh have to send back and say, well, even though Epaphroditus got sick and he made it, the other people that you sent to me, they got sick and they didn't make it. They need all hands on deck, and hence he is sending Epaphroditus back and he plans to send Timothy along soon for good measure. This is what I think is going on within the the I imagine what's going on in the history of this situation. And so he makes clear that he no longer needs their gifts. Not that I speak according to that I need you to keep doing these things. I think that's what's going on. And that really ends up bringing us then into the second part. But there's a main lesson here within the passage that he stops, and really you could almost view it as a parenthetical remark, where he's going to take the opportunity to teach again. And to in and to show a model again for them to be able to imitate. And that's within the lesson. And the lesson is this. It comes out in a few questions. Please do not forget that Paul is in prison when he's writing this. How is it that he could say he's not in need? He doesn't say, for example When he says, I'm not in need, he doesn't we don't then continue reading in the scriptures, Well I'm not in need because I've got everything I desire here in this prison I've got all of the food that I could ever want. I've got all the relationships that I've ever desired. I am a fool man in this prison. That's certainly not what's going on. So how is it that he could say that he has everything that he needs? Well, that's where we pick up in first chapter four, verse eleven. He says, I don't speak in regard to need, so don't send other people. But then he goes on, for I have learned In whatever state I am in, to be content. And that's why he's not in need. Because he has everything he needs. He doesn't need more. He's he's full Contentment here in this passage has a technical philosophical meaning in Greek literature. Those of you who have studied Stoics, this is a premier virtue for them. And I don't believe that Paul is using this in a technical philosophical sense. It was also just used in like everyday uh language if um you were filling up my my glass of water and it reached the brim, I would say it is content. It's we've got everything we we've got it all. It's right there. And that's just how people would use it, saying that they have enough water. Josephus uses that way. And I think that's what Paul is doing here. He's just saying Don't you don't need to send anybody. I'm not speaking in regard to need. I have learned in whatever state I am that I have enough He's simply saying that no matter what the circumstances are, he has learned that he has enough. And then go ahead and take a look at the circumstances in the passage that he ends up outlining for you. He says, I know how to live here. I know how to live how to be abase. I know how to bound. Everywhere and in all things, I know how to be content. Everywhere in all things I learned to both be full and hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. One way of looking at this is one translation is I know how to live on almost nothing or with everything. I have learned the secret of living in every situation, whether it's a full stomach or it's an empty stomach. With plenty or little, all of these different circumstances. And then if you were to just look at Paul's biography and start to outline at least one of the sides of those coins with one of the sides of those coins In terms of where he lacked, or the kind of poverty that he faced, if you look in 2 Corinthians 11, 23 through 27, Are they servants of Christ? I know that I sound like a madman, but I have served far more. I have worked harder, I have been put in prison more often, I have been whipped times without number and faced death again and again. Five different times I the Jewish leaders gave me thirty-nine lashes. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked. Once I spent a whole night and a day adrift at sea. I traveled on many long journeys. I faced dangers from rivers and from robbers I have faced dangers for my own people as well as from the Gentiles. I have faced danger in the cities and in the deserts and on the seas. And I have faced danger from man men who claim to be believers but are not. I have worked hard and long and during many sleepless nights. I have been hungry and I have been thirsty and I have often gone without food I have shivered in the cold without enough clothing to keep me warm. 2 Timothy 11, 23 through 27. And now we could go ahead and take our passage and stick it at the end of that one, and we could say But I have enough. That's what he's that's what he's saying. But I have enough. Now I w do you let's just do a a check here. Do you find that admirable? I find that admirable that I would want to be a a man like that. If it were a Stoic, he would have had all of those different things and the way he would have resolved it is, well, I don't really care about any of it. I don't care if my child is married or if my child dies. That's how the Stoics work that out. But that's not what he's doing here. He does care. And yet he's he's able, even in a state of caring, of being able to love what you're supposed to love. He's still able to say, even in all of those, I had enough. Now, here's my question to you. And I hope that there was a little flicker of admiration in your heart. I'm counting on that, that the Spirit is working within you. So that we can then ask the question together, how is it that we could say we have enough no matter what the circumstances are within our lives? And that's the lesson that he had to learn. Do you notice that he says he learned the lesson? That's the lesson he had to learn through all these different circumstances. Growing and maturing in his as like a student in the school of Christ. The Puritans in this section called Paul, they said, this is Paul the scholar, learning from Jesus. And the answer that he gives, this the the answer to saying, even in all of those circumstances I have enough. The secret to it all Is the secret to contentment. The divine, the art of divine contentment is in verse number 13. It's not a self-sufficiency, it's a Christ sufficiency. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Whether he was being shipwrecked, whether he was traveling and being robbed, whether he was shivering because he didn't have a blanket. He was able to say that he had enough because it wasn't about the absence of things. It was about who was present. And he knew that Christ was there. He had to learn that Christ was there. This is a pretty popular verse, isn't it? I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. I'm really surprised that Nike doesn't have it on like a billboard or something. Because when I look out and I see professional athletes, a lot of them end up having this. I think did Tim Tebow have it on it in his on his face with the black stuff he put underneath? I forget what it's called Is it under the rim of a baseball player or the brim of a hat? Is it uh on a person's cleat? If you were to look, you'd see that a lot of people end up adopting this, and maybe they have some things different things going on in their lives, and maybe they are Christians and they can see what this means. But it often looks like, or at least sometimes we'll just say, that this popular verse in our culture as a general motivator is really taken by our culture far too broadly than the way that Paul intends it here. Paul certainly, this is a no-brainer, we don't need to spend any time on this, Paul certainly doesn't mean when he says that I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. He certainly doesn't mean all things in the sense of any possible thing that you could desire. I mean, think of all of the evil things you desire. How many times have you envisioned smacking me? Or whatever it is. Maybe I deserve it actually. So it's not it's not supposed to be that broad. What we end up seeing here is not primarily is not a it's not a a promise that you're going to become the the best baseball player or the best football player. This is focused in on a very specific reference that Paul is focused on here in this letter, and that is that You're going to gain the empowerment and the blessing that you need as you continue to walk worthy of your calling in the mission that Jesus Christ has given to you as his congregation. Now that can be corporately, but it can also just be individually. As you all break and go away to your homes, you all have a little mission going on. You all have little gardens that you're working on, and he's saying here That Christ is with you in all of those areas, strengthening you, blessing you, so that you can fulfill the dominion mandate. It is Jesus Christ, for example, that gave Paul a specific mission. It is Jesus Christ that gives you a specific mission. And we can think of the words of Abraham Kuiper, for example, where he says, There's not one square inch in the whole domain of our human existence over which Christ, who is sovereign over all, does not cry, and this is mine too. This is mine too, and the way that we fit into that is that we are Christ's body, bringing everything captive to our Lord, saying, and this is his too. We say that about our families, we say that about the way that we conduct ourselves here as a congregation and the way we relate to each other, the way that we are in the world but not of it. It is in our going back to what we learned in terms of why Paul was rejoicing, it is in our fruit-bearing, in other words That we can claim the promise. I can do all things through Jesus Christ who strengthens me. As I seek to bear fruit for my Lord, he shall never leave me, nor forsake me. He shall enable me to do his will, even if it is little by little by little. That's the lesson that Paul has for himself that he learned over time. And that's the main lesson. that as his congregation, the Lord Jesus Christ's congregation, that's the main lesson that he intends for you to learn. Over time, more and more, that you would actually believe that he has not left you as an orphan. It's another way of saying that heavenly citizens, they learn contentment, they learn that they have enough. As they're doing their mission for Christ, they have enough. His grace is sufficient for you in your weakness. I think it's important for you as a congregation To ask the question, are you learning contentment I just tuned in. I was very uh glad to see this. Uh did you all know that Brad just preached his senior sermon in seminary? He did a great job. It was really encouraging. And he preached on the parable of the soils. One of the professors, I think it might have been the preaching professor that was down there pointed out that one of the patterns in the parable of the soils is that There's a bunch of opportunities for people to learn, but there's only one soil where the learning actually happened. Satan snatched things away where you could hear, but you never learned. And so let me just ask the question again, are you learning that Jesus Christ is enough, that his grace is enough for you as you seek to work out his mission? Because he's giving you experience after experience after experience after experience. For you to see that he has not left you and he has not forsaken you. No matter what the circumstances, he is always there for you. And that is the main lesson that he wants you to learn. Are you learning that as you seek to be fruitful, that you have enough with Christ? Are you learning that in whatever situation you are in on mission for the Lord, that He has promised to never leave you nor forsake you? Perhaps you have heard that you have enough because the Lord is your provider. But I'm not asking, have you heard? I'm asking, have you learned? Have you learned the lesson? Are you learning the lesson? To mature, it is time to give greater attention to your experiences. Paul did not just learn from a book. He learned from going through experiences and seeing that no matter what, Jesus Christ was there. I'd encourage you if even if you just have a couple experiences, even just one experience, would you stir it up? Would you fan it to where it's hot? Where you can see that Jesus Christ has been there for you. It makes all the difference in a human soul to know that their God is with them. This is a beautiful vision for the human race, isn't it? That's why we would be a city set on a hill in the midst of darkness. is because it would be a situation where human beings uh look beautiful in the way that they interact with God, the way that they interact with each other. I wonder if you've thought about the vision of what Paul is giving here, the way we're meant to be. I remember being struck by a vision once. Do you all remember when there was a time among before the county council where we could show up and give arguments? for why we should not abort children. Does anybody here remember that? We were invited to go and we had two minutes to give arguments. I attended. I gave my two minute argument. But there was a man who stood up and he didn't give an argument. Not in the traditional sense. He stood up and he gave a vision. I don't remember all the words that he said, but he said something like, I imagine a world where every life is cherished. A world where the unborn are not seen as burdens or choices to be discarded, but they are seen as gifts, everyone a unique soul with a purpose and a story to be told. I imagine a world where mothers facing fear or hardship are met with open arms, not cold indifference, where communities rally to provide support, resources, and love so that That woman can feel that she doesn't have to choose she doesn't have to choose between her future and her child's life. She can have both. Well, within that same ethos, it's time for us as a congregation more and more to start imagining things. I imagine a world where we stand beneath a vast sky, and every star that we look up at is a testament to a king who reigns over everything. And we know that deep in our bones that this sovereign God is not aloof, but he's actually with us. I can picture a morning where joy like the sun rises up in your souls. Because you have learned that the one who chose you before time is actually with you. I can see you walking through shadowed val valleys of family troubles. I can see you walking through the valley of the shadow of death with old age issues. But when I see you in this vision, your head is held high. Your hearts are steady. And it's not because you're strong. It's because you know that you are held by the grace of God. Especially when you were not able to hold yourself. I have a vision that really could be summarized and formulated as Joshua 1. 9. Which we'll end with. It's just a command. Oh severn run congregation, in the name of Jesus Christ, would you be strong and courageous? Don't be afraid. Don't be discouraged. For the Lord your God will be with you wherever you go. Ainut. And then what is prank