Mark eleven, verses twelve through twenty-six. And I must warn all of you, my technology is failing me today. So you may all be a party to the first sermon I've ever preached without notes, if this doesn't work, as it has been failing. But that's okay. Our God never fails. And if that's what he wants to happen tonight, I'm glad all of you are here to help me through it. Mark chapter 11, starting in verse 12, God's holy word for you, God's holy people. Now the next day, when they had come out from Bethany, he was hungry. And seeing from afar a fig tree having leaves, he went to see if perhaps he would find something on it. When he came to it, he found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs. In response, Jesus said to it, let no one eat fruit from you ever again. And his disciples heard it. So they came to Jerusalem. Then Jesus went into the temple and began to drive out those who bought and sold in the temple, and overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold doves. And he would not allow anyone to carry wares through the temple. Then he taught, saying to them, Is it not written, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations? But you have made it a den of thieves. And the scribes and chief priests heard it, and sought how they might destroy him, for they feared him, because all the people were astonished at his teaching When evening had come, he went out of the city. Now in the morning, as they passed by, they saw the fig tree dried up from the roots. And Peter, remembering, said to him, Rabbi, look! The fig tree which you cursed has withered away. So Jesus answered and said to them, Have faith in God. For assuredly I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, Be removed and be cast into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that those things he says will be done, he will have whatever he says Therefore, I say to you, whatever things you ask when you pray, believe that you receive them, and you will have them. And whenever you stand praying, if you have anything against anyone, forgive him. That your Father in heaven may also forgive you your trespasses. But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father in heaven forgive your trespasses. Please pray with me. Almighty and all-wise God, you in your sovereign providence have selected this passage for us tonight. You have given us your word, revealed yourself through it, and you have preserved it through the ages that we here now would hear this and be fed by it. We need you. We need you to open our eyes that we would see. Open our ears that we would actually hear. Soften our hearts that it would be soil receptive to the seed of your good news. We need you, Lord, and so we come to you, praying. Hopefully, expectantly for you to answer and to bless us as your people tonight. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I really do marvel at the providence and sovereignty of our God. That he would have this passage be what I am to preach to you tonight after Pastor Jesse preached to you about being salt and light on the earth. It's no mistake. And and as I said last Sunday evening, we don't get together and plan this out. Ooh, wouldn't that be a good one-two punch? No, we've just been going consecutive expositorily through scripture. And this is where God has had us. Amen. I wonder if you've ever experienced this situation in your life. Well actually, and now that I think about it, most of you probably haven't. But uh those of us over the age of thirty, we probably all experience this where you've received a phone call and you wanted to take down a message and you grab for a pen to write something on a piece of paper. And that pen has no ink. You've experienced this? There's a a kind of panic. You need to be able to write this down. You've got to write down the phone number or the information from the auto mechanic or something like that. And the pen has no ink. What do you do with that pen? Do you stare at that pen and say, I declare you will have ink And then it magically writes again? No. No, that usually doesn't happen. Do you take that pen and do you put it in a glass case and say, Oh pen, how I remember thee longingly. What do most of us do with a pen that is a run out of ink? We just toss it. Goes in the garbage. What we wanted to use that pen for. It cannot serve that purpose. After Pastor Jesse's sermon this morning, I thought maybe I should change this to a flashlight that's without a bulb. Right? If you grab a flashlight, you want to shine light on something that has no bulb in it, how well are you going to be able to see what you're shining that light on? You won't. You won't at all. Mark has been taking us and giving us these photographs, these snapshots, as if in an album. of various events in the life and ministry of our Lord Jesus Christ. He's been bringing us all the way from the very beginning, in which he says this is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's brought us up to this point. He's shown us his miraculous power. He's healed countless. He's healed so many that Mark can't tell us all of them. He has forgiven the sins of some. And when people said, How is it that you can forgive sins? He says, Hey, that you would know that I have the power to forgive sins, I'm going to tell this one to get up and walk. And he didn't lay there. He actually got up and he actually walked. Last Sunday we saw that this king Jesus, the true Son of God, is the true Son of David. He is the long-awaited Messiah. And we see this because he enters his city, the city of David, not as a conquering hero. But as a returning king, peacefully on a donkey. And we saw that the sovereign King, Jesus, deserves your worship. He proves that he is the king. And in that proof, he deserves you to give yourself to him. Well tonight we come to What has been for me a very revealing passage. In the past I've been somewhat confused about what is happening here. In fact, I've I may have been misled by some. There are commentators out there who talk about this passage as though there's something we have to explain. There's a famous atheist named Bertrand Russell who used to use this very passage as a reason why he can't believe that Jesus was sinless. He says, look at this petulant Jesus. Look at what he does. But I rejoice, because the Lord has heard my prayers for myself and given me an understanding. And that way of thinking about this, it's just not possible. There is nothing here that needs to be explained. Other than Jesus is God, and he knows exactly what he's doing. And so we come to this passage tonight. Mark 11, verses 12 through 26, and I hope that all of us will see that God expects true fruit of faith from his people. Brothers and sisters, your God expects the true fruit of faith from you. And we're going to examine this under two headings tonight. First, we're going to look at God's expectations in verses 12 through 19. And then together we will examine the fruit of faith in verses 20 through 26. Let's jump right into it. Verses. 12 through 19, the first thing we see is God's expectations. And we see this in what I'm liking uh likening as a living parable. Similar to those living parables that other prophets had. If you remember Jeremiah, he had a a prophecy that was a living parable. He was supposed to cut off his hair, or he was supposed to lay on his side, or he's gonna wear these sashes. And it all meant something. And this is what Jesus is doing here. It is a living parable, and we'll see it in two different parts. The first part that we see is in verses 12 through 14. Now the next day when they had come out from Bethany, he was hungry. And seeing from afar a fig tree having leaves, he went to see if perhaps he would find something on it. When he came to it, he found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs. In response, Jesus said to it, let no one eat fruit from you ever again. And his disciples heard it. We learn About God's expectation here that He expects more than just the appearance of health. First thing we see in verse 12 is that God has a plan. They're coming out from Bethany. If you recall from last Sunday night, we talked about how this all works. There's the Mount of Olives and we have a a city over here, Bethany, and over here is Bethphage and And then here's the city of Jerusalem. And so on the road around the Mount of Olives, he would go from Bethany, where he stayed, which was likely at the house of his good friends, where he had raised Lazarus from the dead. And he end he exits that city and as he's walking around he comes to Bethphage. Anybody remember what Bethphage means? It's the house of unripe figs. He has a plan. As he moves along the road, Jesus is hungry The king is hungry. And as they round the bend from this mountain, they see a field of trees. And now we have to understand exactly what's going on here. It was a little early in the year for all those fig trees to have leaves. You need to understand that there are two seasons for figs, especially in that region of the world. I didn't know this, just like I didn't know anything about donkeys. Until last week. I learned a lot about figs in this past week. And these two seasons for the figs, there's one season, and that's the season that we're used to. The autumn season. After summer is over, these figs and they are plump. They're big fat figs. Juicy. Like the kind you would buy at the grocery store, the kind that we're used to seeing. The Bible even says that when they're ripe, a strong wind can knock them off the tree. But this first season It's a very different kind of season. Strong and healthy and mature fig trees will produce a first crop early in the year, around March or April, around this time. And they even start producing the fruit before their leaves come. And so for Jesus to look at this field of trees, imagine that all of them are barren. There's no leaves on any of them except there's one. Lush foliage, lots of leaves, a great appearance of health. And so it's reasonable for Jesus to expect that he could go to that tree that has the appearance of health. And he would find the fruit that he's looking for. When it says that it's not the season for figs It's very specific that he's talking about. It's not that season for the ripe fix. But it was reasonable for him to expect some fruit from that tree. But when he comes up to it, what does he find? Nothing. Nothing but leaves. There should have been fruit before there were leaves. And these kinds of figs, they don't just fall off like the other kind. You have to really pick 'em. There was only the appearance of health on that tree. And God was expecting so much more. Did you know that there's another parable of fig trees in the Bible? If you want to turn to Luke chapter 13 with me, we'll look at verses 6 through 9. Luke chapter thirteen Starting in verse six of Luke thirteen. I'll give you a second. Luke records for us, he also spoke this parable. A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it, and found none. Then he said to the keeper of his vineyard, Look. For three years I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree and find none. Cut it down. Why does it use up the ground? But he answered and said to him, Sir, let it alone this year also, until I dig around it and fertilize it. And if it bears fruit, well. But if not, after that, you can cut it down. If Jesus' disciples had been paying attention to his ministry, they would have understood exactly what's going on here with this living parable. And so we must rejoice that God has given us his whole counsel. We have that. And we can refer to it and be taught by it. This is not a petulant Jesus. This is Jesus living out what he has already said. And so he curses this fig tree. He says, Let no one eat fruit from you ever again. He's done with second chances for this tree. And as we saw that Jesus has a right as the King, as the creator of the universe, to require the use of a donkey. He also has the right to require this tree to cre to produce fruit for him. And he has a right to do with an unproductive tree, whatever it is that pleases him. The life that was given to that fig tree was not just for the fig tree's own glory, no matter how beautiful its leaves. The life that was given to that fig tree was to serve the plan and purpose of the Almighty God. God expects more than just the appearance of life, more than just the appearance of health. He is expecting true life and true health from his people. Well as we move from the fields and the fig tree as they enter Jerusalem, we come to the second part of this living parable. And we see that God expects more than just the appearance of productivity. So they came to Jerusalem, then Jesus went into the temple and began to drive out those who bought and sold in the temple. And overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold doves. And he would not allow anyone to carry wares through the temple. We get a picture of a lot of busyness happening in this temple. Kind of like a like any other busy marketplace in the ancient world or Or think about have you ever have you ever been to like Costco when there's a huge sale and a very limited supply and everybody has just got their carts and they're trying There's so much busyness happening, so much going on. If you just looked at the temple And so all the working. And and when he says these they wouldn't even let he wouldn't let anyone carry wares through the temple. That specific word there is the vessels. He's talking about the vessels that were used for the sacrifices. Not anyone, it wasn't just a person who said, Oh, I'm going to carry a basket. These are priests doing the duty that is their duty that God had given to them. So that the sacrificial system could be effectual for the people. They were so busy But whose business were they busy at? We're told that he's he's driving out those who bought and sold in the temple. He's driving out and overturning the tables of money changers. Remember, there's millions of people who have come from afar. Millions of Jews from all over, from the diaspora. From other places in Israel, they've come there to do what? To obey God in celebrating the Passover, which was a perpetual feast and celebration for God's people. And it would have been very difficult for them to bring all of the sacrifices that they needed along that journey. And so they're there. They have to purchase a lamb. Or did you know that if they were too poor to purchase a lamb, God had given them a dispensation that they could purchase a dove and use a dove? That's where we have these Those who are selling doves. So they had turned the temple into a place of profit. Where all of these millions of people coming to worship God are going to be spending their money there. And we get the impression that it wasn't just, okay, welcome to the temple, here's your lamb, thank you for your fee, and go on, be about your business. No, we get the impression that there was uh you know, lamb seller A and Lamb seller B and Lamb seller C and they're all fighting with each other. Oh, you I can get you one for a better price Did you know that they couldn't accept Roman money in the temple? They wouldn't accept it because there was an image of Caesar On the Roman currency. And so anybody who had Roman money, because they came from other parts of the Roman Empire, they had to exchange it into Jewish money. There were people there whose entire job was to try to make money off of God's people coming to honor God's commands. And they would all be in competition with each other. Maybe right by the gate, it was the better exchange rate. If you walked a little a little further, it might be more expensive. Who knows? Maybe there was somebody who was had a monopoly from the high priest. They were friends with his cousin, and he said, You know what? You guys can have the best table in the best spot. Is that what the house of God was supposed to be? A place to make money? Whose business were they busy at? It wasn't God's. There's no true productivity happening in the temple that Jesus saw. It's just a bunch of people serving themselves. The temple of Jehovah would have looked like the temple of any other false god at that point. Is that what God wants? Brothers and sisters, is that what God wants of you? Does he want your life to look like everyone else's life? Does he want your church to look like any other club that the world has? Are we supposed to resemble the Rotary Club? Are we supposed to resemble American Legion? So it hurts my heart when I find out that there are churches that have Starbucks in their lobby. It hurts my soul the seeker sensitive movement. Are you guys familiar with that? Sometimes in the reformed world we have these things that we say, seeker sensitive, like we all know what it means. Basically what happened is a lot of churches said We've got to get them in the doors. As long as we can get them in the doors, then we can help them. There are some churches that have roller coasters on their stage. Well, there's some churches that have stages. And fog and light. And they've tried to make church into a an experience like the world can experience, like a rock concert. They want to draw people in. But have you ever heard this? I know I've said it before, but I'll remind you. What you win them with is what you win them to. It's like a bait and switch. Come to the fun rock concert. And then all of a sudden we're gonna talk to you about your need to confess your sin, repent of sin, change your entire lifestyle, submit to King Jesus? I almost feel bad for people who get who buy into that. Because they come thinking, yes, this place is like other places I've been. I feel at home here. And what I'd ask you, brothers and sisters, should someone who hates God feel at home here? Should someone who is in rebellion against God feel at home in a worship service? For Jesus Christ. God does not want his church to look like the rest of the world. He really does want the church. To look like him, to be obedient to him. Because he has a plan He had a plan for that donkey. He had a plan for that fig tree that it would produce fruit. And when it didn't, his plan was that that fig tree would never again produce fruit for anyone. And he had a plan for his temple. Do you know what God's plan for the temple was? This has this has been blowing me away all week. A lot of the times we think that the the gospel is only in the New Testament. We talk about the Great Commission all the time. And we think of it as just a New Testament commission. Go into all the world, every tribe, tongue, and nation. Is that just for the New Testament? Surely not. The temple in God's plan was always supposed to point even to the whole world to the glory of salvation through God Almighty. Turn with me to Isaiah chapter 56. This is the passage that Jesus teaches from. Isaiah chapter 56. I'm going to read verses six through eight. I'll give you a second there to turn. Starting in verse six. Also the sons of the foreigner who join themselves to the Lord to serve him. And to love the name of the Lord, to be his servants, everyone who keeps from defiling the Sabbath and holds fast my covenant, even them I will bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar. For my house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations. The Lord God, who gathers the outcast of Israel, says, Yet I will gather to him others besides those who are gathered to him. Isn't that wild? Even in the Old Testament, the good news of salvation was not supposed to just be kept to Israel. God had set Israel apart. In his holy will, he had given them his revelation. But they weren't to just keep it to themselves. They were to be a light to the nations. Did you know that the temple of God has a court specifically for this purpose? It was called the court of the Gentiles. And if you were to look at the temple, see a picture of it, the court of the Gentiles is huge. Because Gentiles weren't allowed inside the temple. But the court is massive. You could fit a lot of people there. There's a lot of chances for a bunch of Gentiles to hear good news that Jehovah Almighty saves the sinners To watch, though they couldn't enter in, but they could see from afar the blood of bulls and goats and lambs, blood being shed for the remission of sin. They would have been able to watch what God was doing with his people. And yet they couldn't. Because at this time, the court of the Gentiles is what had become a marketplace. It's what had become a den of thieves for people looking to get their own profit and serve their own purposes. The court of the Gentiles was being defiled. And the people of God were being taken advantage of. They were being oppressed. Is that the fruit of faith? Is that what God wanted to see in his people? Look at verse 18. And the scribes and chief priests heard it and sought how they might destroy him. For they feared him. Because all the people were astonished at his teaching. Did you notice that they weren't really afraid of God? They weren't really afraid of Jesus. Even after what he had done. He came in and he cleanses the temple. And they're not really that afraid of him. He's just a man, after all. They can take care of him. Did you see what they're afraid of? They're afraid of the millions of people. Because the people that sought to obey God and to come to Jerusalem and to be part of this celebration of the great saving work of the Almighty Lord. They were astonished at Christ's teaching. They were afraid of the crowd. They were afraid of God's people. God has revealed himself to this world. And you know how he has done it? He reveals himself to his people through his word, through the prophets, through the law. But he reveals himself to the rest of the world through his people, through the church. The sons of Abraham. Through Abraham would be a blessing to whom? All nations, every person, all peoples on this world would be blessed because of what God was going to bring about through Abraham. And that's his plan. It's always been his plan. He set Israel apart. He gave them these rituals and ceremonial laws And national laws, so that they would, whenever anybody looked at Israel, they would know without a shadow of a doubt, those people are different from me. But the glorious good news is not that they are different and better, and I will never be there. The glorious good news is the people of God, even you can become part of the people of God. I don't know if I'm Jewish. I've never done one of those ancestry things. Do any of you know if in your history there's some Jewish ethnicity? Isn't that amazing? Though none of us have that Whatever, genetic makeup, whatever you want to call it. So none of us are Jews by birth. We have become true people of Israel. By the mercy of God and the faith that He has given us to believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, is the King, is God Himself. God is expecting more from his people than simply mindless obedience. To the ritual laws. He's expecting so much more of his people then than that they would keep all of those ceremonial laws perfectly. He is expecting his people to have more than merely the external trappings of religion What is he expecting? Just like he was expecting from the fig tree, he's expecting true fruit from the faith that he's given. And so that's what we're going to examine now. In verses 20 through 26, we'll look at the fruit of faith, which is the lesson of this living parable. In verse 20 we see. Now in the morning, as they passed by, they saw the fig tree dried up from the roots. And Peter, remembering, said to him, Rabbi, look! The fig tree which you cursed has withered away. So Jesus answered and said to them, Have faith in God. So the first fruit that we see that God is expecting of us is that we would trust what God says. The words of Jesus are validated immediately. Less than a day later, this fig tree is completely dead, withered from the roots. The first fruit of faith is that you would actually believe, actually trust God. Do you remember what it says in Hebrews 11, 6? If you want to please God, the very first thing that has to happen is what? You've got to believe that He is and that He rewards those who diligently seek Him. Believe. Trust what God says. Trust His Word. And what's the next fruit of faith? Well we see it in verses twenty-three through twenty-six For assuredly I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, Be removed and be cast into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that those things he says will be done, he will have whatever he says. Therefore, I say to you, whatever things you ask when you pray, believe that you receive them and you will have them. This is the power of God to fulfill his plan. And so the fruit of faith, we he wants us to trust his word, but he also wants us to trust his power and his plan. And there are so many people who have who have really listened to Satan with regard to this verse and to this passage, aren't there? I can prove it to you if you don't believe me. There's a heresy out there called Name it and Yeah, you guys all know. Name it and claim it. That's not what God is doing. That's not what Jesus is saying here. He's not saying that anything you want, anything that is your heart's desire, if you really believe strong enough that God will do it, it'll happen like some magic It's not magic. What's happening here is that if you trust God's plan And you ask for things that are in accordance with that plan. And you really believe that what you're asking for is part of that plan. Well, would God be displeased to answer a prayer that He would enact His plan? Are you in line with the plan of God? This is what the Westminster Shorter Catechism says in question 98. What is prayer? This is exactly what prayer is. Prayer is an offering up of our desires. Unto God. Do you remember the next part? For things agreeable to his will. In the name of Christ, with confession of our sins. Thankfulness. Acknowledging his mercies. That's prayer. That's real prayer. And if you really believe that God hears and answers prayer If he's given you faith to believe him, to trust his word, then the fruit of faith in your life is that you will pray with great power, not because you'll be praying for whatever you want. But because you will be praying for what God wants. God's people are transformed inside and out. You don't just look like you love God. You don't just look like someone who obeys God. You don't just go through the motions. But in your heart, in the innermost parts of your being, you actually want God to be glorified more than anything else. You actually want His plan. His plan of perfect salvation. You want that to happen. And so I'd ask you, brothers and sisters. Do you believe God's plan? Do you believe that He wants to forgive Sins. And that's these last few verses. Look at verse 25. And whenever you stand praying, if you have anything against anyone, forgive him, that your Father in heaven may also forgive you your trespasses. But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father in heaven forgive your trespasses. This is not saying do X receive Y. This is God pointing out that you must pray in accordance with His plan. His plan is to forgive the sins of many And if you have been transformed in the heart by God, do you know what you will do? You will do everything in your power to forgive those who have sinned against you Because you know, you know, as we sang in Psalm 51, and if you read Psalm 51, against who do we sin? God and God alone. And so if we feel like someone has offended us or sinned against us, who is it that they've really sinned against? If indeed they've sinned. It's not me. It's not you. They've sinned against God. And so if we are going to go to God, and even if we're going to pray for things that are agreeable to His will, but in our heart, we want to hold on to some sense of vengeance or justice against someone who's wronged us. Is there any fruit on us? Or is it just leaves? Is it just a t-shirt that says, I belong to Jesus? Brothers and sisters, you've been saved for something greater than having a better life. You've been saved for something greater than getting what you could want. You've been saved for something greater than Then carrying out your plan and being productive for your dreams and your goals. What have you been saved for? You have been saved. To participate in the plan of Christ to show forth the glory of God in your own salvation. And it's not just words. If you really believe that Christ is King, it's not just words, but it will be in your life. You will not work yourself to death, to the bone, because you have to. Yes, you may work very, very hard, but it's not because you must, in order for your family to survive. You will work as unto the Lord to serve Him. You won't go to church every single day and possibly a every single night So that you can earn something, but you will gather with God's people. You will not neglect it because you love God and you want to serve Him. And I'll close by simply tying this into the sermon this morning. You have to actually be salt. You can't just look like salt. You have to actually be light. You can't just try to do the things that light does. You have to be light. And in case you're wondering, if what I intend is that you pull yourself up by your bootstraps and just do a better job at this light thing and this salt thing, God forbid. What I want you to do is I want you to pray with power that God would use you To bring him glory and yourself none. That you would pray, take up this mountain and cast it into the sea for his glory and not for your own. What a beautiful and marvelous privilege it is to be called a son or daughter of God And to be able to be more than simply a pretender, but one who really is a child. Please pray with me.