So the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord. They forgot the Lord their God and served the Baals and Asheras. Therefore, the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Kushan Rashatim, king of Mesopotamia. And the children of Israel served Kushan Rish At Haiim eight years. When the children of Israel cried out to the Lord, the Lord raised up a deliverer for the children of Israel who delivered them Afniel, the son of Kines, Caleb's younger brother. The Spirit of the Lord came upon him, and he judged Israel He went out to war, and the Lord delivered Kushan Rishathaim, king of Mesopotamia, into his hand, and his hand prevailed over Kushan Rishathaim. So the land had rest for forty years. Then Othniel, the son of Kines, died. Let us pray. Father, you've brought us here in your canon to the first narrative cycle. We pray that you would teach us, help us to see Osniel in this section. as a lens through which to see the rest of the narrative accounts. We pray, Lord, that you would show us how to who you are and help to serve you through this. Teach us. It is not enough to just have human words. We ask Jesus Christ that your Spirit would accompany these words and make them efficacious in the name of God. Last week we pictured ourselves as a temple because that is the apostolic description, picking up on earlier theologies present in the scriptures. Christ is building the temple with stones quarried from every nation. You are the stones, Christian, and therefore you must separate yourselves to the temple which God has called you. Know who you are in Christ. Let us remember, for example, with privilege, therefore, that Jesus Christ calls you the church to continue obeying the commands Which he gave to our apostolic fathers. You are called as the temple to keep building the temple. And we prayed last week that God would keep the temple of God from idols. Well, this week we move now, as I've already announced in the prayer, to our first story cycle that will go all the way into a series of cycles to chapter 16 of Judges. And this is our first. I'd like to just make a few observations. And then we're going to focus on the Holy Spirit this morning. That's going to be our emphasis because he's present right there as a major part of this story. Let's begin with our first observation, though. We now move into the cycle of judges or deliverers. In the past, in sermons, we've called these folks sheriffs. They're doing a kind of similar task, but a more general translation would be deliverer or judge. The first deliverer, Asniel, is sparse in detail because the main purpose of the story is to present the pattern for all the other stories, not to get into other details. They're giving you a paradigm here. They're showing you how this is going to unfold and what to look for. In other words, this first story is showing you how to read the book of Judges. There will be formulaic statements that are present in this story that are present in all the other stories, but if absent, hold significant meaning. Let me give you a couple of the formulaic statements, and you can see all of these here in this account if you want to look at them later today as you have lunch or something. Here's one formulaic statement. Israel does evil in the sight of the Lord. You're going to see it over and over again. Then you're going to see another formulaic statement: the Lord sells Israel into the hands of whoever. It's a variable. It'll be different people. Then you'll see third formulaic statement. Israel cries out. They groan. This is not a penitential groan. This is a groan. They're in pain. They're uncomfortable and miserable. Perhaps some of them present, it was penitential, but not overall. Another formulaic statement: the Lord raises up a deliverer. Another one he give the Lord gives that deliverer, give him a name, or her a name, you'll see here in a couple chapters The Lord gives X into the hands of the deliverer, and then the land has rest for so many amount of years. And those are going to be formulaic statements that structure the rest of these stories, and if any of those pieces are absent, is going to be significant for us. So you're going to want to look at that, and that will be a cycle. It just swings right around. The land has rest. And then what you're going to say, it's going to come up full circle. Land has rest, and then it'll say, they did evil in the sight of the Lord. And it's going to start again. And it's going to start again. And it's going to do that seven times. Okay, just to show you the perfection of the degradation of God's people as they're canonized. Get it Okay, that's everything that's that's what's going on here within judges, and that first story alerts us to that fact. It gives us the hermeneutic on how to read the rest of the book. Here's observation number two I've mentioned that judges, even just now, is a downward spiral and canonization of the church. That's not a good thing. They were meant to be in the world and not of it, but they became like the world instead This first account starts at the top of the spiral before it spirals down. Afniel is pictured as a noble person. He is full of the Spirit, accomplishing the will of Yahweh. So we're starting at the top of that spiral. And we know this Because the narrator connects Afniel in our passage and an earlier passage, chapter 1, verse 13, to a generation who was faithful, specifically Caleb. And you can see that in verse nine of our passage. I just want you to see we're starting at the top of that spiral with a noble person Now, coming to observation number three, Kusham Rish Athnaim is God's instrument of discipline for the Israelites. That's who he's using it this time, and it is significant that he's being used as the instrument. He is not A small leader of a little city, state, or county. This is an emperor whose kingdom sprawls across the area. He is no joke. And so therefore, Kushan Rishathayim's status, who he is, the kind of power he has. sets the stage for the emphasis that you've got to see here within this story in verse ten. And it's this There is no way that Othniel or Israel has the innate power to overthrow him. And we move into verse 10, therefore, and we see that the real power comes from God and his spirit. You see that? The real power comes from God and His Spirit, and that is true in every generation of the church. We have focused on many of the observations that I just gave to you In this first cycle, we could point out all the things that I've already brought up from the preface to the book of Judges that this is a cautionary tale for the church to be in the world, but not of it. We have to be watchful. I've talked to you about the spiral over and over again. But there's another part of judges that I haven't had the opportunity to emphasize that is just as important as seeing the spiral. And it is this. The faithfulness of God, to not let his people be destroyed by themselves. He always leaves a remnant, and he does so by the power of his Holy Spirit. Judges is also about the faithful of God, faithfulness of God, who hears the groans of his people and he delivers them. And he does this by his spirit, the third person of the Trinity. So that's what our focus is this morning. That's our doctrine this morning that we can see clearly within the book of Judges. The Spirit of the Lord is the way by which the Father and the Son execute their will on earth as it is in heaven. You want deliverance? Guess how God's going to do it? It'll be by his spirit. It's always how he has done it. The Spirit of the Lord is the way by which God the Father and Son execute their will on earth as it is in heaven. Now, this will be a great thing to cover because Protestant, especially Presbyterian churches are not exactly known for the Spirit or being spirit-filled or something along those lines, but uh we get a chance to clarify that that actually we are. And so I'd like to look at the spirit, and then I want to look at this morning what it means to be spiritual. Let's start with just looking through the scriptures at the spirit. I don't want you to think that I'm using this moment in Judges to artificially speak about the Holy Spirit. Oh, it said Holy Spirit in the passage. Go ahead and do a whole systematic theology on the Spirit, Jesse No, that's not what I'm doing. It really is an emphasis in judges, so it is fair to talk about it. The Holy Spirit is a continuous and major part of this book. Let me give you some examples, and you're welcome to mark these in your in your Bible if you want. We've seen the one that I just mentioned, and then we have Judges chapter 6, verse 34. But the spirit of the Lord came upon Gideon. Then you could move to Judges chapter 11, verse 29. Then the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jephthah. You could go to Judges chapter 14, and the Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon Samson, and he tore the lion apart. This is all waiting for you as we work our way through Judges, and you're going to see a repeated phrase, the Spirit of the Lord came upon X. It is a major part of the theology of this book. The Spirit, though, is essential not just to the book of Judges. He is essential as a third person of the Trinity to all of Scriptures So it's not a wonder that he shows up here. Let me just remind you of a few things. Did he not hover over the face of the deep He hovered over the face of the deep, executing the will of the Father and the Son in the formation of creation of heaven and earth. If you were to move from Genesis to Exodus, the Spirit fills the artisans in the Exodus as God builds a replica of the cosmos in his tabernacle. If you were to move into numbers, you would see that the Spirit fills Moses as he brings God's will on Israel. We could speak of the Spirit that is given to the prophets. in the monarchy period of the scriptures and afterward. And we could go right on up and fast forward into the life of Jesus Christ to see the same Spirit being sent for the same purposes, which is to accomplish God's will on earth as it is in heaven. God decrees. He then seeks to execute his decree, and he does so by the power of his spirit. Think about that just for a moment. And perhaps you gain some illumination on what may have just seemed like curious statements with regard to Jesus Christ. Think about Jesus Christ and the Spirit in judges. The Spirit, for example, is given to John the Baptist to pave the way for Christ Jesus. I'm pulling these from Luke. Here's Luke 135, and the angel a answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you. And the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore also that holy one who is who is to be born will be called the Son of God You see what's happening? It's the same kind of thing. Or consider Luke chapter 4, 18 through 19. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. We just read this in the bulletin. Because He has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor, He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovery of the sight of the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. Who is that talking about? That's Jesus Christ. But does it not sound like someone who has received the Spirit in the book of Judges to deliver the people from an oppressor? And it is the same thing we see here. The great deliverer has arrived, and his name is Jesus Christ, and he has the Spirit without measure to release us from our captivity. And if you want to go on, if you want to not only have lunchtime conversation, but dinnertime conversation, we're having tacos tonight if you want to join us. I'd encourage you to read 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and look for the work of the Spirit. 1 Corinthians 15, you will see that it is by the Spirit that Jesus Christ is raised from the dead. And it will be by the Spirit that we ourselves are raised from the dead, and it will be by the Spirit that this creation, His creation, is restored. Where there is no place where he is not glorified. And what could be more fitting? Think about the circle that we just went through: how the beginning is just like the end. The one who gave us life in the beginning and formed the heavens and the earth is the same one who shall give us new life and new creation. It is the Spirit of the Lord. And we praise him. In fact, I say to you this morning, behold the third person of the Trinity, the Spirit of God. Now we have said since the beginning of this series, and really it's every series, but we've said since the beginning of this series that God gives us the book of Judges to aid us as the church. It is not just a historical document. It's not less than that, but it is so much more. It helps us to know him, what he is doing, and what he requires of us. And with this emphasis on God, the Spirit, my question to you this morning is, how might the church be helped? Did you know that we are known for being Protestant reformers? And did you know that Protestant reformers are known for being people that emphasize the Holy Spirit? Did you know that's part of our tradition? John Calvin, I think, was called the theologian of the Holy Spirit in some ways. Are there some ways that we can be helped in considering God the Spirit, given all that we have heard about the Spirit? Is there some application? Well, there's a thousand applications, folks. But I'd like to just focus on one that keeps seeming to crop up as I have a conversation with you. And I want to answer a question with you. Since we're talking about the spirits, what does it mean to be spiritual? Have you ever heard, this is moving into our second application point, which is titled Spiritual. Have you ever heard anybody talk like that? About being spiritual? You go, this is what would happen to me, is some uncle or aunt who has no idea who I am would find out that I'm into like God or something And we would be having turkey dinner and they'd say, Hey, I heard you became spiritual. You have a conversation like that before? I heard you're spiritual. Or I'll talk to um some friends. Maybe I'll see somebody, I don't know, Bass Pro that I went to high school with And then they'll find out that I'm a pastor, and their first response is always, you're a w a what? You know you won in high school like most likely to be a criminal, right? But then those they'll end up wanting to tell me, you know, I've had I just went kayaking and I had this spiritual experience. I'm like, well that's nice Or other times I'll talk to folks and they'll they'll say, uh, how you doing? Uh and I don't feel very spiritual today Something like that. I wonder what do you think people mean in our culture, including Christians, maybe even especially Christians, when they say this word spiritual? Is it the same thing that I just went through when I just took you through all of the scriptures? And is it what we see within judges when the Spirit of the Lord came upon him? Is that what's going on here? It seems to me as I speak with folks, and I wonder if you have these same observations, that they mean lots of different things, and I can't get into all of it. But it seems like there's a couple uh inclinations that people have when they use the word spiritual. The first thing that they mean are new age practices. Have you caught this? I want you to do an experiment, but not really, because I don't want you blaming me for this. Go to a bookstore and just find somebody that works there and say I really need some spirituality in my life. Can you send me to the spiritual section? And I almost can guarantee they're going to send you or walk you to a place and the title on the top of it is going to say Metaphysics. And when you look at what's under metaphysics, those of you who like to study Greek philosophers, you're going to be very surprised because it's going to be a section on Ouija boards, crystals, and tarot cards. That would be in a little experiment. You can tell me all of that. Maybe get your friend to videotape you while you're doing it But I'd be interested to see. And then the second way I in which I hear folks using it are emotional experiences. And on the top of the list would be something like feeling one with nature, especially if you get to go on a cruise and swim with the dolphins. And then I've also started to see a re-emphasis in our culture on finding your spirituality through drug use, particularly microdosing on LSD. Just so you know that's happening. But when we look at judges and when we look at the scriptures which are in internally consistent and coherent with judges, What do we mean when we say spiritual as Christians? What do you mean by that I'm looking at my notes here, and isn't it interesting that unconsciously, when I wrote an adjective, what does it mean when we are spiritual? That it has a capital S. Isn't that interesting? Doesn't that start to tell us that we're already moving away from what the the way that the term is used throughout our culture and that maybe we have fallen into some traps Spiritual is an adjective for Christians describing something that God is doing through the agency of his spirit. Here are some examples. Someone asks you, here are some common questions you'll get in the church. Someone asks you, what is your spiritual gift? And for a Christian, if we understand the way that this is used within God's economy, this is another way of asking. How has Christ equipped you through his spirit to bring him glory and to bring benefit to his community and your neighbor? In other words, how has Christ equipped you with His Spirit that you would bring His will on earth as it is in heaven in your little domain? That's another way of asking about spiritual gifts. It's focused on the agency of the Spirit and what He's doing in you. To walk in the Spirit. Does not refer to an emotional experience primarily or religious ecstasy. It means to walk in line with the ways in which the Spirit of Christ has equipped and encouraged us to walk. And then there's a nice little summary: love, peace, patience, right? The fruits of the Spirit. When we say that we are spiritual, or our spirituality is important to us, What we mean if we are consistent with the whole canon of the Scriptures is that we have the same goals and purposes for which God sent the Spirit to accomplish on earth as it is decreed in heaven. Always at the center is the agency of the Spirit, the third person of the Trinity That is primarily what we mean. We could talk about the joy of the Spirit, and we're still not talking about contentless Religious ecstasy. We are talking about the joy that we have in the revelation of what has been given to us by the Spirit, of what God is doing with us in this world, and so we are joyful. And we could never see that without the Spirit, because without the Spirit you cannot enter the kingdom of God nor see it. That is what we mean when we use the word spiritual. And I'm wondering as I'm going through this, some of you are looking at me pretty funny right now. I don't know why. Is this how you think of it? I'm always trying to do the work to get this congregation as far away as possible from evangelifish culture. Which means we've got to use this as an opportunity to talk about what the Spirit really is and what he's doing. And what it means when we are spiritual. Is this how you think of it? Here are some things that I have heard from you And this is not a confrontation, I'm just letting you know you might want to do some thinking. I hear in the halls people asking each other, how's your spiritual life? Or someone says, you know, I'm doing okay, but my spiritual life hasn't really been a priority. And I want to know when anybody ever says that to me, and you say it to me all the time, my spiritual life, Pastor Crutchley, hasn't really been a priority for me. And I'm thinking in my head, what in the world are you talking about? What do you mean your spiritual life has not been a priority to you? What do you mean? Then I ask you. I say, well, what do you mean by your spiritual life? And you say, well, I just haven't had any time to read my Bible, and I'm not devoting myself to prayer like I'm supposed to And I think in my head, well, of course you're supposed to do those things. I mean that's how do you grow healthy if you don't eat? And how do you receive if you don't ask? That's what I'm thinking. But I'm also thinking you have just relegated all of your Christian life to the spiritual discipline. of reading the Bible in prayer when both of those things are for further action for God's will to be present within the world. It is interesting to me that we, when we say the word spiritual and we talk about our spiritual lives, that we have reduced it to a privatized religion that is focused on our devotional life. And that is a problem. Let me ask you, is that what spiritual life means in the scriptures? Is that what spiritual life means when we see the Spirit in judges or the rest of the scriptures that Afniel all of a sudden developed a great private devotional life? That's not. It is a part of the picture. You must study the scriptures. You must pray But to be spiritual is to be driven by the Spirit, that your will would be subdued, and that you would long for the will of God to be here on earth as it is in heaven. The agency behind your movement is the spirit. You are the secondary agent. Now let me Start to wrap this up and I want to give you a picture. The weirdest thing happened to me speaking of spiritual stuff. Although I'm just using this as an illustration. Don't get weird on me with this. Yesterday morning I was going to have breakfast and get some other stuff done for the day. You know, the normal stuff you're supposed to do on Saturday And I was driving out of my neighborhood in my pickup truck, listening to Chris Stapleton singing Tennessee whiskey song. And out of somebody's yard, a dove flew. And I don't know if it was because of the wind in my truck or whatever, but it began to hover over my pickup truck. Now like I said, do not read too much into that. I swear this is we're not becoming a cult But because I had been studying the scripture and thinking about the Spirit, you know what came into my mind. I could there's a dove hovering over my pickup truck. How am I not going to think about the Holy Spirit? And I thought, what a cool picture of what it really means to be spiritual. Because look at me over here in my pickup truck with a dryer and a recycling bin in the back. It's still in the back of my trunk. What a cool picture of what it means to really be spiritual. The Spirit is given to us not for fuzzy feelings or religious ecstasy, or just for our private devotional life God sent his Spirit to execute his will in every area of our lives on earth as it is in heaven. And what a cool little picture that we can see that that's even the case when you're driving your truck around. When we are driving our trucks, we can remember that the work we're doing is spiritual work. Because as Christians, God has sent us the Spirit to do His will on earth as it is in heaven. And sometimes that looks like carpentry or taking the dryer to the dump. Or maybe it's when you have your grandchildren over for lunch. That's spiritual too. Did you know that? Capital S. Because your goal is to bring God's kingdom into their lives by the power of the Spirit. I think we get the picture. We need to move away from the new age stuff, private devotional evangelifish stuff, and hear the doctrine for this morning. The Spirit of the Lord is the way by which God the Father and Son execute their will on earth as it is in heaven. He sent his spirit to Athniel to accomplish his will. The Son sent his spirit to us for the same general purpose. May we be filled with his spirit and therefore be truly spiritual. Let us pray