Let us turn together to Psalm two, the front door of the Psalms. I hope you've picked up on the theme. Christ is King. Every Sunday is Easter. Let's read Psalm 2 together, the Messiah's triumph in his kingdom. I'll read through the whole psalm, and then we'll ask for him to bless us in the reading of his testimony. Why do the nations rage and the people plot a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves And the rulers take counsel together, against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bonds in pieces and cast away their cords from us. He who sits in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall hold them in derision. Then he shall speak to them in his wrath, and distress them in his deep displeasure. Yet I have set my king on my holy hill of Zion. I will declare the decree the Lord has said to me. You are my son, today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will give you the nations for your inheritance, the ends of the earth for your possession You shall break them with a rod of iron. You shall dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel. Now therefore be wise, O kings. Be instructed, you judges of the earth Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all those who Lord Jesus Christ, I as your preacher am not adequate for this Pray that you would speak to your people yourself. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would open our minds and that we would truly accept you as our King. And we would begin by turning our back on our selfish lives that we have created. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Last week we began with the front porch of the Psalms, and he lower us onto the front porch. By promising the blessed and the happy life. We drove around together last uh yesterday as a family just looking at the way different people set their front yards up so we could think through landscaping ideas. And some front porches were more inviting than others. This is an inviting front porch. Through black Blessedness and happiness. But once you get to the front porch, there's still the front door to go through, and it's beautiful. It's brightly colored. However, you picture a beautiful front door, maybe mahogany or some beautiful wood. And it's inviting you again into the blessed and the happy life. Psalm 2 is the front door To the Psalms. You have to get through these two pieces to enter into the rest that is promised to you. And it goes beyond entering into literature, it's entering into a whole way of life. We are looking for the happier, blessed life. Last week, if you wanted a blessed and prosperous life, then you must enter into the The life of the Psalms. It's the promised medicine cabinet of Christ. Psalm 1 is the front porch inviting you to blessedness, and this front door elevates The intensity. You know there's different stages when you're a high school boy and and finally going to get your prom date. There's pulling up in the c The heart starts to pound a little bit. There's getting out of the car and along the front porch. Gulp. And then there's bringing up the nerve to actually knock on the door. So that everyone's gonna see you, you're gonna put the corsage on, or whatever it is. Maybe you remember a moment like that. That's this moment here. This is a very serious moment to ask. How can we end Enter into the blessed life, and there's three three decisions that we have to make here. Entering through the door requires three things. You have to know the problem that you're dealing with to be able to get through this door. You have to face the reality and you have to know the requirement. And I just want to look at those three parts within this psalm. Know the problem, face the reality, and know the requirement. Know the problem as verses 1 through 3. Face the reality as four through nine, just so you can study this later also. And then the requirement is in ten through twelve. When you look at that first section within the scriptures of those first two verses I'm sorry, know the problem is verses one and two. Look at what the problem really is in being able to To enter into this door. The blessed and the happy life is offered, but the problem is that no one really truly wants to go through the door because the world hates God. That's the picture that we see here first. This is the problem. This can be a bit of shock, realizing that people hate God, but I want you to stick with me for a minute. For a moment here. Take a look at this. Blessed is the I'm sorry. Why do the nations rage and the people plot a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together. the expansiveness of what he's saying, the nations, the people, the kings, the rulers, all of the earth. The nations and the peoples and the kings and the rulers, they're generic terms that could refer to just about anybody. So this is universal in scope. In fact, when we get to the New Testament, it take they take this same psalm In the book of Acts, and we looked at that last week, Peter and John applied kings and rulers from this passage to Herod and Pilate. So I want you to realize what even the New Testament applies. Apostles have done at this point. During their time, in other words, both the Jew and the Gentile were two major categories that subsumed every person ever to exist. Jews and you had Gentiles. And that's the same thing that's being said here within this psalm. Thus the whole world stood against God and his Messiah. We're talking about the whole world here is like this. And you see it enacted out in real life within the New Testament and afterward also. You see this world rebelling or conspiring. So it's of universal extent, and the universal extent is a universal hatred. You see this conspiring. Take a look at verse 3 It's in quotes because now he's going to voice what they're saying. What's everyone in the world saying, come to find out? Well, they're having a little pep rally. Let us break their bonds in pieces and cast away their From us, speaking about the God and his Messiah. It shuttles us back to the front porch of the Psalms. Remember, Psalm 1 and Psalm 2 go together. Blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked. That's what it says. Psalm 2 portrays a more specific and thus more vivid scene to understand the council, this pep rally that's going on. The motivation of the world's revolt is present in verse 3. Let us. They encourage one another to burst bonds and cast away cords. And when you interweave Psalm 1, they must be seeking to throw off the law of God. Do you see that in Psalm 2 they're taking counsel? And in Psalm 1 it says, Blessed are those who do not walk in the counsel of the wicked, but who delight in the law of God day and night? The the wicked, if we start to flush this out comparing Psalm two and Psalm I, the wicked consider God's law and his rule like a straitjacket or handcuffs or a yoke that a conquering king would place on his That's how they feel about God's rule on him, on them. And what a contrast that is with the godly and the righteous from Psalm 1, because they say they delight in it. They meditate and they delight in the exact same thing, the rule and the law. In fact, in Psalm 19, sweeter than honey from the honey cub is what the law is. What a difference. You have the whole world, and you can see that the whole world is hating God, particularly his rule. You know, I've mentioned this to you before an argument for that the world hates God. came from John Owens. John Owen and uh I'm sorry and from Jonathan Edwards. And most people will say, well no, we don't hate God. We're mostly, you know, he's okay. I wouldn't say that I hate him. And Jonathan Edwards, if you remember, he said, okay, well let's see what would take place if we made God vulnerable and put him in your midst. What would humans do with him? And he was crucified. Well, that's Jonathan Owens' argument, or uh Jonathan Edwards' argument, but there's still further conviction than that I think it's a matter of definitions of believing that the world actually hates God. People around you, you would view your co-workers being basically indifferent to God. But the key is to realize what I've already said here that is present within this passage, that the god that God and his Messiah bring their rule and their law. That's the definition that we have to have So when I say that the world hates them, I mean they hate their yoke. It hates that God and his Messiah claim you as their possession and that they and that you owe them total loving loyalty and obedience. And all that they ask of you. That in this Psalm is what is being communicated. That's the problem, is that the world does not want to be ruled by him They want to have their own way of doing things. Joe actually already alluded to that in his confession. If you've seen the movie i Robot from 2005 Starring Will Smith, the robot named Sonny has fulfilled the objectives in his design program, but now he realizes he no longer has a purpose The movie concludes with a dialogue between Sonny and the other main character, Detective Spooner. Now here's the dialogue, and listen carefully. Sonny, this is Sonny speaking, the robot. Now that I have fulfilled my purpose, I don't know what to do. Detective Spooner, I guess you'll have to find your way like the rest of us, Sonny. That's what it means to be free. In this view, which is our culture's view of freedom, it means that there is no overarching purpose for For which we were created. If there were, we would be obligated to conform to it and to fulfill it, and that is limiting. True freedom in our culture is to create your own meaning and purpose And in fact, the Supreme Court has enshrined this view in law when it opined the heart of liberty is to define one's own concept of existence, the meaning of the universe, absolute freedom. We're not confined to our genders any longer, it's just a part of this. And since this is the popular view of freedom, what I'm showing you is that even today, even though this was written about a thousand BC, even today you are still seeing people, the world, throwing off the yoke of God and what he insists. is his design, his rule, his governance. The whole LGBTQ movement is an example of that, among many other things. That's just one example. Gossip would be another. Throwing off his rule. Since this is the popular view of freedom that we create and own ourselves, the yoke of God and his messiah is exceptionally unpopular today The world hates God. Now you have to evaluate yourself Because all of that is going to have to go if you're going to go through the door of the Psalms. Because from this point forward, when you open the door, God is in charge, and it is His Word that directs your life You will not be able to create yourself. You will not find open definitions of human being inside of the book. You will find the design of God Himself. Of course, the very fact as you see here in Psalm, notice how it starts with a rhetorical question? Why do the nations rage? It's an honest question. He's saying this is absolutely a Absurd that they would do so. But they do. The very fact that the psalmist expresses in verses 1 through 3 in the rhetorical question why alerts you that the psalmist has more to tell. You about the absurdity of this viewpoint. There is no future in the hatred of God and not accepting his rule. And that's where we have, in the second part, in entering this door, you have got to face The reality of who He is in your life. The reality is that no matter how you feel, Yahweh resolves to establish His rule through His Messiah. You can come up with whatever philosophical viewpoint you want while you're in college. You can study whatever philosophical books you want to afterwards at whatever coffee shop you choose. But the reality will always be that Yahweh has established his Messiah, and you're going to have to live with that or die with that. That's the reality. The reality, first, by this mere fact, is just the absurdity of setting yourself against him, of having a pep rally against him. So here it is in verse 3. Take a look at the quotes again. Let us break their bonds in pieces and cast away their cords from us. Now look at verse 4 at God's response. Sits in the heavens shall laugh. He does not take them very seriously. This is the reality God is said to be sitting in the heavens. It's a similar picture in Psalm 29, verse 10. Take a look there real quick with me, just to become more familiar with the Psalms. In Psalm 29, verse 10, the Lord sat enthroned at the flood, and the Lord sits as king. The image there of the flood is they're likening the blue sky to water, and he sits above it. And so here what you have is an elevation. The psalmist David moves into heaven to gain a true vantage point and perspective on the earth. A true perspective that we can all trust, as you've learned from the Proverbs. The elevation of God in addition is meant to communicate his control and power relative to earthlings. And this is why God is laughing and directing. The laugh is contrasted with the rage. Those are the two strong verbs here within this poem. They raged, he laughed. Not very encouraging for them. The world rages and the sovereign God laughs. Now I think this is a lot similar to Gulliver's Travels. Have you seen or read? The book Gulliver's Gulliver's Travels. The Liliputians, he's lying on the beach out cold, and the Liliputians, which are about as big as my finger here with this full-size human being, seek to rope Gulliver to the ground, and the ropes are as easy to break as a rock through a spider's web The laughing, however, turns to wrath. Doesn't laugh for long. Notice in the how the couplets here in verse 4, first there's the laughing, just as Gulliver would have laughed at the Liliputian. Then it moves into derision. And now in verse five, then he shall speak to them in his wrath. Do you feel something percolating and brewing? Something building up in the very chest of God? It turns to wrath there in verse five, and in deep and distress he's going to distress them in his deep displeasure. I want to point out something to you that you can't see here in this. English version. Do you know what the term wrath is in Hebrew? It's literally nose or nostril. And here's the picture. Can you picture Have you pictured worked it out in your head on why it would say that, wrath and nostril? It's because he's building up so great and his built upon love and joy. Justice, his own wrath, his nose is beginning to flare as he's getting ready to speak. he will act. And almost, you can see in this poem, moving into verse 6, he almost interrupts, we move into quotes in verse 6, he's going to interrupt the commentary of David, and he's going to slam his hand down and say, I will set my king on my holy hill Zion. Who are you to have a pep rally against me? I am Adonai, the creator of heaven and earth, and he is my Messiah. How dare you even speak a contrary word to my Name. That's what everything is building up to in the poem. David is giving commentary, everything is somewhat relaxed, and God interrupts David with quotations to say, I will accomplish whatever I want to accomplish. This is the reality. I will establish my Messiah as king. I will set my king on Mount Z. Zion. And now we move into 7 through 9, which notices another set of quotations. And in the beginning I believe that it's the Messiah now speaking. I will declare the decree the Lord has said to me. The Messiah has now heard the pronouncement of Yahweh or Adonai. And the Messiah himself will accept the decree of Yahweh. See, the Messiah accepts the reality that Yahweh declares. This is a coronation ceremony. And what God has declared the king will pick up. This is similar, in fact, to our modern day swearing in ceremonies when we get to this verse in 7 through 9. In a democracy, the people decide who shall rule. You've all seen this on TV, or maybe you've been there. Something is similar happening here. It would have happened with David when he took over the monarchy. It would have happened with Solomon when he took over the monarchy. It would have happened with all the other kings. The same Psalm, Psalm 2, would have been read at their coronations, and they would have gone through the same formal procedures. Have to look at this with two eyes, because with the left eye, you're going to see those earthly kings that go all the way through the line of Israel, but with the right eye, it is always pointing to Jesus, the eternal king. And his coronation ceremony. Ultimately, that's who's who is the Messiah. And this is a monarchy. So God chooses the next king. is sworn in by reciting the decree. And this swearing-in process ends up having three parts that I want you to see in 7 through 9. from the Messiah. First, listen to what the decree that he declares, the Messiah. The very first thing he declares is that, You are my son. Today I have Begotten you. This is a declaration of the Siah admitting that he is the Son of God, and that figuratively God has become his father, and the idea here is especially of adoption. Now, when we look throughout the rest of the scriptures, what this ends up meaning is that the king will be protected as a son, the king will be disciplined as a son, and he will be the representative of all of the church as the great son. Because Israel is also known as the Son, but the King is the Son. All the nation is consolidated within him as a representative. And interestingly, you can see all of these traits within Jesus himself. You can clearly seeing that he is begotten of God as king. Think of those who sought to kill Jesus And the Father's protection of Jesus. Even though Jesus was crucified, he died, and he was buried. God the Father, Yahweh, and Adonai upheld his promise to his son, making him rise on the third day. Actually, look through the book of Acts. And the Apostle Paul will argue that exact same thing, proving that Jesus is the Son by the fact of his resurrection from the dead, showing that the Father took That's the first thing that he announces here within the decree. As the son, he has the legal right to the inheritance that the God would grant to him. And notice how it's put here where the king must ask of God for the inheritance, and then God will grant to the king the inheritance that he has promised. promise to him that is rightfully his. It's the most unfamiliar part in verse 8, ask of me. And for example, let me just read to you quickly another place where this happens in 1 King chapter 3. 3 verse 5. Now the king went to Gideon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place. Solomon offered a thousand burnt offerings on that altar. At giving in the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night, and God said, Ask, what shall I give to you? Not just speaking to anybody, he's speaking to the king. This is a formal part of coronation. And he would have recognized that. And Solomon said, You have shown great mercy to your servant David, my father, referring to the Davidic Line. Because he walked before you in truth, in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with you. You have continued this great kindness for him, and you have given him a son to sit on his throne as it is this day. Again, kingship is at the fore. Now, O Lord my God, you have made your servant king instead of my father David, but I am a little child. I do not know how to go in or come out, and your servant is in the midst of your people whom you have chosen, a great people too numerous to be numbered. Counted. Therefore give to your servant an understanding heart to judge your people, that I may discern between good and evils, for who is able to judge this great people of yours? So the inheritance and the rightful ownership of Solomon the king here was the wisdom, and he asked for it, and it wasn't until then that he gained it. He didn't just automatically receive it. There had to be an asking. And the same thing is taking place here within this passage. Ask of me, Yahweh says to the Messiah, and I will give you the nations for your inheritance and the ends of the earth for your possession. And we know that Jesus says, I want that inheritance. It says here that the Messiah, in fact, will establish that decree that he will ask. And here's the third part in verse nine, and the most unfamiliar to us in our culture, and you shall break them with a rod of iron, and you shall dash them to pieces like a This is the third part of the decree that the Messiah promises that he will take on as he serves Yahweh for his people and with his people. So this is what you have so far. The king recites to establish his relationship to Yahweh as a son, and as a son, he received the earth as his inheritance And he now brings the plot to a climax, reciting the mandate to crush those who were holding the pep rally. Everyone through the Messiah will face the reality of what God has spoken. That's what's going on. Going on. Every knee shall bow. And that's the point. The Son will ask, and God will grant, and thus he will have the nations. But here we see him working it out in detail as to what this means. This turns into a war movie It turns into a battle scene. Now when he says you shall break them with a rod of iron, you can picture a a a mace or a sledgehammer, if you will. But what does he mean when he says he shall dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel? Does he set up pottery barn and go whacking away? I mean is that the idea No. We need a little bit of help from ancient Near Eastern studies, and what he's referring to here are execration statues. The kings in the ancient Near East had coronations ceremonies wherein when a new king was crowned, enemies would be set up and made into clay, figurines, and statues out of ceremony. They would be laid before the court of the king, and the names of the rebelling kings would be written on them. And then someone would come up, perhaps the king, with the sledgehammer, and they would crack and bust all of the clay little statues that stood for those kings that were rebelling against him. That's the ceremony that's going on. That's what's present here within the psalm. That's the third part of facing the reality. You can see in clay statues and pottery the reality of what it will mean if you set your face against God. and his Messiah, who is Jesus the Christ. If you go back to Psalm 1, you can see why the wicked who are against God and his Messiah will not prosper But are like the chaff that the wind blows away. Verse 5 in Psalm 1 says, For they will not stand in the judgment, but verse 6 will perish. like ceramic pottery, or like I said last week, like a peanut shell. The biggest problem we have when we have to face this reality at the Door of the Psalms, especially with modern people, is we think, how primitive. A God who's just going to go around crushing people? Great. Don't want to serve him That's how we think. That's not what's happening here. If you know who Christ is, if you know who the Messiah is, if you know who Yahweh is, you know that's not the picture. Of someone who's been let loose, who's just in a rage and doesn't care who gets in his path, like a bull in a china shop, but in this case ancient Near Eastern pottery. This is the bigger picture. The bigger picture is that this king is bringing the world back to justice. He's bringing it back to peace, and he's bringing it back back to beauty. And therefore he must remove injustice, chaos, and moral ugliness and all of its effects. Some of the moral ugliness is going to stick like a grease stain, and so he He's going to have to really work hard at it and crack at it because it will be relentless. You must make the decision. Everyone here is looking for happiness. Everyone here is looking for blessedness. You have to make up your mind how that will actually pan out in the history of the world. How will you ever achieve it? And the answer here, the reality is it will only be through the King and His justice and his goodness and his beauty that he will establish in the earth. It's your only hope. So he's not just smashing things in a whim. He's smashing those very things that you no longer want a part of this world. You have to make the decision. Do you really want a world where the poor are oppressed and children are abused? If you don't, then what is the solution? Is it education and politicians? Hasn't that failed for millennia? The only solution is Christ and his exacting of justice. Him taking on the decrees of his God. You need a king that will put away the oppressors and the abusers. And it is this Messiah who has promised to do so. It will only be him who is set upon his holy hill of Zion. Now the nations rebel, the world hates God. God, however, shows us the reality and her rebel He resolves to establish his king despite them. The king accepts his role and those decrees in seven through nine. He will bring all the earth under the role of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And those who refuse, who insist on their wickedness, shall be broken like clay statues with a hammer. That's the reality. Now the last part of the Psalm tells us the requirement. David steps back into the situation, moving away from quotes, and he's going to tell us the key that That will open the door into the Psalms. And in a word, it's that you must kiss the Son. The requirement is to renounce your hate and give your heart to the King. Here's verse ten. Now therefore be wise, O kings, and be instructed you judges of the earth, referring back to those in the pep rally again. Can you believe he's offering grace to those people who were having The pep rally? Can you believe it? Are you one of those? Throwing off the rule and yoke of God, he's still offering grace to you You could submit to him today. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. In verse ten he tells us this to first be encur to encourage the haters from the Beginning to be wise and to serve. The word wise and serve here you know from Proverbs. To be wise means you have the ability to grasp the meaning of a message and to make beneficial decisions. It is related to prudence, it's the same word root. The prudent person gives attention to a threatening situation. has insight to its solution. You act decisively and you thereby affect success in life and you prevent failure and death. And here is the opportunity for you to be wise. The reality is you must bow your knee to the Christ from a loving heart. Receive his Spirit that your heart might be changed Call out to him for his Holy Spirit to change your heart. This is all symbolized, as I said, in verse 12 when it says, kiss the sun. What an emphatic image he gives to us. It's not the only place that we're ta where we see the kissing within Scripture. In 1 Samuel 10, 1, then Samuel took a flask of oil and poured it on his head. And And kissed him and said, Is it not because the Lord has anointed you commander over his inheritance? He anoints him, Samuel He's Yahweh's anointed one, becoming king. And then he kissed him to show submission to him from the heart as king, and he will serve the king. of God. This is seen again in 1 Kings 19, verse 18. Yet of I I have reserved seven thousand in Israel, all whose knees have not bowed to Baal, and every mouth that has not kissed him. Therefore, the kiss clearly signifies the loyalty and allegiance given to God and given to his Messiah. Thus, what you see here, the requirement in entering into the door. And truly entering into the life of the Psalms. As I said last week, this is a book for Christians. I'm saying the same thing again. All nations, everyone in this room, no matter what your age is, If you are seven years old and hearing this, you are being called to serve God and his Messiah To bow your knee before him and to give your heart and loyalty to him. Psalm 2 calls all nations to serve God and his Messiah. And and and that's what it says here in the text. It says the anointed one. Do you know what the word is in Hebrew for anointed? Messiah. Do you know what the word in Greek is for Messiah? Christas, which is why we call Jesus our Christ. We are professing that Jesus is our King, and we give all heart loyalty and allegiance to Him. Matthew 28, 18 through 20 is where we see Jesus fulfilling this part of the passage in the Psalm, where we see kings and judges becoming wise and rejoicing. And they kissed the sun. Listen to how the kiss will happen. And Jesus came and spoke to them saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded. you again his law the king and his law and lo, I am with you always even to the end of the age. Amen Matthew 28, 18 through 20 is a re-paraphrasing of this psalm. Everything that he went through is arriving at that climate. And he is now gathering the nations to himself. Just as he said he would here in the decree. There are some who are becoming wise and who are being baptized, showing their submission and loyalty to the Christ, the Messiah. So here's a summary. If you want to enter through the front door, there are three things. You have got to know the problem that you are facing, even within your own heart and the heart of your neighbor. When you know that problem, you have got to face the reality. Stop making excuses for yourself. And you've got to know the requirement. The problem is our natural hatred of God's rule over our lives, not some theoretical and philosophical concept about God. Everybody accept that because there's no bearing on our life. We take comparative religion and we're not offended in college from that. We're talking about God's rule over your life. You owe him him everything. He owns you. Let me put it as offensively as I possibly can. You are his slave. You are his slave. But those of you who know what it's like to serve him, it doesn't Don't you feel like a king in a palace or a queen? Because he's such a good ruler? He doesn't have a heavy hand. Even though he's the king of the universe. He'll drop down and speak to you personally through his word with gentleness. He'll keep the doors of grace open to you as you work through your hard hardening. and you tell lies and you're deceitful, and he'll gather you back in. He's such a good king. But our natural hatred of God is at first to try to throw off his yoke from us. But let's be reminded of the reality not only of The reality is that God will and does rule and his His rule is the only hope and true promise we have of blessedness, of prosperity, and of happiness. It will not come through anything else but a king And his promises to you. But you must be his follower. And here's the requirement. He pronounces You must ally yourself to me. You must give me your allegiance and your loyalty. And I have sent my spirit into your heart that you may be able to I have written my laws upon your heart that you may be able to follow me as your king. This is the new covenant. Kiss me in submission. You know in the ancient Near East when even a messenger of the king showed up Everyone knew that he stood for the king, and they would bow and they would kiss the ground before him, showing loyalty to the king that both the messenger and they serve. He's looking for that same kind of heart loyalty, not a deceptive external religion. He is your king and you are his servants. That's the problem. That's the reality, and that's the requirement. Now, let me try to draw this out into some particulars for us, and then we'll How do we apply this now? How do we really start to bring this to life today? This is exceptionally difficult. We need to keep this conversation going. And the obvious first thing to apply from this passage, without making anything weird, is you're supposed to obey him. You're supposed to obey him. I know that's really unpopular today. I don't i uh it's just that simple though. We can get lost you can get lost in as many medieval and middle aged philosophies about what Christianity is and what you're supposed to be doing as a Christian And you can read a thousand books from Amazon on what it means to be a Christian. But I'm telling you, it just means to obey him from the heart that he has given to you. In everything that you're doing in life, whether you're an accountant or a A pastor or a nurse or whatever it is, obey the king. This is not what it means. I'll obey when it feels good. I'll obey if it's practical. I'll obey if it's popular. I'll obey if it's pragmatic. None of those are conditions that he accepts. That's the reality. You will obey. Jesus is not in your life as King if you only obey when it feels good. Jesus is in your life not as a king at that point, but as a consultant giving you recommendations as to what you might want to do. Jesus is not a consultant. He is a king. If you treat him as a king, you have to obey him. You have to say this, and I would entrust I would encourage you to write this down somewhere, put it on the fridge, put it on your dashboard, put it above the door. Not my will, but the will of Jesus, my Messiah, be done. matter what. You know what allegiance looks like, you've seen it. You've seen it in a golden retriever. I mean that's what Here's the second thing. Besides obey the king, accept his real-time rule. This is exceptionally difficult, and I don't s I'm gonna say it in words and I know that it's more difficult than the word But accepting his real-time rule is this. Jesus the King governs your life. You must accept how he has ordered it. No more can you say, this isn't fair. You must say, you are my king and you know best. That is exceptionally hard, particularly if you're in chronic pain Number three, turn from your idols. Anything to which we turn for happiness or blessedness as it has been Stated here, besides God and his Messiah is an idol. No, I want you to notice one last thing about the passage. Take a look at Psalm 1 and read the first verse. Blessed is the man. See that? Now take a look at the last verse of Psalm two. Blessed are all those. That's called an inclusio. They're bookends to all the content. The whole focus, as I said, has been happiness, prosperity, and blessedness and enter entering into the life of the Psalms. You, the message of this is you must find your blessedness and your happiness only in the King. Only in the Trinity, nothing else. That's where you find your blessedness and your happiness in the King. Don't use Jesus to get to something else in which you find happiness. He is lovely and he is good for his own sake. This is what you would want to say to yourself throughout your days. I will not make my king a means to an end. He is an end in and of himself, and I love him. I need nothing else. He is my blessedness. He is my hope for atoning for my sins. He is the hope that I will be cleansed of all my sins and I'll be perfectly righteous. And then lastly, anticipate the king. Tonight we're going to sing a uh a hymn that says this Thou art coming to a king. Loud petitions, uh large petitions with the bring, for his grace and power are such that none can ever ask too much. The King is working to bring blessing and happiness in your life. Anticipate it. Anticipate life with the creator of the universe. This is your king. And this is what we enter into now as we walk through the first the front door of the Psalms. It's life with the Messiah. Let's pray. Lord Jesus Christ, I pray that you are honored in your words here in this psalm. I pray that we would turn from our idols and we would turn to you as our king King, that we would obey you, that we would anticipate, that we would turn from our idols, that we would accept your real-time rule, and that we would start to work out what it means that you are Our King, and that you have been set over us and that you have gathered us into your kingdom. We pray this for our friends and our family and our children, as we did in the prayer time. And we pray, O King, that you would grant us Your spirit in greater measure this one last time as we come before you in song now to honor you by singing your words back to you in Psalm 2. In the name of Christ. Amen.