We'll be looking at verses thirty-four through the first verse of chapter nine. Mark eight, starting in verse thirty-four through verse one. When he had called the people to himself with his disciples also, he said to them. Whoever desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul For whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him, the Son of Man, also will be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels And he said to them, Assuredly, I say to you, that there are some standing here who will not taste death till they see the kingdom of God present with power. Please pray with me. Almighty God, would you please add your blessing not only to the reading of your Holy Word, but to the preaching as well. Oh God, would you please lead us into the truth by your Spirit who dwells in us? We thank you, God, that you have. Made us anew, that you have adopted us into your household, and that our Savior, the Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ, that his words have been preserved for us. That we should be fed by them. And I pray, O God, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. It's in Christ's name we have prayed. Amen. Please be seated. Has anyone ever said to you the following phrase? Maybe they haven't, because I'm a little older than I realize. But has anyone ever said to you, get a life? You ever heard that? Did you ever think about what it means? At least in my case, whenever somebody would say it to me, it usually meant, you're a nerd. Get a life. You don't get what's cool and what's important. The sermon tonight is called The Only Real Life. And I don't think that when people say, get a life to most people, they're talking about this kind of life. It's not easy to live this kind of life. There's a well-known apologist named G. K. Chesterton, Mr. Gilbert. And he has a wonderful quote in a book that he has written. And to paraphrase him, he says: Christianity has not been tried and found wanting. It has been found difficult and therefore left untried. The life of following Jesus, following God's way, has always been challenging. It has always been very difficult. And there is no guarantee of comfort. For the followers of Christ in this world, there is no guarantee of worldly peace. In 2 Timothy 3, verse 12, it says, Yes, and all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. Brothers and sisters, that's a promise. If you live the real life following Christ, you will suffer persecution. It's true for New Testament believers like you and I, but it was also true for the Old Testament believers. It was true for the prophets. If you want, you can turn with me to Hebrews chapter 11. I'm going to read a couple verses from there and show you what I mean. In Hebrews 11, Starting in verse 35, the second part of it, it says, speaking of the prophets, others were tortured. Not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection. Still others had trial of moxings and scourgings, yes, and of chains and imprisonment. They were stoned They were sawn in two. They were tempted. They were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and mountains, in dens, and caves of the earth, but speaking about the prophets of God Those who had been specially blessed with the Spirit of God. And there's one prophet who was doubly blessed. Do you know which one I'm thinking of? He has a double helping of the Spirit that was on his mentor. I'm speaking of course of Elisha. Elisha. Who when Elijah asked him, what is it that you would want, he said, Oh, give me a double helping, a double portion of your spirit. We see that in 2 Kings chapter 2. And yet, if we were to turn to 2 Kings chapter 12, we'd see a very interesting phrase about Elisha. The very beginning of verse 14, it says that Elisha was sick. And it tells us that it was that sickness which led to Elisha's death. How is it that one with a double portion of the prophetic spirit could get sick and not get well? If you thought that following God and being a tabernacle for His Spirit meant that you would never suffer worldly sorrows or worldly illnesses or sicknesses. or even worldly death. It's important that you take to heart what has been said in God's Word. And the example of those who have gone before us, following God. Those who have followed God, filled by His Spirit, are not immune to suffering and misery. And so we should not think that we will be. I want to remind you, brothers and sisters, as we've gone through Mark, the Gospel, it is Mark's purpose to show for us that Jesus of Nazareth. is not just a man. He is the Christ. He is the Son of the living God. He is the Messiah. He is the long-awaited one, the Son of Man. His miracles and his teachings, everything that we've covered so far in the first half of this gospel, has shown us this. Most recently we have heard Peter's confession, and we learned that it didn't come from Peter's great education, did it? It didn't come from Peter's just inherent wisdom. What did we learn? We learned that it was a gift from the Father on high, that he would give Peter the faith to see that Jesus was not merely a man. And after that confession, what happened? The one who'd been given that gift of faith dared to rebuke Christ, the Messiah, because of his teaching. Because Jesus taught that there were some things that must happen, remember? He said that he must suffer The Messiah must suffer. The Messiah must be rejected. The Messiah must endure torturous execution. And in case you haven't flipped to the end of the gospel and seen what happens, I'll just spoil it all for you because you can't spoil news this guy. Jesus did it. He did what must be done. And he did it voluntarily, and he did it willingly for you. He did it for you. And he did it for me. That we could be part of his household. That we would be his people. That we would be the sheep of his flock. That we would be saved. Ask yourself, was it worth it? Was it worth it for Jesus? To go through that? The Bible says that you're his inheritance. And if you know yourself as well as I know myself, the first answer that pops in my head is No, it's not worth it that he should die for me. That Christ would give his life for me? I know what kind of sinner I am. Now we have to ask ourselves if it was worth it for him. If Christ saw it worth it to die for you, would it be worth it for you to die for Him? Is it worth it? Is it worth following Christ despite the heavy price? The price we've seen in the prophets And the price, if you know anything about early church history, the thousands and tens of thousands paid. Our passage tonight helps us answer that question. And it does it in an interesting way. It doesn't just answer the question, it actually forces us to change the question It rearranges the question in our minds and in our hearts. It's not, is it worth it for you to follow Jesus? But instead it changes the question. Do you want to get a life? Do you want to have life? Do you want a real life? Well, our passage tonight teaches us that if someone, if a human being wants to have a life, a real life. They must renounce the false life. Beloved friends, if you want to have life, the only real life, Then you must renounce the false life. And we're going to look at this under three headings. First, we'll look at the path to real life in verses 34 to 35. We'll examine the value of real life in verses 36 and 37, and then we will see together the result of real life. Verse 38 and the first verse of chapter 9. The path to real life is where we begin in verses 34 and 35. Look there with me if you have your copy open. When he had called the people to himself with his disciples also, he said to them, The first thing I want to point out about the path to real life is that this is a path for all of God's people. All of God's people. It's not just the path for the apostles or the twelve disciples. It's not just the path for pastors and elders and deacons. This is the path for any who are called to be part of his household Not just a select few. And if we look at the rest of verse 34, we see that it's a very particular kind of path. He says, Whoever desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. The path to real life is a path of self-denial. The Greek word here is very interesting. I prefer one of the added definitions to it. It's not just to deny, because sometimes I think when we think about being denied, we might think about you know, your health claim, your health insurance claim was denied, or you were denied this certain aspect. But it's it's not just about denying. It's about renouncing. This word has that meaning of renounce. And so we must have a life of self-denial, a life that renounces ourselves. To reject our own claim to our own life. Do you see that? You must renounce the claim to sovereignty over yourself and renounce the claim that your life is yours to lead how you choose. And this concept of taking up our cross, I think many of us, especially if we've grown up in the church, we've heard this a lot. You take up your cross daily. You must take up your cross. I think sometimes we we get this a little mixed up. As though somehow taking up our cross means, you know, you have an autoimmune disease and you have to live with that every day Is that what he means? When it says you take up your cross, it's because you have a uh you have a a grumpy husband and you have to put up with him every single day. Is that what it means? No. It's not denying yourself things. It's not putting up with things that you wouldn't want for yourself. To take up your cross. Is to put a bullseye on your chest for the world and the devil. To take up your cross is to live a life for Jesus. Which Satan cannot abide. If you live for yourself, even if you profess Christ and claim that you belong to him, Satan can just let you slide. As long as you're king of yourself, he knows that Christ is not your king. King. But to take up our cross is to claim that Jesus is The Son of God, He is the Messiah, to claim that He is your Savior and your Redeemer, and that His Father is your Father. To take up your cross is to be called to the path of sacrifice. Which we see in verse thirty-five. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. This is the only way. If Christ had not sacrificed himself, if he had not died, you could not have life at all. Though you could walk around and say things and do things and acquire things, you would not have any kind of real life. As Paul tells us in Galatians 2, what is the life that's in us? It's not my life. It's not our life. It's Christ alive in you. And it could not be there for you if he had not given up his life. And so I'd ask you: one, are you willing to die for Christ? I've said it before, maybe a couple years ago. If it became illegal to worship Jesus Christ in the United States of America, would you still do it? Maybe think about this. Would there be enough evidence in your life to convict you of that crime and put you in jail? Or worse, execute you? Are you willing to die for Christ? Well, let's say it another way, brothers and sisters, are you willing to live for Christ? Are you willing to renounce yourself as the king of your life? And to give everything over to Jesus Christ? If you are willing, perhaps it's because you've seen the value of that life. And if you don't know the answer to that question, well, let's look together at verses 36 and 37 and see what is the value of real life. Look at verses 36 and 37. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world? And loses his own soul. That word for world in the Greek is the word cosmos. It's not just planet Earth. It's everything. Everything that exists. Everything that exists is not worth as much as the real life in Christ. Real life. Your soul. It's interesting because the word for life is the same word for soul in the Greek, suke, from which we get psyche, right? Your psyche. Psychology, psychiatry, all those things. Your soul is immortal. Your soul lasts forever. It is your life. As I was thinking about this, I uh you guys know I'm I just love science fiction and all kinds of things, but sometimes science fact is even stranger than science fiction. fiction. Do you know that uh about five years ago they discovered an asteroid out there in an orbit between Mars and Jupiter? It's a massive asteroid Asteroid. It's huge. It's entirely made of metal. It's solid. You know what they named it? They named it Psyche 16. Interesting that they would name it Psyche. Life or soul. You know what's so special about this asteroid? Because of what it's made of: iron, nickel, gold, platinum. Can you guess how much this massive asteroid is worth? NASA's even talking about we gotta go get there and we gotta start mining this thing. It is worth ten quintillion dollars. Any mathematicians out there? Ten quintillion. It's a ten with eighteen zeros. I don't even think the Republicans could spend that much. I don't even think Democrats could spend that much. That's how much it's worth. And yet If you could gather that asteroid, mine all of its resources, sell it all, and have ten quintillion dollars, you could not buy one more day of living. You could not buy anything that would save your life. True life, the real life. It is too valuable for anything of this world to give it to you. It's too valuable. Nothing can pay for it. And this is why the Son of God had to take on flesh and become a man. This is why Jesus cannot be looked at as just a good man, another wise man who tells us wise things and gives us a wise example for life. He has He has to be something different. A man's life is not valuable enough even to save himself. It must be God's Life. God and man in one life. God and man, one person, two natures. And so what is verse thirty-seven telling us? What will a man give in exchange for his soul? What would you give? What could you give? I'd reframe it this way for you. What pursuit of your life Is worth it? What is worth pursuing? What goal? What dream? What are you looking for? Accolades? Big checks that you can catch and buy fun things. If ten quintillion dollars isn't enough for your life, what's a measly paycheck from a certain job? Can you save your life or give yourself a real life with power and fame and influence? Become a YouTube influencer? Is that it? That's the goal? Do you ever live under the if-only shadow? Under the dark cloud of if only? Do you know what I mean by that? If only. If only my house had a basement, oh, it'd be the perfect house. If only I made more money, then this life would be worth it. If only my kids were better behaved, if only all of my children were believers. If only, if only None of it is worth it. Nothing you can come up with. And Jesus is teaching us this that nothing is more valuable than life. Than the real life. And there's only one way to have this real life. And that's not the life that the world tells you to look for and seek. It's not the life the world will tell you to sacrifice friendships so you can have certain things. It's not the same as when Jesus says you must be willing to give up father and mother. and brother and sister to follow me. Because only one of them is worth it. Only one of those sacrifices is worth it. The only way to have the real life in Christ. It's to follow the path and renounce yourself, deny yourself, submit yourself to him completely. Hold nothing back. You must be willing to lose it all, to lay it all down for Jesus. Because when he returns to judge the living and the dead, that will be the true test of whether or not someone has real life. Do you have real life? Or are you just pretending at being alive? If you have real life, If you understand the value of real life and you follow the path of real life that Jesus has laid out, then you will see the result of real life. Which is for us there in verse 38. He says For whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation Of him the Son of Man also will be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. The result of real life is that Jesus, the one who's coming to judge, owns you. You belong to him. He is your God, and you are his people. He acknowledges you as his. He's not ashamed of you. He does not leave you to suffer forever and ever and ever as those who do not have real life. This word adulterous, you may have wondered, why does he call it an adulterous and sinful generation? Well just think back to the adultery of Israel. They were betrothed and married, wedded by covenant to the only real God who made them, and yet they followed after all other manner of gods. Worse even. They called what they did the worship of the true God, even though they added so many different things to it. If you belong to Jesus Christ, if you belong to God, He claims you. He has a claim over you, over how you think, over what you do. For how you worship. You belong to Him. And the beautiful truth of Scripture Can be found for us in John chapter 6, verse 39, in which Jesus reminds us and tells everyone that there's not a single one who will be lost whom God has given to him. If you have real life. You do not need any fear. If Christ died for you, there is nothing you need to be afraid of. Even losing your life Even dying, it's not a loss. It's a gain. He will raise you up at that last day. And the other result of having the real life that Jesus alone can give is that you will see the power of God. You will know that he is exactly who he has always revealed himself to be. If you want, turn to Isaiah 45. You don't have to, I will read it for you, but there's this is just that's just a marvelous passage. Isaiah 45. I'm going to read verses 15 to 17 and then another section at the end there. Listen to what he says in Isaiah 45. Truly, you are God who hides yourself, O God of Israel, the Savior. They shall be ashamed and also disgraced all of them. They shall go in confusion together who are makers of idols. But Israel shall be saved by the Lord with an everlasting salvation. You shall not be ashamed or disgraced forever and ever. And in verse 22 it says, Look to me and be saved, all you ends of the earth. For I am God and there is no other. I have sworn by myself. The word has gone out of my mouth in righteousness and shall not return, that to me every knee shall bow. Every tongue shall take an oath. He shall say, Surely in the Lord I have righteousness and strength. To him men shall come, and all shall be ashamed who are incensed against him In the Lord all the descendants of Israel shall be justified and shall glory. Amen The result of having real life is that you will see this salvation, this everlasting salvation. You will not be ashamed that you have lived a life renouncing yourself for Christ. Last week we read uh I read a little bit from Daniel 7, when the Son of Man comes. Some people take take this statement in verse 1 of chapter 9. And they take that as meaning, you know, that that's when the Son of Man comes. And he said to them, Assuredly, I say to you that there are some standing here who will not taste death till they see the kingdom of God present with power. I just want to point out that that's the kingdom of God present in glory, not power. That's when the Son of Man comes with the glory of the Father in Daniel chapter 7. And it says that the saints will possess it, that kingdom, in glory forever and ever. This is what awaits you, brothers and sisters. But I want to point out something. That when he says some standing here, there's another way that is a good way of interpreting what he says there. That instead of it as being here, standing here, we can think of it as standing in like manner. It's the same word. Standing in this way. And so he is saying that there will be some standing in this way, the way that he's just taught, following the path to real life, understanding the value of real life. Those who stand in that way will not die. They will not taste death. And that is a it's a very specific way of saying it. It's Aramaic and Hebrew, and it really can only be taken one way. It means to die. They will not die until they see the kingdom of God present with power. And some people have taken this to mean that there's going to be some people who stay alive until the second coming of Christ, and they claim that that happened not long after Jesus rose from the dead. We don't need to take this in that way. If you just glance ahead, there's some kingdom present with power right there. As Jesus is transfigured before John and Peter. But I prefer to understand this as talking about what we see in Acts chapter 1. Because in Acts chapter 1, after the resurrection, we read in verse 4: And being assembled together with them, he commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father. Which, he said, you've heard from me. For John truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. Therefore, when they had come together, they asked him, saying, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? Kingdom of glory? The kingdom restored in power? And he, Jesus, said to them, It is not for you to know times or seasons which the Father has put in his own authority, but you shall receive power. When the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. The kingdom of God, the kingdom of the only living God, present On this world with power has come. And there were those there standing present, not just the apostles, but of the crowd who were following Jesus also. who would have stayed alive and seen this happen, for this is the day of Pentecost, when the Spirit of God came with power, enabling all the witness to Jesus Christ and to this real life. Do you want real life? Do you want the life without pain? Without sadness, without tears, without suffering. That life is the life to come. The life in Christ. Christ Jesus, the life of glory. You must renounce yourself as King and submit to Christ as King. No more seeking other ways, no more seeking additional information. All you need is here All you need is in His Word. No more pursuing other methods and other religions. No more trying to be in control of your own life. No more telling God what you need. No more telling God what He has to do for you. Deny yourself. Renounce yourself. And follow Christ. May our great and gracious God give you the only real life and empower you to reject yourself. Renounce yourself and all other quote unquote paths of life. May he enable you, Christians, to die to sin and to self and to live under righteousness. Amen.