Marilyn. Let's open together to Proverbs chapter 20. And our reading tonight is verses two through eight. Verse 1 of chapter 20 And my research belongs with chapter 19. So we'll start with verse 2 in chapter 20 and read to 8. The wrath of a king is like the roaring of a lion. Whoever provokes him to anger sins against his own life. It is honorable for a man to stop striving, since any fool can start a quarrel. The lazy man will not plough because of winter, he will beg during harvest and have nothing Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water, but a man of understanding will draw it out. Most men will proclaim each his own goodness, but who can find a faithful man? The righteous man walks in his integrity. His children are blessed after him. A king who sits on the throne of judgment scatters all evil with his eyes. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that we would not just be hearers of your word tonight, but doers, particularly in gaining a sobriety with reference to you as our king. And we ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. You'll also see another translation in the bulletin, and I'll be commenting on that as we go through the sermon. I read to you so far the NKJV, the NIV is in the In the sermon notes. Last week we witnessed a story. It was a story of two young people that were on a journey. And a question was posed to those two young people, will you be educated by God or not? And that ends up being the question that pervades most of Proverbs. Well, tonight we move from chapter 15, where we were last time, to chapter 20. I'm trying to give us a taste of different things in this total collection of Proverbs. And so we move now into 22 through 8, and I just want to make a few observations for you. The first observation, I um is going to begin with the inner verses 3 through 7. And to get at what's going on there, I wonder, is anyone here still received catalogs? Is that a thing anymore? You receive catalogs? I remember when I was younger, we would receive right before it was time to fill out our Christmas list, a Toys R Us catalog Anybody remember something like that? Yeah. I still get a Bass Pro catalog. That's the only one I get. Most of those kinds of things are digital now. But what we're dealing with here in this passage, I think you could think of it in verses 3 through 7 as a kind of catalog. It is a catalog of fools. When you get the opportunity, take a look at chapter 19, 24 through 20, verse 1, and you'll see another catalog of fools. But here we see our second catalog of fools in this section. Verse 3 starts off the catalog with a contrast. between the wise peacemaker and the quarrelsome hothead. That's the first fool in the catalog, is the hothead who causes uh the flames to rise higher in our contentions with each other. Verse number four then moves on. And you can see that the catalog is cataloging the sluggard or the lazy person. We've met him several times throughout Proverbs. And here, once again, they refuse to do timely sewing. so that they starve themselves at the time of reaping. The NKJV has winter. The lazy man will not plow because of winter. And that's when the planting season started for the Israelites. He will beg during harvest, which is the end of the total season He did because he did not sow at the time of sowing, right after the first rain when the earth became a little soft so he could plow, because he did not, he will have nothing. And he will beg his community members because of it. Verse five is a tricky one This one's often misread. Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water, but a man of understanding or insight will draw it out. We usually view uh the deep waters of the human heart as a positive characteristic. But this is a catalog of fools. And so it is not positive. Research shows that this case refers to the person who keeps their evil plans hidden deep within their heart. And it is the person of understanding or insight who can see those plans, though they try to hide them. Think of the account of Jesus, for example. Here is one from Matthew 22, 15 through 22. Then the Pharisees went and plotted how they might entangle Jesus in his talk. And they sent to him their disciples with the Herodians saying, Teacher. We know that you are true and teach the way of God in truth, nor do you care about anyone, for you do not regard the person of men. Tell us, therefore, what do you think? Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? And here's the key point, showing Christ once again to be the embodiment of wisdom. But Jesus perceived their wickedness and said, Why do you test me, you hypocrites? And then he went on to talk about Caesar's face being on the coin. The point there is that Jesus is the a man or the man of insight and he is able to draw out the deep conspiracies of those who sought to trap him. The fool in that you could call the conniver or the conspirator. Moving on in the catalog, we get to verse number six. Many claim to have unfailing love, but a faithful person who can find. And here we see in verse 6 addressed to the hypocrite. The one who claims to be devoted and faithful to his neighbor, but when the time arrives, they are not faithful. They only wore the mask of the faithful person But underneath they showed their real character, which was not faithful at all. That's our last fool. We then move into verse 7 that ends the catalog on a good note, contrasting the righteous person who orders their lives and the lives of the life of the community so that their children have a future. So that's the first observation I wanted you to see is that in verses 3 through 7, we have a catalog of fools with the contrast of the righteous person there in verse 3. Now, here's the what I find an exceptionally interesting part. What we have left are verses 2 and verses 8. Those are the outer frames. Well the last time we talked, we talked about a picture frame being formed for these proverbs so that we know how to read the central portions. Well, we've got a picture frame again here in verses 2 and 8. Take a look at them. Those verses, these verses here, frame the catalog of the fools, and they are both, notice, about the king who is God's just mediator. Just take a look. The wrath of a king is like a roaring of a lion. Whoever provokes him to anger sins against his own life. And then we And we see the other bookend, a king who sits on the throne of judgment, scatters for windows all evil with his eyes. In verse 2, the Proverbs bring us the king's wrath. Now wrath, interestingly enough, is a judicial term. This is not an emotional explosion of uncontrolled rage. That's not what is going on here. It is a judicial term, and it refers to the calculated and righteous judgment and execution of the king. Here, the king's justice is likened to a lion who strikes terror at his roar. In verse 8, you'll notice that the judicial context that I just mentioned is confirmed. The judicial context is that the king sits on his throne to judge. He winnows out all evil. And the idea is that he does not permit evil to continue in his realm. He separates it out so as to keep order over his kingdom. Now This brings us to the last observation. What is left for us to do is to take 3 through 7 and relate it, that catalog of fools, to the outer frame of 2 and 8. And what is the relationship? The relationship is the statement of our doctrine. God has installed the king. to protect and maintain his created order injustice, especially from fools like the troublemaking hothead, the sluggard, the conniver, and the hypocrite. Let me say that again. God has installed the king to protect and maintain his created order and justice. Especially from fools like the troublemaking hothead, the sluggard, the conniver, and the hypocrite. Now I'd like to briefly just develop these thoughts a little that we've received here in our exposition and in the doctrine. I'm sure that it's not difficult for you to see the obvious application here, which is that Jesus Christ is our King. God the Father has installed Jesus as the Christ or the King. All authority has been given to him in heaven and on earth He, with all authority, is the great Lion of Judah, and he should strike terror in us. He sits on his throne to judge, and he winnows out all evil. Now, the difficulty is that we can sometimes forget this Because we don't have eyes sometimes to see Christ ruling. One day the whole world will witness his authority, it'll be unmistakable. Every knee shall bow. For now, it's difficult for us to see because he rules immediately. And what that means is that he rules by way of other people. Another way to talk about that is to say that Jesus, with his authority, has authorized others to rule in his name. Jesus with his authority has authorized, for example, the civil government as his sermon, his servant maintaining order, Romans 13. Titus chapter 3. Jesus has authorized church officers to maintain order. We see that in Ephesians 4. Jesus has authorized mothers and fathers, grandmothers and grandfathers to maintain order. And thus Christ exercises his kingship by authorizing different people in the domains of family and the church and our nation. Now, what this should do is this should give us a new sobriety in at least two main ways. If you first are authorized in one of those domains, you must realize the stewardship which the Lion of Judah has given to you The king that is spoken of in this passage, the one whose roar strikes us with terror The one who winnows justice from his realm of the created order is the same one that has granted you and authorized you in your particular stewardships and your particular domains. And therefore we must be sobered, and he must not find us when he returns home, or even as he sees us from the right hand of the Father. He must not see us in our stewardship acting foolishly by being a troublemaker, lazy. A conspirator or a hypocrite in our responsibilities. He takes that very seriously because we rule in his name Now, that's the first way in which we should be sobered. The second way in which we should be sobered is that if we choose the path of foolishness, You must know that though you seem to be held unaccountable and getting away with all of your plans, please know As you can see right from this proverb that the lion sees everything. The lion sees all in his created realm, and you will answer for all of your choices. And I urge you therefore to submit to the lion and quell his righteous anger. Kiss the sun, as it mentions, as he mentions in Psalm 2 Now, whether you're a steward or if you're struggling with backsliding by being a backsliding fool, Perhaps you would benefit from hearing of one of Christ's judgments. I think it can be helpful to sober us up in terms of our responsibility, take on the mantle of the authorization that he has given to us to remember the judgments of Christ after he is seated at the right hand of the Father so that we can remember the truth that he is still active in his judgments. Now we saw one in the bulletin, and that was with Herod. That Christ authorizes an angel to strike him, and then he's eaten by worms. Christ is in his ascension at that time. And yet still acting for the preservation of his church and his created order. Well, there's another one, and I'm almost getting to the point with this one where I'm going to start reading it with my children and encourage you to do the same. but with some prudence. And that is to remember Christ's judgment as recorded by Josephus in his writing entitled The War of the Jews. This book captures the collapse of the city of Jerusalem in 70 A. D. by the Romans. I'll just give you a snapshot in book chapter in book six, chapter nine, Josephus tells of Roman leaders who are amazed at the stronghold of Jerusalem. Jerusalem, the height and the length and the width and the breadth of their defensive towers. They're amazed. They are amazed also because despite those strongholds of Jerusalem, they took the city with hardly any effort. This is what Josephus records. And you can find the quote from one Roman general who says, Surely God himself is with us today. Because we have so easily razed this city. And that actually was true, The reason why they could take Jerusalem is because God was with them. God was with them and we know that God was with them because we have heard Jesus, the great lion, roar earlier in his ministry. In Luke, for example. Remember his words? He said this. Now as Jesus drew near, he saw Jerusalem and he wept over it. And he said, If you had known, even you, especially in this your day, the things that make for your peace. But now they are hidden from your eyes. For days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment around you. surround you and close you in on every side and level you and your children within you to the ground. In Josephus' account you can read, if you dare of the general slaughtering the children. And they will not leave you in they will not leave in you one stone upon another, continued Jesus. Jesus, because you did not know the time of your visitation. Luke 19, 41 through 44. Now there is a judgment of Jesus Christ in his ascension. There is a snapshot of the king roaring. There is a picture and portrayal of Jesus Christ winnowing evil from his throat. land as he promised that he would do. I want to add one more lesson which does not work on us in terms of our sobriety relative to the strength and power and justice of our king, but it instead rekindles hope. We live in a godless age. It's undeniable The power of evil seems to be increasing at every turn. I want to give you some examples that I've discovered recently, but I think they're actually in a appropriate. I could talk to you privately if you're above 18. It appears that no one will hold people accountable. It appears that the people we love are mistreated or they are suffering and there is no one who will end their pain. No one to discover what's hidden in the darkness. No one to actually establish that which is right. And to make these matters worse, those who have helped strengthen goodness in the world, like PCA pastors Harry Reeder and Timothy Keller, have both died. Two strong rods removed from whom we can no longer benefit. Now what do you do when you're in a situation like that? Besides being sobered, we must also take hope, knowing that our king sees our plight and has resolved. To bring us victory. Actually, it's put like this in Habakkuk. As much as I study the scriptures, which is a lot And as many sermons as I have given, and as many theological truths I have hunted down, and theological volumes I have read, do you know what one truth keeps popping back up in the center? Out of it all. The just shall live by faith. Isn't that funny? After all feels like a million hours of study at this point. It goes back to that one verse. The just shall live by faith. And here it is again, showing up. And we have to ask the question, well, faith in what? Are we just expressing an optimistic mindset? No. It's what the proverb says. We have faith that King Jesus sits on his throne to judge. and that he will winnow evil from the earth. Faith really in our doctrine today. God has installed the King to protect and maintain his created order. Injustice