Chapter twelve. And our reading today is verses one through twenty four. Now, about that time Herod the king stretched out his hand to harass some from the church. Then he killed James, the brother of John, with the sword. And because he saw that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to seize Peter also. Now it was during the days of unleavened bread, so when he had arrested him, he put him in prison and delivered him to four squads of soldiers to keep him, intending to bring him before the people after Passover. Peter was therefore kept in prison, but constant prayer was offered to God for him by the church And when Herod was about to bring him out, that night Peter was sleeping, bound with two chains between two soldiers, and the guards before the door were keeping the prison. Now, behold, an angel of the Lord stood by him, and a light shone in the prison, and he struck Peter on the side and raised him up, saying, Arise quickly! And his chains fell off his hands. Then the angel said to him, Gird yourself and tie on your sandals. And so he did. And he said to him, Put on your garment and follow me. So he went out and followed him, and did not know. That what was being done by the angel was real, but thought he was seeing a vision. When they were past the first and second guard posts, they came to the iron gate that leads to the city, which opened to them of its own accord And they went out and went down one street, and immediately the angel departed from him. And when Peter had come to himself, he said, Now I know for certain that the Lord has sent his angel and has delivered me from the hand of Herod and from all the expectation of the Jewish people. So when he had considered this, he came to the house of Mary, the mother of John, whose surname was Mark, where many were gathered together praying. And as Peter knocked at the door of the gate, a girl named Rhoda came to answer. And when she recognized Peter's voice, because of her gladness, she did not open the gate, but ran in and announced that Peter stood before the gate But they said to her, You are beside yourself. Yet she kept insisting that it was so. And so they said, It is his angel Now Peter continued knocking, and when they opened the door and saw him, they were astonished. But motioning to them with his hands to keep silent, he declared to them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison And he said to them, Go, tell these things to James and to the brethren. And he departed and went to another place. Then, as soon as it was day, there was no small stir among the soldiers about what had become of Peter. But when Herod had searched for him and not found him, he examined the guards and commanded that they should be put to death. And when he went down from Judea to Sasariah and stayed there, Now Herod had been very angry with the people of Tar and Sid Sidon, but they came to him with one accord And having made Blastius the king's personal aid, their friend, they asked for peace because their country was supplied with food by the king's country. So on that day, on that set day, Herod, arrayed in royal apparel, sat on his throne and gave an oration to them. And the people kept shouting, the voice of a God and not of a man. Then immediately an angel of the Lord struck him, because he did not give glory to God. And he was eaten by worms, and he died. But the word of God grew and multiplied. Let us pray. Lord Jesus Christ, what can we say when we see you acting, walking amongst your church? We ask, Lord, really, that you would give us this same faith and this same hope that Peter developed into. We know, Lord, that you are still walking amongst your churches. We ask that you'd make us the hopeful people today and prayerful. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. For the past two weeks, we have been seeking to answer an important question that is posed by the Spirit Himself. What did Paul and Barnabas teach the disciples at Antioch? And last week we answered that question by saying, or two weeks ago, we answered that question by saying that they taught them that Christ as the King had graciously called them into allegiance and to service to himself by being like himself. And that Christ the King is still doing the same thing today. Calling people into allegiance to Himself, that they would be like Himself. And then last week, When we asked the question again of what did they teach the disciples, we saw that there was a very specific way to be like Christ. And that is that we would be like the king By living for the benefit, especially of Christian community. Now, this week, our focus is still Christ the King And so I want you to notice a few features of the passage here as the king is still going forth and conquering. I mean, you saw it right there, right? You heard it in the reading. Christ is conquering So let's go ahead and make a few observations, and then I have one or two points for you this morning by way of application. So the first thing I want you to notice in your scriptures is the similarities between Christ and Peter. And actually, as I was reading the account again, I saw more similarities than I'll mention to you now. They just abound the similarities between Christ and Peter. Notice in verses 1 and 2 that Herod, though it is a different Herod, It is still a Herod. Herod stretched out his hand against Christ, and here we see that he is doing the same with Peter and with the church in general in verses 1 and 2. Now, about that time Herod the king stretched out his hand to harass. Christ, here's another example. Christ was brought to the cross at the time of Passover. Peter's execution, that's what's being planned here. James, the brother of John, had already had his head, he had already been beheaded, and now Peter is up for about the same thing here But here we and so we see here a death planned. Just as Christ's death was planned during the time of Passover, so too here in verse 4, Peter's execution is planned for the same time. You can see that Peter's life is being mapped over the life of Christ. Now, whether it's the Roman or it's the Jewish Empire Notice another observation that their hand of power is not mightier than the hand of power who is God's hand. So, for example, though Pilate thought he had the power, and though the Jewish nation thought they had power to condemn Jesus Christ forever Obviously, they didn't because God raised his hand and raised Christ from the dead. And so too do we see the same thing here in verse 7, the same language is used that Peter is raised. And he is raised analogously from a kind of execution or death. And you can end up seeing further similarities as the one life is mapped over the other. Especially between the resurrection details. Angels were present at Christ's resurrection. Angels were present at Peter's kind of resurrection Just as Jesus' tomb was secured with guards, so too Peter was secured in his tomb or prison with guards in verse 6. And I bet you you could find some other details here on how Peter's life is being mapped over the life and death of Jesus. That's the first observation. Notice the similarities between Christ and Peter Now the second observation is the contrast of hands. I've already begun to mention that. I just wanted to bring it out even more explicitly though. There is a competing show of power by way of the language of hands. And this is political power, as I brought up to you before. We saw the very first instance of this, not in our chapter here, but we saw it in the earlier chapter in chapter 11. When God had exercised power by stretching forth his hand and giving grace to that group of people, now we see that likewise Herod is stretching forth his hand in chapter 12, verse 1. You can see the main point of what Luke is doing here by comparing the two hands, the hand of God from chapter 11 and the hand of Herod in chapter twelve. You can see what the whole point is going to lead to by looking at verses twenty through twenty-three in chapter twelve Herod had become fool of himself. He should have never thought to raise his hand in comparison to the hand of God. It's never a good idea. So if you want to take that as an application point, then please do. God will always win. And that is what is characterized here in verses 20 through 23, where Herod becomes so full of himself that he accepts worship. I mean, can you do you see the picture of him? He is dressed in royal apparel of purple, accepting the praises of the people. As if he is, if you notice the context, they're afraid of the famine that's going to come and he has the store of food, like the Pharaoh in Egypt long ago, and he is going to think that he has become the tree. to feed the known world. And so they say, because they need the food from the one who provides all good gifts, so to speak. They say, not the voice of a man in the oration, but the voice of a God. And he did not direct the glory away from himself. but accepted it, and right then and there you see what happens in verse 23. An angel, it's really from the Lord, by the way. The angels sent from the Lord struck him and it was not pleasant because he was eaten by worms and he died The question that you're supposed to ask when you see something like this, what Luke wants you to raise into the center of your consciousness is: who is really in charge? Even though they have all of the technology and the prisons and the guards and the armies, who is in charge? Who will have his will on earth? Whose hand has true authority? And here you just see, really, a further expression and unfolding of Matthew chapter 28. All authority has been given to Jesus Christ in heaven and on earth. So if you were to take these observations and bring them together, what you end up seeing here that Luke is giving to you by way of the Spirit is a strengthening reality for every age. Every age until Christ returns, we are to gather around this reality for hope. Even if it looks like Other ungodly powers and authorities, no matter who they are and no matter how big they are, even if it looks like when they stretch forth their powerful hand with power Make no mistake that Jesus Christ alone is Lord and he always conquers the empire of death. That's the message here. It's the conclusion that actual that Peter is drawing. Did you notice how Peter thought he was having a vision again? Well, that makes sense, right? Because he just had one. We went over that in terms of the earlier in Acts, it's Cornelius. And here he thinks it's happening again. And just like in the first one, he was supposed to get a message from God So too is he re- he's trying to make sense of it and draw a conclusion from this. And these are the kind of conclusions that he's that he's drawing. There's nothing that can Stand against the kingdom of God. It doesn't matter if all of the Jewish nation were to gather against me, he says, if you look closely here at the scripture. It doesn't matter because Christ will conquer. In fact, if you want, what he's realizing, when Jesus talked about these moments in his ministry, what he's realizing is this: it's very simple. In this world you will face much trouble, but take courage, because I have overcome the world And here you're seeing it played out as they seek to implement the kingdom. Well What I want to do now is I want to take that we are going to face much trouble, but we are to take courage because Jesus has overcome the world. And I really just want to develop that. into one main characteristic that should be within us as Christians because of this reality. There are many characteristics, but I want to focus on one. And that is just what you see there on the pages when Peter is released, when they hear Peter's voice, when they realize what God has done, they were full of hope. They are characterized by being a hopeful people, even though someone was just beheaded. Someone that they knew, someone that they grew up with, someone they had meals with, and yet they remained full of hope. For the kingdom. And so that's the main thing I want to develop is just being a hopeful people. The picture of Christ's hand outpowering Herod's hand is a model It is a framework, it is a lens through which the Christian must always see all of life. It transcends times and cultures. It is meant to tell us that we should always be hopeful no matter where we live. What Luke takes care to do is to map the life of the church, not just the life of Peter, but the life of every Christian and the church collectively speaking over the life of Christ Jesus, that we might have our expectations set and our hopes set. Just as Jesus Christ met many hardships, so too will the church meet hardships. Just as Christ was murdered, so too will some in the church be murdered for the truth and for righteousness. And I know that you accept all of that because you hear of martyrdom You accept and you swallow that. But what ends up being surprising to us is the other confession that is a part of the same confession when we map the life of the church over the life of Christ. Just as Christ was raised from the dead in victory, so too will the church be raised and given victory. The Christian life is fundamentally optimistic. It is so fully optimistic that it is really the only realistic way to view life And now, of course, I believe that the church accepts this confession that we will rise from the ashes. That from the blood of martyrs we will be victorious in Christ. You've heard those phrases before. You seem to me to accept those things. But when we talk about it, we talk about it as the general resurrection of the dead when Christ returns. But that is not what we see here in this passage. The general resurrection is a true confession. But here we see Peter's life in mission before the general resurrection, analogously laid over the life of Christ, and even in his work then he was being having a kind of resurrection. We seek to make disciples of all nations, baptizing and teaching to obey all that the Lord commands. And just when it looks like the world will stop us, Christ conquers and the mission of the church continues. That has always been a story from the beginning. Christ raises up his gospel as early as Genesis. Someone tries to stomp out the fire. It looks like there's not even an ember left. But there is, and Christ blows on it, and it flames up and takes over the world. That is the story of Christ and his bride to church. And therefore, our basic posture to our lives as Christians cannot be prolonged anxiety. It cannot be prolonged. Confusion. It cannot be prolonged fear. It cannot be prolonged anger. It cannot be prolonged grumpiness. It cannot be prolonged cynicism. The fundamental posture of Christians is to be one of hope because you believe in the resurrection If you were to study the resurrection and think about it in terms of active ministry with kinds or analogous forms of resurrection, like we see with Peter, I would encourage you to do so in 2 Corinthians in the ministry of the Apostle Paul. So many times he was supposed to be dead. And he points out in 2 Corinthians, he says, but behold, I am alive! That's the kind of language that he uses because no one would expect it. Paul, weren't you shipwrecked? You should have been dead after the shipwreck. Didn't you land on an island and get bit by the most poisonous steak in the known world? Yes, I did, but I'm alive. You're supposed to be dead. If there were a TV show called 101 Ways to Die for the Gospel Paul would be the star. But behold, he was not dead, he is alive. That's what he points out in 2 Corinthians. That's the kind of resurrection that is present here within this passage. Is the resurrection Promised to you even in this life before the general resurrection when Christ returns. And so we are to be a people of hope. Are you struggling to have hope as a Christian? The church has got to ask that question when they read this. The two are meant to exist. This passage and that question are meant to exist next to each other. Are you struggling to have hope as a Christian? There are many situations and many reasons why a person can struggle for hope. Everyone deserves individual attention But in a sense, it ends up boiling down to whether you believe that Jesus Christ is just as active today with a strong hand of power, able to raise from the dead. That he is just as active today as he was for the church with Peter in that prison. And that, my friends, I have to ask you Do you believe that Christ is just as active today for you as you serve as a community his kingdom? And I think the next question that you have to ask if you're going to start considering whether you really confess that, that Christ is active today, you have to ask. And really, I want to ask you: can you not see Christ acting? I'm not even talking about in the Old Testament or in the New Testament. I'm talking about, do you not recognize him walking Across the globe in his providence? Can you not see his strong hand? I'll just let you know that I see it all the time in your life. Maybe I should start telling you when he's there. I see it all the time. But I see it in far more than just your life. Now these are sobering examples that I want to give you of the hand of Christ, but this is where Christ is in his providence right now. in in terms of that which can be seen from e by everyone. Because it's just the season we're in as a church. And when I say a church, I mean nationally and internationally You should have noticed that preceding the pandemic, during and after the pandemic, many investigations began exposing corrupt Christian shepherds who serve in Christ's name. I'm sure you've noticed that the log of names is increasing. This happens nationally with exposed child abusers in the church This has happened even locally with pastors in this area who have been removed from their offices for various reasons. We have had not just locally and not just nationally, but kind of internationally certain names. That I have not been put in judgment upon, but we've seen the names. For example, there's the possible exposure of Rabbi Zacharias And it is for the Lord to judge him. And then lately I just uh Notice that it hit the New York Times that there is a major question being asked, and perhaps even an investigation into major non-denominational and denomination churches on widespread plagiarism. Uh you can look up Sermon Gate. And that seems to be hitting most of the churches. And when I give you these examples, I'm not sure how you're looking at those things. But I'm telling you right now, the way I'm looking at those is I'm saying this is the strong hand of Jesus Christ. Can't you see that this is Christ protecting his church as a part of the sifting that he's doing right now? Do you not see him sifting? I want to read something to you that is true every day of your life. Romans chapter 1, verses 16 through 18. It is one of my goals to preach through Revelation, and we'll see when the Lord gives me the wisdom to do that. He had in his right hand seven stars, out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword, and his countenance was like the sun shining in its strength And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. He laid his right hand on me, saying to me, Do not be afraid. I am the first and the last. I am he who lives and was dead. And behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And I have the keys of Hades and of death. Now, what does all that mean? He'll go on to explain that to us, the seven stars of the seven churches, really all churches, because seven is the number of completion, over which Christ shepherds. The sharp two-edged sword is his strength to execute judgment. And then you see the other twofold thing, which is life and death. Hades and heaven. And that's what he has the power to do. He has the power to say life, and he has the power to say death. He has the power to say, you are true or you are false, you are righteous, or you are unrighteous. And depending on the execution of the judgment, so too will the censure be And it has already begun. You're seeing Christ's censors and sentences go out for a kind of temporary or temporal judgment across the land. This is Christ with the two-edged sword coming from his mouth. It's from his mouth because he speaks righteous judgment as the king. Think of the baby in Solomon. Christ is the King. And notice the hand. He lays his right hand on John. assuring that he is still active and exercising his sword of justice and mercy in every era Those who are exposed, in other words, to reference a sermon from a few weeks back, they are exposed because Jesus Christ has exposed them. And he does so through secondary means, like church discipline. And once they are exposed, though I'm not talking about eternal condemnation in this sermon, I am talking about a temporal judgment for the sake of his bride to remain healthy. He lops off the sinful right arm. He plucks out the right eye of the abusing shepherd. You remember that passage in Matthew chapter 18, referring to Zechariah? That's what Christ still does today as our great king, governing and protecting his church. Jesus Christ is the eternal Son of God, having taken upon himself human nature, and he is therefore the master, craftsman, and creator who is committed to his creation. and the life of his creation that will flame up again through his church. And therefore he will protect her and nothing will get in the way. And really what I'm just trying to do is answer the question, is can't you see that Christ is still active today? Now I understand those are sobering examples. Those are difficult examples. But it is a husband protecting his wife. It is a doctor removing cancer. That's what our Christ is doing Whether we look at the mighty acts of God from Genesis or Exodus, or the mighty acts of God through the life, death, and resurrection of Christ. or the mighty acts of God in raising Peter and a kind of resurrection in the prison in our passage, or the mighty acts of God of making worms eat Herod Or if it is the mighty acts of God and seeing the hand of Christ today, what we have to confess as a church Which is the single point of the sermon today is from Romans chapter 15, verse 4. For whatever things were written before were written for our learning. That we, through the patience and comfort of the scriptures, would have hope. We are fundamentally a hopeful people Even if it looks like other ungodly powers and authorities are stretching forth their hands with power, Jesus Christ alone is Lord and always conquers the empire of death. In this world you will face much trouble, but take courage because Jesus Christ has overcome this world And I'll say that I don't have time to go into a second point that I wish I did. Those who have hope, do you know what their characteristic activity is? Prayer. Christ did not rise in this passage to show the hope that they have by resurrecting Peter from the prison. Until the church gathered for constant prayer. The people of hope turned to the one in whom they have hope in their prayers. If you are not a person who has a robust prayer life, it is because in some sense you do not have hope That he will act. And that could mean that you think that all you have to be given is given right now. And that uh that is his own problem And so I will end with Hebrews 10, verse 23. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering seven run. For he who promised is faithful. Amen. Let us pray.