Matthew five, thirteen through sixteen. You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt loses its flavor, how shall it be seasoned? It is then good for nothing but to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men. You are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden, nor do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, the words of men are meaning humans are not enough. We need a word from you, and we need you to back it up with your power. And so I ask that even in this preached word, that it would not be a demonstration of human wisdom, but of your might. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I'd like you to picture with me a few scenarios. That I I wonder if you've been in these scenarios. Uh one is a scenario of that you're you're with a loved one. And the loved one is in hospice care. And they're not able to interact with you, but they are alive. And the doctor comes in and uh doesn't say hello to the patient And is uh drinking a cup of coffee and sets his coffee cup on the patient Because he's not moving. And now another scenario that would be similar would be imagine a loved one at a funeral home and there is a viewing. And one of the guests takes some of the hors d'oeuvres that they have on their plate and is kind of tired of carrying their plate. And um so sets their plate of food on the body. I wonder How you feel about that? Let's say it was your wife. Who was there in the casket? Or maybe it was your grandmother or it was your husband. What would you do? Would you let the little hot dogs with the bacon around them on the plate just stay on your loved ones body? When you see the plate on the body, what do you feel? These are really important questions for us as human beings, particularly human beings who have been called by Jesus Christ. And these questions that I'm I'm asking you about what do you think and what would you do in that scenario are actually at the heart of what Jesus is teaching us this morning When Jesus tells you that you're the salt and you're the light, that's what he's getting at. When that anger rises up in your heart because they just dishonored your grandfather or they just dishonored your wife Jesus is at the same thing, that you're supposed to be a group of people who does not allow the world to sink in dishonor and depravity. So if you were in that scenario, let's say that you were just watching me and I was in that scenario. I would remove the plate and I would probably pull the person aside and talk to them. And if that didn't go well, I would hope that Roger Cooley Cooley would take me to another room before I did something that was inappropriate. Because the dishonor would be so high in that situation What I would have felt because of what I would have seen would have been the ultimate disrespect to a human being, which shouldn't stand. And by standing up for human dignity I would have been standing against the person who had a culture where they thought that was okay. I would have become light and I would have become salt in that scenario. And if you were to have pulled the person aside and helped them to see, don't you know that that was the that was one of the most dishonorable things you could have ever done? Then you would have become salt and light to that person. Now to see what I'm saying here, to see why this is why I think Jesus is what is talking about these things, let's just go ahead and step to the through the passage. I don't think we need to do that too much. because I think you're pretty familiar with this passage, and the images really speak for themselves, don't they? Jesus is so kind to us to give us these images. What he's doing here in this passage is he's illustrating what he's already said. He's given us these beatitudes, you'll notice we've moved out of the beatitudes now. We're in the we're continuing in the Sermon on the Mount And now Jesus is giving us some pictures or illustrations to understand who we are as his followers within the world. Now I want you to notice when we look at this passage that he's still thinking about the prophets. If you look at your passage here in the verse that we looked at last week, which would have been 11 through 12, well really 10 through 12 Take a look at it in your scriptures. That very final verse there, he talks about how we'll be standing shoulder to shoulder with the prophets. that we've entered into the company of the prophets. Now if you scan past our passage into verse number 17, you'll see that he talks about the prophets again. Jesus is actually going to talk about the law and the prophets for a really long time in the Sermon on the Mount. I actually don't think he ends talking about it until the sermon's over. And what you have with our passage here this morning are salt and light that are sandwiched between a discussion of the prophets. And a discussion that were to be similar or enacting the vision of the prophets, and we may be persecuted for it And so when we look at the salt and the light, I think uh something that will be a helpful observation for you is to ask the question How are the prophets who are in that cloud of witnesses that we see in Hebrews, how are they sought? And how were they light? Because that's the context of the teaching here that Jesus gives us. So if you were to ask that question, how, for example, is a prophet salt Uh salt. Um we don't really use it this way, except maybe in extreme hunting camps. But in the ancient world, s uh salt was used for different reasons, uh zest in your food. There's different ways that we could take this from looking at salt throughout all of Scripture. But I think the primary way in which we're supposed to focus here is the ancient use of salt as a preservative. So if you were blessed enough to have uh let's say uh an elk or something. You would need to salt that in order for it to be preserved. Or fish. You would need to be able to salt that in order for it to be preserved. And Jesus is saying that his people, and even the prophets, are like that. They preserve the societies around them from decay and death. That's part of what your that's really a a main statement of to what your job is and what your task is as a Christian. Now we can see this same kind of thing within the prophets. The prophets largely talk about it. We don't hear a lot of stories about the how they live their lives, except in terms of a prophetic uh example. But if you listen closely to how they talk about things and when they talked about it, you'll see that they were sent by God as a preservative to a society that was starting to have a lot of maggots. Listen to uh, for example, to what Isaiah says in Isaiah 58, starting in verse number 3. The situation here is that there were that the people of God had been gathering in a fast, and even though they fasted from food, for example God was not answering them. It was as if God did not hear their prayers. And so God sends Isaiah to tell them this is why. It seems like God is not hearing your prayers. And it's because you fast from food, but you fill yourself with things that are unjust. He gives this example. He says, Is this not the fast that I have chosen to loose the bonds of wickedness? to undo the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and that you break every yoke? Is it not to share your bread with the hungry, and that you bring to your house the poor who are cast out When you see the naked that you cover him, and not hide yourself from your own flesh, then your light shall break forth like the morning. Your healing shall spring forth speedily, and your righteousness shall go before you. The glory of the Lord shall be your rear guard. Then you shall call, and the Lord will answer. You see how he begins to answer his prayers then. You shall cry, and he will say, Here I am. And if you take away the yoke from your midst, the pointing of the finger, and speaking wickedness. That's an example of a prophet standing up in the midst. If you were there in that city, you would have looked around and you would have seen a bunch of injustice. Things that should not be, like hors d'oeuvre plates on your loved one's body, like a coffee cup on someone who's in hospice. And the prophets sent by God would stand up, being sought to that culture, and proclaim That we must repair our ways by the grace of God from what has happened. Of course he doesn't hear your prayers because you have become a people who take power and use it for destruction, to destroy other people. So that's one example of salt and what that would look like, particularly as we look through a prophetic lens, but there would also be light. And you could look and see how the prophets, very easily, I could use just the same example from Isaiah 58, and I could say that what Isaiah spoke to them was light. But here when we get to the light section in 14 through 16 of our passage and those verses, you'll see that there are a number of statements of light, that you are to be a light, then the picture is that you're a city on a hill. for all to be able to see. And that's what you would have been in that funeral service, by the way. You would have been a light. You would have become the center of attention. Everyone would have looked at you when you made that scene. They would have gathered around you, all of their eyes peering at you, and they would see, at the top of a mountain, so to speak, what it looks like to stand up for dignity. And that this is the way the world should be. And Jesus is calling you to know less when he says you're to be a light, you're to be a city on a hill. And then he goes on and he says that you're to be a lamp and you don't light a lamp and then cover it so that it's dark again And then he summarizes all of this at the end of verse 16. You'll notice he moves from a figure like a lamp or a city on a hill or a light, and he speaks more directly, and he says That by your good works, they will glorify your Father who is in heaven So we can see that translation that he's doing there. We can see that he's saying what it means for you to be a light in the world is that you are going to be a city on a hill doing good works And they're good because they are in accordance with God's will. And you then end up exemplifying and showing the whole world the way the world's supposed to be. That that's what Jesus Christ is calling you to here. You could see it in prophets if you'd like to. You could look at 1 Kings and can and look at Elijah and how he fed the widow in the name of God. raised her son back to life. I think the widow and the youth were chosen on purpose for for Isa for Elijah to help in the name of God and by his power, because they were representative of those who are most affected by a collapsing society. And that the sending of Elijah is that sending of that salt and that light that God refuses for society to devolve to where it's just death. He refuses for life not to win. And so the prophet ends up standing not just for salt, but also for light. And you'll notice now that we've seen these different illustrations and we can understand them by way of the prophetic witness. that there's a final phrase in our passage here this morning that's really important for you to understand who you are as an individual and as a community. And that is that all of these things are meant to accumulate, that they would not celebrate you But that they would celebrate your Father who is in heaven. That they would glorify God Around here we use the idea of glorifying God quite a bit. A lot of our children learn that the chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. I notice as children grow up, if I ask them what does it mean to glorify God, they're not really sure because that's not how we talk these days. So it may be helpful for you in just understanding what Jesus is saying here to have another example from Acts chapter 14 verse 17 In the Acts example that I'm going to give you, God Himself glorifies Himself, but you'll at least see what it would look like to glorify Him. Nevertheless, this is a where Paul goes into a city and he heals a man, and the city thinks that he is a messenger sent from the gods. And they start sacrificing a t and celebrating Paul and Barnabas. And Paul tries to stop them and say, wait a second. I'm not the one that should be celebrated because of the healing. I'm only healing in the name of Jesus. He's the one that you should be celebrating because he's God And he goes on trying to help them to understand this by way of verse number 17. You could picture Paul with me if you would. Has anyone been in Western Maryland to a vineyard, for example? Or well, you can see I've been a little sheltered p pointing out Western Maryland for a vineyard. But maybe some of you have been to glorious vineyards, maybe in Italy or in California or in France. Let's let's Bring up the the standard here. You could stand on top of that hill and you could look out over the vineyard Or if you don't want to choose a vineyard, maybe you could just think about looking out over an old farm that had a lot of different kinds of vegetable vegetables. Corn. My father used to tell me stories before the uh the Littles, it's my grandmother's side, the Littles had a farm in Pennsylvania. That's how I know Peggy and Jeannie's family. Our families are from that area together. He would tell me that he'd go up there as a young man to work on that farm and that at the lunch was the largest meal and everything on the table was from the farm So just picture a farm like that where you're looking out, because that's the way Paul is when he's speaking to these people, and he looks out and he sees all of the the produce that are going to feed this town. And he says to them, he did not leave you without witness, in that he did good He gave us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. You look out and you see everything that is in the fields that you know is going to end up in the feast. You see that you're not going to starve this week, but actually you're going to have abundance. And I'm going to be able to make some of the recipes my mother passed down to me. And as you rehearse all of those things, you see the food and you know that it is from God. And because he is good, and his goodness is expressed in that particular way, you glorify him. And the picture that Jesus is giving you here is that as you are salt or as you are light, that the world would look onto you like a fruitful field or an orchard who brings life. to this world. And when they realize that you're just the reflection of the main source of light, they glorify God who is in heaven and they want to be with him also. You could imagine in that funeral service with that plate of food on that body desecrating it. Let's say that you didn't have the emotion to defend your loved one But uh a Christian came up and in the name of God removed that plate and comforted you and corrected that person for doing it You would be thankful in your heart for that Christian and standing up for your loved one and for human dignity, and you would glorify your Father, the God who is in heaven. That's what we have in front of us, and you can see I hope the the reason why in that funeral situation or in hospice how you would be a light and how you would be salt. And that it really is the same kind of questions and the same kind of things that Jesus is talking about. You can pull all of this together really and you can say That the disciples of Jesus Christ are the salt and light of the world to the glory of God. It's obvious that that is what this passage teaches. And now that you understand the terms a little bit, especially by way of the prophets, then you understand what it means right here in this context. Now I think you're up against the challenge. I think you're up against the challenge in that everyone around you, and even the voice inside of your head is seeking to convince you that you are not the salt and the light of the world. And they can do that in a couple different ways. One of the main ways that I see today is there is no such thing as salt or light any longer. If you declare that you are the light of the world and that you should be placed on the top of the hill, it means that whatever example you're setting is the example that everyone should follow. Our world does not think like that any longer. Our world will only admit that we have different perspectives. Choosing a way of life is no different than choosing a flavor of ice cream. It is personal preference. We are free to the utmost to form and to shape our existence as to however it should be. We are plastic and be m may be made into anything. Who are you? to say with any kind of authority that you are the light of the world. That's what you're up against. And I imagine you feel it every single day. With what I'm saying, if you were to go back and review all of the media that you consume, they're giving you the exact same message You could summarize it this way. This is what you're up against. There are no heroes. Because a hero is someone that you should exemplify. There are no heroes. If there are heroes, it's because our culture has decided, well, for right now, this is who we're gonna we're gonna highlight. And you'll see that in certain areas But most of the time there's no more heroes. There's actually, if I'm r watching movies correctly, the only thing we have left is the anti-hero And that's what you're up against. And I know that you feel it. For you to be salt and light, you'll have to speak up about what is right and what is wrong. And we don't believe in those categories any longer either And so I just want you to remember by looking at the scriptures that this really is true. If Christ has called you to himself, he has made you a people that are meant to be salt and light. And as salt and light, you're meant to be placed at the top of a hill, as a city, and insofar as you imitate Christ, they are meant to imitate you. You're setting before them the vision of what it means to be humans, what it means to be mothers and fathers and children and a community. I'll remind you, for example, of John chapter 15, 5 through 8. Where Jesus is giving a farewell discourse to his disciples, and he's truly trying to help them understand what he's getting ready to go through as well as what you're getting ready to go through and the task to which you are called. And he gives his famous illustration of him being the vine and you being the branches. I'd like you to hear that anew so that you could see exactly how he's talking about the same thing here in our passage from Matthew. He says, I am the vine and you are the branches. He who abides in me and I in him bears much fruit. For without me you can do nothing. If any one does not abide in me, he is cast out as a branch and is withered. And they gather them and throw them into the fire, and they are burned. If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, you will ask what you desire, and it shall be done for you. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, so you will be my disciples. It's this it's a very similar conversation in that he is saying in our Matthew passage that you're to be the salt and the light of the world. What do I mean by that? I mean that you will be give you will be displaying your good works as a witness before all of the world like a city on a hill to the glory of God the Father. And you can begin to see how the glory would go to God because Jesus is saying here that the only reason why you're able to do any of the good works, the only reason why you're able to restore humanity And this creation is because you are a branch in a vine that gives you the power to do so Really what I'm doing is I'm asking you the question, is there any way that you could figure out what your job is as a branch based on the vine that you're plugged into? In other words, if you are Jesus' people who have been given a vocation and a task, what task has he given to you? Has he given you the task to just be one more perspective among all of the perspectives? Or has he given you the task to be a city set on a hill? Who conduct themselves in such a manner not selfishly and contributing to the decay and the death of society But you as a community set yourselves up for all of the world to be able to see that is what it means to be human. That's what family looks like. That's true community. And that Jesus Christ in his power is no longer doing that through an isolated group of people called the Israelites. But he has opened the door where mountains are rising up with lights on the top in every single nation of the world. There will be no tongue and tribe in any nation that was not able to see that is what it means to have true culture. That is what it means to be truly alive. That's the argument in the scriptures. No matter what the world around you says, no matter how they want to tear you down and they want to say words like, well, if you believe that you're arrogant and you are oppressive They're going to use all of these different terms to turn things on you. But remember, you're not doing this because you came up with a bright idea and you're an egomaniac, so you you're the king of the mountain. You're just a branch. But you're a branch that's in a vine, and that vine has particular interest in what he's doing with this creation We see this in the parable all the time when he talks about stewardship. That he's like a master who has left his house or his vineyard into your care. And what are you gonna do with it? I was a typical eighties and nineties child. My family decided to go on vacation because they thought I was old enough to handle the responsibility as a teenager. And that didn't go well. They returned to toilet paper in the trees and a broke it s broken septic system And that's the picture that we end up with in the scriptures, is that's what sometimes God's people do, and if they don't repent of that, he replaces them. But the picture is always still the same. The picture is that the one who owns the house, and the house is the world, has instructed you that he's given you responsibility for the state of this world. Until he comes for the final restoration, you must take that seriously no matter what the world around you says. And they will persecute you as you seek to make sure that his kingdom is alive and well. If you would like a summary of the argument that I'm giving you, all I'm really trying to do is just convince you you really are the salt and the light no matter what the world tells you. They keep trying to shame you for thinking that way. And I'm trying to tell you, please listen to Jesus and not them. He says this in Ephesians 2, 8 through 10. If I were you, I'd make this a memory verse so that you could remember who you are. For by grace you have been saved through faith. Ephesians 2, 8 through 10. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. Not of works, lest anyone should boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. And another way to talk about this same thing is that the Apostle Paul says that you, as the as the people of the Spirit of God, are meant to keep in step with the Spirit. So just let me ask you. Wh where's the Spirit stepping? Does the Spirit given by Jesus Christ Does he in accordance with the designs of the total Godhead Does he have an agenda? Does he believe that this world should go in a particular direction, or does the Holy Spirit think every perspective is equally true? Or do the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit have a particular vision as to the consummation of where all the world should head for it to be true, good, and beautiful? The answer is of course. If you're going to stay in step with the Spirit, then Then you can't admit that every perspective is equal. You have to say let God be true and everyone else a liar. And what we're learning here in this passage is that God is the vine and you're the branches, which means you're going to carry out the vision that He has given to you until He returns to put the icing on the top. And you're going to do that for his glory. You're going to do that for his glory. I think another problem that we run into after we s begin to see that we are truly the salt and the light is that we have this thought run across our minds, which is Jesse, just last week you told me that I was not going to bring glory to God. That is that people are not going to celebrate God if I truly stand up for his kingdom. They're going to hate me. I know that that thought crosses our mind. How could you say that they're going to glorify him? They seem very displeased. Well, I think we need to qualify, and Jesus will qualify himself if you look at his total instruction. Those who are in their right minds. will see the good works of God's people and they will glorify God who is in heaven. Those who are not in their right minds Will rage and spit at whatever work he does. Jesus is fully aware of that. So there's no contradiction here. If you experience doing his good works and instead being persecuted and no one is glorifying, the particular group of people are not glorifying him, that doesn't, it's not an argument against what Jesus is laying down here. Jesus has accounted for that also. We are the salt and the light, and we are to do all unto the glory of God. You are the salt and light to God's glory. Now those are my arguments. there for you this morning. If you have other reasons why you don't believe what I'm saying here from the passage, namely that the disciples of Jesus Christ are the salt and the light of the world to the glory of God, then please just talk with me afterwards. Let's work through your arguments. This is too important for you to let slide as if it's indifferent. I now want to give you just a couple different steps that we need to take as a community. if we're going to take this truth seriously. I've said from the scriptures, this is who you are. This is your task in the world, under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. I have made a very serious statement to you this morning. It's the kind of statement that cannot be taken indifferently. And so now I want to look at just a couple steps as to how is it that we could begin to unfurl that. How could we begin to take our part in what Jesus Christ has given to us as his stewards? You already are taking part, and I want to give you further steps. Here's step number one. Step number one is that you shall not lie. I keep meditating on this. It it seems to me to be a center of human existence is that if we're going to really be a city on a hill, we cannot lie. Now what's interesting to me is that what comes along with not lying, but telling the truth, is that you have to know what things actually are. I read this wonderful quote from a southern agrarian. His name was Richard is Richard Weaver. I'm not sure if any of you are familiar with his writings and work. He says, when something has been broken, the repairman fixes it. With his excuse me. When something has been broken, the repairman fixes it with his mind not on the broken object, but on the form according to which it was originally made. And so we who must repair some names that have fallen into strange distortions must not consult the distorted shapes, but rather the archetypes for which they stood. Now I understand that's a little abstract But what he's saying is the same thing that I've just said to you is that if you're going to speak the truth and not lies, then you will need to know what the truth is. And that is what our culture has been working on with you. Our culture is working in such a way to where you are tempted to say, What is truth? I just read an article where I thought there was an insightful comment by I believe it's a young man. We have all these people that are younger than me now coming up and finding their place in the world and saying good things. And he said that our culture c curates ambiguity. So that you never are sure about anything and therefore never act. So you see how serious this is on this very first step and this first principle. And if you're not going to lie and you're going to tell the truth, you're actually going to have to know what the truth is. And everyone around you is telling you, well, we can't really know. I mean we have this perspective and we have this perspective and we have this perspective, but there's really no such thing as figuring out the truth any longer Knowledge isn't for that. We don't gain knowledge to gain the truth. We gain knowledge for power. That's the main message today. And this is going to be very specific for you as a Christian community. You're going to have to figure out and go back to the scriptures and spend time talking with each other in serious conversation and get off of the social media, you're gonna have to start taking yourself serious as as human beings and you're gonna have to start figuring out what things are. I know that sounds ultra-philosophical, but this is the calling. This is where we are. We are so far gone. The The castle walls have been torn down so far that we don't know what things are any longer Now this shows up in hot topic debates, like everyone asking the question, well what is a woman? And if I were to ask you what a woman is, I bet you you might have a little bit of trouble. Or what is a child? What is consent? There's everything that has been handed to us as an inheritance has been has been deconstructed And you have been left with the ruins. And I'm telling you, one of the first tasks that are before you is that you're going to have to figure out what things are again. And you're not left on your own to figure that out. Not only is God there, but he is not silent. He has given to you as a treasure his word that you might go back to it Just as God's people have had to return to his law and his word before, like Nehemiah, we will need to turn back to it and really understand what God has made and what things really are. And that's the very first step. The very first step is do not lie, tell the truth, and in order to do that, you'll need to know what things, what are things really. Once you begin to and I think you're already well on your way on this, I think you already know a about a a lot of what things are, you're just going to need to support those things because the kind of attack that we're under You'll need to buttress them and talk to people who are good at this and say, well, what are the reasons why you really believe this? And give me some illustrations and tell me a story. So that you can really just drill it in there and you're absolutely convinced. And every day you wake up and you seek to be more and more convinced You can do that. Once that step is done, we then want to not just know what is true about what things really are, but we want that to start to become embodied in every area of our life. we become convinced that we then live. The things that we believe influence the lives that we have And that can begin at the smallest level. It can begin with yourself. It can then flow into the family. And it can even begin to spread to us as a total congregation as we become a city on a hill here as this community. And it can move into your civic responsibilities also. In other words, we live the tr we we not only speak the truth, but we live it. And we do so unapologetically Let me give you a tip in order to pull this off. Could you just give me a little bit of a nod? If you were horrified by someone putting the coffee cup on the woman in ho or the woman or the man in hospice, if you don't nod, I'm seriously going to come talk to you. Did you f not only uh did you see the picture that I painted? And what was the first response? The first response was you felt a certain way. Yeah. Did you say to yourself This is dishonorable. I should feel this way. No, you didn't. There's still hu there is still God's image in you enough to where you saw something and you felt a way. You were already convinced. And because you were so convinced the heart was already ready to be engaged, that needs to happen on everything that Jesus Christ has given to you. Everything that Jesus Christ has given to you. I know that some of you have had the experience of coming to Good Friday services and hearing about the death of our Lord by way of crucifixion and feeling nothing. I know that you've had that experience. And what I'm setting before you is that if you are going to change not only what you believe but what you live, is that we have to stir up in each other. We have to stir up these truths in such a way to where we don't just think we feel. Our feelings are not detached from our thinking. The thinking sets the stage and the foundation for us to be robust in our feelings. But that has to be the next step that we would take. The Apostle Paul puts this in just saying that you're a clanging gong if you have not love. And so I'm saying the heart and the chest. Well C. S. Lewis would say we can't be men without chests. The heart has to be engaged, and we have to stir each other up unto that. If I were to drop a cr a cross and a jar of urine. You would look at it and you would know with your rational mind that it is wrong And you would feel the dishonor and rise to change it That's what must happen in us as a community at every single point. Now you could say, at every single point? That's a lot of points. So let me qualify that and I would say you're a generation that is here like a mist and then will be gone. All of you I hope you already sense it, but life is but a mist. And so what I would encourage you to do is what has Jesus Christ brought to the forefront? that you must focus on today, that the next generation would have something to work with. What's at the front of the battle line? What's at the front of the battle line and that's where we that's where we want to focus as a community So we shall not lie. We instead shall tell the truth. And we will not only tell the truth, but we will live the truth. And we will live the truth because we have a heart for truth and not just a mind. Those are the two principles that I'll give you here this morning. And therefore it will begin to flow in self, in family, in congregation, and out into the rest of the world This will require that you rebuke one another. I'm not going to keep going because I've already taken up enough time. But I know that you see people around you that are not taking Jesus Christ seriously. And that is not good for them, it is not good for their families, and it is not good for the congregation, and it is not good for the world. Here lately I've been looking at my times for my sermons on sermon audio and last week was fifty-two minutes I'm already looking at the clock today and I'm moving in that direction already. And I'm feeling like I just don't have enough time to say everything that needs to be said to us. Because everything is so urgent and must begin now. Perhaps my final application and third principle should be this. Something that Brad and I learned in seminary and that you'll find in your confession. Would you please continue talking about the sermon when we're done? The Westminster Divines wrote in the Catechism and the Confession that we should all confer about God's word when the sermon was done. And is that starting to make sense to you on why we would need to do that? And ask that you'd continue this conversation with one another. I ask that you would begin to dream before each other, restrained by the Word of God. I asked that you would begin to write poems again. You know what a poem is? It's the it's the uh It's a vision of what is beautiful and what is good and what is true. Something that captures our hearts. I have said it before you here this morning by way of his word. According to Proverbs twenty four. The walls have been torn down. The fox is in the vineyard. Nettles have grown up over all of the grapes. And this is the inheritance that you have received. You were made in the image of God And as men and women in his image and redeemed by our Savior, you have been empowered to exercise dominion in his name. It is my prayer that you would begin to take what it means to be human seriously. What it means to be a woman. What it means to be a man. It is my prayer that you will take seriously your job, which is to be a light on the hill and salt to the earth. Let us pray.