Turn with me to James chapter five. And I'm going to read from thirteen to eighteen, but we'll be focused on Please follow along. Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing Psalms. Is any one among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven. Confess your trespasses to one another, and pray for one another that you may be healed. And he prayed earnestly that it would not rain. And it did not rain on the land for three years and six months. And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth produced Lord Christ, it is only by grace that we would receive Any words like this. The fact that you pull us in close to your own heart and give us private discipleship lessons through this letter of James is a Great privilege of grace that you've given to us. You are the king of the universe, and yet you do this for us. What are we that you are mindful of us? But you have gathered us to yourself, and so we We ask that you would, by your spirit, illuminate our minds and our hearts, that we'd be able to glorify you. Seeing the great grace that you have given to us, we pray that you would convince us to turn more to prayer. I pray, Lord, as a result of this word preached tonight, that there would be ruts formed on the sides of our beds just from our knees and praying. So much. Ask these things in your name. Amen. When children need something, like a a gift They ask their parents, or they ask their grandparents, and parents and grandparents enjoy giving these gifts, at least most, uh If you have a little bit of a very good thing, you can see that the same thing is that the same thing is that the same thing is that the same thing is that we can't do that. Grandparent, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? This is Luke and his record of Christ's teaching on prayer. Let me ask you, do you believe that God has a heart for your prayers? Does he really want to answer what you request toward him? Does he give? Does he give any care to We've been considering prayer. We looked at prayer last week. It's been under a larger category, which is heavenly The earth has all kinds of ways of doing thing things, and heaven has a different way. And James is seeking to make sure that Christians are constant and are not led astray, and that includes prayer. And so as I read in thirteen, in verse verse thirteen of this same chapter, we looked at this last week, he was teaching us the heavenly wisdom is to direct our attention to God in all the seasons of life. And if you remember the song from last week, Turn, Turn, Turn. He taught us to pray when suffering, instead of becoming isolated and grumbled. He taught us to praise, which is a kind of prayer when good things happen, to be cheerful, and when we are seriously ill to call the elders to pray. Often we don't turn to prayer, however, although you see those three Commands within James, and he talked about prayer in the first chapter, and he talked about prayer at the end of the third and the beginning of the fourth chapter. Chapter 5, James is going to give us a motivation to pray. It's interesting if you were to go through the book of James and look Look at what's going on within the church in relationship to prayer, he would say things like, um, Well, because your desires are for earthly things and not for God and his Kingdom, your prayers are not answered. And we've heard things like that. Praying amiss is what it would be called. But here we see simply that James is reminding us that we do not receive because we do not ask. It's very interesting to have God on your side, such a heavenly father or parent, who longs to give good gifts and yet we would not ask. It's an interesting thing for James to do if you think about it. In the New Testament letters, all of them end with prayer. And here James ends his letter in a unique way on prayer. He tells us we don't pray enough. We don't trust our Heavenly Father. And so He wants us to motivate us to pray more. Here is the big idea for tonight. James wants us to let the power and example of prayer to motivate you to pray fervently. And so there's two parts here. There's a power of prayer, and there's the example of prayer within this Passage. So let's begin with the power of prayer in verse sixteen. Please follow along with me. Confess your trespasses to one another and pray for one another that you may The effective fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much. That's part C there. And it goes on to say Elijah was a man like ours, and he So notice that there. The effective, fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much. Within the Greek. So I'd like to rephrase it for you. And if you want to write it down, you can. It comes off pretty well in the ESV translation if you have that one. And so here's how I would render this. The prayer of a righteous person has great power. as it is working, and you could put in quotations or in parent parenthetical remarks in its effects. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working in its effects Effects. The great power here, the word for great power refers to the fact that prayer is potent. It is power waiting to be released. And it's something that we truly need to hear if we're going to be motivated to go into prayer. It's an important description because we often look at prayer as powerless. Jeremiah was bringing out and asking the question: which is more powerful, prayer or money? And most of us in our hearts, truly most of the time, the Lord doesn't make us choose between the two, but we would say money is more powerful. Do you feel like prayer is powerful? Is it potent? Think of a barren landscape perhaps in Texas or in the first time. the Middle East of a desert looked powerless to be able to sustain life for nations and yet hiding beneath our oil deposits that will finance entire people groups. Same kind of thing here. Prayer on the surface looks like it would be powerless, but below, this James is teaching us it's full of power. Proverbs thirty reminds us of animals that are weak, but who make themselves strong from an external. Source. Something similar is going on here with prayer. The rock bradger is not strong in and of himself, but he makes his home in the rock crevices. And we are not strong, but we can find great power in prayer. Is James' point here. Technically, it's not correct. This is a figure of speech to say that prayer is powerful. A prayer is an offering up of our desires to God What makes this powerful is not the prayer, but the God to whom we pray. We're saying that is back behind is God who hears our requests and can make things happen This is a similar to the mornings with any child. In the morning, my child desires honey nut Cheerios. It's in the upper cabinet. She cannot reach it And so she expresses her desires to me to reach up in the cabinet and bring them down. Her request had power because of my heart for her and my commitment to provide for her and my ability to reach the cereal and hand it to her Likewise, God has a heart for you and the power to grant your request. That's truly why we say that power. prayer is powerful. But it doesn't just say that prayer is powerful. Prayer has great power as it is working in its effects is what the trying to draw the verse out here as to what it actually Says. This is what I mean. When we pray about something, the inherent power of prayer is released as an effective power which accomplishes its objectives. Now that's a little bit of a strange statement. This is what I'm saying. It is a means which truly can accomplish certain ends. Which works better with cereal and milk? A spoon or a knife? Some of you still use a knife because you're too lazy. But we know which one works the best. Sure you can get one Cheerial at a time with a knife, but the spoon was designed specifically as a means to hold a heap of cereal And likewise, James is saying that prayer is a legitimate means to certain ends. This is all motivational for you to consider it. Whenever you consider trying to accomplish something, you consider what are the best means to be able to accomplish that thing. And prayer does not usually line up for us. But he's saying it is. It is a effective means to an end. This is important, and we think like this all the time. You are always asking, is this the right tool for the job? And James is saying, yes, prayer is the right tool for the job. It is powerful, and it can affect the ends that God has Designed it for. This is the power of prayer. Now, to continue to motivate us, James presents us with the example of prayer. And you can see this here in the example of Elijah, beginning in verse 17. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, important for us to hear. And he prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the land. for three years and six months. And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth produced its fruit. It's quite astonishing that he would relate us to Elijah. in order to motivate us. I want you to notice the similarity of what James is doing here. Take a look in chapter 5, verse 7. Where he encourages oppressed poor to be patient until the coming of the Lord. He encourages them to patience, but then he motivates them to patience by giving them the example of the prophets, particularly Job. I want you to notice that James is doing something quite simple. Similar here. James encourages here not to patience but to prayer, and then he uses Elijah the prophet to motivate us to pray. When you read the patience part and you feel motivated to be patient and wait for the Lord just as the prophets did, and then you read the prayer part and you don't feel motivated to pray, ask yourself in your quiet Quiet time, what is the difference? And try to search through that, pray through that until you arrive at a solution there and are in fact motivated. James encourages us to pray, and he uses the prophet Elijah to motivate us to pray. Now here's a reminder of Elijah's prayer. Let's go ahead and turn to 1 Kings. This can be unfamiliar within our culture. So I want to turn to 1 Kings chapter 17, and I just want to show you a couple pieces that I'd encourage you to read again in your devotional time or in your Bible reading time. I want to look first at 1 Kings chapter 17, and if you're not exactly sure where that is, there's an index in the front of your Bible, and it'll show you where 1 King is. I want to look in chapter 17, beginning in verse 9 and 10. Just to orient you, I want to start in 9 and 10. ten. In verse eight, actually it says in chapter seventeen of first Kings, then the word of the Lord came to him, Elijah, saying, Arise, go to Zarephath. which belongs to Sidon and dwell there. See, I have commanded a widow there to provide for you. I hope that sparks some memory of this story because Elijah and the widow and the ravens are a pretty popular story Now when we go down into 1 Kings chapter 17, 18 through 23, I want to read this to you, and then I want you to think about what James is writing, particularly about prayer in relationship to the sick. He must have done Meditating on this passage, and it deserves your meditation. Here's first Kings seventeen, verses eighteen through twenty-three I'll start in 17. Now it happened after these things that the son of the woman who owned the house became sick, and his sickness was so serious that there was no breath left in him. So she said to Elijah, what have I to do with you, O man of God? Have you come to me to bring my sin to remembrance and to kill my son? And he said to her, Give me your son. Son. So he took him out of her arms and carried him to the upper room where he was staying, and laid him on his own bed. And he cried out to the Lord and said, O Lord, my God Have you also brought tragedy on the widow with whom I lodged by killing her son? And he stretched himself out on the child three times And cried out to the Lord and said, O Lord my God, I pray, let this child's soul come back to him. Then the Lord heard the voice of Elijah, and the soul of the child came back to him, and he Revived. Quite pertinent to the sick section that's going on here within James. Already telling you and relating the prophet Elijah to you that there are great, powerful, and effective things within this means that has been given to us, which is the ear of God the Father, Jesus Christ the Son, and the Holy Spirit. This isn't actually what James refers to when he talks about Elijah. He talks about the rain. And so I'd also like you to turn to 1 Kings 18, beginning in verse 13. Verse 41. Then Elijah said to Ahab, Go up, eat and drink, for there is the sound of abundance of rain. This would have been an odd thing to see saying a drought. So Ahab went up to eat and drink, and Elijah went up to the top of Carmel. Then he bowed down on the ground and put his face between his So he went up and looked and said, There is nothing. And seven times he said, Go again Then it came to pass the seventh time that he said, There is a cloud as small as a man's hand rising out of the sea. So he said, Go up, say to Ahab, prepare your chariot, and go down before the rain stopped You. Whether rain or not rain, or like the passage healing from sickness, you can see here that James is meditating on these instances with Elijah, and the point is that prayer is powerful. Look at what happened with Elijah. And he's relating and applying that to you. I'm sure that you could say within your own mind, but Elijah's a superhero saint. I don't have ravens feeding me. But doesn't James address that in verse 17 of our passage? That's why he puts it there. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours. You know Elijah struggled with depression. Great difficulty wanting to be taken away from this earth. Deep, stubborn darkness in his mind Nevertheless, our nature is like his our nature is like his nature, and James encourages us to think of ourselves as kinds of Elijah's in this way, having Now there's an ultimate question if we start to work this out practically. Okay, I I get it. I see that we that the prayer is powerful, that it is effective, and you're giving me this example, and you've actually considered the fact that I'm not a superhero saint, I'm just a normal Christian. I get it that I should be praying, and that there's great power and promise behind it. But what is that actually supposed to look like? And that's where I said we are to do so fervently. You see this in the passage? Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed earnestly. Now the actually it's a Hebraism. It's like a Hebrew Construction that's put in the Greek. It says literally in the language praying he prayed. Isn't that interesting? Praying he prayed. It's an intensification. You should be familiar with that from Hebrew poetry. Because you're also versed in the book of Proverbs and now Psalms. Praying he prayed. It's an intensification. And I believe it's an intensification as you study that those instances within 1 Kings, I believe that it is an intensification in two ways. It's an intensification as as we pray. To earnestly pray means two things. Plead the promises and persevere. Plead the promises and persevere. I want you to notice something back in 1 Kings again with Elijah on Mount Carmel, and you don't need to turn back there if you want. I'm just going to read chapter eighteen verse one. And it came to pass after many days that the word of the Lord came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go, present yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain on the earth The fact that it was going to rain had already been promised by God. What we end up seeing, therefore, to start with my first point about what does it mean to pray fervently. is we see Elijah on Mount Carmel knowing what God had already promised and now pleading with him that the promises would come to pass. It's exactly what's happening here. It turned promises into prayer, and it reinforced Elijah's prayer. Spurgeon has a whole work on this section. Spurgeon, when he talks about pleading with God with the promises, he says: as a Christian, God loves it when you pray and you fill your mouth with arguments. You can see this actually in Acts chapter 4, 25, as an axe an excellent example. Take a look with me at Acts chapter 4. Look at what the New Testament church was doing. In terms of the promises that had been given to them with the passage that we studied this morning in relationship to the kingship of Jesus Christ. I'll begin in verse 23, as John and Peter are let out of prison by God. And being let go, they went to their own companions and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said to them. So when they heard that, they raised their voice to God with one accord and said, Lord, you are God, who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them, who by the mouth of your servant David had said Psalm 2 Why do the nations rage and the people plot vain things? The kings of the earth took their stand and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. Christ and now they pick up again for in verse twenty-seven. For truly against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed Both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together, gathered together to do whatever your hand and your purpose determined before to be done. Now, Lord, look on their threats, and grant to your servants that with all boldness they may speak your word, by stretching out your hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may be done through the name of your holy servant Jesus Do you see that their mouths are filled with the promises and with arguments, pleading with God that He would uphold His word that He had already spoken in Psalm 2? And when they had prayed, the place where they were assembled together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness. And there goes the church to all foreign lands. Pleading the promises that were already made. Are you pleading the promises to God? Now, children, you're not allowed to argue with your parents. But God says He wants you to argue with Him. He wants you to remind Him of His promises. He wants you to hold them before His face. He loves those kind of prayers. Respectfully pleading the promises. But there's also perseverance that's present here, and I'll be short with this as we go back to our passage and we think about the 1 King passage with Elijah on Mount Carmel. Let me read to you the 1 Kings 18, verse 43. I hope that you noticed it. That little exchange between him and his servant, he's praying and he sends him, are there any clouds on the horizon yet? Can you imagine doing that with your prayer? Pleading the promises and sending is it there yet? It says in all that he did, in fact, persevere And he prayed seven times. Then it came to pass the seventh time, verse forty-four, that he said, There is a cloud, as small as a man's hand, rising out of the sea. So he said, Go up, say to Ahab, Prepare your chariot. And go down before the rain stops you. He kept praying till the clouds rise. And we are encouraged to persevere also in our prayer. until the clouds rise. I have a friend who prayed. One day God convicted him that he didn't know how to love anybody. And he asked the Lord, Lord, teach me how to love. And the prayer was not begun to be answered until two years from that time. But he persevered. He prayed The picture here is often seen throughout the Wisdom literature, which doesn't surprise us with James being very much like a wisdom book. The wisdom literature encourages us to understand perseverance as a shameless audacity. Now whether you know what the word audacity means or not, let me just give you a picture of it. There's an Old Testament professor who likened shameless audacity to a time when he went show He something won haywire. He showed up after hours and he didn't realize that the rental car place closed at a particular hour And he showed up just when they had locked the doors. And he said, I showed a shameless audacity because they were in there closing the cash register, all the doors were locked, putting away things, and he knocked on the door. door and they said we're closed. And they went back to their work. And he knocked on the door and they ignored him this time. And he knocked on the door and they went into the back room and he began hitting the glass door with a shameless audacity until they opened the door, gave him the keys, and he got his rental car and he drove to his hotel that night That is what we see within the wisdom literature. I can show you some other places. That's the shameless audacity. And that's what it means to persevere with arguments in your mouth, like the widow, as we mentioned. With the unjust judge, where Christ talks about shamelessly asking throughout all of the Gospels We should have a shameless audacity and perseverance pleading the promises to our God. Does it say something about us? That we go through our little checklist of prayers and the next day we don't Don't remember what we were praying for? Was that Elijah's prayer? When he went in perfection seven times? Please No, those aren't the kind of prayers. Those are those are maybe okay when we first become Christians and we're learning how to pray. But we need to grow in our current life. We need to become like Elijah who has a nature like ours. Become like Christ who had a nature like ours, although God. Here's the conclusion. These are the kinds of prayer that God wants to hear from you. If you don't know how to do that, consider yourself an apprentice. Grab somebody that knows how to pray and get on your knees with them. Let them teach you how to pray. Learn from Christ how to pray as he prayed in the garden. And as he prayed his high priestly prayer from you, these are the kinds of prayer that God wants to hear from you. Prayer may seem small and ineffective to this world, but prayer is powerful. Like a desert landscape with oil deposits underneath that could fuel and finance entire nations, how much more powerful is price? Elijah was special in God's kingdom, but he had a nature like our nature, and we are encouraged to pray like he prayed, whether for sick people or for rain To bring God's kingdom to earth as it is in heaven. James's point in all is that you would let the power and the example of prayer, particularly in pleading and persevering. To motivate you to pray pr to pray fervently. Please pray with me. Lord Christ, we turn to you and we ask that you would teach us to pray. That you would teach us to pray the promises and Scripture itself as your New Testament church That you would teach us the prayers to be able to notice them throughout your scriptures, that we would begin praying like that, having mature prayers, that we would plead and persevere. We thank you for this great privilege that you have given to us. Lord, we also know that James did not set out to write an entire discourse on everything on prayer. And so I pray that you would continue to minister to your people by Teaching them all of the other aspects of prayer throughout your scripture that we would be mature, lacking in nothing, not tossed to and fro by every wind and wave and thought about prayer within our culture. Pray that you would establish us, that we would be, that we would pray as those who are righteous. In the name of Christ. Amen.