Alright, good morning guys. Men. Good morning, men. You can yeah, that's that's better. Thanks. I think uh i if even if you are still eating it, it seemed to me that you were getting to the end of your biscuit So I thought we could go ahead and get started. And I want to start with a word of prayer. And then please remind me at the end I'd like to close with the doxology. We'll have enough time, I think. I tried to cut out more and more words from the talk so that we'd have uh more time for question and and answer. Father, I uh detect that I am not the only one seeing you bring us to repentance. Lord, it is a prayer that has been a part of your church since I can remember. We have all had an uneasy awareness that we were meant to be in the world but not of it, but that we had become more a part of the world than we ever wanted to be. And we nevertheless, Lord, could not see uh clearly enough to know how to even get out of the web. There was a kind of knot that reminded us of the knot of Gordian, and we were not able to untie it. But through your great power, in the hearing of the prayers of your saints, you didn't untie it, you just cut it. And you did so, and we watch you continue to do so. We are watching on a national and global level you sift the church. Uh Lord, we stand humbly before the most recent news of uh Rampant plagiarism within your church as just another iteration of the exposing that you are doing, beginning with the shepherds Lord, we heard news uh titled Sermon Gate, and we've heard news before. Lord, we are not in a position to judge any of these men and we women we just keep hearing of list upon list of atrocious conduct and thought that is being exposed with Within your leaders. And that is where you always begin, judgment. It begins in the household of God, and it begins with the shepherds. For you have said to us, if your right hand Is corrupt, cut it off. And that is what you have begun to do. Lord, this humbles us, but it is an answer to our prayer. We pray, Lord, that you would give us the, that you would preserve us, that you would permit us to persevere through temptation, that you would deliver us from the evil one. that if even Satan asks to sift us, that you would please rebuke him. you did with Peter. Lord, we ask that our breakfast here this morning would be in line with the deliverance from the captivity of the dead. devil, we pray that you would help us to move into paths of righteousness. Lord, each of us here being male are by definition leaders. We are shepherds at various levels of the hierarchy. And so we do pray for your protection. We pray that whatever is given here, that it would be turned into fruitfulness For those under our leadership, and for our equals and for our superiors. amongst the Gentiles. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. A sobering prayer. This is men's breakfast session number two. I hope that you still have session number one in your mind and in your heart. If not, here's a bit of a review. Last month we started engaging with God's Word, maybe in a way that you were not used to I would say that we were engaging with God's Word as well-approved workmen. And I mean to quote Paul to Timothy there. Because when you look at that context, it's exactly the kind of work with the scriptures that we are doing. It is looking at all of the counsel of God for wisdom, looking for models and frameworks by which to understand our day. So what did we do? Last month we read the Exodus account, and we did not read it as a mere ancient history. We looked at it as a framework for wisdom and action in every age. If you'll remember, there were just a few observations that we made. Number one, every age has a Pharaoh or a Leviathan And this Pharaoh or Leviathan constricts and seduces the church. In every age, nevertheless, Christ rises as the great mediator between God and men, and he protects his bride. as any good husband would do. And in every age, Christ by his spirit leads his church, even before he rises to protect, he leads his church into a great sense of greed. And groaning. It's the Old Norse sense of anger. And we saw that with the prayers of the church in Exodus. It was only after the prayers of the church that God executed his decrees. The problem that I raised, uh really that God raises, last month was that When we look at the church in Exodus groaning, that there is an opposite thing happening in our culture, even among the church, where leaders of the church and members of secular society keep saying there's nothing really wrong. Peace, peace. And what I did was called them out on it. And and I don't do that just here with you guys. When I meet people like this, I try to say it to their face. J just so you know, as politely as I can. Um in love. Uh but I did raise the question of we have accepted the idea of that all things are good, it's okay, it's not as bad as you would say And what that has done is has kept us in a kind of sleepy state. Which is a kind of intoxication, which means you can't judge correctly. You're not seeing what's right in front of your face. I'll just bring up to you a another example I'm not sure I brought up last month of grief that should have happened a long time ago I remember thinking not n um I guess man I just I feel like whenever I refer to time I've just lost over a year with COVID. I keep wanting to say last year, but I we didn't really do anything. thing last year. The the year before that I remember standing here and re and reading the report on sexuality from our denomination. So that would have been in 2019 that I read the report on sexuality. And that report on sexuality, if you weren't here, it basically riffed off of a report that was already given from another denomination, the RPCNN. Who gave the report in 2010, nine years earlier, on the same issues of sexuality From a woman who had informed the council. Um can you remind me of her name? She's written a couple books. Rosaria Butterfield was greatly helpful to that council to better understand human sexuality and she had been working on it I think since the nineties it had been around. And this is just another piece of evidence in my mind that the groaning of the church should have started far earlier, but instead there was a kind of peace piece, and we were out on our boats catching rockfish, thinking everything was Okay. Nothing wrong with catching rackfish. So we had that picture last month of Proverbs. And of the the man who says, a little folding of the hands and it'll be okay. And then when he's done folding his hands interesting. He looks around and his inheritance has been covered in metals and thorns and thistles. And um his vineyard has moved into ruined. And I know that many of us feel that. So therefore, I think last month's was was pretty much just a wake-up call to say everything is not okay. And, in the old Norse sense of the word, it's time to become angry again. We should be grieving over the loss. We should be grieving over the loss. So this morning and this month is part two of four, and it is the next step in the role of men in the empire. What I want to do first for this next step is I want to return to the model of Exodus. And so I'm going to point you to Exodus chapter 1, where this whole thing begins. And you're welcome to follow along there with me. I'm just going to read verse 7 as a kind of summary. You can just listen if you'd like to. I want you to notice that as a part of that model that I gave you last month, it does not start with uh the lawful exercise of protection that we saw within Moses and his grief over the oppression of his people. And it did not start with the grief of the elders and the congregation gathering in grieving prayer before Yahweh. It began not with loss. But with paradise. In Exodus chapter 1, 7, notice the paradisal language. But the children of Israel were fruitful and increased abundantly. multiplied and grew exceedingly mighty, and the land was filled with them. Now, if you have any Bible literacy, you recognize the illusion. You see that there that he's capitalizing on a kind of return to walking in the will of God existing within his kingdom that we would see here Genesis. But what we end up seeing that leads to the loss and the groaning and the anger is an immediate attack on the edenic vision. Pharaoh chips away piece by piece to make sure that these people can't live in God's kingdom. So for example, they make, or Pharaoh and his kingdom seek to make the Adamic task. impossible, Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve, for example, are meant to multiply on the earth. And what does Pharaoh do? Pharaoh kills their male children, eliminating eliminating any chance of future multiplication. Adam and Eve are meant to serve God by serving their neighbor. Pharaoh, however, structures all time to be devoted to him and his empire. If there is even a single complaint, he makes it more difficult. They can do nothing but work for him. They're in complete slavery. And this is what I want to point out to you. I'm underlining this in your consciousness, if you could go ahead and see it underlined. as the next step for us in the empire. The larger context in which Moses mourns and the Hebrew people grieve is the loss of Eden. is the loss of the Adamic task. In other words, though we started our talks with anger and grief, those are not the fundamental realities and motivators of Christian people. If you wanted a Lord of the Rings reference, we're we're just a at root, we're a fundamentally positive and cheerful people that love pipes and bourbon. I mean it's like You know the good things of the earth is what I mean by that, even if it's not bourbon or pipes. Uh I don't know, Maryland blue craps, whatever it is. We're fundamentally positive. It's when we see the good that God intends taken away that we begin to m mourn. But our primary motivation is always the good. Our fundamental reality, in other words, is hope. Our fundamental reality is hope in a beautiful world, a beautiful world that has been promised to us when Christ establishes his manifest rule over the earth. We are in love with the lion laying down with the lamb. We are in love with the child playing at the cobra's nest. We are at love when our Lord says there shall be no more tears. We are in love with the vision that there shall be no more C, which is not meant to be read strictly literally, but that the chaos will end. We are in love with that. That's our primarily primary motivation. We are a people of faith. We are a people of hope. And we are a people of love. And anger, though appropriate at times, is only in service to love. Deep down we are a people who endeavor for the world to be good and ordered under the rule of Jesus Christ. Christ. That's our primary conviction. And that brings us to the next step for men in the empire. What this requires of men in the empire, therefore, is a return to Adam's constructive task. Not a primarily deconstructive task, but a constructive task. Which by the way is is what edify means. It's a constru it's construction terminology. We are primarily edifying people. We are building something, not just tearing down. So, I want to welcome you to the construction industry. Some of you thought that you were demolitionists, but if you are, it's only because we want to build a new wall. So welcome to the construction industry. And what I would like to do is just go over some basics. Really, it's just one point. A basic of building. that we have to do within the empire. And and uh so let's just go ahead into this point and then we'll move into some question and some answer. So here is what I think is the most important thing to say now, at this time in your life. We must, as those who are entering out in a positive, constructive task. We must conform to the deep wisdom which Christ ordered for every area of reality. I'm going to say it another time. There needs to be a kind of retrieval where we once again conform to the deep wisdom which Christ ordered for every area. of reality. Now some of us are unaware of, all of us are aware of the book of Proverbs But some of us are unaware of the kind of influence that Proverbs chapter 8, verse 25 through 31, has had upon the thinking of the church. We can see the beginnings of it in the Gospel of John that is underneath of what he's saying when he talks about the eternal sun. And then it is all over the place within the early church. It is a primary text to understand the Nicene Creed, for example. which both Eastern and Western Church assign themselves to. And so let me read a section to you as we uh step forward in retrieving and conforming to the deep wisdom of Christ. for every area of reality. Listen to this. Before the mountains were settled, before the hills, I was brought forth While as yet he had not made the earth or the fields or the primal dust of the world. When he prepared the heavens, I was there When he drew a circle on the face of the deep, when he established the clouds above, when he strengthened the fountains of the deep. When he assigned to the sea its limit, so that the waters would not transgress his command, when he marked out the foundations of the earth then I was beside him as a master craftsman. And I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him Rejoicing in his inhabited world, and my delight was with the sons of men. What the church has picked up on is that this is a uh a picture of the eternal Son of God as the master craftsman through whom the Father created the habitable world. Now you can see this in even in John's Gospel. What's interesting, now that goes all the way to verse 31 and chapter 8 of Proverbs. Now listen to verse 32, based upon the reality of the master craftsman and the reality that he has made. Listen to what it says. And now therefore, listen to me, my children. For blessed are those who keep my ways. Hear instruction and be wise, and do not disdain it. What we can't do is we can't say that since he's the creator of the world, then you know he's he's competent enough to come up with the laws that we should follow. That is certainly true. What we have to go a step forward and we have to say that what he's saying here is he's saying whatever I have created and how I have created it And the purposes that I have for things, and the design that I had before all time, and then made inhabitable and embodied within this world. Whatever those things are, are what you are meant to conform to I have already decreed what all things will be, and it is your job to live in line with the reality that I have created and communicated to you. What you have here is a call, and this is really what Proverbs is about, by the way, not just a list of moralistic maxims. What you have here is a call to construct life, that word from the construction realm, to construct life in accordance with the reality of life, which the Sun has decreed and executed. Which the reality that He has made. Now, in order to understand this a little bit more, we're starting to get deeper and deeper into the theology here To understand this a little bit more, I want to give you a distinction that actually, Matt, you introduced to me over dinner discussion. Thank you so much for that. And then uh an imperative for us to conform to his reality. Thank you. Philosophically speaking, the distinction that I want you to know is a distinction between a mimetic view of life. And uh um a poetic, really, is the way we should talk about it, a poetic view of life, though in the literature it's known as a poiesis. We're we're using Greek terminology to get to a distinction. It's an old distinction, but it has become recently popularized by a philosopher named Charles Taylor. Do you know him? He's from Canada. And then more recently, it's becoming even more repopularized by a guy named Carl Truman. Has anybody read his most recent book, Reimagining the Self? Uh anyone? Raise your hand if you're for the modern self. Using this distinction that gets at what I'm talking about from uh Proverbs 8. Thanks, Brandon. Put simply, these terms refer to two different ways of thinking about the world. A mimetic view regards the world as having a given order And a given meaning, and thus sees human beings as required to discover the meaning and conform themselves to it. Poiesis, by way of contrast, sees the world as so much raw material out of which meaning and purpose can be created by the individual. I mean, if you live in the same time that I live in, those that distinction just resonates with you. Because you are living in a world where you see that distinction. And what should become obvious to you is that our culture has adopted the poetic or the poesis, and we as Christians are bound to be mimetic. That is to say, we conform to his reality. It is not raw material that we can then shape into our own image. The eternal son, and I'm I'm supplying here the theology underneath of Carl Truman's insight. The distinction is not just a philosophical one, it comes out of a theological distinction. The eternal sun ordered reality. And he says right there in verse in chapter 8 that we are to conform and we are to conform hearing his instruction to know what it means to be wise. To be wise means to live in accordance with his reality, not to come up with our own. And so the question, this is really where it's going to start to become pointed for you as men. And as as leaders. The question for you as men in the empire moves from a negative posture. That is to say, we look out and we see people in that poetic way of life, thinking it's raw material, that they can do whatever they want with, and we're and we're frustrated about it. But what I'm saying is there has to be more than frustration. There has to be a positive constructive task. There has to be a positive vision to which we must that we must retrieve and to which we must conform. So here's the main question that you need to be considering at this time. What is God's reality to which you are called to conform in the fundamental areas of human life? What is the theological vision that the Christian has for society? What does it mean to be male and female? Would you please tell me? What about sexuality? What is God's vision for sexuality? I know that you're frustrated with what they have said, but what do you have to say? What about children? What is a theological vision for children and childhood? What about family and marriage? What about technology and work? What about animals? Do we, as Christians, are we, are we given by Christ a vision for dogs in our life? What about cats? Should they just be eaten? It's a legitimate theological question Yeah dog food dog food. Yeah, so we do have a vision for cats. It's it's the only one where I saw a bunch of nods in the whole list. Well and what about the church? What about worship? What about the sacraments? What about ordination? What about church government? Those are all questions that are right before you right now. All of those things. But here is where I see a fundamental problem And I'm speaking generally. I haven't talked to you and I I don't have surveillance on you. So I don't know about you specifically. I know about some of you more than others. But there is a general problem that I would like to point out and for you to be aware of, that as we think about becoming more positive and constructive, that we need to have a theological vision for all of those things, both in thought and life. Christians do not seem to be productively oriented. I would say that in my experience, Christians have the primary mode of being anxious. and defensive. Not productive and positive The thoughts I mostly hear are, you people are messing everything up. This is not the way it's supposed to be, as the primary heart I see. That's a primary manifestation of the heart of a Christian. And of course, you know that I would agree with that. That you're messing it up. This isn't the way it's supposed to be. I um just recently went to an observed, the observed Fourth of July, which then is on July 5th. I went to a Fourth of July parade in Saverna Park, which I do with my family every year. And each parade member obviously is living within perversion. Uh there's there is um a facade that they really care about the community, but you just below the surface you can tell that their business is not working toward their main goal is not the benefit of the community, but personal peace and affluence. So that they can keep affording their house on the Severn. It's not a real concern for community. You could see the love is love mantras on the floats. And it didn't surprise me because the love is love. Do you know what I'm talking about for Pride Month? They're already on signs and yards. So they they have a a messed up understanding of how Christ has create you know, his his plan for sexuality. All of these things were present. But you know, I got to thinking. I I had like um I don't know, j it's just the grace of God was poured out for a moment for me to stop being critical for a second. And I want you to imagine not being critical. That'll be harder for some of you than others. I want you to imagine with me that we're all at the parade parade together. Okay? Imagine that everyone in the parade is going by and they are given by God the ability to think and to hear your critical thoughts about them. All the parade members stop. The Mustang Club, they turn off their cars. The Corvette Club, they turn off their cars. The Mosquito Man truck The float of a barnyard scene with a pig from Charlotte's Webb advertising the new Saverna Park bookstore. They all stop. And they know your thoughts. And they turn to us because we're together as a crowd, and they say, okay, fine. I hear what you're saying. But if you think that The way that we want to do things is so wrong. That's fine. Let me hear from you what your plan is. Now that that is the point that I'm trying to make this morning. This is what they're going to ask you. Imagine us all being there. What is your plan for the good life? Let me hear from your mouth what you have to say about sexuality and about race and about childhood and about dogs. And I just want to know, would we have anything positive to say, or would the initial response be us stuttering, grasping for a positive vision of life? Some of us may feel justified in having that negative approach because the commandments that our God gives us all start with, I think except for one, you shall not. But if you were under the Deuteronomy preaching, you know that you shall not is always meant for the positive things of life. And if you were to look at the larger catechism, it always shows you. what is meant, what is required of us, not just what is prohibited or forbidden. I wonder what you would have to say if the parade turned on you. What's your vision for our town? And what if they took a step forward and they were to look at your children and your marriage? And they said, is this an example of what you have for our town? Not just you guys, but think about the whole Christian community. Would they see something embodied? Would they see a social vision embodied that they could get on board with where they recognize, you know what, I don't want to admit it, but what Christians have is better. Imagine that. My thoughts right now of the Christian world, which is why I'm focusing on this, is that we wouldn't have much to say. That has in some sense been lost. That is what the nettles have covered and the thorns and thistles have broken down. Those are the walls that used to be there, but are no longer there. What is so good about your theological vision of marriage, family, sexuality, old age, animals? and work. And if you think you have the truth, here's another question from the crowd. If you think you have the truth, then why don't you seem very passionate about it? Christian, are you passionate about God's vision for your marriage or your family or whatever? It looks to me like they're just a burden to you. So you can get back to playing with your friends. This is still just from the crowd. I'm not saying any of these things, so don't come after me And I would have to side with them in some sense, and at least understand that if we are not totally sold on God's theological vision for every area And I'm not just talking about in some kind of thoughts that we have, that we can write books, but I mean that we are embodying it and manifesting it in our life that this is the this is the best way to live. Because this is what Christ has said, then I think they've lost the biggest sign to the reality of Christ. We have lost our witness. It will be the biggest sign to the world instead that we don't actually believe what we say. We don't actually follow our Lord, that we are a joke and that we are phonies. And I'll tell you right now, our society is so good at picking up on people who are genuine and who are not. And if we're not really passionate about serving Christ, then why are we so upset? Is it just because you want to not be disturbed in your comfort that you want to have a sense of control? Well, if you haven't noticed, God is making us uncomfortable, and he has done so by making things out of control. He has allowed the chaos to wash up on the shores that Christians would once again consider building, consider what they think. And in order to do that, we have to know what God thinks. Now, I do want to be fair. Now, okay, so the parade is um All the Mustangs fire back up, mosquito man truck's gonna go forward and the pig is uh tired of of of s being still. It needs some breeze and so the parade moves on and you know what I did see after them in the Saverna Park parade were local churches with floats. But I gotta tell you, I was not encouraged. And here starts to get at another layer, perhaps, of you, but at least the church in general. When the Christian floats for the church and the parade went by, none of them communicated a care and a passion for the life of God's creation. I'm not talking about ecosystem and um recycling here I'm talking about every aspect of the created life. They did not have on their floats concerns about human life now. They had quotations from scriptures that essentially communicated, make sure you're secure because we're all going to fly away to heaven. That was it. That was the message of Christianity. No real commitment to the creator's creation. And you have to ask yourself a question. Is the creator committed to his creation and life as created Or does he all just want us to fly away to heaven someday? You have to make up your mind on that. We know that we disagree with the poiesis of our culture in every area that I have listed on the page and more. That is, however, just the beginning of Adam's task. The full task is a positive vision for every area of created life and its execution and manifestation in what we are passionate about. And this contributes to the problem of not having a positive theological vision and life. So, I've already asked you one of the major questions, and I'll ask you another one here. Does the creator have a commitment to the life of his creation? And if he does, if he is i if he has a future for this world and he's not going to throw it in the cosmic dustbin, that there will be continuity between this existence and the next in the afterlife after Christ returns, then I ask you, do you have a commitment to the Creator's creation? Life? What's that? What? Oh yeah, thank you. Let me put this just another way so that we can get this conversation back on track with this terminology. Does your eschatology compare to the eschatology of the empire? You know what the empire is, it's the Leviathan and the Pharaoh. Do you know what eschatology is Is it um Apache helicopters coming in the last days because of the locust scene in the book of Revelation? Eschatology in its purest form asks this simple question. What is God doing with his world? That's what eschatology is. It's looking at the end of things. What is the purpose? or end for which I should be working in every domain of life. And I'm asking you, do you have a picture of the end of things and of eschatology? as clearly and as powerfully as the empire does. Because I'm telling you right now, they have an eschatology. They know where they're going. They know where they want to go. Now I want you to look at something and the first reaction from you will be grief. But I want to talk about it for a minute. Go ahead and ask these that point. There's not enough animal to do this. Take a moment to study it. Thanks, Brad. That is the weird one. Yeah. What's that? All right, I'm gonna share this again. Yeah. Everybody have one? Okay, so I understand that this is disturbing, but I didn't see anything in it that um we couldn't handle I wouldn't give it to just anybody. This was hung in a church in Sweden. And um I believe it has been removed now, although it might still be there. I have to look and see what's going on with the progress of this painting. But nevertheless, my point to you is that the world, the empire, has an eschatology. And I I want you, you know, the the title of this is We Need to Return to Adam's Task. So the painting is suitable to what we're talking about here this morning. But I want to ask you, what do you see in the painting? What is the eschatology of the Empire? Sorry? Subjection. Interesting. Okay. Yeah, thank you. That's very insightful. What else do you see in the painting? What is their eschatology? uh exactly so they're playing off of uh uh an eschatology of another kingdom And I'll take your first comment with your second that they are seeking to subject an earlier vision to their vision. They too have a theological freedom. between freedom and subjection is the guys um at one point um had the freedom to choose their own leadership where their movement wanted to sort of get them to leadership that they didn't agree with. And then the the freedom says you can go out and have a scouting group of Europe own making and they can freely assemble subjection says you have to subject our version of a reality. Yeah, and I think that you're right about that. I think that the way that Christ they they can't even escape who Christ has made. them in the painting. And yet they are making the painting as if it were raw material to communicate something that is a subjection as opposed to a true liberty and freedom. freedom which only comes through Christ. Jeremy and then Adrienne. Uh-huh, very good. And uh he talked about how heretics will giving you a face picture of a dog. And it's a it's meant to communicate that, you know, the picture of Christ is this picture of this glorious king. When we're excuse give you this picture of the space fox or the space doll in some this is the picture of the glorious king. And said this is the God that bought you out of Egypt. And so what they're trying to do is erase the true, the glorious picture, and replace it with their vision for a glorious picture and say this is a paradigm. Yeah, so it's an eschatological vision. And I'll just have one follow-up question with you. Have they embodied it? Yes. They embody their eschatology. Do they work diligently night and day in all of their occupations to see the kingdom come and for their will to be done on earth as it is in their heaven? Yes. Certainly do. Adrian. Can I give a technical definition as to how many of you have to do that? Uh no, but I can give you my my uh Sunday morning my Saturday morning one What is God doing with his world is the question that we're trying to answer in eschatology. What is the purpose or end for which I should be working in every domain? It is uh it is the st it ends up Uh then is a group of the questions. Yeah, we're asking the question what is God Where is God bringing everything? And has that been revealed to us? And I would say that it has in part. Enough. Sufficient. Brandon. Uh just an interesting observation is and I'm grateful for this that they decided to cover um the people. Yeah. But if you look at Genesis account, Adam and Eve sowed coverings for themselves until they realized that they were naked and they were ashamed. So even in the end time vision for this painter there's not there's not true transparency and vulnerability that's accepted and loved by God because you see that there's Okay, that's interesting. Yeah. I appreciate the analysis. Hold on, I'm going to give some other folks the chance. Anything else? I just wanted you to see that there is an eschatological vision There's one that comes around every so often and it ends up being the most powerful. It's the ideology that or the ring that seeks to rule them all. Any other comments on the eschatology of this? The what? Okay. Could I take that as a reference to the final chapter of Judges where we that mankind did everything just in accordance with his own authority? That kind of idea. Every man was left to his own thoughts. Yeah. So now uh you know, you looked at the picture, and I'm asking you, is your eschatology As powerful and manifest as this. Who owns the universities? Oh, yeah, thank you. Do you want to say a little bit more about that? Uh Jimmy said pretty strong catechesis. Can you just explain what you mean, I guess is what I'm saying? Many people this would be a good thing in our world and normal. Whereas we know it's not, but they're they're ta they're catechizing their children. Are we doing Yeah, they have a positive vision for reality. I understand that it's truly a negative one. But it is a they're they're constructing. It's what they're seeking to do. And it is called the Tower of Babel. Right. So we know that it will fall. I mean we don't see this in fear. But it is a good goad and heuristic for us to ask, what about our eschatology? What alternative does the world have right now? What light in the darkness? What positive statements? One sad thing is I look at this. Is their escapology um is being sought through and and followed through with legislation. I mean I look at this picture and I go, well this is everything that's in the news and in the legislation with um you know homosexual rights, with Black Lives Matter, with every I I see everything in here all combined as one And it's it's uh it's something that's being mandated, legislated, and uh. Yeah. So it's uh Yeah, that's right. They they have done very well with their SP seeing it through and taking over even the legislature and the local local governments and to the point where this isn't just a peace part and the sad thing is like you said this peace aren't Hart was in a church. So it was even taking over the church. Um because the church is just made up of people. I mean all the churches is a bunch of sinners that understand that they been forgiven in some are you know easily swayed to oh well yeah I I see that that makes sense. We are created equal. Yeah we are all created equal. We're equally created as sinners and that we have to repent of that. Yeah, and I would say that just to add to what you're saying, we would need to first see if as Christians we can affirm equality and what do we mean by that I mean y you look at what they've done, you've just uh I'll just you said calendar. All right, let me just broaden that out for a minute. Their eschatology is so strong that they have captured across the globe time. They dictate what you do on certain days. Now we have that as a part of our eschatology also. It is called the Lord's Day, and it is a witness to the to what the cycle of creation is doing under the rule of Christ. But Christians still wrestle with even giving themselves over to a single day of time. Now I'm not trying to confront anybody here. I'm just saying you can see the difference. This is uh is a serious business. So Let me put you in an uncomfortable position again. Hold on, Steve. I'll do a question in time in a second. I think the picture is upsetting. It was upsetting to me when I first saw it. It caused me grief. But I want you to imagine now, and this will make you even more disturbed, that this whole scene comes alive before you. These people are real people. And though they are symbolic of a much larger eschatology, let's say that they come alive, they stand before you. And they are still embodying that eschatology in everything that they do. And then they say this to you, fine. You're critical of us in this painting. You're critical of our vision here of race, notice the different nationalities and ethnicities. You are critical here of sexuality that we have. You are critical of what we think the good life for human relationships is. What is your vision for life? We would really like to hear it. And then let me put it this way too. They're going to ask you another question. Where are your paintings? And can we point to one after like the 12th century? I think that we could. I'm not an R historian, but I think you get my point. Where do we see you embodying this good life if it's so important to you? I think that we again would move into a period of silence in some sense. I think to be fair, we know that their question comes from rebellion, but I still want to acknowledge the point. And the point I'll put into the form of a question for this morning Will the men of the empire take up again the constructive task of Adam? Will we one day once again be able not only to answer but to show in our music and in our art and in our lives and in our our marriages and in our family and in our children and in our colleges and our universities will be able to answer the parade. Will we be able to answer the men and the women that are in that painting in Sweden? Amen. Let's pray and then I want to take some questions. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we really are talking about a healthy Christendom here and the loss of it. When all was under your rule and your reality, music and art and even statesmanship, what it meant to be a senator. One nation under God. Lord God, we I can see on the men's faces uh a bit of grief for the loss that has deepened. But Lord, it is in the light of the constructive task that you do call us to. There is a an acknowledgement. That yes, that's what we're supposed to have. We are supposed to be a light, not the absence of light. We are the light that is a witness to an alternative, to the kingdom. To the star in the dark night sky. Lord, we know that really what you're giving us here is a vision that we are to be uh wise amongst the nations. We have a vision that you have given to us in Proverbs 31, which is your church. I pray that you would Give us the wisdom on how to return. It is one thing to have a vision, and it is another thing on what are the steps in order to get to that place I pray that you would give men and women wisdom on the steps to take toward bringing your kingdom to earth as Pray that you would begin with us here as men in the name of Christ. Amen.