Verse 24, I'll read through verse thirty. God's holy word for God's holy people. From there he arose and went to the region of Tyre and Sidon. And he entered a house, and wanted no one to know it, but he could not be hidden. For a woman, whose young daughter had an unclean spirit, heard about him, and she came and fell at his feet. The woman was a Greek, a Syrophonician by birth, and she kept asking him to cast the demon out of her daughter. But Jesus said to her, Let the children be filled first, for it is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. And she answered and said to him, Yes, Lord Yet even the little dogs under the table eat from the children's crumbs. Then he said to her, For this saying, go your way. The demon has gone out of your daughter. And when she had come to her house, she found the demon gone out, and her daughter lying on the bed. Please pray with me. Oh, most gracious God, thank you. Thank you for preserving these pictures of your son, our Lord, and his earthly ministry. Thank you, God, for his genius. His infinite wisdom that teaches us in ways that arrest our disagreements, in ways that focus our mind. And so we ask you, Lord, that you would help us Help us to see and to hear from your son tonight. O Lord, I pray that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my Strength and my Redeemer. It is in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I'm sure that uh well at le at least some of you out there know what life is like with dogs. If you don't have a dog, you may want to find somebody who has a dog and talk to them because to them what Jesus is saying here. Boy, it's it's absolutely crystal clear. There's nothing confusing about it. Because if you live with dogs, you know that there is almost an unspoken agreement between you and that dog Take for example y you have pizza one night and leftover after that pizza is just some pizza crust. You were saving it, saving it after you digest it, and if that pizza crust falls on the ground and your dog snatches it up. You know you don't have a right to get mad at that dog. That pizza crust has entered that dog's domain. And you don't even feel mad at the dog, really. You may have wanted that pizza crust, but He fell on the floor. Now, if you live with dogs, you may have experienced this. Where you order pizza and you're having that pizza and everyone's enjoying that pizza and you hear some strange sounds coming from another room, coming from the kitchen. And you go into that room and that dog's on the dining room table. And that dog's eating that pizza. This is righteous anger that you're allowed to have and not be in sin. Because that dog knows order. It's not supposed to be on that table. That pizza's not for that dog. The crust that falls on the floor, that's for the dog. The pizza. That's not for the dog. And if you know anything about dogs, you know that God has made them, designed them to be creatures of order. Wolf packs. We talk about wolf packs and their efficiency and their effectiveness in hunting. Why? Because they keep a very strong order. God's made them to be ordered. Dogs instinctively know where they fit in the pack. They know the order that God has created and the order that God has put them in. Now, in Mark, we have been told many wonderful things about God's Order. But the most important thing that he's sharing with us is that God has ordered all of human history and all of creation to bring us to this one point where the Son of God enters into that creation. This is to prove to us that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. And that's by God's order. And it fits in God's order. Every picture that Mark has given us shows this. The healing that Jesus gives. The cleansing that he gives. He cleanses as only God can cleanse. He restores the order. that God has made. Remember with that demoniac who had the legion of unclean spirits. He restored this man's life. To a life of order, away from that chaos. Jesus has been doing amazing things, divine things for those whom he has given real faith. Well, the last time we were together, we were looking at the passage before this, the first 23 verses of chapter 7. And Jesus was teaching us the difference between real religion and fake religion. Real religion seeks Jesus. Real religion follows his way. And rejects man's way. And tonight, Jesus is taking us on a journey to teach us about the difference between real faith And fake faith or a false faith. And what we learn tonight from this passage is that real faith is recognized and rewarded by the real Lord of the universe. Real, true faith Is recognized and rewarded by the real God over all things. And so tonight we're going to look in two ways at this. We're going to look first at real faith We'll see this from verses 24 through 26, and then we'll look at that real Lord of the universe who recognizes and rewards it. We'll look at real faith and the real Lord. Let's jump right into it and look at the real faith that we see in verses 24 through 26. Look at verse 24. From there he arose and went to the region of Tyre and Sidon, and he entered a house and wanted no one to know it, but he could not be hidden. There were no large crowds. Like Marcus told us in the past and episodes of Jesus' ministry. There wasn't a giant crowd for someone to follow to where Jesus is. And yet, we're told that he could not be hidden. And that's because real faith leads to Jesus. And where do we see that real faith? That real faith is found in this woman. Who though she could not follow a crowd to him, though he had entered a house, an unknown house, intending not to be found there Yet he could not be hidden. Real faith leads you to Jesus because he will not be hidden from those he gives real faith. And so we look now at verse 25, and we see in the first part of verse 25 something else about real faith. We see that real faith seeks Jesus. Look what this woman. It says, For a woman whose young daughter had an unclean spirit heard about him. Real faith in this woman caused her to seek Jesus. Well, how did God use real faith to cause her to seek Jesus? Caused her to recognize a very desperate need that she had. Do you see the desperate need there? She has a daughter Those of us with children know that we'll pretty much go to the ends of the earth to help our children. If there's anything that we can do for them, we will do it. Well, what does she do for her daughter? She's only heard about Jesus. Doesn't tell us what she's heard. We can imagine, because we've seen all these past stepshots of Jesus' ministry, the healing, the teaching. The authority, someone very different from anyone who's ever come before. She's heard about him. Perhaps she's heard that now he's in this region where she lives. And she hopes in him. She comes to him. Why? Because she desperately needs him. And so her real faith leads her to Jesus because her real faith is seeking the one she's heard about. This should give us a quick lesson, shouldn't it? Evangelism is crucially important if you know Jesus Christ. And he's given you real faith, what can stop you from talking about him to others? They need to have heard about Jesus, to seek Jesus. And while there are people who are specially gifted for that or called to that purpose of sharing the gospel, every one of you who's been given real faith in God God is wanting you to share what Jesus has done. Maybe you don't need to share all the systematic theology about Jesus because Take it from me. Sometimes that can be a little taxing and boring, and it's not very effective in evangelism to go through the Westminster Confession of Faith with somebody who doesn't know Jesus. But he has done something for you. And you can share what he's done for you so that they can hear about Jesus. Real faith is led to Jesus. Real faith seeks Jesus. And in the rest of verse 25, we see that real faith is only satisfied with Jesus. Look at the rest of verse 25. She has a daughter, her daughter has an unclean spirit. She's heard about Jesus. What does she do? She came and she fell at his feet. She came. She does something real. She goes to Jesus. We don't know from where. We don't we don't know if she was just living next door and she saw a group of thirteen guys go into this house. That would be a little odd, wouldn't it She sees thirteen Jewish men with their tassels hanging off their robes, right? And then she says, What are thirteen Jewish men going into that house? No, we don't know. We can speculate, but we don't know. Matthew, in his version of this account, tells us that she doesn't just fall at his feet. He tells us that she worships him. That's a little bit different, isn't it? Matthew tells us that she calls him something very particular. She doesn't call him Wonderworker. Miracle man! Do you know what she calls him? She calls him the son of David. She's not just looking for anyone. She doesn't just need someone to work a miracle. She needs the Messiah, the son of David. She says something else in Matthew's account which really strikes me. She says, Have mercy on me. The Greek word there is elason. You may know the words kirje elason. That's Lord have mercy. That's what she says quite literally. God, have mercy on me. Let's look at verse 26 now, and we see something else about real faith. Something that may be the most important thing we need to notice about real faith. Verse 26. The woman was Greek. Syrophoenician by birth, and she kept asking him to cast the demon out of her daughter. In Mark's version, it it's a little strange because it says she kept asking. Some of the English translations translated as begging. I think that helps us. Matthew's account kind of makes it clear. Jesus didn't respond to her. His answer to her is silence. And she doesn't give up. She's relentless because real faith is relentless. Real faith is undaunted. A little hiccup like silence doesn't stop real faith. It's interesting that we're told she's from the region of Tyrancide and she's a Syrophoenician woman. Matthew tells us she's a Canaanite because it's the same thing. And if we remember the Canaanites, God had some very special instructions to his people about what they were to do with the Canaanites. Just a few chapters before our passage that was read before the confession of sin in 1 Kings chapter 16, you could go there and you could find out that there was a a Sidonian princess. Who married a king of the Jews? You might recognize her name. Her name was Jezebel. She was a Canaanite princess. She was from the region of Tyre and Sidon. And she brought with her into Israel something Terrible and something very destructive. Do you know what she brought? She brought the worship of a false god named Baal. And this gives us a picture of this person, this woman. She was from a pagan culture. She may have worshipped false gods, pagan gods. And yet. The Almighty God of all the universe gave her something, a real faith, a faith that was not deterred. By silence from Jesus. Real faith is relentless. It does not give up. And so I would encourage you, brothers and sisters, if you have real faith. If God has given you real faith, real faith that seeks Jesus, real faith that has led to Jesus, real faith that recognizes a desperate need, not only for yourself, but even for those whom you love. Be relentless. Be one of my favorite words, indefatigable. Be unable to be tired in your seeking Jesus. Don't ever give up on prayer just because it may seem like silence has been his answer. Never stop praying for that child with the unclean spirit. That Jesus would drive it away and cast it out. And so we see from this woman in these verses 24 to 26, we see that she appears to have real faith, doesn't she? She's led to Jesus. She's been seeking Jesus. She's heard about him and she goes to him. Her desperate need will only be satisfied by Jesus. And she just won't stop. She just won't stop. In Matthew's account the disciples begged Jesus. They're the ones begging, and they say, Can you just get her away? She's making it really hard for us to be unknown in this place and to finally have that rest that we needed But just like false religion can't fool God, a false faith can't fool God. Just because she's a Syrophoenician woman doesn't mean that her faith isn't real. And so we want to look now at what God does. Let's look now at Jesus, the real Son of God. What does he do? And so we're going to look at verses 27 through 30 to see the real Lord of all the universe. Verse 27. But Jesus said to her, Let the children be filled first, for it is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. And what we see from the real Lord is that the real Lord will test your faith. The real Lord will test real faith. Now there are some people out there who would try to use this to make us have really terrible thoughts about Jesus. There are some people out there who've even said that this is a sign that Jesus was that Jesus was affected by his culture. And they say this because in the Jewish literature Sometimes Gentiles were referred to as dogs. I've even seen one person who says that this is an example of Jesus using a racial epithet. Or a racial slur. Banish that from your thoughts. There is no way, possibly, that is what is happening for our Lord would never even use a phrase like that. And he doesn't hear. He uses a completely different Greek word. A Greek word that means little dogs. It means puppies. It means those special household dogs, not the scavenging dogs that are living on the street It's a very different thing going on here. Jesus is not using a racial slur. He's not calling this Gentile woman a dog. He is doing what he does for all of the Jews. In fact, he is speaking so respectfully to her because she's not Jewish. And yet he treats her like she is Jewish. Do you remember Mark chapter four, verses thirty-three to thirty-four? I almost want to turn there, but we're running out of time. He says that he teaches them in parables. And without a parable, he did not teach his people. And what is he doing here? But teaching this woman with a parable. The same way that he tested those whether or not they had ears to hear, he tests her. And so he brings her to this very common scene. This would have been a very common scene. In fact, it's a common scene that all of us with dogs understand, isn't it? When we have dinner, we either close the dogs in the crate. Or we just know that both dogs will be sitting wherever Judah sits. Because they know where they're going to get the most meal. This is a common household scene, just like all the other scenes in the parables, are common household, common agricultural scenes. There is nothing insulting from Jesus about this at all. He's telling her this is a common scene of the order that God has put in the world. And the order here, we know it's all about order. Look at the words he says. Let the children be filled first. First is a word that indicates order. It's not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. This is how God's designed things, and this is revealing to us. A little bit about how he's designed the redemptive story to enter into the world. I will have you turn here because it's just a wonderful thing. Go to Romans chapter 1. Real easy. Romans chapter 1. Very simple. If you get there, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans chapter 1. It should be on the very first page of Romans in your Bible. It is on mine at least It's verse 16. Hopefully you got there. If not, just write it down so you can take a look. Romans 1 verse 16. This is what Paul says, for I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes, real faith, for the Jew first, and also for the Greek. It is God's order that the story of salvation, that redemption in Jesus Christ would come through the Jews first. But it does not mean that it is only for the Jews. It is also for the Greek. So we see That the real Lord will test real faith. And he does it here in the way that he always has with a parable to his people. We'll see in verse 28 that the real Lord reveals himself. In verse 28 she says, And she answered and said to him, Yes, Lord, yet even the little dogs under the table eat from the children's crumbs. Isn't that right, Judah? She answers. Do you see how she answers? She answers according to Jesus' own words. According to his own terms, according to how he has revealed himself. He reveals himself to her through the parable. And she doesn't come and say, Ah, but it's not right for you to treat me unfairly. Ah, but it's not right for you to call me a dog. She comes in humility and answers him on his terms, with his words. Notice that she calls him Lord That very word, Lord. I hope you remember the sermon from this morning. Because it's that same word. That name, above all names, which has been given to Jesus Christ, is that word, Lord. Why is that the name above all names? Because in the Old Testament, that was the word that they would use. They were afraid of mispronouncing God's name. They were afraid of even by accident, taking God's name in vain, so they would always, always say Adonai. Adonai, which means Lord, whenever they came across the covenant name of God, Jehovah or Yahweh. That's that word. Lord. And she comes to him saying, Lord. She is not insulted. She's not self-righteous. She has no claims on him other than the words that he spoke about himself. God does this. And he does it time and again. I'll bring up just one other example. Think about the rich young ruler. He goes to the rich young ruler who says, I've kept all of the law. I'm really good. I'm pretty awesome, Lord. What more must I do? And God says, striking at his heart, you must give that thing you don't want to give. He knows what the rich young ruler needed. He knew what this Thyrophoenician woman needed to hear and how she needed to hear it. He reveals himself. That is the real Lord. And so we look now at verse 29. Then he said to her, For this saying, go your way, the demon has gone out of your daughter. The real Lord recognizes real faith. He's tested the faith, and now he recognizes that real faith. Matthew again helps us because Matthew in chapter 15, verse 28, he says specifically what Jesus says. Jesus says, O woman, great is your faith. And Mark he says, for this saying. You know what that word translated saying is? It's the same word from which we get logic. Oh woman, for this logic, for your reasoning, for this way of thinking. Oh woman, for your understanding. Oh woman, for the real faith that allows you to see what I'm doing. And what I've said, she reasons as one with real faith And so we see finally that the real Lord who tests faith, the real Lord who recognizes faith, look at what he does in verse 30. And when she had come to her house, she found the demon gone, out, and her daughter lying on the bed. The real Lord rewards real faith. Matthew says explicitly, her daughter was healed from that very hour. It was at that very moment that the demon was cast out. Mark tells us she goes home and she sees what God has done. She sees That her real faith, which was tested, which was recognized, had been rewarded because everything God had said was true. Her real faith was recognized and rewarded by the real Lord of the universe. And brothers and sisters, your real faith, it will also be tested. Maybe it's being tested right now. Maybe there's a sin that you've been trying to give up for ages. It's the desperate need that you have. And every time you go to the Lord and you beg him Cast this away. Cast this out. Take it away from me, Lord. Maybe your answer has been silence. Will you stop asking for him to take it away? Or will your face prove itself real by being relentless? No matter how long you've been struggling to give up that one thing, will you keep praying for it? No matter how desperate your need is for someone you love. Someone you desperately need to be cleansed of their unclean spirit. Does it seem like it's been decades and God is just silent in your prayer? Do not give up. Prove your real faith. Are you praying for your spouse? Desperately needing them to see Christ truly. Don't give up. Don't stop. Silence may be that first answer to you. It may be the second answer. It may be the third. It may be the 1586th answer to you. Never stop. Never stop. Never stop praying because I promise you And some people may get mad at me for saying this, but don't get mad at me for saying what the Bible says. You who go to Christ in real faith. will be rewarded. If you go to Christ and pray in real faith, you will never be disappointed in the answer. Even when the answer is no. Because you who go to God in real faith, in true faith, will do as we're taught in the catechism. In shorter catechism question 98, it is, what is prayer? And kiddos, if you've memorized the shorter catechism, just think about this. Think about this answer. What is prayer? Prayer is an offering up of our desires unto God for things agreeable to his will. In the name of Christ, with confession of our sins and thankful acknowledgement of his mercies. Prayer like that is never disappointed. Prayer like that is always answered. And so if you go to God in prayer, let's just use as an example. You have someone that you love desperately. Who you know desperately needs to be cleansed. You don't go to God and you don't say to God, you must respond to me and do what I tell you to do. You go to God as this woman went in her real faith humbly. Go to God on his terms. Asking for things that are agreeable to his will. You know that it is pleasing to God to forgive sinners of their sin. You know that firsthand because he did it for you. Never stop praying that God will please Himself and glorify Himself by saving sinners. And cleansing the unclean. Never stop begging God to save your children. Never stop begging God to save your marriage. Never stop begging God to save your very soul. And to make you more like Jesus. May our blessed God, the real Lord of the universe, the real Lord of the cosmos, may He, O Blessed Jesus Christ, Grant all of us here tonight the power of real faith. That will be recognized and will be rewarded in his mercy. Please pray with me.