We'll start in Mark six, Mark chapter six, verse fifty-three, and I'll read to Mark seven verse twenty-three. The Word of Our God, starting in Mark chapter six, verse fifty three. When they had crossed over they came to the land of Gennesaret, and anchored there. And when they came out of the boat, immediately the people recognized him, ran through that whole surrounding region, and began to carry about on beds those who were sick. to wherever they heard he was, wherever he entered, into villages, cities, or the country, they laid the sick in the marketplaces and begged him that they might just touch the hem of his garment. And as many as touched him were made well. Then the Pharisees and some of the scribes came together to him, having come from Jerusalem. Now when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defiled, that is, with unwashed hands, they found fault. For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands in a special way, holding the tradition of the elders. When they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. And there are many other things which they have received and hold, like the washing of cups, pitchers, copper vessels, and couches. Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him, Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with unwashed hands? He answered and said to them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me, and in vain they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. For laying aside the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men, the washing of pitchers and cups, and many other such things you do. He said to them, All too well you reject the commandment of God that you may keep your tradition. For Moses said, Honor your father and your mother, and he who curses father or mother, let him be put to death. But you say If a man says to his father or mother, Whatever profit you might have received from me is Corban, that is a gift to God, then you no longer let him do anything for his father or his mother. Making the word of God of no effect through your tradition, which you have handed down, and many such things you do. When he had called all the multitude to himself, he said to them, Hear me, everyone, and understand. There is nothing that enters a man from outside which can defile him. But the things which come out of him, those are the things that defile a man. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. When he had entered a house away from the crowd, his disciples asked him concerning the parable. So he said to them, Are you thus without understanding also? Do you not perceive that whatever enters a man from outside cannot defile him? Because it does not enter his heart, but his stomach And is eliminated, thus purifying all foods? And he said, What comes out of a man, that defiles a man. For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders. thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lewdness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness All these evil things come from within and defile a man. Thus far, the word of the Almighty God. Please pray with me. Oh Lord in heaven. What a passage you have put before us tonight. We need you. We need your spirit to shine light on it, and by it to shine light on our own hearts. Oh God, would you help us to understand what you want of us, what you require of us? Would you help us to understand what we should know about you? And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my heart, the meditations, and my thoughts, let them be acceptable in your sight, O God, my strength, my redeemer. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. There's a song out there, and I'll just be completely honest with you, I've never heard the whole song. I've only heard it as background sound on videos at places, but we sing it a lot in my house. It goes something like this. Hi, it's me. I'm the problem, it's me. You ever heard that song? I really have no idea whose it is. But it's on a lot of videos. It happens a lot in our house because there are things that happen. There are things we do, things we say, things we may have just thought. And stuff starts going down the tubes, and then we have to just remind ourselves, oh yeah, hi. It's me. I'm the problem. It's me. I don't think it's a Christian song. I don't know who sang it. Taylor Swift. It's Taylor Swift? I was about to say I bet it's Taylor Swift, because that's another joke in our house. The one time that my it's probably Taylor Swift's joke would have been it's Taylor Swift. Well, maybe maybe she gets it. I don't know much about Taylor Swift, but It's possible, I guess, that she she might be singing about a biblical view of our own selves and our sin, but I doubt that. No, it has a truth to it though, doesn't it? The problem's not outside of us, the problem is in us. And we're going to get to that as we come to this passage. Before we get there, I just want to review with you what Mark has been telling us. This is the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. That's why Mark wrote this down. He's told us all about Jesus' preaching and teaching, not like anyone ever has ever in the history of the world or ever before him. Even a prophet like Isaiah did not preach and teach as Jesus did. The healing and the cleansing that Jesus was able to perform. No one has ever done anything like that. There are certainly examples in the past of Of prophets helping people be cleansed of their leprosy. You remember Elijah? Or was that Elisha? I should have looked that up. Yet this is Jesus, the God man doing it. All these things that only God could ever do, Jesus Himself does it. And Mark is showing us this Not the least of which is the reversing of the curse of sin and misery. That's all of ours because of Adam and because of our own sin. Well, last week The Lord revealed to us what it is that is our true need. Do you recall? What do we truly need? We really truly need. The presence of the real true God, the only true God. We need to be near Him. We need to be following Him. We need to be living our lives in His presence and relying on that presence. to make us holy. Well tonight's passage has an equally powerful and important message. And I hope that we, after examining this, will see together that the Lord wants us to truly seek Jesus Christ, truly loving his way. And truly rejecting the ways of man. Brothers and sisters, the Lord wants you to truly seek Jesus Christ. Truly loving his way, and truly rejecting all the ways of man. We're going to look at this in three ways tonight, or under three headings, three divisions. We're going to look first at this last part of chapter six where we see those humbly seeking Christ. That'll be Mark 6, verses 53 to 56. Then we'll look at the first part of this event in verses 1 through 13 of chapter 7. And we will see what it is to sincerely love God's way. And then we'll look at the rest of this event, verses 14 to 23. And we see wisely rejecting man's way. We will look at humbly seeking Christ, sincerely loving his way, and wisely rejecting man's way. So let's jump right into it and look at humbly seeking Christ verses 53 to 56 If you look there in your scriptures, you see when they crossed over, they came to the land of Gennesareth and anchored there, and when they came out of the boat, immediately the people recognized him. And so the first thing we see in humbly seeking Christ is recognizing Jesus, recognizing the Christ. Are you looking for him? He is the Savior, the only savior. Are you looking for salvation? Is that what you want? Think about these people and what they were looking for. It tells us that they were man, they were just grabbing anybody who needed healing, carrying them even on beds, and bringing them to Jesus. That's what they were doing. They were seeking Him, recognizing that He alone is the one. that they need. He alone is the one who can give what they truly need. And in humbly seeking him, do you see what happens in this next verse? You see what they do in humbly seeking Him? Not only do they recognize Him, but they run to Him. They ran through that whole surrounding region and began to carry about on beds those who were sick To wherever they heard he was. Did you catch that? They didn't run to where they thought he was. They didn't run to where they thought he should be. If they were good Jews and they wanted to run to where they thought God would be, wouldn't they run to Jerusalem? Wouldn't they all have just left Galilee and just been in Jerusalem outside the temple? Instead, they hear where Jesus is and they run to him. No matter how far it was, no matter how hard, they went to where Jesus was. And I would encourage you, brothers and sisters, if you are looking for some kind of cleansing of yourself or salvation, you must go where Jesus is. You must go where Jesus is ministering. And so if you have heard that He is present elsewhere, if someone has shared with you the work of Christ happening in their lives. Go there. Hear it. Trust that He can do the same for you. Even if it is just the the barest minimum amount of belief and trust. See what they were doing. Wherever he entered into villages, cities, or the country, they laid the sick in the marketplaces and they begged him They begged Jesus that they might just touch the hem of his garment. And as many as touched him were made well. In humbly seeking Christ, you must recognize that he is the Savior. You must run to him. Do not let distance or difficulty keep you from running to the only one who can save you. And you must receive from Jesus that which you need. Notice that it's a humble receiving. Did you see the humility there in the passage? They're begging Him Begging him that they might just touch the hem of his garment. They weren't begging him for that bread that they might have heard about. They weren't begging him for for anything really Massive. Oh, oh, no, rip rip apart the sky, Lord, and show us a sign. We'll get there later. When those who are looking for a sign from Jesus, ask just that. No, they humbly beg him that they would receive from him what they need. And do you notice that they really do receive it? It says that they are made well. Well, I don't know the condition of their their hearts. We don't know. We just know it was a bunch of people and from a bunch of different places. And we do know As we learn from the woman whose faith made her well, the woman, the first one we heard about touching just the hem of Jesus' garment, do you remember her? They must have had faith. They must have believed. We don't know what they thought about religion. We can assume that they were Jews. They are in the land of the Jews. They are acting very Jewishly. But we don't know if they were good Jews. We don't know how well they kept all of the Jewish laws that had been given to them, but we do know something about them. We know what they believed about Jesus. They believe that He's the one they need. They believed that he was the one who could make them well. And I hope you see that this group of people coming to Jesus, they're very different than the next group, aren't they? Very different. than those who are coming to Jesus from Jerusalem. We must be like this first group, not like the second. We must be like the first one and not like the second. We must sincerely love the ways of God. And that's what we're going to look at next in these first this first part of chapter seven. So look at verses Let's just start there at verse one. Then the Pharisees and some of the scribes came together to him, having come from Jerusalem. Now when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defiled, that is, with unwashed hands, they found fault For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands in a special way, holding the tradition of the elders. And when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. And there are many other things which they've received and hold, like the washing of cups, pitchers, copper vessels, couches. These people who have come, the Pharisees and the scribes, they have a mistaken love. I believe that they really thought that they loved God's way. I believe they really thought that they loved his religion. And how did they show that they thought this? Well, they thought that the religion of God really was a strict adherence to these rules, to these different ways of doing things. And the problem with it is that they thought they were doing enough. They actually thought that these cleansings, these washings are you familiar with these ceremonial washings? The the wedding in Cana Do you remember that where there were these giant pots that Jesus said filled with water? These pots were there for the purpose of the ceremonial washings. If you've ever looked into it, it was uh you were to to take your hand, put it in a fist, and put it down all the way into the water up to the elbows, and then let it dry. So that you could have been cleansed ceremonially. There was other ways of cleansing things, which was, you know, taking a little bit of water and Just putting it in your hands and rubbing your fists around, doing it on the other hand. There are all these different ways that you could do it. If you really wanted to have a fun time, we could look at some of those ways together. But if you realize what they were really doing is they were resting in their own understanding. They were leaning on their own understanding, thinking this would actually do something. That it would actually cleanse them. It was a very mistaken love that they had. It was also a very selfish love, and you see that by the way they treat the disciples. They held others to their own standards and not to God's. There's nothing in God's word that says you have to do this. There's a lot in the Bible about ceremonial cleansing and washing for the priests. Or for special feast days, or what the people needed to do in order to come before the mountain. But there was nothing in there that said, before you eat a morsel of bread, you must ceremonially wash your hands. And once again these these mistaken, selfish, self-important people Who think they understand what God wants, they go after Jesus and his disciples. Have you ever thought about this? Why did they go after Jesus and his disciples? Right? Why didn't they just go after Jesus? Well, if you think again, there's always these large crowds. And the large crowds of people, boy, they believed enough about Jesus that they were willing to run. Wherever they heard he was. They were willing to carry the sick wherever they heard he was, so they weren't going to attack this holy man in front of the large crowds of people. But they could certainly cause the crowd to have some questions By casting doubt upon the disciples. And so they say, why do you let your disciples do this? Why don't your disciples do this? These people, these men loved their own righteousness so much That they were willing to take those who had been following Jesus and remember, these men, these disciples, these apostles, had been doing miraculous things through the power of Jesus on their own throughout these surrounding areas. And they were willing to say that those men are less righteous than we are because they don't do what we do, which is a little bit of washing of our hands. I love that Jesus explains to them that this is not new. This is not a new thing that they had come up with. And I love that he doesn't wait and explain what's wrong with them to a smaller group. He does it right to their faces. He paraphrases what we read in Isaiah 29 in our confession of sin passage. He explains to them, because this is how the Jewish people had strayed from God's ways in the past. He brings it home for them, and he uses this common example, a common example from their time. Right? He says, For Moses said, Honor your father and your mother, and he who curses father or mother, let him be put to death. But you say if a man says to his father or mother, Whatever prophet you might have received from me is Corban, that is a gift of God, then you no longer let him do anything for his father or his mother, making the word of God of no effect. through your tradition which you have handed down and many such things you do. Corban is probably not something very familiar to us, but if you've looked into it, it really was what they said. Corban was a term for something that is dedicated or consecrated to God, a gift or an offering. In Leviticus there's some rules about if you wanted to dedicate your land to to the the priesthood, to the Levites, you could do that. But it was never permanent. In the Jubilee year it would have returned to you whose land it was, to the tribe whose land it was given to them by God. And so it had become a tradition. that you know you were supposed to take care of your parents in their old age. Well if you said, well, actually, everything I have I'm consecrating to God, so I I really I don't have anything else to give to my parents I c I can't do that. Hey, you have this extra uh house on your property that you could use for your mom and dad. Oh I can't. I've given that to God. That's where we stored the organ. So we don't have to get rid of it. Or that's where we s that's where we store the Christmas decorations. We wouldn't want that to go away. That's not a real example. That's just something stupid I'm saying. They were rejecting what was clearly God's way, right? And that's what Jesus says. They're clearly rejecting the fifth commandment so that they could do what they wanted to do. Or do what they thought was the right way to do this. And honestly, do you think we don't do this now as Christians? How many of you are familiar with the 11th commandment? No one? You don't know the eleventh commandment? The eleventh commandment, quote unquote, is Thou shalt never hurt someone's feelings or make them feel uncomfortable. You're not allowed to tell people the truth, because it might make them uncomfortable. Might make them think twice about themselves. They may not it might damage their self-esteem. Sometimes this is considered the eleventh commandment. We know it because as soon as someone points out That what a person is saying is against the Word of God, oh, easy. You're being kind of mean with that. Doesn't the Bible say don't judge? Sometimes we fall into that trap. I want you to see that we need to sincerely love God's way. That he tells us in his word, because if you really love God's way, you will not look for ways around it You will not try to get around the commands of God so that you can get what you want. You will follow the commands of God, the law of God, the word of God. So that you will be pleasing in his sight, not in your own, and do what he wants, not what you want. Don't want you to be selfish, like the Pharisees were, and hold other people to your standard. Right? Is anybody able to hold it my standard? Can I hold you to my standard? Wouldn't that be an implication that I'm holding myself to my own standard, or that I have some righteousness within me that's greater than the righteousness within you? Let's be careful of this, brothers and sisters. And let us see. That all of this, to tell people they must do what we say when the Bible doesn't say it, is in essence, as Jesus said, to make the word of God of no effect. In essence, it is to reject that God has even spoken to us and told us what he expects. If we don't love and embrace God's word, which shows us God's way, we will reject it to follow our own way. We will reject Him as God. And yet we still need a God, and so who are we going to make into that God? Sometimes we think we'll we'll pick another God. No. We make ourselves God. If you reject God as God, you will make yourself God in place of Him. And if we're honest, even though we've tried to make ourselves God and we say, I'm gonna do what I want, right? What's that song, the the Frank Sinatra song, another song? I did it my way. I actually knew who sang that one, 'cause I'm a nerd. But This is what we do. We say it's our way. We say it's my way. But if we're honest with ourselves it's not really our way, is it? It's man's way. It's the way of the world. It's the way that somebody has told us we should be. And that is not the way. And so what must we do if we are going to sincerely love God's ways? We must wisely reject man's ways. And we'll see this in the rest of this passage, verses 14 to 23. When he called all the multitude to himself, he said to them, Hear me, everyone, and understand. There is nothing that enters a man from outside which can defile him, but the things which come out of him, those are the things that defile a man. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. Brothers and sisters, we must wisely reject man's ways, and we must reject man's ways of blame shifting. You ever heard that term? Shifting the blame onto someone else. The devil made me do it. I can't be blamed for this. Worse than that? Well what what hope do I have? Adam fell. I'm a sinner. It's God's fault. It's God's fault that I'm sinning. No. The very first sin we're told about was a blame shifting. Do you remember that? This woman that you gave me, it's her fault. No. We can't do that. We cannot listen to the world. The world says that we're all basically good. Right? We're all basically good inside. It's just circumstances that make us do bad things. Oh, if we had more money, we wouldn't sin. If we had more education, we wouldn't sin That's not how it works. We must also reject excuses for our sins. Look at verses 17 through the end. I'm just going to read this for us. When he had entered a house away from the crowd, his disciples asked him concerning the parable. So he said to them, Are you thus without understanding also? Do you not perceive that whatever enters a man from outside cannot defile him? Because it does not enter his heart but his stomach and is eliminated, thus purifying all foods. And he said, What comes out of a man, that defiles a man. For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lewdness, and evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness. All these things come from within and defile a man. Do you notice that foolishness is listed right there with fornications? The fool has said in his heart there is no God. Look at all these other things. I won't even get into what an evil eye is. I don't know if it's Going to help us or not. But you see what Jesus is saying. From within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts. And it's the evil thought that leads to the evil deed. It's the evil thoughts that lead to the evil words. It's the evil Way that you think about yourself, if you think that you're so much better than everybody else, so much more righteous than everybody else, that will lead you to hold them to the standard like the Pharisees. And like the scribes. The problem, brothers and sisters, is not out there. The problem is not everyone else or everything else. What's the problem? Hi, it's me. I'm the problem. It's me And so if you're the problem, what hope can you have? Can you follow rules well enough that you will somehow stop being the problem? There's only one hope. And that hope is outside of you. That is, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, came into this world, took on flesh. Why did he take on flesh? So that he could die. He knew he would die because that's the only way that you can be cleansed of your sin. Your sin means you must die. You're a sinner, you must die. Your sin must die. And brothers and sisters, this is the heart of true religion. To flee to Christ. To love Christ, to follow Christ's ways, and to reject man's ways. And so you must be honest with yourself. Are you enduring a truckload of misery and suffering? Ninety nine point nine percent of the time, it's your own fault Don't take that one exception. It doesn't prove the rule because something outside of your control happened and now you're in intense suffering. That's not usually how it is. It is in that time, but on every given day, it's you. It's something you've done It's some words you've said to someone that are making things difficult at home. It's your fault. It is something you've done that is causing that interpersonal relationship to be strained. And even if it's not entirely your fault, because it never really is, there's two sides to it always. I know a lot of people don't like to hear that in the modern conception of sin, that there's two sinners involved in every issue, interpersonal issue. But the key is that you don't allow yourself to say it's their fault That's why we're struggling. You have to start with admitting it's my fault. I'm the one who's done this Don't buy the lie. Don't buy the world's lie. Don't buy Satan's lie. And what is that lie? You can fix this. You can make it better. You can make yourself better. All you've got to do. is stop drinking and stop smoking and stop doing this and stop doing that and give yourself this time every morning to devote to da da bi fa fa. Don't let a bunch of external rules Fool you into thinking you can somehow be a better person. Don't let expensive degrees fool you into thinking you can somehow save yourself. Don't think that because you've been married for 20 years That you can just get along in the next 20 years by continuing to do the same stupid things. You need Christ To transform you. You need God's word to inform how you look at yourself. You need to follow God's laws and his commands. I'm not saying you follow his laws and commands to save yourself. That's a term that we are all probably pretty familiar with. That's legalism. Legalism is never the answer. The answer is atonement. Substitutionary atonement. Someone in your place will do what is required, and that is Jesus Christ. You must flee to him as the only true solution. Like those who are seeking Jesus, like we saw, run to him. It doesn't matter how far away you think he is. Do you have you heard where he is? Run there. Be there. Prioritize your life so that you can be where Jesus is. Beg him to fix you and fix all of the things that are broken in you. How many times do we pray that God will just fix the world? Oh God, would you fix the Democrats, please? It'll make life easier. Oh Lord, if you would just fix the Republicans, this country would be in such a better place. No. Wherever we go, there we are. That's the problem. I'm going to close with this. And if you have your Bibles open, you can turn there or you don't need to. I'm going to Acts chapter 9. I want to tell you about a man. Who probably tried to excuse himself for the evil things he was doing by saying, I'm following God's ways. Look at these first two verses. Then Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest and asked letters from him to the synagogues of Damascus, so that he found any who were of The way, whether men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. The earliest Christians were called followers of what? The way. Not their way, not the Pharisees' way, not the traditional way. They were following the way of Christ, the way of Jesus And Saul was attacking them. Out of his heart came what? Think about that list that Jesus gave us: evil thoughts, murders. Pride, foolishness. And yet without Paul, where would we be? How well would we understand the gospel if the Lord had not solved the problem in Paul's life? Paul didn't save himself. Jesus saved Paul. You know how I know that? Because if we were saving ourselves, we would not willingly make ourselves blind. If we were saving ourselves, and we had the power to do that, we would not willingly be shipwrecked, we would not willingly be flogged, we would not willingly be stoned. It is never our way. It must be God's way. May God bless each one of us, every one of you. To truly seek Him, to truly love Him and His ways, and to truly reject the ways of the world. Let us pray.