Mark starting in chapter twelve, verse Sorry, starting in chapter 11, I'll be starting in verse 27, reading through chapter 12, verse 12. This is God's holy word for you, God's holy people. Then they came again to Jerusalem, and as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders came to him And they said to him, By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority to do these things? But Jesus answered and said to them, I also will ask you one question, then answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men? Answer me. And they reasoned among themselves, saying, If we say from heaven, he will say, Why then did you not believe him? But if we say from men, they feared the people. For all counted John to have been a prophet indeed. So they answered and said to Jesus, We do not know. Jesus answered and said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. Then he began to speak to them in parables. A man planted a vineyard and set a hedge around it, dug a place for the wine vat and built a tower, and he leased it to vine dressers and went into a far country. Now at vintage time he sent a servant to the vine dressers that he might receive some of the fruit of the vineyard from the vine dressers. And they took him and beat him and sent him away empty handed. Again he sent them another servant, and at him they threw stones, wounded him in the head, and sent him away shamefully treated. And again he sent another. And him they killed, and many others, beating some and killing some. Therefore, still having one son, his beloved, he also sent him to them, last, saying, They will respect my son But those vine dressers said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours. So they took him and killed him and cast him out of the vineyard. Therefore, what will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the vine dressers and give the vineyard to others. Have you not even read this scripture? The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. And they sought to lay hands on him, but feared the multitude, for they knew he had spoken the parable against them. So they left him and went away. Please pray with me. Oh gracious Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your wisdom. We thank you for your spirit. We have no hope of rightly understanding what is happening here without him. And so once again, we pray, we beg you, enlighten our minds. Let us see our Lord here in this passage. We pray that you will soften our hearts, that we would be good soil, ready to receive your word. Please use it to make us more like Jesus Christ. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock, my strength My Redeemer. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. How many of you are familiar with the condition of decision paralysis? Do you know what that is? Kids, do you know what decision paralysis is? It's like when you go to Baskin Robbins and mama asks you, what flavor ice cream do you want? There's just too many. Too many choices. How can you pick the right one? There are some in this room who remember when life was simpler and easier. When there were only three flavors, chocolate, vanilla, and strawberry. And the right choice was right there in front of you. Chocolate. Of course. It must be chocolate. Now that's a trivial example of choices and decisions. But we all can suffer from this in our lives. There's so many decisions we have to make, so many choices that God gives us to make. He's given us so much agency in this life. How do you make the right decisions when there's a nearly infinite possibility of choices in front of you? How do you decide how you're going to behave? How you're going to act in any given situation? Ultimately it comes down to this question in my mind Who do you serve? Because whoever it is that you serve, if you serve them truly and faithfully, they will answer a lot of those decisions and questions for you. If you serve yourself, you'll make those kinds of decisions. If you serve God in heaven, boy, that will influence how you decide. But we all know that if we're serving ourselves, who does that really mean we're serving? We want to serve Christ. He's the King. He's the Lord of all creation. All that exists was made through Him. Mark has been helping us to see this fact. As we've been going through this gospel, we have been seeing these pictures, these snapshots, as if in a photo album. Of these episodes in Jesus' ministry. And every one of these episodes has shown us who he really is. Is he just the carpenter's son from Nazareth? No. Carpenter's sons can't do what this man did. Carpenter's sons can't cleanse lepers of their leprosy. In fact, no one can do that except God. Can carpenter's sons generally forgive sins? This one could And remember to prove to the crowd that was there when that paralyzed man was lowered from the roof, to prove that he, the Son of Man, had the power to forgive sins. Do you remember what he did? He told him, get up your mat. Get up, take up your mat, walk. He healed his body. Mark has been showing us the power of Jesus. Showing us his authority. This is the question that was brought to Jesus. He has entered into his city, the city of David. He's the son of David. This is his city, Jerusalem. And as he came, the people were shouting. Acclamation. But they were also praying. Do you remember what they were praying? Hosanna, save now, O God. Save us from the very psalm that we started our service with, Psalm 118. He has come into his city, he has come into his father's house. Do you remember what he did in his father's house? He saw lots of people turning it into a den of thieves, abusing it, using it for their own purposes. And that's why I chose to read what we went through the last time we were together in Mark. To remind us that The chief priests, the scribes, the people who should have known better than anyone else go to Jesus and ask him. Essentially, who do you think you are? We've been doing this well. It's been making lots of money. We've got lots of resources because of what we've been doing here. And you come in here and you shut it all down. Who gives you the right? Jesus. Being Jesus. He answers with such great wisdom. He answers the fool according to their folly, but he doesn't answer the fool according to their folly. He gives them this parable. And so I have been praying and hope that we will all see from this parable together. That rebelling against God is the most self-destructive thing that anyone can do. Brothers and sisters, do you realize that rebelling against God is the most destructive thing that you can do? And I want to examine this parable together in two parts. We're going to first look at verses 1 through 8, and we'll examine the progress of rebellion. And then we'll look at verses 9 through 12 and we'll see the result of rebellion. Let's start right there in verse 1. And see the progress of rebellion. Then he began to speak to them in parables. A man planted a vineyard and set a hedge around it, dug a place for the wine vat, and built a tower. And he leased it to vine dressers and went into a far country. The first thing we see in the progress of rebellion is that it begins with a denial of God's authority. The first way we see rebels against God denying his authority is we see that they deny his authority as designer. Do you see that there in verse 1? He's designed this vineyard. He's got the land. It's his He's taking great care in setting it up. That's why we are told that there's a a hedge around it. That's where his protection, he he cares very much about this vineyard, and he cares about the workers also. You know how we know that? It's because he says that he builds a tower. Why would a vineyard need a tower? Well that way somebody could be up there, they could see raiders who would be coming to attack and perhaps to steal the fruit of the vineyard. He cares about the vine. If there's wild animals that are coming in to eat the vine, someone on the tower can see it and can deal with it. He cares so much about this vineyard. And I hope you notice also that he has a plan for the vineyard. It says that he he dug a place for the wine bat. That might not sound very difficult to us in this modern day of A friend of mine and I have been trying to see if we can't make our own wine. It's actually a lot simpler than you would imagine. You just need a cool, dark place, and you let it sit and it kind of does what it does. But back in Jesus' day, in a vineyard, if you wanted to be able to mass-produce wine the way that they did, do you know what they had to do? They had to dig out a wine press. It was one solid block of stone. They had to dig an impression. That was large enough for all of the grapes and all of the skins and all of the things to be in there and for multiple people to be stomping on those grapes. It would have taken a lot of resources, a lot of time, a lot of energy to make that happen. And the point is that nobody does that just for fun. You only do that if you have a purpose and you want to produce wine. God is the designer and we see that he has carefully designed this vineyard and we've also seen that he's carefully defined the vineyard. It is indeed a vineyard is for wine. We see this again in verse 2, his authority as definer. It says, Now at vintage time he sent a servant to the vine dressers that he might receive some of the fruit of the vineyard from the vine dressers. You see that? He doesn't just hire anyone, he hires vine dressers, and he leases it to them while he's away. And when the time is right, he comes to collect. The reason that he has a vineyard is so that he can enjoy the fruit of it He set its purpose. Now we don't know why he was asking for the fruit of the vine at that time. Maybe he wanted to sell it. Maybe he wanted to drink it. Maybe his son was getting married and he wanted the very choicest of wine for the wedding celebration. Regardless of the fact that he doesn't share his purpose in this parable or maybe directly to the vine dressers, it's his He gets to do with it as he pleases. He's designed it, he's defined it, and the rebels deny his authority to define the purpose. And we see that when he sends a servant to them. He sends this servant Because he also has the authority of a delegator. He's the head of the household. He's allowed to delegate his authority to others. And to send them to do work on his behalf. And he sent servants that they would gather the fruit of the vine, the fruit of his vineyard. What's the difference between the servant who's sent and the servants that are there in the in the vineyard Objectively, there is no difference. They work for the same master. They're equals But the servants in the vineyard prove that they deny his authority as a delegator because of how they treat the servant. Do you see that there in verse 3? And they took him and beat him and sent him away empty-handed. If they serve the same master as this servant, Why would they do such a thing? It shows who they really serve, doesn't it? And so we see that the progress of rebellion, it begins with a denial of God's authority, his authority as designer, as definer, as a delegator. But it doesn't end there. Rebellion against God will proceed. And it proceeds then into a full-on rejection of God's mercy. Look with me at verse four and verse five. Again he sent them another servant, and at him they threw stones, wounded him in the head, and sent him away, shamefully treated. And again he sent another, and him they killed. And many others, beating some and killing some. They reject God's mercy. And we see that it is a an undeserved mercy. So much more merciful than you or I would ever have been if it were our vineyard. You sent a servant to get the fruit of the vineyard, and that servant was beaten. Would you send another servant? Oh, that was just an accident. Send that other servant and he's killed? Another accident? Send more servants and they're shamefully treated? Would you keep sending servants? I know I wouldn't. I'd have been done with them after the first one. Yet God, our God, your God, is merciful. That's such an undeserved mercy. It's such a long-suffering mercy. He just keeps sending them. He keeps sending servants, even though they've gone so far as to kill them. Ultimately rebellion progresses through a denial of God's authority and a rejection of his mercy. It's a hatred. And specifically, it's a hatred of his love. Look at verse 6. Therefore, still having one son, his beloved, he also sent him to them last, saying, They will respect my son. It's literally incredible. It's hard to believe. He saw how they treated his servants, but he still sends his beloved son, his only son. And he gives them this one last chance to turn away. How do you see your great God in this? He keeps sending servants, and ultimately he sends his son because he cares so much about you. He wants you to turn from your rebellion and to turn from your sin. He wanted these vine dressers to turn from their rebellion. What do you think would have happened if after the fifth servant They came to their senses and said, you know what? Let's stop all this killing. Let's package up the wine and let's send it along. Turn with me now to 2 Peter. 2 Peter chapter 3. I want you to see something about our God. Our God is so merciful. And so caring. In 2 Peter 3, verse 9, we're told this. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness. But is long suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. The Lord wants to save. He's so long-suffering because of his great love for humanity. It's great love for you. How long suffering has God been with you? How many chances to turn away from your sin has he given you? How many servants has he sent to you? I want us to see in verse seven. That these vine dressers are not ignorant. They recognize the sun. They recognize him. Look in look there. But those vine dressers said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours. They recognize him. But look at how diabolical they are. Literally, they are satanic in their thinking. Does it make any sense that if they killed the heir suddenly the the vineyard would be theirs? It's satanic because it makes zero sense. It's completely illogical, completely irrational. They envy the Lord of the Vineyard. They envy the son of the Lord of the Vineyard. They want what's his. They covet what's his. In the way that they talk about him, we see that they serve themselves and their own self-interests. If they kill him, they can take what's his. And I just have to point out the beauty of our God. And that he makes you heirs of his vineyard. You don't have to kill the son to become an heir of the Father in heaven. You have to embrace the Son. You have to flee to the Son. You have to submit to the Son and bow before Him and worship Him. Beg him for salvation. I wonder what would have happened to the vine dressers had they done this to the Son of the Lord of the Vineyard. The beloved son is sent. The beloved son is recognized. And then what happens? The son is rejected. Verse 8. So they took him. And killed him, and they cast him out of the vineyard. They hate him. And what does that really mean? If they hate the son, who do they really hate? They hate the father. They hate the Lord of the vineyard. They hate the one who's given them their whole livelihood. They hate the one who's cared so much for them and designed their life and protected them. Who sent servant after servant to hate him. This is how rebellion progresses. Denial of God's authority, a rejection of His mercy, and ultimately a hatred of His love. Have you seen this in the world? Perhaps more poignantly, have you seen this in yourself? Is there something going wrong in your life right now? Is there something that's been wrong in your life for a very long time? And I don't mean, are you struggling with sin? I know all of us are struggling with sin. I'm asking When you think about your life, does it get you angry? Why do I have to work so hard, Lord? Why can't these kids just sleep, Lord? Why is my wife so cold, Lord? Why are my friends so distant, Lord? Do you rebel against his design for your life, knowing that every single thing, good and bad, that he ordains for you is working for good for you, who love him and are called according to his purpose. Has he made you a Christian and defined the purpose of your life? Your life is to serve him, to glorify him. Have you found yourself somehow straying into that weird world of glorifying yourself? You can tell that if you get upset when others are blessed more than you When others are being used by God to bring him glory, do you get a little bit of covetousness that rises in you, a little bit of envy? I don't want to be used like that. Why can't I be used like that? Doesn't that sound a little bit like I can make this vineyard mine? If you know your Bibles and you know Israel's history, you see the poignancy of this parable. Now that's why we read that passage from Isaiah 5, so that you know that Jesus is not He's not just pulling this out of thin air, though he's allowed to. He's using a story that they would have known. And the story has been the same from the beginning. God has made for himself a people. And he has made them for himself for his own glory, at his own pleasure. There's nothing in them, there was nothing in the Israelites that made them worthy to be saved out of Egypt. What was most special about the Israelites is that they were called by God's name. And God sent prophet after prophet, servant after servant to his vineyard to warn them. to warn them about their rebellion, that they were following other gods, they were rejecting him as their Lord, rejecting him as the designer and the definer Well we see now the progress of rebellion, how it moves. Let's look together at what the result of rebellion is. We start in verse nine. Jesus asks, Therefore, what will the owner of the vineyard do? In Matthew and Luke, there's some slight differences. The answer comes from the chief priests and the scribes and the Pharisees, and it proves that they understood exactly the principle at play here. But Mark keeps it simple. And Jesus answers so that no one is mistaken at all. He will come and destroy the vine dressers and give the vineyard to others. And so the first thing we see about the result of rebellion is that it's a very just result. There's justice in it. Think about the sermon that we heard this morning. Vengeance is the Lord's. He's the only one who's allowed to exact retribution for those who have wronged him. He's the only one. We know that when we sin Even when we sin against someone else, against whom really have we sinned? Think about Psalm 51. Yeah, David sinned against Bathsheba. David really sinned against Uriah. But what does he say in Psalm 51? Against you and you alone, O Lord, have I sinned. Destruction is what this kind of rebellion deserves. Anything else would be unjust. Notice that destruction is not the only result, but there's also a replacement But the thing that really gives me great joy in this verse is that it's not a replacement of the vineyard. He doesn't set a fire, burn the whole thing to the ground, and say, I'm starting over from scratch. There were other times where he was going to do that, you remember? Remember in the wilderness? When the people were grumbling and complaining, and he said to Moses, You know what I'm going to do? I'm just gonna be done with them, and I'll raise up a new people from you. Do you remember what Moses says to God? This will just cause so many people to have the wrong idea of you, Lord. They won't know though that you have revealed yourself as full of mercy, full of compassion, full of long suffering. They will think that you brought us out of slavery just to destroy us. God says, you have answered wisely. He doesn't replace the vineyard, but he will replace those vine dressers. And so that we have no room for mistaking what is happening here, Jesus then quotes Psalm 118 again. Verse 10. Have you not even read this scripture? The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. There's justice in the result. And Jesus in this quote points out that it's an intentional result. This is how it's always been planned. He's quoting from Psalm 118, verses 22 to 23. I just want to read a little bit beyond that quote. I'm going to start in Psalm 118, verse 21, and I'll read to 24. I will praise you for you have answered me and have become my salvation. The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day. The Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. It was always God's plan. That man would reject their Savior. He knew it would happen. He knew that the one that is rejected would be exalted, lifted up That's the day that He has made, the day he has established, the day he has been planning. And when we look in the prophets and the Old Testament about the day of the Lord, that day It's a day of judgment. And if we've missed that this son, the one rejected, is the judge. Matthew's parallel account and Luke's give us a little bit more. They say to us For example, in Luke twenty, verse eighteen, whoever falls on that stone will be broken, but on whomever it falls it will grind him to powder. It's a pointless, pointless rebellion against the Son of God. You have no hope if you are in rebellion against Jesus. No hope for salvation because he is the judge. He's the judge of all. He's the judge of those who kill him. He's the judge of those who reject him. And then the last thing we see together is the reality of the result of rebellion. And the reality, self-destruction. And they sought to lay hands on him, but feared the multitude, for they knew he had spoken the parable against them. So they left him and went away. Self destructive. Rejecting God, rebelling against God. You know that sometimes when we rebel against God, you know what God says? He says, Go ahead. I'll let you. Because it rejecting God and rebelling against Him is its own punishment. He'll remove His restraining hand from you and you will keep going in that sin. He removed the restraint from these men. They wanted to lay hands on Jesus. And what's the only reason they didn't? Not that they feared Jesus. Not that they feared God. Mark doesn't tell us that they feared that perhaps they could be wrong. And Jesus was sent by God. Nope, they feared men. They feared men. And at the very end, we see the self-imposed result is a removal of relationship from the Son of God. They leave him. They depart from his presence. It's self-inflicted. Brothers and sisters. Don't rebel against God. It is the most self-destructive thing that you can do. And so consider in your own life, has God sent servants to you? How do you treat them? When God sends servants to you, do they go away from you wounded about the head? Wounded in their heart? We're all very familiar with Matthew eighteen and and how it applies to discipline. That if someone sins against you, what are you to do? It's the very first step if someone has offended you. You're so go to them Point out their offense. Has a brother or sister ever come to you and told you that you have offended them? What was the fruit that God was looking for at that moment? Was he looking for defense? Was he was God in need of a list of all the reasons you did the terrible thing you did? See what had happened was You just don't understand. I've been under a lot of stress lately. And and who are you? Who are you to come tell me that I did something wrong? Would are you perfect? Do you never sin? I made a mistake. Leave me alone about it. Is that what God wants? And if you progress, if you continue in a rebellion against him, when he comes seeking the fruit of repentance from you, Matthew 18 says to bring a witness, bring another servant. You're going to treat them the same way? He sends more servants to you. And if you reject them, what's the last thing? Bring it to the church. Bring it to the officers of the church. Gifts to you, his servants that have been set apart as gifts to you, God's people. What do you do? When the elders of a church come to you and say, you should stop. You must stop. Things must change. I know some of us have gone through that, and God has used it mightily in our lives, bringing us back to a right mind. Where we're thinking about our life and understanding that it's his life he's given us. Understanding that it's his vineyard he's put us in. Your life is not yours Your vineyard is not yours. You're just a tenant, just a vine dresser. He cares so much about you. He's given you good work to do, but it's not yours to do it as you please. And so if God is sending servants to you, the church to you, God has had you sit under preaching so that you would learn and understand what he expects of you and what you should believe about him. He seeks fruit from your vineyard. He wants fruit from all of your labors because you've been given a life and the labor and the work to do for him. He wants glory from you He wants faithfulness from you. Let's just focus on one of those. Because I'm just tremendously bad at organizing time. Let's focus on glory. God is expecting the fruit of your life to be his glory. How do we do that? All of us have different vocations. We all do very different things. Some of us work outside the home, some of us work tremendously hard inside the home, some of us have worked so hard that companies have told us to stop working there and they pay you to stay stopped working there. It's called retirement. How do you glorify God? With all that extra time, how do you glorify God? With all the resources that are gained from all that hard work, do you use it for his glory? Every bit of it? Or do you set aside the tenth and say, I've done enough, I've done my part? I get to decide how to use all the rest of this. If God is expecting glory from you, how do you give him glory? Do you love his people? Do you give glory to God by loving one another, so that as others see you love each other, they see God That's just pointed out to us this morning, that they would see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Or are you doing good works to accumulate to yourself glory? Do you give to those in need so that you can tell others, yeah, I'm I'm definitely a servant of God. Do you know how many thousands of dollars I've given to those people? Do you know how much time I've given to those people? The reality is, you haven't given all of it. But that is what God is expecting. Every second of your life belongs to Him. Every grape on the vine belongs to him. Whatever you do with it, how you use it, how you work it, it's all God's. And so, brothers and sisters, I end with one final warning. In case you thought this was only going to be applicable to Israel, in Romans chapter eleven, there is a warning A warning that Paul gives to the church, to those who think that somehow God's mercy cannot even reach the Jews because of their rejection. In Romans chapter 11, starting in verse 19, this is what he says: You will say then, branches were broken off that I might be grafted in. Well said. Because of unbelief they were broken off, and you stand by faith. Do not be haughty, but fear. For if God did not spare the natural branches, he may not spare you either. Therefore, consider the goodness and severity of God on those who fell severity, but toward you goodness. If you continue in his goodness. Otherwise, you also will be cut off. And they also, if they do not continue in unbelief, will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again. For if you were cut out of the olive tree, which is wild by nature, and were grafted, contrary to nature, into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these, who are natural branches, be grafted into their own olive tree? Brothers and sisters, I just want to encourage you if you're wondering if you are still in some kind of rebellion against God. I just ask you to consider this. How much joy is produced inside your soul when you hear that God is saving sinners. How much joy comes into your heart when you hear that God is blessing other churches. How much joy comes into your life. When you hear about the great and mighty, wonderful acts that God is doing for people you will never meet. Does joy come up? Or does jealousy? If it's jealousy, I would warn you, think about the progress of rebellion. Are you denying God's authority to give others what he won't give you? Are you rejecting his mercy? Are you rejecting him every time he comes to you seeking glory from your life? Are you rejecting his servants? And I would encourage you that in Christ, even if you are in rebellion to him, cry out Cry out from the depths of your soul. And don't wait another day. Fall on the cornerstone. Be broken by it. So he will build you up again. A vineyard. Fit for his purposes. Serving him, bringing forth fruit for his glory. Please pray with me