Follow along with me. Then the apostles gathered to Jesus and told him all things, both what they had done and what they had taught. And he said to them, Come aside by yourselves to a deserted place and rest awhile. For there were many coming and going, and they did not even have time to eat. So they departed to a deserted place in the boat by themselves But the multitudes saw them departing, and many knew him, and ran there on foot from all the cities. They arrived before them and came together too with him. And Jesus, when he came out, saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion for them, because they were like sheep, not having a shepherd. So he began to teach them many things When the day was now far spent, his disciples came to him and said, This is a deserted place, and already the hour is late Send them away, that they may go into the surrounding country and villages, and buy themselves bread, for they have nothing to eat. But he answered and said to them, You give them something to eat And they said to him, Shall we go and buy two hundred denari worth of bread and give them something to eat? But he said to them, How many loaves do you have? Go and see And when they found out, they said, Five and two fish. Then he commanded them to make them all sit down in groups on the green grass. So they sat down in ranks, and hundreds, and in fifties. And when he had taken the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven, blessed, and broke the loaves. And gave them to his disciples to set before them. And the two fish he divided among them all. So they all ate and were filled And they took up twelve baskets full of fragments and of the fish. Now those who had eaten the loaves were about five thousand men. Please pray with me. Our God in heaven, this is your holy word. By your spirit, if would you move through us? Would you lead us into the truth? Would you guide us into that which is most important? That we would not doubt you, that we would trust what you have recorded here. Oh Lord, even just reading this has given us a glorious picture of our shepherd, of your son. We pray that through this time we have together, we would see Jesus so clearly. And Lord, I pray that you would let the meditation of my heart and the words of my mouth be pleasing to you, acceptable to you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. So you notice uh we had that little bit from Moses' life in the bulletin for our confession of sin and Maybe you haven't learned much about Moses. Most of us know quite a bit about Moses. Some of us, all we know about Moses is from that movie Prince of Egypt. Well, you know what, that's pretty okay. Prince of Egypt's a pretty good movie. And they got it they got it right on a lot of things, especially the songs. Wonderful music. But one thing I've always wondered about Moses You know, we we see him on the Mount of Transfiguration with Jesus, so I have every confidence that Moses will be in heaven, that we will meet him. And see him and spend the rest of eternity with him. But when I get there, I've got some questions for that guy. I just want to know after everything he'd seen. He saw a burning bush that wasn't consumed. He he he had seen God save his own life. He knew the story of how he was not killed. After all of this. He he threw the staff on the ground, he picked it up, it became a snake again. He had his withered hand that when he put it close to his breast it was healed again. He did all these things that that Jehovah told him to do And yet he was worried about his slow speech and his slow tongue. Of all the great things that he was told he could and would do, that's what he was worried about. I'd also want to ask him about, you know, after everything he'd seen and done, because that was before the the plagues and the exodus. So I could understand if he didn't really get a good picture of what Jehovah was going to do. What was the great I am planning for his people? But after all that had happened in Egypt, all that had happened on Sinai All that had happened with the giving of the Ten Commandments and then the smashing of the Ten Commandments, and then the giving again of the Ten Commandments, the Golden Calf, all of that that Moses had seen. Why in the world Did he strike that rock with the theft? He had seen God do so many mighty and wondrous things. Why did he doubt that God was powerful enough to bring the water with just a word? Well, we have been going through Mark. Mark has been taking us through the life of Jesus. Remember from the very beginning of Mark. This is the testimony, the gospel, that He is the Son of God. And he's been giving us these what I like to think of as photographs. They're really snapshots in the life and the ministry of Jesus. And we have been going through these and we've come all the way up now to this latter part of chapter six. We've looked at the snapshots of Of Jesus doing what only God can do, healing lepers, cleansing people of their sins, forgiving sins, and giving people restored legs so that they could walk and so that all the other people could see that he really did have the power and the authority to do that. He'd been teaching and preaching like no one had ever heard before Healing all kinds of diseases. Most recently in chapter 6, we saw that he had gone home to Nazareth. And the lack of faith that they had there meant that they had rejected him. And it wasn't that he didn't have power, but it was that they did not believe in his father's power. And so not many miracles were done there. And then we saw that he sent out the twelve. They were his disciples at that point up until that point. They were just following after him, learning from him. And that was the point where they become something different, right? They became the apostles, those sent ones of God. And he sent them out to do his mission. And if you recall. He told them that they would need to depend on him for everything that they needed. They would depend on God alone, and God would supply all that they needed through his people. And then the last time that we were together, we saw in the account of John the Baptist and his beheading, we saw that there was a man of God who was doing the will of God. Yet from our perspective, from a worldly perspective, it did not look like he was in any way successful, right? How successful can you be if you're in jail You're in a prison, being called out just every once in a while to be the joker for a king's court, to prophesy a little bit. And we saw that even though John the Baptist was beheaded as a reward for a perverted dance at a party he threw for his friends. Even though that was John's end, it did not indicate failure. Because if you remember, when Herod hears about Jesus, he recalls John the Baptist And he says, oh, this must be John who I beheaded, come back to life. Well, obviously Herod didn't get it, but John's life was similar enough that even someone like Herod could say, this man Jesus is from God, because I know John was from God. Well, tonight's passage is such a well-known passage. Most of us have probably heard dozens of sermons on the feeding of the 5,000. But it is so important for us. And I'm very glad that God had Mark incorporate this for us in his gospel because it teaches us a very crucial and valuable lesson. That lesson. The loving shepherd will never, ever fail to provide for his sheep. Brothers and sisters, your loving shepherd will never fail to provide for you. We're going to look at this under two divisions tonight. We'll look first at verses 30 through 34 at the loving shepherd. And then we'll look at the rest of the passage 35 through 44, his unfailing provision. So let's go right now and just look at verses 30 through 34. Look at verse 30. Then the apostles gathered to Jesus and told him all things, or in the Greek, told him everything, what they had done, what they had taught. This is such an amazing and joyful time for these guys. They had been out on mission, out around Nazareth, around the city of Tiberias, preaching, teaching, healing, casting out demons. They were doing mighty works in God's name. And so they come back and they gather to the Master. Right, as Pastor Jesse was reminding us this morning, we are all kind of soldiers in this, and we have one great commanding officer. It's his mission. That we follow. And these are all of the generals coming before the Supreme General. And they get to share the glory of what God has done with the very Son of God Himself. And then we see that Jesus, the shepherd, the king, the master, knows exactly what his servants need. He knew exactly what the apostles needed. Look at what he says there in verse 31. After hearing everything they've done, he says, Come aside, by yourselves, to a deserted place and rest awhile. Deserted place may seem a little strange to our ears. It really we can just think of it as private. Let's all go to a private retreat. Where we can just spend our time together, the 13 of them, the 12 apostles and their Lord, and they can rest a while. For there were many coming and going, and they did not even have time to eat. This is something crucial for us to remember that when we are about the business of our Savior, if we're doing the work of our God, we're on mission. It's going to be busy. It's going to be hard. It is hard, hard work to serve Christ, to share the gospel. But this is an important lesson. Even good hard work can benefit from arrest. God is not expecting you to work yourself to death. He knows what you need, and he will give what you need. Sometimes we work ourselves to the bone because we are actually afraid to stop. Any of you like that? Afraid to stop because you don't even know if you'll ever get going again. And so we just keep at it and keep at it and keep at it. But we can benefit from a rest. It's okay to take a break. Now we know that this rest that they needed, it was not a long rest. It was a very little rest, very short rest, because We know what happens next. And so we together, having this whole picture before us, see that God did not lie, they did get a little rested, didn't they? I don't know how long that boat ride was, but they at least got that. And I kept imagining to myself, oh, what a ride that would have been. All of them exhausted from the their labors, all of them overjoyed at what they had seen God do through them, and the thirteen of them on the boat with their Savior. I doubt that they were afraid. They wouldn't have been afraid of much after he had to silence and calm the storm, right? They probably never were scared again. Actually that's not true. We'll see after this. They do get scared on a boat one more time. They're there, they're wet resting with Jesus. And then they arrive. And when they arrive to this supposedly private place, this deserted place, We get again a glimpse of the love and compassion of our good shepherd. Look at what it says there. They departed. They go to the deserted place in the boat by themselves, but the multitude saw them departing, and many knew him, and ran there on foot. From all the cities. They arrived before them and came together to him. And Jesus, when he came out, He saw a great multitude and was moved with compassion for them, because they were like sheep not having a shepherd. So he began to teach them many things. This is really astounding to me. I was talking to some of the young ladies on Friday night who said that they were at cross-country practice, and I was just shocked and amazed that at their practice they had run three miles. That's a lot of miles. Well, to this guy, that's a lot of miles. Okay. But as I was looking at this and trying to think about, okay, how does this work in the passage, the parallel passage in Luke, and you should know Every gospel records this. And every gospel records it pretty much in the same way. That should tell us something about how important This feeding of the 5,000 is. In Luke's gospel, he tells us the town where he goes. He says they go to a country or a field or countryside belonging to the city of Bethsaida. So I don't expect all of you to spend a whole lot of time looking at the Sea of Galilee on maps, so I'll help you out. The Sea of Galilee is like an upside-down pear, right? It's kind of fat on the top and a little thinner at the bottom. And where the Jordan River feeds into the Sea of Galilee is a town called Bethsidah. And all around Bethsida were these fields that were just fallow. They just didn't do anything. There wasn't a lot of people on that side of the Sea of Galilee. If you look at a modern map, it's a bunch of agricultural land in Israel right now. So you can see why it's just fields of grass. But there, if if we are to assume that after in Nazareth, which is kind of down south here from the Sea of Galilee, you have it around Nazareth, that's where they were sent out to go and start preaching. And the city of Tiberius, which is where Herod had his capital, that's where he had set up his place, right, on the sea. If that was where John the Baptist was beheaded and he was hearing about Jesus then we could assume that it was either from there or maybe pretty close by the town of Capernaum, sounds familiar, where they had a base of operations. So I Like to think, as some commentators do, that they gathered together in Capernaum, maybe at Peter's house. And they kind of had a plan. Oh, yeah, after we're all done our journey, we're going to gather together to Jesus. And so if they were in Capernaum, do you know how far Capernaum is from Bethsida? It's not that far, but it's still really far. It's six miles They ran six miles faster than they could go in a very straight line by a boat. And the Bible tells us that they ran there on foot. So fast that they beat the boat. Do you have that kind of motivation about anything in your life? I don't know if I do. To run six miles to beat Jesus to there. And and get this, they were just guessing. These people recognized Jesus, and they were guessing what was the deserted place that they might be headed to. And they made it there. And it was not for naught, because as Jesus comes out of the boat, he sees them, he has compassion on them, and he does what he does. He starts to teach them. Whether or not they sought him for all the right reasons, Jesus showed compassion on them and taught them. They needed a shepherd. And he knows that the sheep that hear his voice will recognize his voice and will come to him. And I couldn't help but wonder how many people came to Saving Faith that day, hearing the words of Jesus. So exhausted they couldn't even mount a defense in their mind. Well, that can't be true, because they're just exhausted from running six miles to see Jesus. Jesus probably needed to rest himself. He probably wanted a lot longer of a rest than that short boat ride, but he does not fail to give to the people what it is that they most needed. And what they most needed was Jesus himself. He is there with them, teaching them, being with them. In the other accounts we see, he's also healing, doing miracles. He's doing what Jesus does. God does what he does, and you can't stop him. No matter what you think, you can't stop God from doing what he does. And we've already seen in our bulletin, what does our God do? Our God is gracious. Our God is full of compassion. He's slow to anger. He's great in mercy. Sometimes it feels like we're really trying hard. To prove God wrong. Sometimes we are trying very, very hard to prove to ourselves that God is not forgiving. Or that God is always just angry at us. But I'm here to tell you tonight, God is not angry. He is slow to anger And if you have heard his voice and recognized his voice, do not wait another moment. Flee to him. Run to him. Run like these people. Don't let not knowing where he might exactly be get in your way. Flee to Jesus for the forgiveness that you need. And so we come then to the rest of this passage, in which we see that Jesus Jesus is God. He alone can do what God did. He has the creative power of the one who made the heavens and the earth. And we see that in the rest of this passage in his unfailing provision. And the first thing we see looking at this together is a challenging scenario. And we see this in verses 35 through 38. So let's look at that together. If you have your Bible there, just look at verse 35. When the day was now far spent, his disciples came to him and said, This is a deserted place, and already the hour is late. Quite literally in the Greek it really just says, hey, many hours have come and gone. Many hours. It means that Jesus didn't give them like the short end of the stick. It wasn't like Jesus with his you know how sometimes people come to you and it's like, I really need you and you're like, Well, I'm really tired. And you give them a little bit of yourself. Yeah, we could talk. Let's talk for twenty minutes. We'll talk You ever notice that in those situations you're really quick to tell people what they need to do? You're not quite slow to listen. Because you're not really there. Jesus never did that. Jesus gave all of himself to this crowd of people for hours and hours and hours, even though he was already exhausted, along with all of the disciples and apostles. It was getting late. Well, in this time of history, getting late was a big deal. Darkness was a big deal. There were still lions that lived in civilized areas. There were still animals that went out at night to hunt, even people. And as we all know, the worst creatures on this planet at nighttime are Human beings. It's pretty dangerous to try to travel six miles back to your home in darkness without any source of light. And so the Well, I've heard sermons and read commentaries where they talk about the disciples and their bad attitude. I just couldn't see it here. I just really couldn't see it. I don't see the disciples having a bad attitude, wanting to just get back to their rest. They really were concerned for this crowd of people. The very logical concern. They need to eat. People need food. And so we have these men who honestly I want to ask them the same questions I asked Moses. You just came and reported everything to God. You reported all that you had done, the demons you had cast out, the healing, the teaching, and yet at this time the only thing you can think of is ever we're all doomed if we can't all go to McDonald's before it's 6 p. m. The people didn't want to leave. Why would they? This is where Jesus is. They just they just almost killed themselves to get where he was. Why would they leave? And so the apostles, in their concern, and very reasonably, they say, Jesus Uh well here in the New King James it's one of those few scenarios where I really I really don't like the way they do this. The New King James says, send them away. And the first time I read it in my head it was like, get these guys out of here But in the Greek, it's so much more beautiful. It's release them. Release them. They won't leave unless you tell them to go. Wouldn't that be true for you? If you were at the feet of Jesus, the only thing that can make me leave Jesus' feet is if Jesus said, I need you over there. Would you go? And so they want him to release them. Now, in John's passage, in John chapter 6, in his parallel of this, it says that Jesus knew what he was planning to do. And so a lot of this is a test. And we can we can take that into our understanding of the passage. Jesus is in no way being confused, or in no way wondering what he might do. He knows exactly the plan he has. for his people. And so he says to them, give them something to eat yourselves. And again, uh a lot of times whenever I've read this, I've wanted to just be mad at these apostles. Why are you questioning him? Why are you worried about the cost of money? I don't think they were worried about the cost of money. I think they were literally just wondering, is this what you want us to do? Do you want us to go? And for, remember, 5,000 men, that's just the men. The other passages tell us it doesn't count the women and children. And so there's estimates that it might have been close to eighteen or twenty thousand people that were there in that field. If you figure there was for each of the men there was at least one woman and I don't know, maybe two kids. I don't know what I don't know what the average Jewish birth rate in the first century was, but there might have been twenty thousand people there. And so they do some quick calculus in their heads and they go, Whoa should we go take from the money bag and buy enough for everybody to just at least have a bite? And in case you were wondering, 200 denari, that's more than half a year's wages. In fact, from some of the sources I looked at, they said this would have been enough to feed a whole family for a year. Two hundred denarii worth of food. But look at what Jesus does. Verse 38. How many loaves do you have? Go and see. Do you pick up what's happening here? God has already provided. He has already provided what would be needed. But if we look at what God's provided just from our earthly eyes, just from our own understanding, five loaves and two fishes does not look like even enough for 13 people. If that was all they had, it wasn't even enough for Jesus and his disciples. But this is what Jesus the Master Had always intended to happen. And so he takes charge. And he instructs his under-shepherds what they must do in order to feed his sheep. And so unfolds from this challenging situation the Lord Jesus' powerful solution. And this is the rest of our passage, verses 39 through 44. Then he commanded them to make them all sit down in groups on the green grass. Did that not call to mind the psalm we sung? And so they sat down in ranks, in hundreds and in fifties. Any of you ever been confused about what that means or the significance of that? Ranks and 50s. It's interesting. The word here in the Greek is the same word from which we get symposium. And so what it's really saying is he divided them into parties, into groups, and that's very logical and reasonable. It would have been really hard to give an ordered distribution of food to twenty thousand people. And then it says by hundreds and fifties, and if you look at the way that they would have gathered, sometimes uh in the the early first century when they would gather outside for certain events it was a apparently they would have an almost rectangular seating arrangement. And so if you look at the numbers there, yeah, a hundred and fifty, and another a hundred with an open side, there would have been about a group of two hundred and fifty people. All sitting together in a very ordered and organized way. And so he has them sit down, and when he had taken the five loaves and the two fish, what does Jesus do? He takes what God had already provided, and he recognizes that this is from his Father. He blesses it, he breaks it And then he gives it to the disciples to disperse among all the people. There's order in how God operates But I also want to point out that the order that God has given must be obeyed. The apostles obeyed indeed exactly what Jesus said to do. Notice what Jesus' example to us is. Even though he could have taken the glory to himself, he gives the glory to whom? To his Father. He looks up. He blesses it in his father's name. This is God's miraculous provision, and what I really want us to make sure we understand. is God can miraculously provide through what seems like very ordinary things. Perhaps He's already miraculously provided for you through what you already have. We'll get to that in a minute. The last thing I want to point out comes to us in these last few verses. So they all ate and were filled, and they took up twelve baskets full of fragments. And of the fish. Now those who had eaten the loaves were about 5,000 men. No matter what anybody is going to try to tell you about what happened in Jesus' ministry, there is no way that they can claim this was some mass hallucination. The word there for filled is a specific word that means filled. Doesn't mean they appeared to be filled or they were somehow, it means satiated. They were satisfied. They were no longer hungry. They had all the food that they could possibly have needed. And then you look at how much was taken up. It shows us quite clearly there is no way to explain this other than a miraculous creative power at work through Jesus. He created more food than was there. If they took up twelve basketfuls of fragments, I don't even think that five loaves and one fish would have fit in one basket. Or, well. Would have not fit in one basket. It was far more space than was needed. And so brothers and sisters The loving shepherd, your loving shepherd, will never fail to provide for his sheep. Use this snapshot from Mark to remind yourself, you do not have to worry. God does it miraculously, and yet he does it through men Through people, through his servants. Is there something that you desperately need in your life? There might be somebody in this room right now that God has given exactly what it is you need. You won't know if you don't know any of the people in this room. Remember in James it says, you receive not because you ask not. Is there something that you desperately need? Have you asked for it? The disciples came and they asked, now of course, maybe they could have asked in a little bit different way, but they asked, in essence, how shall we feed these people? Are you asking God? Is there someone in your life that you're desperate to reach with the gospel? And you say, Lord, Give me what I need to feed them. Give me what I need to feed them. The answer won't always be send them to someone else. The answer won't always be release them so they can go and try to get what they can for themselves. No. Especially if you know that that person is running headlong down that super slippery path that leads right to damnation in hell. God has given you something to give to them. And so I would ask you, if you might be one that God has given exactly what is needed for others, do you think you don't have enough? Do you think you don't have enough Bible knowledge to talk to somebody about the gospel? Do you think you don't have enough time because of your busy schedule to set a half an hour apart for coffee and a conversation? Do you think you don't have enough skill, piety, righteousness, whatever it is you don't think you have enough of, why is that stopping you? All they had was five loaves and two fish for twenty thousand people. If you think you don't have enough, perhaps what it is really going on Is that you, like Moses, have started to lose sight of who this God you serve really is, what he really does, how he really operates He's the creator of all things. He owns the cattle in a thousand hills. Is money your problem? That's not a big deal. There are lots of people with lots of money. Money is the easiest thing God can give someone. If you think you don't have enough to help or to share, just remember this. He gave it to you for the purpose of being used to feed his sheep. And so the last application I want to give to you I say last, but you know I forgive me, I often lie. About that. Just about that. Just that it's the last thing, because sometimes I remember something else. Be careful what you do with your stuff Whose stuff is it for real? It's God. In the other accounts it's the little boy who had the loaves and the fishes. I wonder if he was uh on his way there really planning to share it with all those people. But the stuff that God's given you is not yours. It is his. You are a steward of it. Be careful with it. Don't find yourself in a situation where you can't be called to help the one that he gave that thing to you for because the younger you squandered it. Because the younger you did what you wanted with it rather than what God wanted And so, brothers and sisters, trust in God, trust in your loving shepherd, trust in his sovereignty and his plan. Remember who it is that you serve. Remember who is your God. Remember whose mission you've been called to be a part of. Don't forget all the things. When you at night are telling the Lord what has happened in that day. Don't forget to thank him for simply calling you into the mission and giving you everything you need to be successful in it. Your shepherd loves you. He knows exactly what you need, and he will never, ever fail to provide exactly what you need. Please pray with me.