We now have the privilege of hearing from God's Word, and so I'd ask that you'd please stand. We're going to be looking at Acts chapter two, and it is verses one through twenty-one. Acts chapter two, one through twenty one. When the day of Pentecost had fully come, they were all with one accord in one place, and suddenly there came a sound from heaven, as of a rushing mighty wind. And it filled the whole house the whole house where they were sitting. Then there appeared to them divided tongues as of fire, and one sat upon each of them, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. And there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men, from every nation under heaven. And when this sound occurred the multitude came together and were confused, because every one heard them speak in his own language. Then they were all amazed and marvelled, saying to one another, Look, are not all these who speak Galileans? And how is it that we hear each in our own language in which we were born, Parthinians and Medes and Ilamites, those Dwelling in Mesopotamia, Judea, and Cappadocea, Pontus, and Asia, Pigria and Epamphylia, Egypt, and parts of Libya adjoining Cyrene. Visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes Cretans and Arabs, we hear them speaking in our own tongues the wonderful works of God. So they were all amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, Whatever could this mean? Others mocking said, They're full of new wine. But Peter, standing up with the eleven, raised his voice and said to them, Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you and heed my words For these are not drunk, as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day, but this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel, and it shall come to pass in the last days, said God. that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your young men shall see visions, your old men shall dream dreams, and on my men servants and on my maidservants I will pour out my spirit in those days. and they shall prophesy. I will show wonders in heaven above, and signs in the earth beneath, blood and fire, and vapor of smoke. The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the coming of the great and awesome day of the Lord. And it shall come to pass that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Heavenly Father, we we see so much here, but we need the spiritual illumination. Lord, we so badly need you to send your spirit amongst us and you have. And so we claim the promises this morning that we would be able to see and that we would be able to hear in the name of Christ. Amen. Please be seated. For many years, I don't know that I've missed many years, uh, but my family and I would go to Chinkateak, uh, Virginia. Some of you have traveled there. Uh and I I remember being almost raised there as a boy is what it felt like because the the memories were so uh vivid of going there and uh taking the the off-road vehicle onto the beach, uh my dad's Eddie Bauer Bronco and then on the right hand side you would have a sound where you could go clamming And you'd have tidal poles on the right hand side where you could find hermit crabs, and it was great. It was especially great when you were a young child such as myself who was scared of the ocean I would walk in and not only were the breakers crashing, but if I stepped on any shell, I immediately thought it was a crab or a shark or and and then after watching Jaws Uh good luck. Good luck with that. Um I eventually overcame that fear. I'm I'm not sure why, because we surf fish there and catch sharks all the time. But I eventually overcame it. And and and once I did, and I bet you you're like this too, you really were able to enjoy some things about the beach that you never could have enjoyed before. For instance, uh I tried surfing uh a couple of years back, that didn't go well. Uh boogie boarding. um surf fishing and then going off into other areas where there's an ocean, even snorkeling, which is just glorious. There's so much that can be accomplished once we finally get over our fear I'm sure that you recognize that with the ocean, but also recognize that in in general in your life, that fear can can really hold you back from doing things and being able to enjoy life. Um what are the fears that keep you from doing the things uh that you're supposed to be doing? Now, you know, the beach is a trivial. idea. If you don't get in the ocean or you do get in the ocean, who cares in the long run? But what are what fears are keeping you from doing things that you really are supposed to be doing? You know, now w we're in this sermon series talking about the importance of being able to testify Or be a witness in like a court of law to the world as to the truth of who Jesus Christ is, what he said and what he did, the significance of that. And yet fear can be the greatest obstacle to where we never get past that wall and we're and we're unable to do it. You know, I think some of those fears began to be relieved. If you're like me, last week when we were hearing about Christ's heart in heaven, we were hearing that this first foundation stone of witness, that Christ in heaven has a heart for the earth. And he has he's he's ascended in great power as the God man. And that gives us a great deal of comfort in the midst of thinking about witnessing to people as to who Jesus is. Knowing that he's in charge, knowing that he has a heart for your situation and wants to express his love through your witness really starts to bring those fears down. And this this Sunday we're going to continue bringing the fears down As we see within this passage, that Jesus has sent his Holy Spirit to persuade the nations concerning him onto salvation. Now that's a mountain You may want to write that down. I will break it into parts. But again, it's Jesus has sent his spirit. This is what the Spirit wants us to know this morning. Jesus has sent his spirit to persuade the nations concerning him. onto or for the sake of salvation. We're going to look at the arrival, the message, and the meaning of the Spirit. The arrival of the Spirit, the message, and the meaning. You see the arrival of the Spirit if you want to open your your scriptures in chapter two there, verses one through four. So a paragraph. And um We see the arrival of the Spirit. We saw in chapter 1 that Jesus promised that he would send the Spirit, and here it is. We spoke last week about what is Christ's heart in heaven for you. Well, here's the first expression that we see of his heart. Reigning on high as the ascended Lord at the right hand of the Father, He's active upon the earth, and He sends His Spirit here You see in verse 2. 2 there is this wind from heaven when on the day of Pentecost had fully come, they were all with one accord in one place, and suddenly there came a sound from heaven, as of a rushing mighty wind. Now this is a sign of the Spirit. You've you've I'm sure read throughout the Gospels, particularly John chapter three, where the Spirit is likened to the wind, or even the Greek name. Does anybody know the Greek name of Spirit? Some people pronounce it differently, be pneuma or pneuma. And and those of you who have ever uh helped Mark on his addition, uh you would know there's pneumatic nail guns or nail guns that work by way of air or breath or wind. That's the same kind of idea here. This has always stood throughout or one way in which the spirit is symbolized. And it ends up being this wind that ends up coming from heaven. So you see not only this symbol that everyone would recognize belonging to the Spirit, but it's the fulfillment of that promise. Coming from heaven, it is Christ's Spirit, and Christ is sending that Spirit to earth as an expression of his heart. You immediately move into 2-3, which can be a little uh surprising, that then there appeared to them divided tongues as of fire, and one sat upon each of them And this really ends up highlighting the main purpose of the Spirit. Why is He sent from heaven? Do not lose track of what is going on here in the Scripture. If you do, you will end up in some kind of false teaching. Notice the context of what is going on here. The Spirit has not just been loosened upon the church in a contextualist fashion. Jesus promised that he would send the Spirit for the sake of witness In order to testify to who he is, not for some fuzzy-wuzzy feeling or ecstatic religious experience. That's not true spirituality. What he's talking about here, and you can see it in the second sign, they are in the shape of something like tongues of fire. Now that makes total sense when Jesus is sending the Spirit to do a one main job, which is to speak, to testify, or to witness, a proper symbol for that would be a tongue. You know, some people speculate. You really can't nail these kind of things down, but if you read different people, they'll speculate and they'll say, not only is this a witness that he will give us A revelation as to the holy will of God, but it also is the way and the manner in which He will accomplish it. It is not just information that the Holy Spirit will give us, it is warmth, the warmth of a fire. It is illumination, the brightness of the flame. And now we know and can testify that to in in our experience as Christians, that is in fact what the Spirit does do. Now whether that symbol means all that right here, I can't say that from the full text. But it's worth thinking about. I remember um uh having these kind of experiences. I remember being with a friend while he was at St. John's College and when he was Uh drawing close to the end of his term, after we had spent a lot of time in theology books together and in Bible studies, he gave me a card kind of on his way out and and moving into this the social committee at Chicago University. And it and then and the bottom it said from Luke, did not our hearts burn within us. And it was a great reflection of the journey that we had taken over those four years of just searching the scriptures, and it was a reference to the work that Jesus will do in a person's heart through that Holy Spirit. And so although I can't prove it right here from this text, it's certainly obvious throughout the rest of the scriptures. That's the kind of thing that he does. He brings warmth and fire and illumination. Once when we saw cold covenant children, they they come to life. They're sinned, they become more aware of it, and before you know it, their parents are signing them up for a membership interview. I'm sure that a lot of you have that experience Well these divided uh these divided tongues are not all that we end up seeing in in the passage. He fills the whole house where they're sitting, and then there appears to them these divided tongues as of fire, and one sat upon each of them And then they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Look at how much evidence we end up accumulating for truly being able to understand the spirituality capital S of this passage. It does not slide into ecstatic Pentecostalism. There are some good aspects to Pentecostalism, I'm sure. But we're really missing the boat if we miss the true spirituality here. Look at the evidence again of him saying and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. It's all about witnessing and testifying. These are not tongues of angels or gibberish or blabber. These are specific languages that they would be able to speak so that everyone in every language would be able to hear about Jesus Christ. Every nation it mentions there. All of these being signs as to the great work that the Holy Spirit would do. You know there's a philosophical problem. Just By way of mention, there's a philosophical problem that that you can run into, and maybe you have as a student, or maybe you're still wrestling with this now and again as an adult, and that is How is it that I could really relate to God? God seems so far away from me. Maybe what I should do is sing that old hymn about Jesus rustling in the grass as I hear him pass. or something along those lines. Or I just use a general revelation and the sunset to try to get to know him. People have gone on grand pursuits. to try to get to know God through through nature, which is legitimate to an extent. But if that's the only way in which you think that He is connecting with this earth and you've missed this whole passage. Christ has not left us as orphans. Here you see his Spirit being sent with a very specific task. And the spirit is not some vague concept or ether that you can't relate to He is a person. You actually see the Spirit being set here and doing actions that are personal, and he's separate from the Son, and he's separate from the Father. And later you'll actually hear him called God when Anoniris and Sapphira are brought into the mix. We're establishing the personhood of the third person of the Trinity, who is the Holy Spirit. He is there, and he speaks through his apostles, as we can see him setting everything up right now. Jesus Christ, reigning on eye, has not left his church or this world an orphan, but has sent his spirit. to do great things here and he's showing us this through these signs. Well there's not just this uh beginning of the spirit here there's also the message of the spirit he's he's sent from heaven and we've already begun alluding to this To accomplish a very specific task. Like I mentioned, you did not hear babbling, now moving to the second paragraph, where you have all of those who were dwelling in Jerusalem, Jews and devout men from every nation under heaven. They hear this sound of the mighty rushing wind, and then they hear the language and listen to what they say in uh 11, in verse 11. It's very surprising perhaps because Usually when you think about the Spirit giving people the gift of tongues, you think of just kind of something you could never understand, right? But here in verse eleven, look at what it says. Cretans and Arabs, we hear them speaking in our own tongues the wonderful works of God. It's rational, verifiable content that you could have heard in any of the languages that you would have spoken. Right there, testifying to the idea that Jesus wants all of the nations to stream to Mount Zion to know him And to know him specifically, to know the wonderful works of God. Do you see the great illusion here that's going on at this moment that relates to Genesis chapter 11? Do you see that? It's really amazing when you begin to see how God, who controls all of history, ties all these different pieces of his story together. In Genesis 11, beginning in verse 5, here's the Trinity. In hindsight, you can see this very clearly Here's the Trinity after man has to try to build themselves a tower of aspiration and ambition to heaven. Here's the Trinity, but the Lord came down to see the city and the tower which the sons of men had built. And the Lord said, Indeed, the people are one, and they all have one language, and this is what they begin to do. Now nothing that they propose to do will be withheld from them. Come, let us go down and there confuse their language that they may not understand one another's speech. Now, you what you end up seeing in this passage is all of the language from all of the different name uh all the different languages being brought back together as a reversal of the curse upon mankind that caused racism and dispersion throughout the earth, of not being able to work together toward a common cause. Now we see through the Spirit that He is uniting all peoples in Jesus Christ through the representation of these languages. Before in Genesis 11, they were trying to reach heaven through human ingenuity. And here we see in verse 11 in Acts chapter 2. That now heaven has come to them and tells them that God has built a tower to heaven of the amazing deeds of a particular person. Before there were these foundation stones made from mud and straw, and now we see the foundation and the cornerstone is Jesus Christ ascending all the way into heaven and dragging us with him. Finally, someone to overcome it. All this is represented in the restoring of these languages. God so loved the world that he gave his only son And here we see these folks, some of the first, hearing of the greatness of the sun. It's really confirmation of the sermon from last week as we're going down this path that what it means to witness isness to the sun. What it means is for you to be able to share who he is as a person, what he did and what he said These are the wonderful works of God. All of the promises of God are yea and amen in Jesus Christ He is the consummation and the epitome of the entire gospel plan. And to share him is to share the plan of God. To hear the wonderful works of God is to hear of Jesus. It should give you a great deal of confidence and subside some of the fear as you think about witnessing to your co-workers or family members or those you meet in Giant or Foodline or Safeway or wherever it is Just think of the life of Jesus. And he's still living. You could, if you wanted to, you could focus on the holidays or the holy days. You could talk to someone about Christmas, which is to bring up the incarnation. Which is the mystery of the second person of the Trinity indwelling in or incarnating flesh conceived by a virgin. Talk to somebody about that and safe wing and see what happens. Just starting there. Good conversation. You could move on then to Good Friday about the Lamb who takes away the sins of the world. Why did he have to die on the cross? You could talk about his resurrection, that he was the Christ, that he was justified, that he was proven to be the Son of God, Paul says from Easter, that there is the assurance of our own resurrection. Think about being at a kid's soccer game and talking about the resurrection with somebody. Somebody comes off the field with a hurt ankle, and you can say, one day there'll be no more hurt ankles. All ankles will be resurrected. You could say something like that. Just by thinking about a holiday, uh you could begin to share the gospel, which is sharing the works, the words, and the person of Jesus Christ. And that's the message of the Spirit You see how down to earth this is? Because heaven has been sent to earth. You don't need to have a philosophy degree to witness to Jesus Christ. You need to have the Spirit sent from heaven, which is the first point, and you need the Spirit to give a message, which is the wonderful works of God in Jesus Christ, which is the second point. And that brings us to the meaning of the spirit. Now, if you've ever taken logic or rhetoric with me, or remember uh stasis theory, ladies. And I want you to notice in the passage, sorry that you get this individual attention, but if you notice in the passage, they were all amazed at these wonderful works. this sound that was going on. And they were perplexed saying to one another, whatever does this mean? And some were saying, they are f drunk. That is a good explanation sometimes of this kind of behavior. But not here. And so what he's saying here is that nobody in the crowd is debating as to whether it is happening. They move to the second level and they ask, well, it is happening, but what does it mean? What kind of thing is this? And that is where Peter decides to stand and to launch his sermon, and we get the first half of it We get the first half of a sermon, and he says, number one, they are not drunk. That's not the legitimate and plausible explanation of what is happening in here in reality. What is happening is that is in fact the last days as are foretold by the prophet Joel. And that begins, and there's this quote from 17 to 21. I'm not going to exposite every one of those verses. We're just pointing out here that he is relying upon this prophetic witness. as to what would take place in the kingdom of God in the future. And here's basically what he's saying, and this is really important for being able to understand the scriptures When we become Christians or grow up as Christians, a lot of times we just kind of launch right into the Psalms and the New Testament. And they even have a Bible that just has the Psalms and the New Testament. And that's where we reside. But here he's quoting, in order to be able to make sense of New Testament phenomenon, he is quoting a prophet. And if you were to go through the Gospels and look at the quotes in order to be able to make sense of any of the New Testament phenomenon, he's going to quote the prophets. And how often do we read the prophets? Well, that's a problem. You can really begin to misunderstand the scriptures if you don't understand the prophets. And what Joel particularly is bringing out is that there must be In this story that God is unfolding, which is a reality, there must be one that is greater than David, that must be the messianic king, that must reign once again on Mount Zion. or or or Jerusalem as you know it. But Mount Zion. You know it's an it's interesting if you follow the prophets and you see the way that they talk and then if you go back further in the Old Testament There is this the Messiah that is to reign on Mount Zion, and if you zoom in on that, you realize God has been working with mountains all of our lives. If you think about it, and I've mentioned this to you before, the river flows out of Eden, which means it's downhill, which which we then can say it's therefore the mountain of Eden. That makes sense. And if you move to Noah, his ark ends up falling on Mount Ararat. Or if you go to Abraham, we have Mount Moriah. Or if you have Moses, we have Mount Sinai. And if you have David, we have Mount Zion. All of the great covenants and all the great things that God have done have been on mountains because they were considered part of the heavens where God dwells. And here, in the prophecy of Joel, they're bringing up again that the Messiah who's going to claim the mountain again And who will dwell in heaven and in righteousness has arrived. But what they don't see, as we saw in chapter one, is Jesus overtaking Jerusalem. And so their preconceptions are being jarred here. There's something bigger that's going on. They were focused on a shadow, and Jesus is focused on the substance. It ends up being different than what they expected, and it ties back to chapter 1. And if you go to Revelation chapter 21 and 22, and I encourage you to read it, there's another mountain there. It's the heavenly Mount Zion. And that is where Jesus has ascended to. And it's a figure for him being able to reign on high. Jesus, in other words, is reigning on high. He is sending his spirit down. And what you see before you in them manifesting their spiritual gifts, which are extraordinary And speaking all of the languages is the sign that he is sitting at the right hand of the Father and ruling just as the scriptures always said that he would. And he is drawing all people to himself. He is not just locating himself with Abraham that he called out of Ur or the people that surrounded him, but all of those who used to be his enemies. He's now inviting to be his friend and to be reconciled to the Father. All of that's being said here in this Passage. All of that's what these things mean. No, they're not drunk. He has become the king, and he is seated on his throne in the heavenly Mount Zion. Now here Israel it really begets it begins to get interesting in uh the specifics of understanding these prophets And what they what Peter ends up saying here. If you were to go through this, you'd see, and it shall come to pass that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved, and that And that the and if right in verse seventeen, and it shall come to pass in the last days, said God, that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. So here's the picture. You have Jesus having ascended to heavenly Mount Zion, and he's reigning on high. We do know that one day he will overtake the entire earth physically. But what you end up seeing here is him sending bits of heaven, of which we will reside in one day, down to earth. And the very first thing that he says, and so here's what we're saying. is that the heart for of Christ in heaven is for those in earth, and he sends heaven to earth in order to be able to reflect and express his heart. One day he will bring heaven with him, but now he is sending bits of heaven to earth. In other words, heaven, because Jesus is the King of heaven and earth, heaven, one age is spilling over into the other. Imagine an eyedropper full of wine. And imagine a wine glass full of water. And I begin to just drop a little bit at a time. You see it see that it's beginning to fill with this red wine. Not white You could see the red wine hit and then diffuse, and if I were to drop it enough, it would turn redder and redder and redder or more red, how whichever. Red, red, red, right? Well, he's only given a couple drops to where we can begin to see that which is from one place start to fill and color that of another place. Another image for this of Christ going to heaven and sending bits of of of heaven to earth for us are if you think of for instance colonists when it's sent over from the British Empire, they would come over here. They'd find gold, let's say. I don't think this is actually true, but let's say they found gold in San Francisco and they were sent from Britain. I don't know that that's true. But they would send the gold back. And then they would see how heavenly the place is that they all sailed to. And they'd all want to go there. And that's really the picture that we end up having here is that Jesus goes ahead to prepare a place for us and is raining on Mount Zion and is beginning to send the gold of the land down to us in order for us to be able to enjoy. It is one age spilling into another. We have the arrival of the Spirit, which is the gold from heaven, and we have the message of the Spirit, which is ushering them into heaven. It is Christ in heaven sending heaven to earth, and it manifests itself specifically in salvation in verse twenty-one of Joel. And it shall come to pass that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now imagine going to San Francisco and sending gold back to the motherland. But imagine another person bringing all of San Francisco back to the motherland. That's kind of the picture we get in Revelation 21 and 22. One day Christ will bring heaven in full and subdue the physical universe. Every knee shall bow to Jesus Christ. But that is not what is going on right now. He's subduing the earth through his spirit is what we see here. Maybe you would remember in your history readings that during the Saxon Wars, Charlemagne, king of the Franks, there was a massacre of Verdun. Anybody ever heard of this? Massacre of Verdun in seven eighty two. Ben, you heard of this? Seven eighty-two, Charlemagne. During which Charlemagne reportedly had forty five hundred captive Saxons massacred Because they rebelled against conversion to Christianity. If you wanted to stay alive, all you had to do was be baptized. Now that's not what we're talking about with Jesus. Jesus is not doing coercive conversions. You become Christian or else. What we see here is the Spirit being sent and the heart being subdued. And the people turning and loving Christ and turning and being saved, calling upon the name of the Lord. This was not by force and might, it was not by external powers or armies but by the preaching of the word. Now that's amazing. It is by the preaching of the word. And so we end up seeing Paul talk about this, that the weapon of the kingdom is not a physical sword, but it is the word which is the sword of the Spirit. And this sword is revealing Christ, and the Spirit is overcoming the nations, and they are bowing their knees to him, calling upon him for salvation individually, and forming a commonwealth corporately. All of that is happening in this one moment after the sound of a mighty rushing wind. You have Christ sending the Spirit of power, and that Spirit gifting people to be able to give a specific message. And that message must be understood that people will accept this message and begin to bow their knee to Jesus Christ. Because he is the messianic king reigning on high on Mount Zion. That's the entire message. Or, in other words, Jesus has sent his spirit to persuade the nations concerning him. for the sake of their salvation or onto salvation. Now this is a this is a very personal experience that you may have being subdued by Christ But I want you to notice the first, as we wrap up here, I want you to notice that Jesus has sent his Spirit to persuade the nations. Concerning him for the sake of salvation, and that he has done so in a very specific way. He has done so here through a ministry of the word This is very important this is maybe the most important thing right now for us as a congregation, is to recognize that he works spiritually through the ministry of the Word. It is the true spirituality. Look at everything that the Holy Spirit could have done in order to gain your attention and to captivate your imagination. He could have given you the ecstatic feelings and the religious experiences where you where you you felt high all the time, a a kind of religious high, but he chooses to communicate to you a message. And all of his wisdom, this is what he believes that you need, is a ministry of the word. Now I say a ministry of the word because there's different ministries. There's counseling. You know, we actually do pretty well with counseling. If someone were to come over your home or you were to have time with them over coffee and someone offered you counsel from the Word, you actually receive that pretty seriously Or if you think of visitations, which are a kind of counseling, but it can involve other things, or Sunday school, or going to a seminary. You bring your notebook and you take notes and things are very serious and you're really understanding a ministry of the word there. But I want you to think about what I'm doing right now, which is preaching. How do we receive that generally in our culture How is it that you are inclined to think of it because of the way that the culture thinks? I've called it preaching, but the culture that we're in would call this public speaking. And what is the job of the public speaker? So the public speaker is not doing a good job if they're not entertaining you. And so I would have to ask the question: did I entertain you today? Did I keep your eyes open for the Lord today? If I were going to buy into what the culture says. But what we end up seeing here is that the ministry of the Word, in all of those ways, and I'm focused on preaching. It's not according to the scriptures. If you were to gain what does God say preaching is and how should you be receiving it, it's not passive entertainment. You should not sit there like Jennifer Lopez and rate this sermon or any sermon based on whether you get goosebumps or not. That's what Jennifer Lopez does. You're a great entertainer if you get goosey. If she gets goose is what she calls them. I'm so sorry that I used that word in the pulpit. I apologize. But instead what we end up seeing in the screep the in the scriptures, whether it's counseling or visitation or the preaching of the word on the Lord's Day What we end up seeing is that you are to desire this word, which the Spirit accompanies, like a newborn crying, would desire milk. That's what Peter says. You are to you're to recognize the hindrances and yet the purity and how important it is for you to have it, so you would begin your Lord's Day morning and every morning with a prayer of illumination that you would be able to understand what God is saying. Not taking for granted that you could just get it whenever you wanted, but realizing he must give you truth. And therefore I must pray. You must examine the scriptures like the Bereans are commended in Scripture, comparing Scripture with Scripture. Going home after this sermon and looking up the references, making sure I'm using these verses correctly, confronting me if I'm not, talking to me about these things. Receiving these things with faith and love in your heart, knowing that they're the very Word of God. Meditating upon them, discussing them, hiding them in your heart through memory. Whether it's getting your kids a CD from Salty, where he sings the Bible verses and you memorize them, or Rain for Roots, or whatever it might be. And then you are to bring forth the fruit of it from the preached word, or the counseling, or the visitation, there should be fruit that is born and it goes into your life Because of the meditation that you've done, you refused to not allow the word to work in your life. Because you know that Jesus Christ sent the Spirit and the Spirit brings and accompanies the Word, and that this is your life. This is your way of participating in heaven now. This is the gold sent from the foreign land. And you are going to grasp it and use it with all of your might. And here's one of the fruits that ends up making all of the difference for you as we talk about witness here. It's the thing that's most important for the church that flows out of this. If you are not doing those things that I just mentioned If you are not craving like a newborn, prayer for illumination, examining the scriptures like a Berean, receiving with faith and love, meditating, discussing, hiding it in your heart, and bringing forth the fruit, you cannot witness. Because you do not know Jesus yourself. You only know about Him. You've never taken the time to knead it into your soul. Like you would need something in the bread. You will share facts about Jesus, but you will have no personal experiences with him. And you say, well, well, that's a This is weird. Yeah, it's strange, but this is how the Spirit has chosen to work. He works through His Word, and Jesus meets you there. He reveals Himself to your soul through the Word, accompanied by the Spirit There's a special relationship that he promises there. Now this ends up being exactly what ties into witness. If you are respecting the word, not as entertainment, but as I'm speaking here, you will begin to accumulate personal experiences of the Spirit sealing Jesus Christ to your heart. You will know him like he lives with you and he dwells with you. You will feel and know his presence. And then witness becomes just so simple at this point. Think of all the fears that you have in regards to witnessing to somebody. And then just think about sharing with somebody else in the world somebody that you really know well and that you think is the most excellent and lovely person in all the world. You know, when I see you students get excited about a movie, like like the the the Donovan Boys or whatever going to see the Lord of the Rings trilogy all in one sitting or whatever. And they just want to talk to me about the movie the entire time because they're so excited about it. They've been immersed in it. It's exactly what happens with Jesus Christ when we immerse ourselves in him through the word by the Spirit. It just flows out of us to be able to witness to others and share who Jesus is. Some of us will end up saying, well, that was then. And this is now. If he came as a mighty rushing wind and he gave me a tongue of fire, then everything would be different. But that's not true These are the same times. We're in the same age with the Spirit being sent to you just as it was to them. Yes, it was extraordinary, but he is still present with you in this with the same presence. And then we think of the fears that we have of speaking. Some of us are dread speaking, or most often we dread being accepted by the person that we're speaking to. Or technique. Okay, I know Jesus. I spent a lot of time with him, but I don't know how to say it. You just share who he is. We don't get caught in fear of technique. That's our great preoccupation as modern man, thinking everything that we we can boil everything down to technique. All of these fears are dissipated if we just realize. What God has given to us through Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit. And that'll begin to be realized as we begin to meditate and hide his word in our hearts. I didn't ask permission from this family to use their name Uh and so it's easier to ask for forgiveness than permission. Um, sites, there's nothing personal here. But when I think about going on the family camping trip, and you all should go on the church family camping trip, and these are your objections to me Right? They were my same objections. Uh I'm gonna get wet. No, because the sites bring a lot of extra stuff. Like they'll have an extra tent or be able to erect Some kind of barn very quickly as a family? I mean, it's pretty amazing Well, I'm not going to be very comfortable. But the sites bring extra camping chairs. They really do. They have everything that you would need. Ah, there's no good food there. Ha ha wait a second. Bob brings bacon and freshly cooks it there The sites have that under control too. I can't go a morning without coffee. Bob has a camping coffee kit. And you could have coffee on the camping trip. Everything that you would fear about going camping, I could just say the word the sights family to you. Now I know this seems a little trivial, but I'm saying the exact same thing in the sermon, but I'm using the words the Holy Spirit. I may not be able to speak well, but the Holy Spirit is yours. He has a silver tongue. He spoke through Moses, who had speaking problems. I don't know the right techniques. I'm not born an apologist. But the Spirit can be your advocate and he dwells in you and he can give you the words to say. But they might not accept me. But that's in the control of the Spirit. And he accepts you. So who cares anyway? I remember, and here's how complicated witnessing is when you have the Holy Spirit sent to you from heaven. I remember really getting the sense that I need to go tell somebody and and and help them. And I drove down the road and I went into their office and I sat down and we chit-chatted and then this is what I said. Listen It took an entire seminary education to say this. I said, Jesus loves you. And they broke down in tears and crumbled onto my chest, and I held them for quite some time. And everything was released. All of the problems that they were experiencing. It didn't solve all the problems of their life, but he used just those words, Jesus loves you. And the Spirit chose to accompany the word and to seal it to his heart. Now that was a Christian. How much more for a non-Christian? Knowing our our Savior's love for the sinner. And you could work it the other way also. Jesus has sent his spirit to persuade the nations concerning him unto salvation. And he does so by sending his spirit to us. The Spirit gives us this message and accompanies it and seals it upon our heart as an act I don't say this to tell you one more story about myself, but you remember me telling you stories about me being in rehab? You know When I first became a Christian, you know what that guy did for apologetic technique and for witnessing? He read to me the story of Noah, and something like scales fell from my eyes, needing the salvation. of Jesus Christ. I mean come on. The Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit He is here to equip us for witnessing. Jesus has sent him to persuade the nations concerning him onto earth. for the sake of salvation. Let's pray, and then we'll sing this final hymn. Guess what it's called? Holy Spirit. Please pray with me.