Please open your scriptures to the letter to the Philippians. Our reading this morning will be from chapter 4, 4 through 7. Beginning in verse 4, rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Let your gentleness be known to all men. The Lord is at hand. Be anxious for nothing, but at everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Amen. Let us pray. Father, it is your ordination to use the preached word to accomplish your purposes, and we pray that you would do so here this morning. We pray Lord, I pray, Lord, that your congregation would learn Christ and his kingdom, that it would be set up in their hearts and minds and hands. And I ask these things in your name. In this letter, we've moved from a consideration of what we could call the doctrine of imitation That we are to imitate those who imitate Christ to something that's a little bit more specific, calling us to reflect on what it would mean or what it does mean to be a citizen of the heavenly Jerusalem. Last week we were able to look at that quite specifically through a case study where two women, perhaps founders or part of the founding of that church of Philippi, had entered into some sort of disagreement. And from that case study, we looked at what it really looks like to stand fast in the Lord as a heavenly citizen. To stand fast in the Lord is to remain united in the Lord. Well, as soon as you say that, we recognize that to be true. Christian unity is not new to us. But we do have questions that are associated with it. For example, why would it be so important for us to be unified, especially if you have to sacrifice and fight for it? And one answer is that we are witnesses to the goodness and wisdom of God as a community unto the world. That's a very important reason to do that. Another question that arises is how are we supposed to accomplish that unity? Well, sometimes it can be accomplished pretty easily, but the cases that tend to be more difficult, we have to adopt the same mind of Christ. that we saw within Philippians chapter 2, and that is summarized especially in John 13 and John 15. By this all will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. And then following that, John 15, greater love has no one than this, than to lay down one's life for his friends. So it's a call for you to bear your cross for the sake of meaningful relationships with each other and unity within the church. That was the first lesson specifically with a case study on being heavenly citizens. Now we come to another one with uh a series really of ethical Not demands, but ethical announcements here. What does it look like to be a citizen of heaven in this particular passage? We can answer this way. Paul's main answer is that we would know what it means to live our lives knowing that the Lord is near. Really important lesson today. That those who are a part of the heavenly Jerusalem, they live their lives. progressively maturing more and more into the reality that the Lord is near. And what we're going to end up doing really is I'm I'm looking at that Phrase the Lord is near, which is taken taken up right from our passage there in verse number five where it says the Lord is at hand I'm looking at that as um as sticking out like a sort a thor thumb. A sore thumb. A thor thumb. It's sticking out like a sore thumb. If you'll notice in verse number four, just survey this passage with me for a second. In verse number four, we have that ethical announcement, rejoice. We'll talk about that. In verse number five, we have another ethical announcement. Be gentle to all men. We'll talk about that. In verse number six, don't be anxious. Be in prayer. Give thanksgiving. You have all these ethical announcements, but then you have sticking out like a sore thumb that phrase that I jumped over, which is the Lord is at hand So I want to just say to you, ask the question of what are we supposed to do with that sore thumb? I think it's meant to be the a controlling lens for the passage. And that's why I'm saying that the question before you this morning is, what does it look like to live a life where you really believe the Lord is at hand, that he's near you? that he's with you. And that will make a difference in your joy, your moderation or gentleness, and your anxiety. There's the basic structure of the sermon this morning. And so Paul's main answer in terms of heavenly citizenship is that to be a citizen of heaven means that you really live knowing that the Lord is near. So I want to begin with just the Lord is near and try to understand that a little bit, and then we'll look through that like a lens at gentleness and rejoicing and anxiety. You can see I've already pointed out to you that Paul tells us in verse 5, he says, that the Lord is at hand. I'm also translating that as that the Lord is near. And that is a controlling perspective for the other commands of rejoicing, gentleness, and peace. Paul here, when he says that the Lord is at hand, I wonder what you think of right away when he says something like that. I imagine you here have at least three options that you're dealing with, but I I wonder if the third is the m is the most blurry to you or doesn't occur to you at all. But I do think there's two options that occur to you right away And the first option that Paul could mean here is that he could be helping us to focus on a defining event in the future. The Christian life is situated between God coming to us in the incarnation and God returning to us in his second return. And maybe Paul is setting out that future event here for us in that final return of Christ where, as Chase mentioned this morning, where there's the full reclamation of his creation. Maybe it's that end event. What if it's a or some of you might be thinking, well, it might not exactly be just that end event that Paul has in mind. Maybe he has an event that is a bit closer to these people since he said that's near. And that's a possibility because there was a kind of visitation of Christ through the Roman army in 70 A. D. And the judgment that finally came upon Jerusalem. And that would make sense in this context too, where Paul is very concerned about the Judaizers Well once Jerusalem is sacked, those Judaizers will lose a great deal of authority and power and mobility Those are two options that I bet came to your mind among you. But there is a third option that I actually favor here in this particular passage. That when it says that the Lord is at hand or that the Lord is near, I really think that this is referring to the nearness that we see all throughout the Psalms. And that's why I included Psalm 145 for you in your bulletin. If you wanted to look in your bulletin, you'd see, and we'll look at this in just a moment, but in the confessing Christ portion. It says, the Lord is righteous in all his ways, gracious in all his works, the Lord is near. Do you see that? I think that's the primary focus here because there's so much of a focus on prayer within this particular passage. Don't forget that when he says rejoice or praise the Lord, that praise is a kind of prayer. And then, of course, in verses 6 and 7, he's telling you to take up your prayers to the Lord, and the God of peace will be with you. And in what way will he be with you? I think it's the same way in which we're talking about here that he's going to be near you or he is at hand in the same way that the Psalmist always sees him at hand And that's why I provided 145 for you in your bulletin. The Lord is near to all who call upon him, to all who call upon him in truth. Now When I say that, we can immediately launch into something that is very important that you've heard of a lot, and that is the idea of a covenant. Do you see the connection between what Paul is saying here about the Lord being at hand or the Lord being near in the psalm sense and the idea of covenant? I mean that's really at the heart of it. You could read thousands of books on covenant theology. Has everyone here heard of covenant theology in one way or another? But really what it boils down in terms of experiencing the benefit of that Is that it is a promise that the Lord is going to be present with you. There's so many arguments in the scriptures just over and over again where the Lord is saying, listen, I haven't left you. I'm near you. I'm with you. I'll always be with you. It's just a refrain throughout all of the scriptures from the beginning page to the end page where he's just saying, when I promise something to you, I mean it. And there's a good summary of the one of the importances of covenant theology. And that's what's going on here. I want you to look at your passage. And when he says the Lord is at hand, this is how I want you to hear it. I want you to hear Paul telling you that God has promised to be with you. That's what he's trying to say. And that that really makes a difference if you believe that. It is a promise of the Lord's presence with his people, whether they can see him or not. And in fact, we should know that the Lord is in fact present. And not present in the visible sense that we'll experience later. We see this throughout the scriptures. Let me give you a couple passages that you could talk about over lunch. Hebrews chapter 13, verse 5. I'm going to give you just part of the passage for time's sake. For he himself has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. It doesn't get sweeter than that. I should have made that my last one. But there's another one, Matthew 28, 20. Don't forget that Christ has given you his great commission. And then knowing how important it is for you to know that he's with you or that he's at hand, he says at the end of the Great Commission, He teaches we are to teach all to observe all things that he has commanded us, and then he says, and lo I am with you always, even to the end of the age. There's that covenant again. Our relationship with Him is that is a love that cannot fail. That's a pretty good way to talk about a covenant. And then I'll give you another one here just for free. I'll give you it for free. John chapter 14, 15 through 18. If you love me, keep my commandments And I will pray to the Father, and he will give you another helper, that he may abide with you forever. I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. And we have that present experience today of Christ coming to us and his spirit. And that that grows within us. So just ask yourself right off at the right out of the begin out of the gate here. Go ahead and, as the Puritan would say, put yourself under a trial. And ask yourself, do you believe God's promises to you? Now, in my experience, I definitely do believe that, and I think you believe that too. I do find, however, that in the middle of affliction, when we need promises most is when we tend to least believe it. So those of you who are going through a pretty tough time right now, whatever it is, are you starting to set aside and really doubt that God is with you? Oh, it's just such the wrong place to go. It's gonna suck away your joy. It's gonna make you desperate and not gentle. And are you going to be filled with anxiety? Absolutely. So I'd encourage you to meet and have some conversation with your brothers and sisters and tell them you're doubting, you're struggling with doubt. And let those people build you up that your faith would grow stronger and not fail at the just the time that you need it. Community is important in times like that. And may the Lord be with you. Now having faith that Jesus Christ is with you. Paul's point here, underlying everything, is that it should result in a certain ethos within our community, not just in you as an individual. Paul is getting at here with these Philippians is that we should be known as a group of people that rejoice even when things are difficult, or perhaps even especially when they're difficult. That we are a group of people that are gentle, understood in the correct way, we forbear with folks, and that we are not marked by anxiety, but instead marked by a knowledge of the peace of God So what we're going to do now is just take a look at each one of those and see how this makes a difference. It says here in our scriptures in verse number four. Taking the Lord at hand as at hand as that lens, that we are to rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I will say, rejoice. And the first hymn that was given to you today. which Brad selected was just perfect. I was singing that hymn and thinking at the same time, what a perfect selection. It was so excellent. So I'd encourage you to look at that today. If you look at Psalm 145 in your bulletin, this is this example of Christians having joy and being marked by joy because the Lord is at hand. is seen right up front. If you were to look at 145 verse 21, I'm going to start at the end, and it says this. It says, notice the joy and the rejoicing. My mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord. And all flesh shall bless his holy name forever and ever. Now, ask the question, what is going on with the psalmist Get yourself in an imitation mode. What is going on with the psalmist where he could say such a thing? That I'm going to praise the name of the Lord forever. That when I open my mouth I shall speak the praises of the Lord. That's the End result here in verse 21 of Psalm 45, 145. Now look at start up at 19. And he says, About the Lord, he will fulfill the desire of those who fear him. He will also hear their cry, and he will save them. The Lord preserves all who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy. And that's two sides of the same coin. Oftentimes those who are aft or chasing after the Lord with their heart are oppressed or suppressed by the wicked, and so the wicked have to be removed in order for them to be free. But you can see what's going on there. It's another way of them saying, the reason why I'm able to rejoice is because I know the Lord is near me. I know that in the end the Lord vindicates me. And of course we see that in Christ, even in his crucifixion. Christ is still having faith in the Father, knowing that he shall be raised on the third day, and that Sheol will not have the last word. And the same goes with you. You can see this joy even with Paul in relationship to the Philippians. Do you remember when he entered into Philippi and that he was thrown into prison? What a great example of exactly what we're reading here within this text. It says, Then the multitude rose up together against them, and the magistrates tore off their clothes and commanded them to be beaten with rods. It's going to be a great afternoon. And when they had laid many stripes on them, just remember that, after they had laid many stripes on them They threw them into prison, commanding the jailer to keep them securely. Having received such a charge, he put them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks. But at midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. Now, Paul's not singing Psalm 88, darkness is my only friend. He's not having an existential crisis. He still believes that the Lord is with them. And that's going to be proven just a moment later when those uh bars are f where they are freed from that imprisonment. And then they end up baptizing the jailer and his household. Man, what a great example. I wonder if Paul had that in mind when he wrote down, hey, guess what? The Lord is near. Let's not forget that. And one of the ways we can know we haven't forgotten it is that we're still rejoicing, even if we've received stripes and we're in the stocks and behind the bars for the sake of the Lord. Well, that's rejoicing or joy, and you can see how that's connected. Your joy flows out of having faith that God is with you. But there is also gentleness. Gentleness flows out of having faith that God is with you. You can see this in verse number five. I mentioned this last week. It's let your gentleness be known to all men. Now this is, what do you think of when you hear the word gentle? So that's an interesting question. We can definitely get that wrong. It might be, it might, and we often hear this put in absolute terms, be gentle in every single situation. And oftentimes Christians will take this word and they'll interpret it as a kind of overly sweet kindness. And that's the only tool that Christians are allowed to use. That's not what Paul is saying here. Gentleness, most broadly speaking, and not in any particular context, means to address the situation in the most fitting manner. That's the history of that word. You can look at older translations where in the Psalms it says, Christ rules with gentle sway. And it's talking about a king that knows exactly what to do, depending on what the situation is. Now One of the things that happens with human beings in gentleness, and so this is where this this term ends up meaning, is that we often don't choose the fitting response And if we err, and it tends to be the more damaging error, we tend to err on the side of being cruel And overreacting in situations. And so what you'll end up seeing within the scriptures is that gentleness is used to pull people away from cruelty and overreaction and tearing at each other like animals and instead to encourage things like forbearance with each other. Patience with each other. Sometimes this just gets expressed by me. If you're having a really hard time and I'm trying to help you, I'll say, take it easy The slow down. We need to chill out for a second. Or get back. Or go home. Or whatever it is. But that's the way that it's used in the scriptures. And you can see that especially in James chapter 3, verse 17. He's speaking And contrasting the wisdom of the world versus the wisdom that is from above, and he says, but the wisdom that is from above is first pure And then peaceable. This is said to a community and how a community should relate to each other. We should be peaceable with each other. Then he says we should be gentle with each other, we should be willing to yield with each other, we should be full of mercy towards each other, and many other good fruits, without partiality. Without hypocrisy, meaning you really and sincerely are forbearing or forgiving or showing mercy. And you're not just doing so to people that have money or whatever it is. That's a picture of gentleness. And you can think of Christ's forbearance, for example, and the way in which he was gentle. Do you remember When Christ, after he institutes the Lord's Supper, and he shows his disciples the mystery of the gospel, That's the how the Son of God, according to the plan of the Father, with the power of the Holy Spirit, is going to accomplish the salvation of his people. Do you know how the disciples respond? They all abandon him. And what we see on the pages of Scripture recorded for us after that abandonment is we do not see a Christ who is pulling out his hair, acting cruel towards his disciples. He is honest with them, for sure. He tells them exactly what they need to hear. He looks at them in the eye and he is stern, but he does it in a way to where you can recognize that he has forbearance and gentleness towards all of them. Think, for example, in the restoration of Peter. Now, did Christ know that Peter, even after that restoration, was really going to mess it up over in Galatia? separating himself from the Gentiles under a poor influence from the Jews? He did. And yet Christ Forebore with him all the way. If you love my do you love me, then feed my sheep. Do you love me? Feed my sheep. Do you love me? Feed my sheep. That was perfect for Peter. And that is a picture of gentleness for you. Now the last item that we have in looking at what difference does it make to really believe that the Lord is near you? is probably the hottest topic that you've all been waiting for, which has to do with anxiety. And so as to not disappoint you, I'm just going to stop the sermon here and pray and and assign you a good book. No. I'm just joking. No, there's actually a uh we by looking at it this way, there's actually a great deal of help that we can receive in understanding our anxiety as Christians and the peace of God and how it guards our hearts and how that's connected with the Lord being near us. I would say that this is the most important point for me this morning. You can see it in Philippians four through six. Very often is this quoted, be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your requests be known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. The first thing I want to observe about this passage is that this is not calling you to an emotionless stoicism. We have to be really careful about that. I think that sometimes Christians read this passage And if they start to feel passionate about something, or if their heart starts to go a certain beats per minute, they think they're violating the verse. And that's not what is going on here. Paul is not telling you to become stoics. He's not telling you to walk around and showing no emotion on your face in case you violate this verse. That's not what's going on here at all. In fact, being made in God's image, we're called to a great deal of passion, understood correctly, and we're called to care about things a lot And we're called to be concerned about a lot of things. But that's not what Paul is warning you against when he talks about anxiety. Let me just put it this way for you for a moment. One of the I think quickest ways to get a point across is to just say, this word anxiety in this passage is used elsewhere in Philippians, and Paul commends it Isn't that interesting? In Philippians chapter 2, verses 19 through 20, he uses the same word. He says But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, that I also may be encouraged when I know your state, for I have no one like-minded who will sincerely care for your state. Same thing. Here in this passage that we have, we translated anxiety because of what's going on. Here in this other passage in Philippians 2, 19 through 20, we translate it as care because of what is going on. You, as God's people, are called to be careful. And to express concern and not to fight against even the way that God has made you. If there are certain things happening, like your car bursts in the flames and you have people inside of it. You have been made for your body to have a certain response so that adrenaline kicks in so that you can drag everybody out of the car. Or you have some amazing Olympic feat where you're like a woman that's a hundred and fifteen pounds and you flipped over the minivan and got everybody out And that kind of concern, God does not discourage. God does not discourage that kind of care. That's not what Paul is talking about. at all. And he's not, Paul's not uh talking about if you have a thyroid problem, for example, which can create lots of panicky feelings. He's not condemning you because of that That's not what's going on within this passage. What is going on is that we are not to have an ungodly care. We are not to have an immoderate care. We're not to have an ungodly or immoderate concern. If you're facing the world, if you're facing your afflictions, if you're facing your problems, if you're facing the snakes in the garden in which God has placed you. And you do not believe that God is with you, but that you have to take full responsibility for everything, that's anxiety. That's what he's talking about. It's an unbelieving care And that's actually how I have found Thomas Watson and many other Puritans backing me up on this and creating this kind of taxonomy of saying there's many different kinds of care that we can issue. Some are godly Cares or caring, and then there's an ungodly way to do the same thing. Thinking that you're going to act in complete autonomy and independence, and that God is not there to help you. Turns it into an ungodly, unbelieving, anxious heart. And that's what Paul is calling these people away from. an ungodly care and an ungodly concern. That goes beyond godly concern and into an ungodly anxiety. And that connects us to the peace of God here in this passage. The peace of God, it says, take a look at the passage again with me. The peace that it says here, be anxious for nothing. Now look at the logic of this. Be anxious for nothing. Well why? You know, how am I supposed to be anxious for nothing? Because you're going to go to God and He's with you. And one of the ways he's with you is that he hears your prayers because he's in covenant with you. And you can so anticipate that that you could even have prayers of thanksgiving even in that prayer during your affliction. Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your requests be made known to the God who is near you. The peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus All of the languages present there, that being in covenant with God by way of Christ Jesus, our hearts and our minds may be guarded from anxiety because we have confidence that God has not left us and he has not forsaken us, even if we have received stripes or have gone to jail. Instead, we may have the peace of knowing that our God is in covenant with us through Jesus Christ. And we may even rejoice. What is the best way for you to perhaps remember this teaching? To be able to face the anxieties that tempt us? Or the a way of looking at life that creates anxiety, that temption that temptation. I would say Psalm 23. I would say this should be a go-to. It's no wonder so many Christians have memorized Psalm 23 throughout the thousands of years. Let me just read verse 4 for you. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. Why? Why? Well, because I'm a Harvard alumnus. Nope. Why? Because you are with me. See how the main lesson is just threaded all the way through? Your rod and your staff, which are items of protection. They comfort me. It's not about fuzzy feelings there. It's about I'm greatly strengthened and encouraged because I see that you're my protector. Even in the valley of the shadow of death. And we go to him in prayer, perhaps even praying, Psalm 23. And we begin to see and experience the reality of Philippians 4, 6 through 7, where anxiety can be replaced. But we can still be careful people. That will take a little bit of experience for you to put all those pieces together, but that's the truth of it. Has anyone here read the letter from Peter entitled First Peter? You're supposed to raise your hands or something or nod. It's okay. I asked the question that way because I uh was going through and just thinking about what's a good s way to summarize what we're talking about here this morning. And I fell upon in God's providence this verse from 1 Peter that I forgot existed. And I wonder if you have forgotten even experientially. It's 1 Peter 5, 6 through 7. It says, therefore humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. Casting all your care upon him because he cares for you. I don't know if I've ever heard it just that way before. It's exactly what I need to hear. I would say that as human beings, particularly Christians, I'll speak to you, we seem to have some kind of inclination where we feel most comfortable doing it by ourselves. And we set out and we choose option number one, do it by myself. And it fails. Option number two, do it by myself, and it fails. Option number three, do it by myself, and by God's grace it fails again. Because in those failures, God is teaching you a lesson that you will become fully who you really are only when you find your dependence upon Him. When you really believe that he cares about you. That is the hardest lesson. And I'm beginning to think that all the providences in our lives are teaching that one main point, that we would really just believe. Believe in his love. The Puritans put it this way, I love this little image. I was just remarking to Nora this morning, hey, I still feel a little bit cold, but the sun seems different. Spring is sort of breaking in. And the Puritans have this image. Spring brings to mind, of course, the birds having all their little chicks. And the Puritans have this image of looking at the mother bird as faith that God is with you. And they say this, this is from John Flavel. It's just lovely. He says, like birds in a nest, little chicks in a nest. Like little chicks in a nest, they depend upon the mother bird, which is faith, and what she brings into them. All the little birds in the nest are the graces, Christian graces. Like birds in a nest, they depend upon what faith brings into them. If you take away faith, If you take away the mother bird who feeds all the little graces, if you take away faith, all the graces will languish and die. Now what does John Flavor list among Christian graces? What will die if we don't have faith that God is with us? Well, He lists joy, peace, hope, patience. And all of the rest, John Flavel says, depend upon the mother bird and her worms of faith. Paul's main answer is the same here for us this morning. Paul's main answer is that if you want to really know what it looks like at the core to live like a citizen of heaven. It looks like knowing that the Lord is near you in Christ Jesus. It brings covenant joy It brings covenant gentleness and it brings covenant peace instead of anxiety. Amen. Amen. Let us pray.