Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the lull till all is fulfilled. Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven For I say unto you, or for I say to you, that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I ask that you would be glorified here, especially through your Son, and that your Son would be glorified And that he would be glorified by the work of the Spirit here in this congregation and attending to your words, that your words, Lord, would be like a sword. Lord, that it would cut to the heart, that it would bring reformation, that it would bring confession and forgiveness, that it would bring resolve. I ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. You may be seated. I wonder, children, if some of you noticed that one of my daughters had a sling for some time on her left arm. Did anyone notice that? She had hurt her arm riding or actually falling off of her bicycle And if you could have had uh walked along with our family in just the day-to-day, you would have been able to see that just having one arm made it very difficult to live life. Think about that for yourself. If you had a piece of chicken in front of you and you needed to cut it, just how that would work out, or if you needed to pour a glass of water and and make sure that when the water first comes out it doesn't tip over the cup. How are you going to hold the cup? You really can see once your hand's in a sling. That God has made you to have to live in this world with two arms and not just one. And we could say the same thing about our eyes. We could say the same thing about our ears. We could say the same thing about our legs. And God has designed us to be able to navigate this world in dominion and having these two things. Now, do you know what else he has given us a second of that's very important for us to be able to know and navigate life in the right way? It is the two testaments. Sometimes we can forget that we have two testaments. Sometimes when people hand out Bibles, they hand out the Psalms and the New Testament. And we can go about our life as Christians with our arm in a sling. the whole time not realizing that God has given us both the Old and the New Testament. And that actually was a problem that Jesus himself ran into, which we'll get to in a moment when we get to this passage. We've been going through the Sermon on the Mount together. We've had the opportunity to look at all of those Beatitudes. And last week we focused, or actually two weeks ago, because I was on the camping trip last week. But two Sundays ago we were able to see very clearly that Jesus calls us as his congregation to be the salt and the light of the world. We understood a little bit about what that meant, but you can see the summary of that at the end of that passage, just above our passage here this morning, where you can see in Matthew chapter 5, 16. That we are to let our light so shine before men that they may see our good works and glorify our Father who is in heaven. And I'm not going to dwell on that any longer, but I just want to encourage all of you to keep pressing forward as salt and light. If I could just say one more word about it. There has been a tendency among the Christian community to cover over our light. And I'm telling you, now's not the time Now is the time to take the basket off of the light and push a little further. Push a little bit further in those conversations at the workplace. Keep inviting people to church Share your knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ with them. Do not stop. Be the salt and be the light. Now, you may ask yourself, okay, well, what does it look like to be the salt in the light? And I bet you you have a lot of different examples of that. What would it look like to have the good works that Jesus talks about there in that verse? And our verse here this morning, the Spirit is going to answer that question for us. The Spirit is going to tell us that we're able to know what it means to be the salt and the light, especially from the scriptures. But it's not just the New Testament like we sometimes focus upon. Instead, what the Spirit teaches you here this morning, make sure you really mark this, is that Jesus Christ here affirms That the Old Testament, he affirms the Old Testament as Scripture, and he charges you as the congregation To honor the Old Testament scriptures and the way that you live your lives and the things that you believe. That's what the Spirit teaches us this morning. That Jesus Christ affirms the Old Testament as Scripture, and he charges you as a congregation, he charges you as a congregation to honor the Old Testament in your faith and in your practice. Now the way that I would like to look at that truth here this morning is just in two parts. I want to look at Jesus and the Old Testament, and then I want to look at Jesus's followers and the Old Testament. So Jesus in the Old Testament and the disciples or Jesus' followers in the Old Testament. So let's take a look at the scripture together. I want to begin with just number first, verse number 17. To show you why we're talking about the Old Testament when you don't exactly see that word there within this set of scriptures In verse 17, however, we do have an equivalent that lets us know the topic really here is the Old Testament. You can see this in verse number 17 if you were to glance down at your scriptures. Where it says the law and the prophets. Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. This is a way of talking about the entirety and all of the content that is involved within the Old Testament. You could think of the law as all of the books of Moses, for example, the Pentateuch or the five books of Moses. And then you can think of the prophets as all of the rest of those scriptures commenting on that. You could think of it that way. We see Jesus talking this way, if you wanted to write this down or take a look at it later. We see Jesus himself in other places talking this way about the Old Testament in Luke 24, verse 27, on the road to Emmaus, for example, he says, and beginning at Moses And all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And so the first thing I'm just laying down here is for you to notice that we really are talking about the Old Testament in this passage. And it's summarized by way of the law and the prophets. Now What about the Old Testament? Well, the first thing about the Old Testament that was going on is that people had mistaken ideas as to what Jesus thought about the Old Testament. And people today still have mistaken ideas as to what Jesus thinks about the Old Testament. You can see this wrong thinking in the beginning of verse number 17. Jesus says, do not think. Now just ask yourself, and you could even translate it this way, do not suppose Why is it that Jesus is bringing up this idea about making sure you don't think this way? One of the things that I believe is going on here is that there were people during this time who thought he thought this way. And so he's clearing, by way of this introduction, before we get into a bunch of examples of the law, he's clearing the path so that everybody could have the right thinking on this. Don't think this, even though sometimes I'm accused of this, don't think that I've come to take away the law. You can see this, for example, in Matthew chapter 12 and verse 14, just a few pages away from where we are right now, in Matthew chapter 12. In verse number 14, the Pharisees and the scribes are having a really difficult time with Jesus' application and obedience to the Sabbath. And in verse number 14, you can see how they're beginning to think of him. It says in 14, then the Pharisees went out and plotted against him how they might destroy him. And they want to do that because they think that he's corrupting or taking away the law. Now, this kind of accusation against Christians is going to stick with them for some time. You could find many of these examples within the scriptures, but let me just give you one more. In Acts chapter 6, verse 13, we see that this false rumor of Jesus' relationship to the Old Testament is still around and being applied to his followers. In Acts 6. 13, it says, they also set up false witness who said false witnesses who said, this man does not Cease to speak blasphemous words against this holy place and the law. For we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place. And change the customs which Moses delivered to us. For some time, they will have mistaken ideas as to what Jesus is doing with the law. They'll take it that just because he disagrees with the scribes and the Pharisees, that he's trying to wipe or demolish out the whole thing. But that's wrong thinking. Jesus says here, right here in the beginning of 17, do not think That way about me. Do not think that way about me. Instead, here are the correct thoughts about me. And he gives us two main thoughts here in verse 17 and in verse 18. Number one, he says I have not come to tear down the law, as some people might suppose. I have instead come to fulfill the law. Now, if you have had the blessing of having to read through commentaries, you would find in this one part that it seems like Every commentator that you pick up has a different reading of what fulfill means. And for our purposes here And within the intentions of Jesus Christ. There's no reason for us to get wrapped around the axle. We can say that Jesus Christ fulfills it in all the ways that he fulfills it. And let me just tell you a couple different ways that Jesus fulfills it, though he's only really focused on a single way here. Other places of Scripture will tell you that Jesus keeps the law on your behalf perfectly. He fulfills it. It also says that Jesus receives the curse of the law. He fulfills it. It also tells us, and you could even see this just by flipping through the Gospels, that Jesus is the fulfillment of all of the prophecies that had come before. Jesus fulfills all the prophecies. And one of the ways in which he fulfills, specifically here within this passage is that he fulfills the law in the sense of making sure you understand the real meaning and intent of the one who gave the law. Jesus is the perfect teacher or prophet from the Father who always teaches the truth. And if anybody contradicts him or is contrary to him, then they are the liar and not him. And if you were to continue reading on, which you will because we're in a sermon series, you're going to find that Jesus is now going to set people straight, especially on the right intent of the law. So I think that's the main way that he's focused on right now in terms of the fulfillment of it. So he hasn't come to tear down like some people have supposed. Instead, he's come to fulfill in all of these different ways. He's even going to fulfill in ensuring that it's taught, and not just taught, but taught correctly. There's a second argument that he gives, and that's in verse number 18. This is to let you know furthermore that Jesus has no intentions of seeking to demolish the law. I did not come. The Son of God did not take upon himself human flesh to come and demolish, but to fulfill. And in fact, the law is secure. and will exist perpetually. You can see that in verse number 18 in his second argument, he says, For assuredly I say to you Till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law, till all is fulfilled. Now we can get a a little bit confused here and thinking, well, he says it's going to be this way until a certain time, and then the the law will fall away. I really think that's playing with words in a way he doesn't intend. And I don't need to spend a lot of time on proving that to you. I'll just point out to you Luke chapter 16, verse 17, where he says the same thing. And since he doesn't contradict himself, you can see very clearly his intent in bringing up the vanishing of heaven and earth. And we actually, I'll tell you this in a moment. My grandmother used to have a saying Which I'll tell you. In Luke chapter 16, verse 17, Luke records Jesus teaching the same thing and says And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one tidal of the law to fail You want to know how secure it is that the law will be maintained in the ascension of Jesus Christ? Just as secure as this earth rebating. That's his point. And and if you wanted to think of a saying from my my grandmother, there's an an old saying that capitalizes on some of the imagery from the scriptures about hell. Hell is known as a fiery place with unending heat. And there is a saying in our culture, Hell will freeze over before that is done. And you could think of a similar kind of thing here. He's trying to point out that there is no possibility. There is no insecurity. You should not be insecure about my thoughts on the law and whether it will continue or not. I will fulfill it. It is more secure than the earth that you walk on. It will not vanish away. And so that's where Jesus clears the path, doesn't he? I know that there will be people that where we could read books, or perhaps even some of your friends or your family who will try to twist how clear this is. But Jesus is just clearing the path and he's letting you know exactly what he thinks about the Old Testament. He sees the Old Testament not as something to be demolished. But as something to be fulfilled by him and to make sure that people understand, especially the law, exactly what he meant. But it'll be also him making sure we understand what the prophets meant too. Do you have that attitude about the Old Testament that Jesus does? Jesus speaks very highly of the Old Testament. You know, when he's talking about this, he doesn't have a New Testament in his hands. He's speaking about the scriptures and he attributes great honor to them. I wonder if that has been your attitude. You know, sometimes with just the way that we translate different words from the Greek or from the Hebrew. or just the way that we understand things in our culture, we can get the wrong meaning. Like for example, we say, this is my New Testament and this is my Old Testament. And sometimes when we think of old, we think of in the sense of like, I finally got a new pair of socks, and I no longer have to keep using the old pair of socks that keep falling down around my ankles. Or I have an old car, you get a new car. Or whatever it is. We can use those words in derogatory ways. And we can bring that kind of derogatory attitude to the Old Testament that Jesus encourages you not to here. I pointed this out before, and one of my friends has confirmed it for me that the translation for the Old and the New Testament in the French gets at a little a little bit differently. The Old Testament in the French, I'm not speaking French here this morning because I would like to retain some dignity. The Old Testament in the French would be better translated as the Elder Testament in the sense of one who holds wisdom because they've been around for a long time. You know, I've heard people grieving lately because they say, oh What is the Lord doing when he takes these strong rods away from our communities? Strong rods like John MacArthur, though I disagree with him on some things. Strong rods like R. C. Sproll. We grieve over the loss of the wisdom and the experience and all the time that they had with the Lord that they would bring to make sure that the church was fed and healthy. How much more Value is the Old Testament than one of those saints, though they are dear in the eyes of the Lord. What we should be grieving over if it's happening is the loss of an attitude of honor towards all of Scripture, including the Old Testament. Now that's the truth that he lays down here in order for us to be able to understand exactly where Jesus stands with the Old Testament. But Jesus isn't the only one, he's not the only one uh that should be involved with the Old Testament. You know this is the Sermon on the Mount. This is a discourse of discipleship. And so he is going to continue and he's going to bring a charge to his disciples, that they too are meant to honor the Old Testament in the way that they live their lives and what they believe. And that's what we're going to see here in the second half, which is the disciples or the followers of Jesus and the Old Testament. You can pick this up in verse number 19 The first thing I want you to notice here in verse number 19 is that there is this division given to us of Faith and practice. It's actually in the other order. Practice and faith. Take a look at it with me in number in 19. He says Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so, so there's the practice and the faith. shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. For whoever does, there's the practice, and teaches, there's the faith, them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. So the charge that is given to us here, the first thing I want you to notice about that charge is that the charge has to do with our practice and our belief Jesus is concerned about both of those things. I'd encourage you to take the opportunity to go back to the shorter catechism and just look at the first few questions and answers And you're going to find a marvelous unfolding of exactly what's being said here from the pulpit this morning. It begins by asking you, what is the chief end of man? It is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. What is the rule whereby we would know how to glorify God? Is it not the Word of God which is contained in the Old and the New Testament? And what do those scriptures of the Old and New Testament principally teach? They teach you what to believe concerning God and what duties God requires of you. It's the same thing that we see here within the charge I'd encourage you to memorize those and just keep going, just memorize the whole shorter. But start there and see That they're picking up on the concerns of Jesus himself. And this charge that is given to you is that the way for you to be able to honor the Old Testament is to take it seriously enough to where it shapes and forms your practice and belief. And then you'll see also here in this charge in verse number 19 that he gives motivations for the charge. He gives you motivations for this charge. Did you notice that this is not a, Jesus is not neutral on whether you give yourself over to his scriptures? It says in verse number 19 that whoever breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so will be least in the kingdom of heaven. But those who follow him teach in accordance with the scriptures, the apostolic faith shall be greatest in the heaven. Do you see the motivations that are given to you? These are a kind of gospel grace and gospel warnings that Jesus gives to you to take your life seriously, lived out by his word. There are consequences. Now, if you're has been adopted by God as his son and his daughter, As a good father, if you decide that you're going to rebel against what is taught even in the Old Testament scriptures or teach counter to that, he will correct you in his fatherly displeasure. If you are not an adopted son or daughter of Jesus by way of the work of Jesus Christ, than if you were to misteach or misrepresent even in your life these Old Testament scriptures, woe to you. And just hearing that from my mouth here this morning, may you turn to Christ for salvation. We are to take this seriously. Now, when he says that you're the least, you would be the least in the kingdom of heaven I'd like you to recall, those of you who have been attending the Proverbs Sermon Series in the evening I believe what Jesus has on his mind here are the certain characters that we find in Proverbs that are not building up the church, but are tearing it down. And so they become least in the kingdom of heaven. And you can see the least spoken about that way in Proverbs. Take a look at Proverbs 30 sometime. Take a look at the rest of the Proverbs when you get the opportunity and look for those who tear down community and look at the consequences. Look at the curses that fall on them. One of the last proverbs that we looked at is those who continually tear down the church by false teaching. And by encouraging people to conduct themselves in a way that is contrary to the will of God, they will receive divine judgment similar to seeing an eagle fly down and rip out your eyes. That's what the proverb says. I'm not just trying to be graphic. Now that is a motivation to take this seriously. Jesus is not playing around. You will see as we go through these different instances of the law that there are a group of people that have been corrupting and tearing down the church, and Jesus is done with it. May that not be you. But instead of the curses or accumulating the fatherly displeasure, may you receive the blessings of one who is great in the kingdom of heaven. Where when people need to know God's will, they would ask you. When they would be able to need to see what it would look like to live life as a new creation, they would look to you. And may Jesus on that final day say to you, well done. Well done, my good and faithful servant, with how you represented all of my scriptures in your teaching and in your life. Now I mentioned a few people that Jesus is particularly concerned about and he actually gives them As a special example here, we have the charge that he's given that we are to honor the Old Testament with our faith and our practice. He gives us motivations in order to move forward on that and to take his word seriously. But he also gives us a special example that is uh it's going to transition us into the next sermon. But he gives us a special example here of the scribes and the Pharisees in verse number twenty. For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. Do you know how surprising that must have been how surprised they must have been to hear that? But it's so important that Jesus lays this down for us as a special example within the charge. If you were during that time and day and he charged you to live according to the scriptures, And your only example or the highest example for you were the scribes and the Pharisees. And then you walk down that path and you started imitating them, you would find out that you were not even allowed in the kingdom of heaven. They had gotten it so wrong, you would not even be allowed in the kingdom of heaven. And so Jesus is making sure that you're ready for the next part of this sermon series. He's going to show you the intent of his law, the way that you're supposed to carry it out, and it won't be like the scribes and the Pharisees. Now, let me just give you a quick example of what I would call the way that they carried out the Old Testament scriptures was with a hollow heart And Jesus did not like that. If you take a look just a little bit further down in Matthew chapter 5, I'm not going to dwell on this because we will in the future, but in Matthew chapter 5, verse 27. I'm sorry, let's go to chapter 6. This will be a little bit easier without exposition. In chapter 6, verse 1. He's speaking about the scribes and the Pharisees, those who are known as religious. And he says, take heed that you do not do your charitable deeds before men to be seen by them. Does everybody get what he's getting at there? Do you see what has happened within the human heart? Is that instead of taking God's law and using it for God's glory, Or under s and or and even in understanding that we need the righteousness of Christ, or that it is meant to build up the church and the society around us. Instead of all of that They have used it and twisted it in such a way where it just increases their status so that they, let's just say, make more money and get the best seats at the table Is that really the lawgiver's intention for his law? You see what the righteousness of the Pharisees and the scribes looks like? Won't even enter the kingdom of heaven. Because though they may worship him with their lips, their hearts are far from them. That's the special example that Jesus gives us, and it acts as a further motivation to make sure To make sure through confession, through fellowship, through the reading of the word through the attendance of Lord's Day worship and through prayer, that your heart would not twist the scriptures like their hearts did. And I tell you that in all seriousness, if you don't think that you have that problem, then your pride is going to lead to a fall. At every moment that I find myself seeking the will of God by way of His Word, I find an opposite law at work seeking to take what God gives for good and to turn it into something that would glorify me instead of him. And I know that your heart wants to do that same thing. Oh brothers and sisters. Jesus gives us warnings even in the gospel because he knows that we need it and it's an act of his grace that we would not become like Pharisees and scribes That is what the Holy Spirit teaches us here this morning, these vital lessons. The Spirit has shown us what Jesus really thinks about the Old Testament. He's shown us what he thinks about the law and the prophets. He upholds them, and the force of the Old Testament abides under the authority of Jesus Christ. And given that, he charges you to take all of his scriptures seriously. And you can do that in your faith, in what you confess with your mouth, and what you believe with your heart, all the faith. And the way that you conduct yourself in your duties and your responsibilities before God. And he gives you great warnings so that you would take these words seriously here today. And not become a corrupt congregation. A few weeks ago, we were all discussing the assassination of Charlie Kirk. And I had noticed that a lot of people that the Lord was th there were a lot of different discussion about Charlie Kirk in a lot of different ways. But one thing that I kept seeing was a pattern on what the Lord was doing through the assassination of Charlie Kirk. And that was, at least within my circles, was that He was convicting people around me that they need to repent and be more serious about Jesus Christ. And ever since that time I've had more people come to talk to me about how might I start taking my discipleship under Jesus Christ and His commission to me more seriously. One of the things I'm concerned about is losing that momentum. I remember, I don't know, was it a year ago or two years ago where I heard of some college breaking out in revival And the revival showed itself in terms of prayer that went 24 hours. They prayed through the night. And then the night was over, and I haven't heard anything else about the revival. And I don't want that to happen here. I want what the Lord is revealing to us about how serious it is that we take our role as salt and light. That we would not forget that. And that comes down to this sermon also. I just want to ask Are you taking the scriptures seriously in your homes? And though that could be applied to anybody that is here, whether you're a a wife or a husband. Or you're a mother or you're a father, I do want this morning to give a special application to the men that are here. If you were to return to the garden, Eve gets a lot of heat for her choice. But do you know that the man was responsible? We could at least say that the man was responsible too. And he was responsible in a different and what I think is a more grave way because he is the covenant head. And so I asked you, men, whether you're a a um a father or you're a grandfather Or this is just only by way of analogy, but maybe you're an older brother, or maybe you don't have children yet and you're just a husband. Are you taking the role of the scriptures seriously? Do you have any idea what your children are up against as they are raised within this culture? And by not taking the scriptures seriously, some of you are saying, go and and fight the good fight But because I didn't raise you up in the scriptures of the Old Testament, you can do so with your arm in a sling. And some of you in your homes, you're not looking at either testament, and so both of their arms are in a sling. And you push them out the door. I would encourage you here, or I do encourage you here this morning to return to Ephesians chapter 6. And let me just read that for you. And thinking about your families, men, and thinking about the families that are around you, my ultimate charge here is that the men would take their roles seriously. In Ephesians chapter six, when we hear about the armor of God Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. Therefore, take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. And when we keep reading down, one of the parts of the armor of God, verse 17, is the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. And I'm just asking you men to start handing the sword to your family. And I don't want the sword to only have one sharp side called the New Testament. The sword must be a double-sided blade. It is the old and it is the new, bound together and in its meaning and in its power by way of Jesus Christ. I would love to see you at your tables again, having family, worship, and devotion. I would love to see you talking about the scriptures with your children while you're on the way, whether it be to soccer or field hockey or basket weaving, whatever you do. I'd like to see it written in your house. This isn't about having fuzzy feelings in our devotions. This is about life or death. This, my brothers and sisters, and sisters, please encourage the men in your life to take up their responsibilities This is about being light and salt to the world that if you look around, they really need you. Because it is by hearing from you that they will know about Jesus Christ, who is the only one that is able to save them from this darkness. As has been said recently at a memorial service, the answer is not in politics, but in Jesus. And that is your commission. You are the salt and you are the light. And that begins in the home, especially with the man. May the Lord bless you and keep you. Amen.