Now to Acts or I'm sorry, John chapter twelve. And uh there we go. And I'm gonna read twelve through twenty-six in chapter twelve. This is the word of the Lord. The next day a great multitude had come to the feast. When they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him and cried out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, the King of Israel! Then Jesus, when he had found the donkey, sat on it, as it is written: Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt. His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written about him and that they had done these things to him. Therefore, the people who were with him when he called Lazarus out of his tomb and raised him from the dead bore witness. For this reason the people also met him, because they heard that he had done this sign The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, You see that you are accomplishing nothing? Look, the whole world has gone after him Now there were certain Greeks among those who came up to worship at the feast. Then they came to Philip, who was from Besseda of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip came and told Andrew, and in turn Andrew and Philip told Jesus. But Jesus answered them, saying, The hour has come, the Son of Man should be glorified. Most assuredly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it produces much grain. He who loves his life will lose it, and he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If anyone serves me, let him follow me. And where I am, there my servant will be also. If anyone serves me, him my Father will honor. Let us pray. O Lord Christ, your words, your actions, they structure our lives. They demand our all. We know what is in ourselves and what we ourselves are capable of. And so we must cry out to you this morning: open our eyes that we may see. Open our hearts that we may be. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Well, I hope you've noticed. I'm very thankful for the new decorations in the service here in the sanctuary. Thank you so much for those of you who did that. These are some of my favorite banners throughout the year. And the cloth on the cross lets us know the season. And though we have entered into this season, it is not disconnected from the past. Last week, we observed that Christ, through Peter, raised Tabbit from the dead. That really did happen. It's a fact. But the fact of it is not our focus. The significance of the fact was our focus. And the significance was to show us that we are raised from the dead just like Tabbitha. In order to bring life to our community. It is why resurrection and resurrections happen. It is to bring life and not just selfish life, but life for the other. Now today we have the same situation. John records for us the fact of Palm Sunday. And we read this passage every year. I'm sure you're familiar with these Palm Sunday passages by now. It really did happen. But this too, like last week, is not the point. The point is to signify a heavenly reality. And let me tell you, Jesus is well aware of what he is doing here in signifying heavenly realities. The other gospels, if you were to go through them, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, it would show Jesus orchestrating specifically the obtaining of the donkey By his disciples, and Jesus knew that he was setting this entire situation up to where they would sing and recognize Psalm 118, Zechariah 9:9, and they would declare him to be the king. The other Gospels, in addition, would detail that Jesus would ride into Jerusalem from atop the Mount of Olives. Now, I don't know if you've ever seen a picture of the Mount of Olives, but it has olives on it. Olive trees. Imagine that. It stands 2,700 feet above sea level, and it sits 300 feet above Jerusalem, the city And so what you have here is the God man, Jesus Christ, literally coming down from above to visit his people on earth I mean you really shouldn't miss the significance. But it is not just the similarities that we see across the Gospels. There are also the differences that help us to see the significance. And that's where we really get to this morning because John is quite different than the synoptic gospels, Mark, Matthew, and Luke. All the other gospels, if you were to take a look at them on your time today on the Lord's Day, look through the different Gospels. Look at the Palm Sunday account, the triumphal entry. All the other Gospels, they likewise show Jesus coming down from heaven, so to speak, and bringing in the Gospels, but not John, judgment to the city. In each instance, Christ either curses the fig tree or he flips the temple tables as the good king who seeks to bring order to this world, beginning with his own people. But here in John, there is no such record. The flipping of tables happened much earlier in this account. The Godman, in other words, still comes down from heaven. But when he arrives, he meets with the Greeks. Do you notice that in verse 20? That is very significant. It is a representation that the whole world is already beginning to come to Christ. before his work is even done. And he reveals when the Greeks come to him, when Philip sets him aside to be able to speak to him. To speak to them, not that he is judging the temple or bringing condemnation, but instead that he is bringing salvation. And he puts it in these terms of week because he is at a week festival. Did you notice our first verse, verse 12, says the feast? All of the feasts revolved around redemptive actions and the agriculture of God as a symbol of all the harvest that God is bringing. And so Christ capitalizes on that, and he says that he will die like a grain of wheat in order, verse 24, to produce a harvest of much more grain. That is the emphasis here. Not the emphasis on the condemnation of the temple, the coming judgment of the temple, the cursing of the fig tree, but instead on life. The point he was seeking to make is the exact same point, and I encourage you to write these passages down because John is cycling through and giving you different ways of saying the same thing. Same thing. And as you go through your day today, look up John chapter 3, verse 16. We should be able to recite that one. John 3, 16. John 11, verse 50, John 12, verse 38, and John 12, verse 38 is actually a citation from Isaiah 53. And if you were to read that whole chapter, you can see that Christ is there pulling all of these strands together that you would see that as the suffering servant He is going to bear the iniquities of the world, all nations, in order to create a great harvest for his God. That is the emphasis that John has. And so if we were to put all of these things together, John is clearly, through this dramatic act, That Christ Himself orchestrated. He is communicating something like this to us. God came down from heaven becoming the man Jesus. He did so in order to die. He did so that he might be raised. He did so that he would, in his death and his resurrection, bring life To the whole world. God came down from heaven, becoming the man, Jesus, to die and rise in order to bring life to the whole world. That's the mystery of the gospel, right there. Now, does that remind you of anything before we move on to some instruction and lessons? Does it not remind you, in a grand-scale way, of Tabbitha? Of last week? Was not resurrection doing something similar there? Jesus raised her from the dead in order to bring life to her local community. Tabitha made clothing for the poor and for the widows, and Christ raised her again that she could continue to contribute to that little part of her world. But her death, when we arrive here at this place, pales in comparison. It is but a kind of type of the great grand death. And atonement of Christ, the great resurrection and ascension of Christ. He would not just die, but he would die for the sins of all the nations. He would not just rise in order to make clothes for a little seaside Jewish community off the Mediterranean, but he would rise in his ascension and exaltation. to send his spirit to every tongue and tribe and nation, and to give new clothes to all of them. Clothes that are white, as you see in the Revelation passage. Signifying that they have no more sin, that they are brought into fellowship with Him and the Father through the Spirit. Now, you know, you can go to Nebraska. You know, you could go to Kansas, and if you go at the right time of the year, you can go to our very own eastern shore, and you can see corn for miles. But that is a small thing compared to the farm of God. That's what Jesus is saying. As the great seed, sown into the earth, died and buried, he raises again to bring a great harvest to his God. God the Father is the farmer, and he sows the seed, the Son, and by the Spirit He is raised and raises all. God came down from heaven, becoming the man Jesus to die and to rise in order to bring life to the whole world. That is John's emphasis on Palm Sunday, and that is our main point this morning. Now, I want to go into a time of some instruction and lessons, and I try my best every week. To have the main headings the same beginning letter, and I failed this week. Instead, we have two points to consider that have different letters, but I think you can handle it. The first point has to do with the calendar, because we are a part of the liturgical or the church calendar today with Palm Sunday. And then the second is sacrifice. So it's calendar and sacrifice. I want to take that main point and start to work it, knead it into us as if we were bred. God came down from heaven, becoming the man Jesus to die and rise in order to bring life to the whole world. And this, because we are on Palm Sunday, brings up the calendar. Today is considered a holy day on the church calendar, or what you'll hear as the liturgical calendar. It repeats every year until Christ's return in a kind of holy cycle, accompanied by other holy days like Monday, Thursday, Good Friday, and Easter Sunday in this season, and of course there's other ones. We choose here at Severn Run to celebrate Palm Sunday, but we do it only as subsumed under our regular Holy Day, which happens every Sunday, which is the Lord's Day. And what this does, since we can subsume the one under the other, it gives us the chance to refocus every year on God's calendar and God's time. These days, in our modern culture, that is a rare thought. Did you know that God thinks about time? Do you know that God made time? Do you know that He has an extreme, not a extreme, but a serious concern about calendars? All time is God's time. And it is good to remember this because humans talk today like they own the calendar. You have your Google Calendar, and you probably have six calendars on that one calendar to get all of your calendars straight for all of the things that you want to accomplish with all the desires that you have. And not very often do we see a calendar titled God's calendar. For example, just this past week, I wonder who have you heard speaking as if they own time? Wonder if you've heard yourself. Well, you know we hear different times happening. Uh right now I keep hearing still the time of the virus. That is how we have chosen to define time. Man has. I haven't heard God say that. In a recent press conference, I heard Biden summarize all time organized around how many days he has been in office relative to how many vaccines he has distributed I have heard others organize their time around their first and second vaccination shot. If I were to sit down even for a moment to have coffee or tea, that is what I would hear about in terms of your calendar. Recently, I looked on the calendar and I was surprised that we hit already the first day of spring. But that is a part of our calendar. And I'm not saying that any of these things are wrong. I'm just letting you know that we organize ourselves around our calendar, and these are the predominant times that keep being set amongst us. Maybe there are other times. The time that I've had another grandchild or another child, the time, whatever it is, you fill in the blank. It's your calendar. I don't take issue with those calendar dates, but here is the thing that we have to remember, which is why we cycle Every year with the church calendar being a part or an emphasis of our Lord's Day calendar. The church's calendar swallows every other calendar. If you were to picture as if you were having a vision like Pharaoh, there is before you in this dream A large calendar that fills the whole world, and before it are all the tiny calendars bowing to it. Can you interpret the dream? It is what we have here today is to remind us of God's time. The Lord's Day generally, and Palm Sunday in particular, reminds you that above all your appointments Above all of your plans, God stands in control of all time with his appointments and with his plans, and he is the only one that will really keep his appointments. This is the time of the virus. Biden has fifty-something days in office. You have an appointment for your vaccination. Those are all true, but they are calendars that bow to one calendar. It is the calendar of God. And today, guess what time it is? Today, we remember that this is the time when Christ, through his death and his resurrection and his ascension, is still continuing to bring life to this world. It is in some sense, if you do not watch yourself, a direct contradiction to God if you call this the time of the virus. Because this is the time of life. This is the time when fields are raising up for a harvest for God. We've talked about the 40 million Christians now in Africa. What a field! Of course, I understand what you mean when you want to use those other calendar dates, but let us not forget that they are not the calendar. They don't really structure our time if they conflict with God's time God is farming to this day, and plants are sprouting everywhere. You know, it's important for us to keep these kind of things in mind. What would it look like for you to have a calendar? You need to keep it. Okay, you need to keep a calendar. I'm not telling you to be as disorganized as me. But what would it look like if God's calendar ruled over all your calendars? You know, I had a calendar yesterday, and my calendar said this. Do the yard work and make sure that you measure and calculate all of the areas for the mulch that you need to order from our local Anorono County farm store. While I was seeking to do that and to keep my calendar, I was interrupted. When I went out front, my neighbor called my name and started to walk over Initially, I was grumpy and annoyed because I was trying to measure for mulch. But then, for whatever reason, this passage popped into my mind. I say for whatever reason, God put the passage in my mind. I was focused on my time to measure and to get my mulch But then in his grace he allowed his calendar to dominate. In his providence, I said, you are right, God. I literally had this conversation in my head. You're right, God. This is your time. I can measure later. And in this time, you are bringing life to the world. I wonder. If you're bringing life to my neighbor, I should go find out. Is there a seed that can be planted Is there water that can be given to a seed that was planted long ago? I don't know. That's the Spirit's job. But what I can do is I can recognize what time it is. It is the time of the growing harvest. And so my life changed that day. I went over and I spoke with my neighbors. Now that sounds simple, but that's the ordinary things that God calls us to do under his time. Do you have a calendar? Do you have appointments, Christian? Today I plead with you to remember that your time must submit to what God has planned. Let us be very careful in calling this the time of the virus or the time of the vaccination. This is the time of life. God is bringing life to the whole world right now. Amen. Now our second point is sacrifice. Our first point has to do with calendars, and this sacrifice point really flows with this. And you can see it in the example that I just gave you. And this is our second lesson. Sacrifice is the way that calendars will become fruitful As we keep God's time, with our time subsumed under His time, we must sacrifice in order for that time to blossom. I want you to take a look at verse 25 and notice how Jesus is not content to just talk about his own death and his own work. He is very much concerned about making sure the disciples know what it means to follow him as their master. He who loves his life will lose it, and he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If anyone serves me, let him follow me, and where I am, there my servant will be also. If anyone serves me, him my father will honor. You get the picture already based on what we've said about him being a kernel of grain, falling and dying in the ground, that we are in some sense called to do likewise Jesus' death and resurrection surely are unique. We are not the Messiah. But nevertheless, God has ordered his plan such, really make sure that you get this I'm telling you, this is very important. This is not important theoretically. I know you, and I know myself, and this is exactly where we are as a group of people. We are ready to submit our calendars to God. But here is the thing: God has ordered His plan such that life will come to this world only If his people give up their lives, I'm seeing it happen every single day amongst you. I'm watching you get the message of Christ's calling. And every single time when you go, yes, I want to be called by Christ, and I'm ready to do this by faith, and then it's going to require a sacrifice immediately It's exactly where you are. The theme in all of the sermons lately have been vocation and calling to our ordinary tasks. We are called by Christ to serve Him by loving our neighbor. And I have watched Christ work this truth into you. Many of you are seeking to serve Christ with renewed vitality. I've known some of you for a long time. And I am seeing a kind of revival in your life. Many of you schedule appointments to talk with me to talk through what would it look like for you to have a a life that is ordered to Christ and to his glory. And in each one of the appointments, you can't see them because you have an appointment and then you leave. But I'm there for all the appointments And there is a pattern that is forming. First, Christ reveals over and over again that He wants you to serve Him in the little ordinary things. I have a wake-up call. None of you are going to be rock stars and famous. And the sooner you realize that, the better off you're going to be. Christ reveals over and over instead that we are to serve Him in ordinary things, and man, this is what happens. As soon as you are ready and postured to serve him in ordinary things. Yes, that sounds great. That's exactly what I want to do. I just need to be content in my ordinary calling, but I I can see me wanting to do this. I'm excited about doing this And then this is what happens. As soon as we figure out exactly, in particular, in your specific life, what you are to do, Christ does this in every single appointment. He puts an obstacle in your way That really gets at who you are as a person as to whether or not you're really going to make the sacrifice for him. Each of you are different. You all have different personalities, and he knows them, and I watch him put an obstacle tailored just to you, to where you would have to make a sacrifice. It is not an obstacle that is too difficult. It is not an obstacle that you can't get over with the help of your church community, but it will require a personal sacrifice that for the first time you go, ho! I you didn't tell me you I was gonna have to sacrifice. I didn't know it was gonna be like that. Now last week's sermon it went like this, and I'm going to state it again because I think it's the looming question above us all We see the disorder and the disease in this life. We know the wrongs. Are you willing to pay the cost for the cure? That's the big question. Are you willing to pay the cost for the cure and be a true disciple of him who is the grain of wheat that dies? Let me put it this way. After service, you are going to receive a single palm leaf, or they call it a frond, actually. I'm not trying to be fancy. But it's a palm fronde. Now this is different than the way it actually used to be celebrated. In the original Jewish festival, the festival of booths, although it showed up, it seems, in all the festivals, they would use entire palm branches. I'm talking send Noah Donovan up the tree. Noah take off the whole limb and bring that to the service. That's what it would be like We cannot afford the full branches. So you're going to get the palm frond today. But let it signify the same thing. If you had the full branch, some of the rabbis would say this: the palm branch was to signify you as a human being with the spine going down the center. And as you laid them before the Christ in this case, as the crowds would lay them on the ground to show reverence and devotion and to service, it was a sign that they themselves were bowing to him. And in their lives. And you know what service always involves? Sacrifice. It is a picture of sacrifice. When you receive your palm today, reflect on it. If you want, if you're younger, And you don't know how to make the palm frond into the little cross, talk to one of the older kids. They know how to do it. I think Emma Donovan is very good at it. You're going to have a lot of kids running too. I'm so sorry But I'm sure there's others too, and that can be a symbol of sacrifice too, of your calling, that we all must bear across for the sake of God's kingdom. And I'd encourage each of you not only to ask for yourselves, but ask for each other. Please help us to be a community that gives up our lives for God's sake. Out of love for our neighbor. It's there that you are going to begin to see fruitfulness under the reign of God's calendar. It is through sacrifice. Now here's the main issue. Here's the main message from John, and we're going to keep tracking with him through this whole season. God came down from heaven becoming the man Jesus to die and to rise in order to bring life to the whole world. Now is God's time of gathering. That's what time it is. Make sure that your time is controlled by God's time. And this will only be accomplished as Christians begin to make sacrifices. He who loves his life will lose it. And he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. John writes elsewhere in 1 John 4, verses 10 through 11, what I would like to leave you with today. In this is love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us. And he sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. Let us pray.