Good to see everyone. I'm glad we made it. We did it. The if anyone asks, um the high school is in the den, which is the trailer. So if anybody asks for the future I was told that whatever we're doing in here is not as cool as what they're doing out there. So if you're a high schooler and you want to make that, then that's the class. Uh the the they put together a new Sunday school uh for those different grades. Okay, well let's start our time with prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day that you've given to us, and I thank you for all of the The work that we see that has been done this past week where the parking lot is clear. We can look out in the field and see that doesn't just happen And the sidewalks are salted. I pray Lord that you uh uh would uh keep everyone from slipping if there's any patches of ice and safe trip here. We thank you for those and all the hard work that has gone into maintaining the property. Lord, I uh we pray that you would give us wisdom today, the wisdom of knowing you as good. And as wise and that you care about us, Lord, if we could really believe those things, everything would change. I pray that you would especially reveal that in Jesus Christ. It's in your name that we pray. Amen. All right. Um hey Megan, could you have Nick just turn this down a little bit? It's kind of Oh he's on his way. He he just heard me. Thanks, Nick. Let's uh okay, so What's that? Uh Nick didn't hear you. Oh he didn't? Oh okay. Yeah, it's just kinda ringing a little bit. I don't know if it's just me. I want to start. We're going to go through the class. I'm just going to focus on chapter 3 today. I know that I now have two chapters that I need to make up since we had a snow day. But I want to start by just going over the syllabus very quickly. We're then going to do a review on the whiteboard from the first two chapters just to make sure we remember where we are. the kinds of questions we're asking and the answers that we're giving. Then we'll cover chapter three today, and then I'll be working on what two chapters can I realistically combine together without cheating any of us. And I'll get back to you on that. But I recommend that you just stick with the syllabus. All right. So if you, I don't know if you have the syllabus in front of you or not, but we are on 2-1, which is week five But I'm still lecturing as if we were in 118. And that's okay. So I'll be doing uh chapter three. So just keep going. Um next week, try to have read up to chapter six. Next week I'm not going to take that chapter and combine it with another chapter. Chapter 4 is thick It's starting to present a lot of the counter arguments to everything that we've been saying. And I want to make sure that I'm respectful and really step through those things so that we can consider them carefully. And then A lot of people have questions about week five, which is when Jesus says he's the Lord of the Sabbath, what is he talking about there? So I doubt that I'm going to combine that with anything either. And then, however, I do think I might be able to pull together the Sabbath, a day for compassion, and the day changed. We'll see though. I need to work that out again to make sure I'm not cheating us. So my point for you to take away, however, is to stay with the weeks. If you're a little bit behind right now, you do have some time to catch up, but try to stay with the syllabus. I'm going to try to do that myself Okay, so this week we're going to cover the market day of the soul. And before we get into the market day, I'm just going to go over a little bit of review. So the very first thing that we're learning from the book is had to do with w we were just asking the question, well Assuming that there is a Sabbath, what purpose does God has God given to it? What is the purpose of that specific day? And we listed a few things. We said that it is a day to delight in God. And I hope that you've already begun that today to delight in him and to to think about how good he is and how wise he is and how forgiving. and how patient and how powerful. And I hope you're able to start that. If you haven't started that yet, I hope that can start in the worship service. And if it still hasn't happened in the worship service, you may might want to mention something to somebody or having trouble delighting in him today so that we can come alongside of you. We all need help. So so delighting in God is one that he mentioned, uh and then victory over sin. is another. And then third had to do with ministry to other people. And this is summarized, which we'll get to later in the book, as uh uh mercy. And there's also a necessity component to that. All right, mercy and necessity. So w uh the the big deal I think that when I hear people talk about the book One of the things that people will mention is I'm so happy that he's pointing out positive things about the Lord's day and not just negative things. And that's true here. These are all positive. You could think of this as uh acts of compassion, really, and of course the rest are Pardon? I'm sorry. Yeah, I'm sorry. Let's see. No, it's not it's it's uh it's my eye. Oh it's your eyes? I need to write bigger. Ministry, and then it says mercy and necessity. Yeah, that's right. Now these two categories here come out of a reading of Jesus confronting the Pharisees for their legalistic understanding of the Lord's Day. And it's the same place where Jesus said that the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath, and I am Lord of the Sabbath, which we'll we'll get into that in a couple of weeks. But those two categories are there, having to do with the ox in the ditch or the healing of the of the person They had a withered hand. So those kinds of ideas. It's always historically been a place, a time when you're especially being neighborly, you're visiting people who are in the hospital or uh what have you. Because you have time to free freed up to be able to do that. Okay? So there we go. Now Um what was the primary place that from which this was argued from the Bible? Okay. Not exactly. Not in this chapter. That will be in the next one. Isaiah 58. Yeah, Isaiah 58. Yep, very good. So we're looking here at Isaiah 58. And you can go through the book again and see how he's arriving at those various conclusions. This is not a new thing. It has been argued from Isaiah 58 for a long time. There's lots and lots of works out there where you could read on it so that you can uh uh make up your own mind on it. Okay So then the s so that's the first thing. The second is the question that we have before us in the second chapter is, is the Sabbath A moral law. That's the second one. And that's a really big question. The answer that we received from the book is yes. And the way in which it was proved to be a moral law was that it is a law of creation. Later it will further be proved in the next chapter by it being the fourth command. But this is more the law of creation is is more basic than the fourth command. So that's the argument that was given. When we looked at this specific argument, there was A uh there was a specific let's put it this way. Uh uh can you still see this? Okay, hold on. Sorry. Can you see that? Yeah. Okay. So let's say uh there was the example. God gave us example an example of resting on that day himself. And then there was also the declaration. And that was that it was uh it was holy and set and and sanctified. So that's what we've covered so far. What is the purpose of the day and is the day a moral law? Now, before I move into this next chapter, which is the Market Day of the Soul, which has a really clear outline and it'll be fun to talk through it. I wanted to give you an analogy that I heard from a buddy of mine. Does anybody here know Brad Finkminer? Yeah, seeing some heads nod. Okay. He used to attend here a while ago. He also is the teacher over at Rockbridge And uh he's a friend, um he and his family. And he has written a logic book or two, I don't remember how many. But uh I think uh Darren actually teaches at least part of his class from it. Yeah the whole thing. And there, and Darren, you could tell us more about this than I could, but if I remember in the being struck by an analogy that Brad gave in the logic class on how the the kind of stewardship that we need to exercise with regard to our beliefs He gave an example, and he and basically his main point was, if you don't protect your beliefs, those things which are treasures and precious to you, they will be stolen from you. And he gives you he gave an an analogy of I guess this is historically true, I never really looked it up. But in the Roman or the Greek world, if you were uh you would n you would have statues on your property. And one of the things that would happen is the statues would be uh they'd be valuable and other people would want them. And so if you didn't chain down the statues, then your statues would be stolen. In the same way, he would say, it is our responsibility, especially as Christians, to make sure that we chain down our beliefs. Or they will be pecked away at and eventually taken. Um I remember uh this experience not w well with my beliefs, but I'll give you a different experience first. When we were working um when I was in the construction industry, we were building an entire community And therefore, we always needed to make sure we had lots of our tools there in the community for the workers to be able to show up get the tools that they needed and then go and work on the various houses that are in the development. So we had a large trailer that had all of the tools in it. Well one night someone had broken the lock on the trailer that was locking the hitch. This is we were trying to be very careful. We even locked the where you would put the ball of the the tr the trailer hitch into the trailer. We locked all that up. They figured out a way to break through that. They hooked up the entire trailer took it to a backcountry road and took all of the tools which is a terrible thing to do to a person who's trying to make a living. And ever since then I I've I've always had in my head just more about locking things up. Well in terms of a trailer that size, uh I would never ever again leave it inside of a community. I'd probably back it into a garage and just keep it in there or whatever it is. But the so you see the uh you see the idea. You hear of bikes being stolen that aren't locked up. You hear of uh next door a few years ago their four wheeler was stolen that wasn't locked up. And Brad's point is that the same thing doesn't just happen with our material possessions. The same thing can happen with the beliefs that the Lord gives to us. The convictions, the good that he reveals to us about himself and about the world, about his kingdom, they can all be stolen. So one of the reasons why I think Dr. Pipa has put these first two chapters here is to signal to you that these are statues that need to be chained down. If they're not chained down, they will, there are, there are forces at work seeking to steal them from you. For example, this is constantly being, in the next chapter you'll see, there are many that seek to work against the idea of this being a moral law I have friends that seek that same thing and I work to still chain down my statues with my friends So they don't steal this from me. And it's the same thing here, that, especially with Isaiah 58, that it would have nothing to do with the Christian today. So let me before I move into the next chapter, let me just ask you very quickly, and um I'd appreciate your honesty. Let's start with the first one here. Is there anything within here, within the Isaiah 58, that you feel is close to being stolen from you? Or you s you are you you see that it could happen that this idea from Isaiah 58, that the day is set aside to delight in God, victory over sin, and ministry, that These could be taken from you by other arguments or whatever. Anybody have anything to share with that that they still have doubts here It's difficult to announce in a public forum that you have doubts about something. So I get it And if no one raises their hands, if I raise my hand, I'll be there. Oh, okay, yeah, go ahead. necessity down is that well no I don't. Okay. With ministry. Not with mercy and necessity. With ministry. I'm gonna give you a living example. Okay. Um, I had a neighbor that during the snowstorm wouldn't let me clear their snow. Oh, uh huh Yesterday, or actually Friday night, I sent a text to the husband. Uh-huh. And if I'm being kind to say wouldn't let Yeah. The wife. Very adamant. I texted the husband Friday night because now it's been a whole week and said, Hey, can I clear your snow And he said, Yes, please. Okay. So Ben and I spent I spent close to four hours, two and a half hours taking care of By this mess mercy and necessity and by this ministry and by the idea of that we should be doing neighborly things on the Sabbath, I could have easily done, which I love doing that kind of stuff, today, and said, hey no, I'm going to use Saturday to do my things because I could do that one on the Sabbath. Oh, okay. So yeah, I I see the ministry from for for me as a place that I personally need to do those things. on the other six days. Acts of necessity and mercy. On Sunday last week, it was coming down hard. Even at my own house, I took care of myself shows several times. Right, yeah. And then I did other works of mercy and necessity for others on the Sabbath that I wouldn't normally be doing. Yeah. Um, but it was a real necessity to put it. Wait. Yeah. Okay. So would that ministry thing that I did yesterday by this task, by this list, could I have just put that off till today Yeah, it sounds like you could have. It did a bit of a judgment call on when you would do what. But the the ministry I'm I'm put this here to define what I mean by ministry And uh it would be acts of mercy and necessity. So if the person's trapped inside of their house, partly due to their stubbornness it still in my mind would be a act of necessity to g to get them out of the house. You know, so if I found myself in a position where I could help them out on the Lord's Day And I would try to do so. Especially if I had a I think if if he had not told me yes for Saturday and then Sunday when I came to the church and said, Could you do that for me? Yeah. Wrong. Oh no, you had an opportunity last week. Yeah. Yesterday. My grandmother would say you made your bed, lie in it. Yeah. Alrighty, well it's good for you to think through uh whether or not uh there are any doubts that are associated with this, and I'm happy to talk with you about it. And what about this one? Does anybody have any Uh is the idea of the moral law of the Sabbath being a moral law, is that a temptation to be stolen from you or you do you see that as ridiculous? All right, well something again to think about. The my main point was really just to remember about the chaining down of what the Lord has given to us. He calls the faith passed down to us a treasure. for a reason. So we want to treat it like treasure, make sure it's not stolen. Right? Okay. So um Um okay, very good. And I would say especially, you know, you don't want this to be stolen. Okay, so then let's go ahead then into chapter three, which is the market day of the soul. Market Day Okay, let's see if we can get some help right off the bat before I start in on the points. Anybody want to help us understand what in the world is going on here with the market day? Why is it titled this and What what's what's he trying to do with the this image? Could somebody just explain to us what a market day is? That's pretty foreign to us, I guess We might think of more of like a farmer's market day, but what's what's going on with the market day? Anybody want to try? I know you're just coming out of your hibernation. Okay, I just had two people raise their hand all of a sudden. So I think Alain, you're up. Uh I'll take a guess. I would think like when you go to the market even probably in the old days, you're getting things that you need that you're running low on. So that if you're thinking of the Sabbath as a day that refuel Well that kind of makes sense. Okay. Alright, that's pretty good. Yeah, well there's a couple different ways to answer this. Just remember that if I ask a question and there's a bunch of silence, I personally don't feel any pressure We know. But I know that some of you do, and I'm banking on it. So Is there anybody that wants to try oh well Kate you did have your hand up before you wanna fill out or were you gonna say the same thing as Elaine? Hopefully. Uh uh he mentioned in the chapter um the transaction So like the sixth days would be life transactions, right? Yeah. It's gonna be our transactions with the URL. Yeah. Yeah, very good. So Kate, if you didn't hear Kate, whether here in person or online Kate is pointing out that in the same way that on the other six days you're doing your business transactions, let's say, on the Lord's day, your transactions are between you and the Lord. You're doing business with him. and the kind of business he wants to do. Very good. Did anybody el I'll take a third on adding to that? Yeah. Well, when there used to be market days, um everybody would come together on that visit Okay. I mean if farmer's market is only certain days and certain hours, if you want to do that transaction actually you have to be there then. Okay. Yeah. Um and it's it's a good time to set aside other things because the opportunity isn't always there. Yeah. So then you Both buy and sell and then you socialize and there's a lot of other things. But that also goes on in our Christian community, in our church, where you have time to all gather and do our joint transactions with each other in the Lord. Um that with our our business up for me keeps Yeah, alright. Everybody is everybody able to hear that for you well? I'm hearing from the seeing from the back. Yeah, Leo, you could hear that alright? Okay, yeah. Okay, very good. Yeah, that was a good explanation. So then let's go ahead in then to the idea of the market day of the soul. If you'll notice, what he's basically doing in this chapter is he just wants to step you through the pieces of the fourth command. And so that's what we're going to do also. The very first thing, so let's go ahead then and let's take a look at Deuteronomy, I'm sorry, let's do Exodus 20. Because he'll point us to Deuteronomy 5 later. But let's do Exodus 20 and look at the fourth command Alrighty. And it's in verse number eight. And we're just going to go ahead and and step through this. The very first thing that he brings up to us. And I'm going to ask you for a little bit of help this morning just to try to get your get you going here and make sure you're engaged with the with the teaching. The very first thing that he brings up Is what? Do you remember? What do you mean? Is it the chapter? The very first part of the development of this chapter, after he gives a summary of what he did in the past chapters. Do you remember? Remember. Yeah, I gave you a big hint. He wants to look at the word remember. Okay? And um he brings out that there's a couple different senses in which we can take this word. He says specifically that it has a twofold significance. It in the first place is God saying, don't forget or neglect it. He writes, often the Old Testament writers use the word in this way. For example, in Exodus 13, 3, Moses reminds the people not to forget the historical act of their redemption. So let's take a look at that very quickly since we're so close already from Exodus 20. You can take a look at Exodus 13, 3 with one sense of the word to remember. In Exodus 13, 3. And Moses said to the people, Remember this day in which you went out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. And so there's a literal just a quite plain sense of, well, I'm just supposed to remember what has happened in the past Have you seen some different ways in the scriptures that people remember things? One of the ways is through uh Ebenezer stones. What's an Ebenezer stone? Yes. It's a standing stone that would set out to mark an event so that you can forget. Yeah, it's a stone that would mark out an event so that you could you could uh remember and it could be a sta a stack of stones. Right, yeah. So so the first sense is that we uh want to make sure that we don't forget. And so I'll put that up here. And that's just the plain sense that we typically remember. We if we send one of our children to the store who can now drive We say, don't forget to get the half and half. Or we say, and if you do get the half and half, make sure it's not fat-free. or whatever it is that we say to people or to people that are getting something. We want them to remember what we had already told them three times. I have no bitterness. Okay, remember the that's the the plain sense. But then there's also another sense that the second of the twofold significance he brings out, which is illustrated from Exodus chapter 12, verse 14. So let's take a look there. Now in verse number 14, we're going to meet with a word that has the same Hebraic root. as the word remember, but it will be translated as memorial, at least in the NKJV. Does anybody here have a different translation than the NKJV with them this morning? I know you have every translation on your phone, but you're using a different one? What's the word that they use there in Exodus 1214? Is it memorial? Um it is Travis Day will be a memorial to you. Yep, very good. Okay. So that's pretty consistent across the board. So uh this This sense of remember or memorial, it also means to observe and celebrate So it's not just we'll don't forget, but there's also a positive side to it And it's to observe and celebrate. And we'll look at that verse in just a second. Observe, celebrate. Does anybody remember The analogy that Dr. Piper gives on this sense of the word, remember? Yes. Remembering the Remembering let's just say it's your anniversary. Remember your annivers remembering your anniversary, that's right. And so we raise the question Let's say I'll pick on Brian Lee because he doesn't mind me picking on him. If I saw him and I knew he just had whatever wedding anniversary they had had just had and I said, hey, did you remember your anniversary And he only remembered it in the first sense, then he probably would respond, no, I actually didn't. Uh definitely when we were talking about that we mean it more in the sense of like did we observe or w do we celebrate? And so Brian being who he is would say to me, I'd say, do you remember your anniversary? And then Rachel being there when I asked him would step forward and say, he sure did. I received 2,500 roses And uh Beach House in North Carolina No. I'm just or no. Or we had a nice dinner Whatever it is. But that's the idea is that there was an observance and a celebration of it. And that's the second sense in dealing with the Sabbath. So you can see that in twelve fourteen. In Exodus it says, so this day shall be to you a memorial, and you shall keep it As a feast to the Lord throughout your generations, you shall keep it as a feast by an everlasting ordinance. Now 1214 isn't talking about the Lord's Day. So that's talking about Passover. Well what we're doing here is we're just looking at the different ways in which the word remember is used, and this is the second way. That there is there can be just a kind of mental remembering, but then there's also a sense in which we're observing it in the same way that you would observe an anniversary. So he goes on and he says, one remembers the Sabbath by observing it according to God's regulation. It is for this reason, when Moses repeats the Ten Commandments 40 years later, he uses the word observe instead of remember. Observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Therefore, the Lord your God commanded you to observe the Sabbath day. Now, that's in Deuteronomy, which is a republication of the same law So you can see, let's go ahead and turn there just so you can see that with your own eyes and have a have the experience. In Deuteronomy 5 12 through 15. And you see there right at the beginning, observe the Sabbath day. There's a couple little changes between Exodus 20 and Deuteronomy 5, which I talked about in the Judges Sermon series. I'm sure you remember all of those And here's another little tweak to get at the heart of what's happening. And so we have observe the Sabbath day. Okay, so then he goes on and he says that when when one rightly understands the significance of remember, one recognizes that the day was never merely a day of idle rest. Some suggest that the sole purpose of the fourth commandment was to provide physical rest for Israel. As God's rest, however, was not a rest of inactivity, neither is the rest commanded by the fourth commandment a rest of inactivity. but of holy commemoration. And that brings us to the next passage which is important here. Let's see. The Siri was getting ready to quote scripture to me. Who was that? You're in trouble. Okay, no robots. Okay. So uh what scripture was this by the way? The first sense of remember, where did we see that? Yeah, Exodus thirteen. All right, great. Okay, great. And then what about the second one where it's an observance Which one is that? Which passage or passages? It was Deuteronomy. Yep, Deuteronomy. And anybody remember the chapter? Five, twelve, five, four. Five. All right, great. Okay, so that's what we have so far. Now we're going to develop this part here with the observe and the celebrate. We're really asking the question, what is that uh what is What does a holy rest look like? What does it look like to observe or to commemorate or to memorialize? And here he's uh going to turn to what passage? I'll give you the book, you tell me the chapter Twenty-three. Leviticus twenty-three is going to start defining that for us. And the answer is that there is supposed to be at least for part of the day whole a holy convocation. is the word. That's kind of an old-fashioned word, but let's go ahead and look at Leviticus 23, 2 and 3. I'll get there with you. All right. I'll go ahead and start at verse number one. And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, the feasts of the Lord, which you shall proclaim to be holy convocations, these are my feasts. And now we'll see that there are many different kinds of feasts. And that's really important for you to recognize, especially when you we in um two chapters from now we're going to start getting into the New Testament, which is going to be really important. You'll see there are different kinds of feasts, and some of those feasts are no longer present. You see here, beginning in verse number three, you'll see that this is the Sabbath feast. Six days shall work be done, but the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest. Notice it doesn't just say rest It says solemn rest. And those adjectives are really important. They're trying to describe to you the kind of rest that a person is going to take. And you see there then a filling out of what he means there by Solomon, and it's a holy convocation. Now, what in the world is a convocation? Does anybody know? Sure, you are smiling at the word convocation. I didn't get that. Is it me that's been going off? Wow. We'll talk about me with you. Yeah, I'll This is being turned off. Wow. Was it me last time? It must have been. I don't think it was. Okay. All right. Monica, you and I we're in uh we're in trouble. Oh man. Sorry. alarm going off that sounded like a bird. And I and we all thought it was in the attic. And the at and the deacons were trying to get the bird in the attic during the service so we could all focus And it ended up being a phone. Oh my goodness. That was wild. Okay, Sarah, you're up. Uh a congregation is like a gathering Where there's some sort of words will go into speak or call, so there's some sort of conversation or like uh And people are coming together to experience this. Yeah, so so i in this case we're It's been in English turned into an abstract noun with the ION on the end. I'm just going to dissect the word for a second. You're helping us out here this morning by saying the the V O C part of the word comes from the Latin voco, which means to speak, and then the beginning of the word con has the idea of to bring together Is that right? So there's this idea of that we're coming together or we're being called to come together. That's the idea of being and now have you seen anything like the idea of being called to come together every single Sunday? Yeah, the call to worship. Right? You see the immediate connection of what's going on there and what you practice every single Sunday is there is a c a call that goes out for worship and you'll notice that either by implication or direct declaration, the call to worship is always in the imperative. It is not me calling you to worship. It is God calling you to worship by way of the psalmist usually. All right. We view it and again that connects back to the reason why our calls to worship are in the imperative is because we're looking at it as a moral law You see that? Okay. Tate, yes ma'am. I just wanted to mention a historical fact which was that this is a park EP church when it was just starting out. Mike Kenord was the pastor. The bulletin always said a holy conversation. Oh it did? Yes. Oh that's nice. If you didn't hear Kate, she said when uh Mike Connord was pastoring over at Savur Park EP was back in the day But they had at the top of their bulletin it said a holy convocation. So there you go. It's a make major part of our practice. And you can see a couple different connection points with the call to worship. And also it being in the imperative tying back imperative means it's a command, by the way. And it ties back to a c the command from creation and then in the the fourth command. Okay, so that is all we've done there in Leviticus 23 is try to ask the question, at least for the part of the day, what does it look like to observe? Well, the first answer given is that it means to have a holy convocation. Uh and actually, Sarah, vocation is just like right there, right? Yes, I don't know what I was doing. I did still an abstract noun, but that was more confusing So I think that's a good question. Called together. Yeah. I my handwriting is a lot like uh prescriptions with doctors, but Just ask me, I'll read it to you. That says convocation. Alrighty, so then Okay, so there we go. He says a holy convocation was a time of corporate worship. Therefore, at least part of the purpose of the Sabbath rest was to observe the day by participating in public worship. So the term remember teaches that the Sabbath is a day for holy transactions, a market day of the soul, and we remember the Sabbath by keeping it holy. Okay, now let's go on to the what I'd like to do is now go on to page number 45 and go through the three different transactions. As well as dealing with some of the prohibitions, and that'll take us right to the end. Okay, so we have now keeping the day holy is the section I'm in on page number 45. And he raises the question, what then are the transactions by which we keep the Sabbath day holy? So let's go ahead. I think we've already started to work that out, but let's start to just put the, give it its own line. And we're just asking, what are the transactions? Transactions. The first one is what? Anyone remember? Yes, Sarah. So it's actively resting in Christ. And then he goes on to explain that um rest resting to the Christmas as our So, yeah. So the first kind of transaction that God wants to happen on this holy day is for you to rest in Christ. And you would do that by reflecting on the fact that it will not be your hard work, no matter how many days you put in of work. That's not where your salvation lies. Your salvation lies within the mercy of God in Jesus Christ. And that is all over the place. This is really of what should be the primary focus of our worship services and the rest. One of the very first uh Criticisms that I received as a licensed intern here, trying, I'm still trying, but trying to figure out how to Preach God's word was one of my mentors had said, Jesse, don't forget the number one rule. It's meant to be good news It's meant to be good news. And so that is to be remembered here on this day too. Is and that can take a while for us to remember even what it would mean to rest in Jesus Christ. So you really do need some time. to work through that. Some of the things that Dr. Piper mentions I found helpful. He says that the proper sanctification of the day, as with the proper observance of all God's commandments, begins in the heart. Finding our rest in Jesus Christ. The Heidelberg Catechism says that all of the days of my life I rest from my evil works. Let the Lord work in me through his Holy Spirit and so begin in this life the eternal Sabbath. The Sabbath reminds us that we must seek from our own works. We cannot earn God's favor. We cannot work our way into heaven, nor can we merit righteousness. No, the Sabbath is our solemn confession and testimony That we rest in Jesus Christ alone for our salvation and we glory in Him. On this day we declare that He alone is our delight, He alone is our refuge and our hiding place. Another way to put this is that you are going to rest in the glory of his grace. The glory of his grace. We just talked about this at the officer retreat. God's glory. And that is usually pretty confusing to people. And what do we mean by God's glory? It sometimes can be helpful to remember that it has to do with a bright light or his splendor. But really, if you want to get at the heart of what glory is, you could start saying it's this it's like uh the way in which he displays his greatness And so then you could, I think it's helpful to say, well, he's glorious in what? And to be glorious in something means there's no one that can compare. They could try to do the same set of things and they would fall short of that specific glory for someone who's truly glorious. So then just very quickly, here we're saying he's glorious in what? Well, he's glorious in the grace that he gives to us. Can you think of any story within the scripture That shows you and is meant to portray to you the glory of the grace of God the Father. How do we know his grace is better than anybody else's grace that has ever existed, exist, or ever will exist? Okay, so the all of the stories that have to do with him sending his son are a demonstration or part of the demonstration of the glory of his grace. All right. Can you think of another one? The glory of his grace. His appearance to Paul on the road to Damascus is not only a story about Paul, it has been used by how many different people to describe the way that God is to them Gave them grace when they did not deserve it. How many literal murderers out there did Jesus Christ call to himself and they know the same kind of grace that Paul knows because Paul was a murderer? David. Yeah, David, we have we have all we have all kinds of different examples in the scriptures and outside of the scriptures. Lots of people in jail. Jesus Christ called to himself and they know the glory Let's do one more. Yes. Yeah, so Hosea and his marriage to the harlot ends up being an extended way for us to understand the glory of his faithfulness. His grace, his trustworthiness. Sometimes people summarize that, especially with Hosea, as his covenant love. Well, if you want to see that in spades, if you want to see the pinnacle of it all, of what every story of grace was pointing to to begin with, all streams run to the ocean of Christ. And that is the grace of God. And what he's pointing out here is that the day is set aside, first and foremost, for you to rehearse that. For you to remember it, for you to celebrate it, for you to sing about it. Yes. Good morning. Good morning, everyone. Can I ask a practical application question? Yeah, please do. So in that vein, like sometimes I often if there's something that I am particularly struggling with that I might be reading books about in order to help me whether in prayer life or whatever in spiritual life context. Often Sunday feels like, well today I don't have my other work to do and so I can sit down and read this book. But sometimes it does feel like I'm just trying to keep fixing. Oh, okay. Gotcha. Um so do you think there is an implicit prohibition on Personal I what do you say? I know it's not your own work of sanctification, but like like endeavoring in a particular way to come to work out your salvation on a practical matter on the Sabbath because of the way that that anyway. Right, I get what you're saying. I would say I don't think that I personally don't think there's a prohibition. I think it's right here within the purposes that we're supposed to still be striving for victory over sin. I do it does seem to me I don't have like a lot of arguments ready for this or anything, but I I guess I could just speak personally. It does seem like a day where I would want to have my focus more on remembering that he hasn't left me. I've really fallen on my face like 800 times this week. I still have a lot to work on, so Rather than just continuing that thought on Sunday, I'm going to stop that little loop inside of my brain and I'm going to focus on, he said that whatever he started in me, he's going to see it to the end. Because I don't usually focus that much on those things during the week. So this again, this is more of like a personal testimony to you. I really do try, like Elaine said, to refuel in remembering how gracious he is. I find that if I don't do that, I get pretty bitter with him because all I do is I feel like I'm just working my butt off and he's still just waiting for me to finally do it right. And that's not the accurate picture. So I d so personally d does any well, I don't have much time, but personally, hopefully that's helpful to you. I try to do that. I was trying to do that this morning quite a bit. Everywhere I was walking, I was just trying to remember how good he is and gracious to me he is. He still invites me into his presence despite how stupid I am and whatever it is. And that takes me a while. Uh yeah, it takes me a while. So so I do think that it's uh s should be s you should have a special sense of that. That sh that I think should be part of the what's going on with the worship too. If you'll notice in the songs, it's all singing about how glorious he is in these different ways. And apparently that's what we need to remember, uh especially the grace part. So. Okay, number two, furthermore, we keep the Sabbath holy as we use it for communion with God. As we rest in Christ, we contemplate the beauty of God's attributes and the greatness of his work. We use the day, therefore, to have dealings with our landlord. We are his tenants who come on the market day to meet with him. He holds court and gives us the return for our labor. He blesses us with refreshments, and we feast at his table. I'm going to read this next section just because I thought it was so good. This is on page 45, last paragraph. Sabbath observance is not a to be a cold, ritualistic action we perform. Sometimes we think, oh my, it is the Sabbath, I cannot do this. Or, oh, when we c when will tomorrow come? If you begin to grasp the privileges of the Sabbath as the market day of the soul, it will be your favorite day Better anticipated than Saturday, more joyful than your birthday, more restful than a vacation. It is the Lord's day, and your first conscious thought ought to be this is the day which the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Now, of course, that's a struggle. Okay. So the second then is the communion with God, and you saw the kinds of things that he listed. I don't know what it is, but when I see the snow inside of the trees, And the ice kind of glittering from expansive fields, I can't help but to move into wanting to give thanks for that. And there's one person who has, there's one God and three persons who has, of course, is the source and origin of all of these things like snow. He came up with it. And so this morning I spent a lot of time while I was brushing my teeth, looking out the window at the snow-covered trees, and just thinking, wow, you are amazing. So the communion had already begun. Now, you know what's also surprising to me is uh that kind of beauty that sh my phone is off. I was gonna that kind of beauty Ends up getting through to a lot of different people. Here's a person that texted me after the snowfall who is agnostic. They definitely don't want to step foot in a church. And it says, they said to me, well, I don't know what they said I can't find it. I'm terrible at technology. I'm sure I didn't download something. He they they said um they literally said to me Dwayne look what the Lord has made. And I was just like, what? Woo. That's pretty cool. And then I just wrote back in I I I wrote back indeed. I I didn't uh I didn't ruin that moment by saying yes, this is why you need to confr you know. I just said indeed Okay, so uh the third one that I'll give to you, besides the communion with God, um I also wrote in uh a little chat that I'm in with some guys from all over the world really. I I wrote um trying to help them. Some of them are Christian, some are not. I wrote this morning in the chat, I hope that you all Take the opportunity to see the wisdom and power of God in the mountains, the streams, and the largemouth bass that you're catching, because we all like the fish, and that you would also remember God's grace, especially seen in his Son, Jesus Christ. And uh I've got a few reactions to that which were good. Okay, and that was communion with God. Then number three Is that further we keep the day holy by devoting ourselves to the particular transactions that God has appointed? And the most important of these is corporate worship We also take advantage of the day by fellowshipping with our Christian friends and in works of ministry and mercy. And I had listed that before, but I'll just put the specific transactions. of the public worship. I'm going to write that as PW. And then we also have fellowship. And then I summarized ministry mercy and as uh I'm just going to put the ministry that we have to each other. and to the world. Acts of mercy, basically. He wants us to be devoted to those things also. Okay, and then with the last uh couple uh minutes, I just wanted to point out to you something I really thought was helpful from the book with dealing with the prohibitions. So I'm now on page 46. I'm only going to be able to deal with this in outline, but I would appreciate it if you would remember the outline because I think it's super helpful to view it this way. He says, when we understand the great purpose of the Lord's day, we are in a better position to deal with the prohibitions of the commandment. As noted in chapter 1, these prohibitions are not designed to rob us of pleasure, but rather to free us for the greater pleasure of the day. In our town, there is a farmers market every Tuesday afternoon. Two blocks of the city center are closed to traffic so that the merchants may set up their booths in the street. Similarly, the Sabbath park is closed to regular traffic to allow for the market day of the soul. The prohibitions of the fourth commandment teach us to structure the day in order to derive the most benefit from it. God shows us how to structure our lives personally, how to structure them domestically, and how to structure them socially. And now please go back and review that within the chapter. What does it look like to structure the day personally? What does it look like to structure the day domestically? By the way, what does domestically mean? What does that word mean? Should we s turn to our Latin residents, Rachel and Sarah? Having to do with the household. So we have personal, we have house, the personal, uh our personal life should be structured to benefit from the day. Our household should be structured to benefit from the day. And then finally, there is a social responsibility to where our society should be structured in order for us to be able to benefit from the day. And then finally, that'll be it. Let's just stop there because then we can stop one time. Okay, so if you can, please just take a look at that last section there on your own with the personal, domestic, or family and society and we can address any questions you have next week. Alright, make sure you're sticking with the syllabus and let's pray. Heavenly Father, it is just, it is within your character to have a day set aside to where we are able to delight in you. To cry out to you and to work with you in victory over sin and to be neighborly to each other in mercy and helping one another with necessities. Lord, I pray that you would help your congregation to see, and me, of course, help us all to see your grace and your goodness in the providing this day for us. Lord, we often view the day as if you're placing a heavy yoke on our necks and you don't really care about us when it's supposed to be the opposite. I pray that you would help us that are not only sitting here, but help our children and their attitudes to form to where they're really See your goodness in this day so that when we die and they rise up as the next generation, that the treasure that you've given to us of the Lord's day that it is maintained with the future church. Lord help us in our own attitudes and in our own practices. Help us to delight in it. We can't give to our children or our friends what we ourselves don't have. So please, Lord, help us and help us to help each other in the fourth command. Ask these things in your name. Amen.