Now when he had got into a boat, his disciples followed him, and suddenly a great tempest arose on the sea, so that the boat was covered with the waves, but he was asleep. And then his disciples came to him and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us, we are perishing. But he said to them, Why are you fearful, O you of little faith? Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the sea, and there was a great calm. So the men marveled, saying, Who can this be that even the winds and the sea obey him? I would ask that you take that last verse and read it. What is this thing that even the winds and sea obey him? May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. I don't know of any natural phenomena more scary than an angry sea. When you're fighting for your life and you're fighting to keep your ship or your boat alive, when those waves are coming at you from every different direction and the wind is howling in your ears, you are very aware at that point of just how puny. Just how weak we human beings really are. Compared to a sea churning with a hundred-foot breaking waves, All of man's efforts and all of man's inventions are just seemingly straws in the wind. All man can do with a raging sea is ride it out. He can never master it. I've seen many storms at sea, but two of them really stand out in my own remembrance. The second one, which I'll start off first, was uh the lesser but still very scary. It was off the coast of Bermuda, and I was in a 44-foot looter's yawl with a bunch of midshipment A 44-foot boat is not very big when you are dealing with 80-foot waves, but it is built something like a cork. And so all I could do, I was only uh helm for about almost twenty-four hours that with that because I didn't want the mids uh on the helm while that we were in that sea. And so all I could do was basically keep the bow pointed right into the waves and try to keep the boat from being broached. But I was it was first it was just pretty scary, you know, exhausting and scary. But the first uh uh storm that I I really saw up close and personal was even more scary. It was the worst. I was on a thousand foot long aircraft carrier off the Bay of Biscay. A thousand and fifty feet. That that's a pretty big boat. The flight deck was 50 feet above the water. And we had waves towering over the flight deck crashing down onto the flight deck and actually crashing into the walkways of the levels that are above the flight deck up to what they call the third level, there was actually fish getting trapped in the walkways up on the third level above the flight deck. We were in that storm for three days, and one man died. That big old boat kept getting tossed around like it was just nothing. When the storm was all over, all we could do was limp into Mayport, Florida, Naval Station because we couldn't, if we were damaged so badly, we couldn't launch airplanes. The ship was out of commission for about six months And like I said, nothing so highlights in my mind the puniness of man and his inventions as a raging storm at sea. Now, if a storm is terrifying when you see it up close and personal from the decks of an aircraft carrier, imagine what it must have been like for these guys out on the Sea of Galilee with Jesus in that little boat. Imagine you're in a large rowboat, maybe forty feet long. That's fairly large, but it's still uh that and the sides are about three feet You call them gunnels. Uh the th the sides of the boat are about three feet above the water line. Now fishermen remember in those days had to throw their nets over the side of the ship, uh the boat and haul in their their catch, and there was none of this new fangled things like winches and motorized pulleys and all that business, so they had to haul them in by their own strength of their arm. And so fishing boats had to be built fairly close to the water line. And there they are, out there in the dark. The only light is the lightning, which is scariest itself. And Matthew doesn't give us many details. He does that intentionally. He gives us far less details, far fewer details, sorry. than Mark or Luke. He wants us to focus on the act rather than the details and get caught up in the story. But the people he was talking to knew the details of the story, and for them it was very graphic, and so I'm going to paint the picture here a little bit more so that we can know and come into it at the same level, perhaps, as they did In the original language, it comes through much more clearly. Matthew says there was a great storm, a big humongous storm, a great tempest, more vicious than usual in a place that no Excuse me, on a lake that was known for vicious storms. And he says that it was literally being covered over with waves. So you can imagine these men looking down in this open rowboat at waves splashing down on top of them, and you can imagine the amount of water that's pouring into that boat Think of it, standing there in that water, scooping the water out with buckets as fast as you can possibly throw it over the edge. And as fast as you throw water over the edge, standing knee-deep in the water that's already there, more water keeps pouring in. The boat begins to settle. As a boat settles, it becomes sluggish. It's harder to maneuver. You can't keep the boat going into the winds or into the waves so as to keep it from being broached. Now when you're out there also, you can't swim in that stuff. And there was no lifeboats. There was no life preservers. The only thing keeping these men alive was that boat. And it get to the point where they saw, this ain't working. Minutes from now, we're gonna be dead. It's hard to hear people speaking in the midst of a gale. You have to shout to be heard, and you have to be very close in order to hear. The wind actually takes your voice away. But someone yells, where's Jesus? Where is the Lord? And somebody else says, he's back in the back asleep. If you were there, he's asleep. Would you think that? He's asleep. How can anyone sleep through this? The ship is sinking. We have to wake him. Maybe he will know what to do. Anyway, we can't let him sleep. If the water is coming in, we don't want him to go down with a boat. So the disciples gathered around him and they shake him awake. What would they say? Tell us what to do is the idea. Do something is the idea We're all perishing. We're going under. This is it. It's all over. They shake Jesus and he awakens. And he's not in a good mood. He doesn't wake up afraid. He's not even excited. There's no sense of adrenaline flowing. He doesn't jump up and start giving orders, okay, trim up the sail over there. Let's put a storm sail up. Let's make sure that we got three men on the rudder. Let's get this boat turned into the waves. Let's do as fast as bailing as we can. Let's try to see if we can suck some of this water up He doesn't jump up and start giving orders. He wakes up. He looks at him. And in uh and so he looks at the sea and the wind and and in so many words he says, You woke me up for this What is the matter with you guys? Where is your faith? He asked. Are you afraid of a mere storm? O you of little faith. So Jesus stands up. This is my favorite part. He stands up. He's irritated. He's not in a good mood. He's been exhausted from all that healing. He was getting a little bit of a sleep. A little bit of sleep. He's exhausted. He stands up, he looks at the wind and the waves, and he says, Stop it! Just like if you caught a little puffy and he's jumping up and down on the bed or something, and you say, Stop it! Puffy just cowers. Eyes looking up at you. Don't kill me, Master, don't kill me. The wind and the waves stopped it. There was a great calm. Brothers and sisters, if you had been there on the deck of that aircraft carrier with me, When that ship is being tossed around like a little boat in a in a in a bathtub or something. When you when you stood up there and some guy came up in the catwalk and commanded the winds and the waves to stop and they went whoosh like this, what would you have done? When all of a sudden the clouds vanish, the waves just melt back into the ocean, the howling wind turns into a gentle breeze. That just because this guy said that, how would you relate to that guy when you saw him walking about the decks from then on out for the rest of the crews? Would you even go up and talk to him? Or would you begin to think, you know, this guy ain't like us? This guy is something special. Would you even begin to think this guy is scary Matthew frames it a little bit differently than Mark or Luke in this version. The disciples don't really ask who is this guy? In this version, the underlying words could be read best this way. What kind of man is this? What kind of guy is this? This guy is different. This guy is no ordinary healer. Yeah, we have watched him heal people left and right. This guy's no ordinary prophet. Yes, we have heard him speak on the Sermon on the Mount. This guy's no ordinary Messiah, like we've been expecting to receive. And certainly like those other messiahs who've come and gone over the years, this guy is different. What kind of guy is this? And that's the way that Matthew frames it for us. And I think it's the key to why this passage is constructed the way it is, in the way Matthew has given us First thing I want us to realize from this passage today is that this question that these men ask Is the whole reason why this event happened in the first place and why Jesus responds the way he did That question points us to the whole reason this thing happened. Brothers and sisters, that storm just didn't happen. There are no coincidences in the Bible. There are no coincidences in this world, period. But especially in the Bible, there are no such things as random occurrences. There's divine meaning and there is divine purpose behind these things, and God is making a point here, a point he wanted those disciples to understand about this man, his son. And it is a point that is most important for us to understand as we look back at it. And this point is directed towards the person of Christ about the kind of man he really is. Now just think of how these disciples had been seeing Jesus up to this point. Jesus was a healer. He was a prophet. He was, perhaps, even in their mind already beginning to be dimly understood as the promised Messiah. Now we talked about that last week when we looked at the previous passage and we talked about how it was clear that this was the uh Messiah from Isaiah 53 that was come into the world. He seemed to be a fulfillment of that whole passage about the suffering servant. He was the man who was going to save Israel. Boy, this is great. We have a man to save Israel. He was going to bring her back out of the exile that she was in, who was going to restore her to her original blessed condition with God the Father, where he was in a relation to them that made them special of all the peoples in the earth. God was going to be their protector. He was going to be their benefactor. He was the one who was going to lift them up and lift their horn up over all of the other nations of the earth. And Jesus is going to do that. And we're going to be with it. Yay. This man is a great prophet. He is a great teacher. He teaches with authority, more authority than the scribes and Pharisees. He preached with penetration. He brought stuff out of the scripture they had never seen before. And he backed that up to that whole authority with his teachings by doing miracles that clearly established that no one could heal like he did. No one could cast out demons left and right like he did. No one could stand up to him in argument and debate. Jesus did all those things. But though he did them better than anyone else, Yet in the last analysis, he was not doing anything that no one else had ever done before. Elijah, Elisha, Moses, they had all done things like Jesus did. He did them greater. But he wasn't unique. They had healed, they were teachers, some of them had even raised people from the dead. But they were men, like other men, only greater powers. But no man, no man born of a woman had done anything like this. The Old Testament was very clear. Take Psalm 63 if you wish to look at it. The psalmist there says, God stills the noise of the sea. God calms down the waves. The scriptures have clearly taught that God and God alone, as Job had made made clear to him very clearly by God Himself. That God is the one who commands nature and whom nature obeys. God commands nature and nature obeys. This man commands nature, and nature obeys. Who is this guy? He must be God. Wait a minute We've been walking with this guy. We've been walking down the road with him. We've heard him snore at night, I assume. Okay. We have seen him doing mortal man stuff. He gets tired. He gets a bit snippy when you wake him up from a nap. That shocking thought must have hit them upside the head like a brick bat. That comes the confusion. This man is a man like us. But this man commands nature and it obeys like God. He is not like us. What kind of man is he? Imagine the amazement, imagine the fear these men, and that's the whole point of the passage. These disciples realized at the very first level they began to get just a little bit of inkling with the dimmest understanding at this point that this man, Jesus, was more than they had bargained for That he was something any greater, he was something even greater, something more amazing, something infinitely more important than they had ever imagined And brothers and sisters, I'm here to tell you today that this same Jesus is still the same today as he was then. I'm here to tell you that this man, Jesus, is more amazing than you think. He's more powerful than you can imagine. And he's something wholly different than anything you have ever encountered. He's a man like you and me. But he's also more. He is much more. This Jesus is God in the flesh. And as God, then all the world and everything in the world is subject to his command. Everything. That is the Lord who is riding with you in your boat. The purpose of this passage is to make certain that we understand that and build our lives around that thought. Throughout the history of the church, God's people have recognized that this story is intended to teach us more than the raw facts of the fact that Jesus was out in the middle of an ocean, outdown of the Sea of Galilee, and calm the sea. Every great teacher or preacher of whom I am aware has always applied this story as a metaphor. Going back to Tertullian in the second century, he saw the boat as a metaphor for the church, the visible church. Others throughout history have made the same point, but virtually all of them have applied it at the ordinary individual level also. He has brought it down to our lives, mine and yours together. And he they have pointed out to us that what this passage teaches, with which I am also in agreement. That we are all crossing a great sea called life. And we're crossing it, if you will, in a little boat. And that boat is our flesh. Both of these ideas are true. It is both a picture of the visible church passing through history, and it is a picture of our individual lives. And it's a picture of Jesus with our families. It is a picture of Jesus with us as individuals. It is a picture of Jesus in the world. The world he intends to save. It applies at every level, but the lesson it teaches at every level is the same. Brothers and sisters, with Jesus in the boat No matter what Satan throws at us, we have nothing to fear, not even death itself. A storm at sea can be scary. But life can be scary also. We can be hit left and right. God can remind us, and God does remind us oftentimes, that in the face of all of the things that life can throw at us, like a great storm at sea, we are totally at risk He can find us in a we can find ourselves in a position where we realize that all of man's learning, all of man's technical inventions, all of man's wisdom is simply not adequate in and of itself. to deal with the storms that life throws at us. Individually, I think probably everyone in this room has already realized that. And if you look out corporately across this nation, you realize that we're being taught that lesson in spades right now. We may sail on quite quiet seas for a while, and we may be justly proud of this little boat that we've built of our lives. We may be quite comfortable in the nice job we have, the beautiful kids who are born to us. We may be confident in the strength of our bodies. We may be in our secret place thinking that, yeah, we're just a little bit smarter than other people, and we're happy about that. During times of quiet seas, we could sail along and we could get pretty confident. And we begin to think, you know, I got this. I got this. I can do it. Nothing can stop me now. God may give us a season like that. But sooner or later we're going to discover But all of our striving, all of our accomplishments are essentially like weeds in the wind. Or like mighty trees that you see washing down a river after a flooding rain Those towering oaks that stood so strong, the rains come and just washed away the ground, and there they are floating down the river, no longer standing strong at all All of our strengths are really nothing when a tempest, a major storm, a megastorm hits. One of the great challenges facing a pastor is that people expect you to have answers. Why is this happening? What am I supposed to learn from this? Where should I go from here? What they want is wisdom. Wisdom for their life, wisdom that only God can give. These disciples in this passage learned what every pastor has to learn Jesus is something different. He's not like us He and he alone has the authority, the wisdom to deal with the stuff that is coming up in the lives of God's people. And so it is a pastor's job not to fix people's lives. It is a pastor's job to show them what it is like to ride out a storm trusting that Jesus is in the boat. To show them, not just teach them. Because the story is real life. It's the real life of pastors and lay people alike to learn it. It's the story of your life, brothers and sisters, as it is the story of mine. And so in conclusion, this is how we wrap this up. God is here teaching us today that the practical reality of life, once you Once you get past all of the glorious and beautiful propositional truths that our theology and the teachings of Scripture give us, once you get All of those things in your mind, and they are beautiful, and they are wonderful, and they cause the soul to rise to the throne of God itself, you get down to the fact of how does that stuff show up in your daily life. And this is it. This is the way faith should register in our lives. Is that we should not fear what the world may bring upon us. Rather, we should trust that Jesus is in our boat and that whatever he decides to do, whatever he decides to do We can trust that He will cause all things to work together for good for those who are called according to His purpose. Jesus was irritated at his people, at his disciples. And he said so. Why are you awakening, he said. Why are you awakening me? What are you afraid of? And he says, oh you of little faith, their fear, their despair was rooted in unbelief. It was rooted in doubt. It was rooted in lack of understanding that this is Jesus and He's not like us Jesus was in their boat. They were his disciples. They had left home and family to follow him. If for some reason, up to him alone, he had led them out to sea And it was his point for them all to die there with him. They had to trust him in that also. Just like Abraham had to trust God when God says, take Isaac, your only son Isaac, the son through whom all the promises are going to come, and you go out on that mountain and you kill him. They had to trust Jesus, even if it meant following him unto death. Trusting Jesus means just that. It means trusting him, no matter what. No matter if it's cancer. No matter if it's financial ruin, no matter if it's a sick child, no matter if it is a difficult relationship in which you're struggling No matter if it's loneliness, heartbreak, temptations that threaten to overwhelm you, No matter if the life in your family is falling apart, your kids are on drugs or worse. No matter if you've made stupid decisions in your past and they're coming back to haunt you. The shame and guilt of things that are coming to the surface threaten to overwhelm you, like the very seas, were overwhelming this boat. Even if you are convinced that no one has ever messed up their life as badly as you have. Brothers and sisters, no matter what is coming at you in this world, Jesus is greater than this world. And this world is his to command. He may seem to be absent. He may appear to be unmindful and not really understanding what's going on in your life. He may even appear to be asleep. Jesus really was asleep in that passage. But today, it may seem like he's asleep. He may appear not to be particularly concerned. But nothing goes on in this world that goes on without his permission. And nothing in this world is beyond his ability to command And make it stop. What he asks us to do is what the disciples should have done Trust him in everything. He is our Lord. He will do as he has promised And there we can find rest for our souls, no matter how big that storm really is. Let's pray. Warning God help us to learn from this passage and to understand it for what it is intended to teach us.