As is my custom recently, I would invite you now to go back into an attitude of prayer for just a brief moment. And I ask that you pray that your own heart and your own mind be open to what God would have you learn and to hear from His Word as we move to His Word now. Please pray. Open your words to our heart, Lord God. Fill our minds with the wisdom that you would have us learn from it. For we ask it in your name. Amen. We're continuing through our study of the Gospel of Matthew, and we are now up to Matthew 15. We're reading uh verses 21 through 39. Turn to that. Follow along with me in your versions. I'll be reading from the New King James. Then Jesus went out from there and departed to the region of Tyran Sidon. And behold, a woman of Canaan came from that region and cried out to him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, son of David. My daughter is severely demon possessed. But he answered her, not a word. And his disciples came and urged him, saying, Send her away, for she cries out after us. But he answered And said, I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And she came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me. But he answered and said, It is not good to take the children's bread and to throw it to the little dogs. And she said, Yes, Lord, yet even the little dogs eat the crumbs which fall from their master's table. And then Jesus answered and said to her, O woman Great is your faith. Let it be to you as you desire. And her daughter was healed from that very hour. And Jesus departed from there, skirted the Sea of Galilee, and went up on on the mountain and sat down there. Then great multitudes came to him, having with them the lame, blind, mute, maimed, and many others. And they laid them down at Jesus' feet, and he healed them. So the multitude marveled when they saw the mute speaking, the man made whole the lame walking and the blind seeing, and they glorified the God of Israel Now Jesus called his disciples to himself and said, I have compassion on the multitude because they have now continued with me three days and have nothing to eat, and I do not want to send them away hungry. And then his disciples said to him, Where could we get enough bread in the wilderness to fill fill such a great multitude? And Jesus said to them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, Seven and a few little fish. And so he commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground, and he took the seven loaves and the fish and gave them Thanks, and broke them and gave them to his disciples, and the disciples gave to the multitude. And he sent away the multitude, got into the boat, and came to the region of Magdala. May the Lord add his blessing in the reading to the reading and understanding that comes from his work. I suppose that the central common political agenda that we hear thrown at us left and right these days is what we ought to to call the politics of fear. When is the last time you heard a politician say, things are great? Elect me and I'll keep it that way. There's a reason for that. That's the way the politics of fears, the way that to get elected in this country Country, I suppose, in every country. Americans have to believe that something is dreadfully wrong before they'll even be motivated to get out and vote. That tells us something there. The person that is most likely to win is the one who, through whatever appeal he can make emotional or her she make whatever way they do it they will somehow communicate to the people that whatever is terrible out there that they're the best ones to go fix it Now the downside of this is that as it moves into even greater intensity, these kind of com uh uh political Speeches can move people to near hysteria. Politicians are prone to pour, to blow things out of proportion, to promote promote anger, even hatred, class warfare. Sometimes they're not above promoting a lynch mob mentality, which is far worse than whatever problem that they actually actually you're trying to highlight itself. Now I recognize this because I'm very susceptible to it. I do think that this country is in crisis. It is a crisis of moral values as well as its physical will. But what what bothers me is the way the anger is being fanned. It is being fanned between the races. It is being fanned between the economic classes, and it is being fanned by the proponents of different political strategies. It's not enough. All you have to see is spend a little time on the internet and you will discover this. It is not enough for people to be angry at things. That are bad. It has now reached the point where they have to actually tear down their opponents to diminish their opponents and to make their opponents look ludicrous and not worthy of being ludicrous. Listen to at all. They have contempt for those who see things differently than they. And brothers and sisters, I'm here to tell you today that that is the pathway It is not just the politicians who are fomenting this attitude. It is everywhere. As I've mentioned, it's the internet, it's the intellectual Atmosphere that we breathe. It is in the academic agendas that are being pursued. Now, brothers and sisters, the politics of fear is a demonic strategy That works against any form of calm discussion and rational debate. The politics of fear moves people to reaction and outrage. And its outcome is chaos rather than progress. In biblical terms, its outcome is the politic of the politics of fear. Is the politics of enmity and darkness. And that's the way of Satan, not the way of Christ. It may not be readily apparent, but this particular passage does speak to this. Because at the heart of this passage are three separate incidents Three divisions that have a single unifying idea. In the face of division and hatred In the face of division and hatred, Jesus is pictured as working to produce peace by doing the things of peace There are three parts to this text, as you readily recognize. There's the story of the Syrian woman begging Jesus to cleanse her daughter. Jesus pictured as healing all of those who come to him on a mountain in Decapolis. And then there's the feeding of the 4,000. All of these are tied together with this single They show Jesus doing things that don't build up walls but tear them down. They show him doing things which make peace. And this is a portrait, these are portraits, of how God works to bring peace and not hatred or division. Let's look at this through that lens and see how it makes sense Let's start with the last one first, because quite frankly, even though it may seem more obvious than the others, I think the last section Defeating of the 4,000 is the key to the whole passage. The great question that I face when dealing with this particular passage is something that's kind of hung around and bothered the edges of my mind throughout my Christian life and reading scripture What is different about this particular feeding, this particular miracle, than the feeding of the 5,000 which occurred earlier? Why? Why did Jesus do it twice? Why does God, why does Jesus set up this separate occasion? Nothing is outside of God's command. There is nothing Nothing happening in Scripture that is not orchestrated by God's decretive will. So why did he set it up that we had two miraculous feedings? Well, in the first one it was pretty obvious. He demonstrated there, in the feeding of the 5,000, the emphasis was on the actual feeding. The the having the people of Israel sit down out there and he fed them, he was the new Moses feeding the fi uh in this case, uh the people of Israel. Israel with the manna from heaven. He showed, as we preached on when we took up that text, that he is the one who meets all our needs. is God our provider. Jesus is the man that come down from heaven. It is he who feeds his flock. And that's the central theme, I believe, in that first miracle, the feeding of the 5,000. But God is not just repeating this miracle with the 4,000 to reinforce that same point. It is certainly there. It is true of it, of course. But there's something else. The mere repetition of it adds a different dimension. And I see this in the way he treats his disciples They asked what we would think would be the same stupid question. The beating of the five thousand? Okay, Jesus, where are we going to get bread and fish to feed these five thousand? Well, they ought to have known the second time where they would get the for uh the food for to feed the four thousand. They asked Jesus, how are we going to feed these folks? Now, what we don't see in this passage is Jesus looking at them and saying, look, don't you understand yet? We don't see that. It does occur later in a in a different context. But the point here is that Jesus says, well, uh, it's perfectly understandable. You you don't So therefore, let's do the bread and fish thing and I'll show you. Why doesn't Jesus chastise them for being slow to get the point? I think the reason why is That he understands the problem of their confusion because this crowd is different than the one before. This crowd, for all practical purposes, is made up almost exclusively of Gentiles. These are not the lost sheep of Israel seated before him. These are the lost sheep of the new Israel, the new people of God that Jesus is bringing into existence. Jesus was doing here falls outside the general framework of what his disciples had been brought to expect. They're looking out at these people, Gentiles To whom, quite frankly, they had been taught, were not in the covenant relationship with God, and they had no hope. They were outside of the promises of God, the promises of the Messiah. This is how they understood the life. Of the Messiah when he was to come. So as a result of this, Jesus doesn't get upset when he sees that they don't understand what's going on. He simply tells them to feed them. And they do. And they have lots of leftovers to take home in their doggy boxes. The key to this passage is geography. Jesus has left the region of Galilee. He's crossed over the border out of Israel. He has gone into the region of Decapolis, into the land of the Gentiles, and all three stories are united in him treating Gentiles the same way he treated the Jews. Every action here has a parallel with another passage in Matthew that's already occurred that was done almost exclusively with the Jewish people. And all of these things together comprise a metaphor for the whole ministry of Christ. He came into his own. He came into the people of Israel. He came to the law of Israel Sheep of Israel. He came to feed the lost sheep of Israel and to give them the bread that God had provided for them. But his own people rejected him. That's why he walked out of of Genta of Galilee. His own people rejected him. They despised his goodness and they rejected his preaching. And through the leadership that is in place they e even threatened his life. And so he took the bread that had been first offered to his covenant to God's natural covenant people. And he gave the crumbs from the table to those who were not called his people, for they shall now be called the children of God. Of God. And what happens? They receive it gladly. They glorified the God of Israel And so the new people of God sat down, and they will sit down with their God at the feast that he provides, and they will be at peace with him and with With each other, and God will be their God, and they will be His people. All this is rooted in one basic teaching Jesus came into this world filled with class hatred, ethnic violence, and with economic injustice, and he came he came into a real world filled with real problems that grow out of our And instead of accentuating those problems and using the politics of fear to address them, he did things that would bring about peace and healing and sought to bring unity instead of chaos. That's what he wants us to do also. When we see this in the story of the feeding of the 4,000, then I think the other two passages just kind of burst out in front of us. We say, oh yeah, it's there. That's exactly what What's happening? Jesus himself highlights this common theme in the story of the Assyrian woman immediately. Now, admittedly, we scratch our heads At the way Jesus talks with her. And I think you have to kind of enter into the way Jesus dealt with these kind of things to understand that. He ignores her at first, accentuating the energy of it. He actually seems to make her beg before he will actually speak to her and listen to her. And then he highlights his ministry in talking to the disciples by saying, I was only sent to the lost sheep of Israel. I think Jesus is aiming this remark not at the woman but at the disciples Like the Samaritan woman at the well that we read about in John, like the widow of Zarepeth to whom God sent Elijah in 1 Kings 17 Like Naaman the Syrian, whom God carried of leprosy in 2 Kings 5, the scriptures teach us that God never has excluded his healing grace from the Gentiles. They were not his primary mission. They were perhaps his primary ministry in the Old Testament. But certainly the Gentiles were there to be healed. Healed when they uh honestly and humbly sought to be healed through from the God of Israel. He was open and generous and loving to the gentleman So there's nothing inherent in Jesus' ministry that says, hey, he can't give healing to the Gentiles. So I don't believe Jesus is absolutely speaking to her in this. Rather, I think he's correcting his disciples. They ask him to do something with this poor woman who's making such a fuss. And Jesus in effect is saying this, well do you really understand what that means? Do you really understand what would be going on when I do that. Jesus is telling us, as he was telling the disciples, that we have to guard against preconceived ideas about him and his ministry. We have to guard against what the world has taught us when we approach the world the problems that we encounter in this world. We have to guard against thinking only in the ways that we have in the institutionalized to think and we must see Christ as He presents himself and His ministry. And that's what the disciples were not doing. They were they were conditioned to think about this woman And the Messiah in such a way that was preventing them from seeing his true ministry. And he brings that home, actually, when he responds to the woman's plea. When she goes through that very moving and humble admission, yes, Lord, I know you didn't come to to save the likes of me up front, but Lord, even the little dogs get a get a crumb that falls off the master's table. I think there was nothing but smiles going all over his face. And he looked at her and said, oh just So tender. How great is your faith. A minor rebuke to his disciples at that point. And Jesus Jesus here is making a point. The unifying factor, as far as Christ is concerned, is faith. It is faith in him, believing in him that counts. It is not where you were born. It is not the color of your skin. It's not the amount of money you have in the bank. What counts is faith, the healing grace that comes with it. And that's what brings peace. Like the Samaritan woman at the well, this woman must have gone and told everyone what had happened. Because the next story there tells us how a multitude And they bring all kinds of people afflicted with various things, including the sick and the demon oppressed. And then Jesus repeats the very same miracles with them that he did other before the feeding of the 5,000. He goes up onto the mountain, he teaches this crowd, he heals this crowd, and he feeds this crowd. But there is one key difference in this and the feeding of the 5,000. We are explicitly told that the effect on these Gentiles was that they glorified the God of Israel. They glorify the God of Israel. You didn't see that in the Jews. They may have glorified God, but that expression, they glorify the God of Israel, points to the essential pagan reality of the These people. These pagans who were as bad as Muslims, if not worse cast away all of their cultural conditioning in the face of the marvelous things that Jesus was doing, they turned their back on the prophets of their false religion, and they glorified the God of Israel. Now was that a great day or what? I'm sure there were some Jews present. But look at the result Jew or Gentile, raised as a Jew, raised in the covenant community of God, or raised in a pagan man Miserable, human sacrificing, perverse religion. They were all on the same footing. Jew or Gentile? The Jews had chased Jesus out of Israel. These particular Jews had followed him. These Jews were rejecting the false teaching, perhaps, that they had grown up with. They were seeing Jesus differently as he did these things. And that's exactly what was happening to the Gentiles. They were all on the same level. They were all doing and responding to Jesus as equals. Thus we have here the common ground that all Christians should That what is important to us, what is important to us, what must be important to us, is a new creation, that all things have been made You and that mankind now all mankind men, women, children and adults, are to understand that we have all All grown up in a world that is dominated by error, by wrong thinking, by the seeking of revenge, as Jeremiah has reminded us? We have all fallen prey to a greater or lesser extent to this Thinking. And all too often we accept the law of the jungle as if it is the same as the law of gravity. And we must reject those ideas. Brothers and sisters, and we need to reach out to others in the name of Christ, and we need to see that we need to be healed, and we need to be agents of healing for Him. And in doing so, we are to glorify the God of Israel. Jesus healed them. He healed these Gentiles He healed these people who didn't know God's law. He healed them. Those who only knew Moses by reputation. He healed them because they were sick and hurting, and blind, and deaf, and dumb. And he had compassion on them, not anger. And in doing so, I think he shows us what should be our attitude and strategy. In this time and place also. Okay, I'm gonna start medling a little bit, so you can go ahead and start getting your weapons out. How should I apply? How should we apply this passage? First of all, brothers and sisters, I think we need to take real careful note of it. And we must be on guard against Satan and not fall into his trap. We must see that the politics of fear can become a consuming passion. It can eat us up. It can be a deadly mind that will blind us to the things of God. If we fall into that trap, we get so furious, we get so directed in our anger, so directed towards a particular solution to that anger, that we don't hear any other kind of voices. Then we have to remember that the politics of fear, the politics The politics of hatred, the politics of enmity is designed to pit one person against another, to pit one class of people against another, and to To bring about chaos, if you will, of which the people who are promoting it can take advantage. And brothers and sisters, we have to see that And address it as such. We have to remember that Jesus came to tear down the walls of enmity, not building them up. And the testimony of our lives should reflect that we are dedicated to that purpose also. And next we must see that like Jesus We need to devote ourselves to the things which make for peace and which promote peace. We must see Jesus' actions in this passage, in these passages. I'm going to read that. You can find it if you want to look it up in verses 14 through 11 18, but simply listen as I say it. He himself is our peace, who has made both one, Gentile and Jew, one. And has broken down the middle wall of separation, that which divides people, having abolished in his flesh the end That which would separate people, that is the law of commandments contained in the ordinances, so as to create in himself one new man from two, thus making peace, that he might reconcile them both to God in one body through the cross, thereby putting death to the enmity. And he came and he preached peace to you who were far off and to those who were near. For through him we both have access. By one Spirit to the Father. Brothers and sisters, is that not a commentary on these three passages in Matthew? Isn't that exactly what Jesus is doing? Jesus came and preached peace both to those who are far off and those who are near. The gospel of peace and Christ has to be the center part of our message and witness and our work, our lifestyle, and our entire demeanor should reflect a commitment to that passage. Rather than falling into Satan's trap and letting foolish men and women who evidently do not know Christ incite us to passionate anger, we Christians of all the people in this nation should show Show restraint. We should govern our thoughts, govern our conversation, and govern our actions. In a manner consistent with what we see Jesus doing here. We should be doing good things to all kinds of people rather than spending the m uh greater part of our lives yelling at them. Rather than trying to elect someone to public office to do good things for us instead of us having to do them. We ought to do them because quite frankly, brothers and sisters, electing folks to public office to do good works just ain't gonna happen Shutting down Planned Parenthood is not going to happen by government decree. Sure, we should support people who are a seeking Seeking to cut off government aid, government support for that organization? Absolutely. Should we do it with fury? That's a different question. What we have to remember though, shutting down Planned Parenthood The key to shutting down Plant Parenthood is rather in providing answers to the people who go to them seeking answers. We can't just write those folks off and leave them out in the cold even if we shut Plan Parents We can't just say, well, if you had stopped sinning and fornicating and living sober so immorally in your life and have such perverse lifestyles and be such jerks, if you would stop doing that, then you wouldn't be in the trouble you're in. These people are sinners. They act like sinners. Should we be surprised at that? We Christians have to stop despising them, and we have to start loving them, and we have to start showing them a different way. And the same thing about race relations. Certainly there are race baiters out there, you betcha. And we could probably all agree on the names of the ones that Come right to mind. These are people who are making money or gaining prestige or political advantage from pitting the races against each other. And certainly there is some reason for anger at people Who would be so evil as to do that? But, brothers and sisters, in the face of that anger, if the face of anger in us is all that the world sees in us, then Satan wins. And darkness wins. And chaos wins. Rather, what they should see from the Christians is a willingness to reach out across racial lines, across social demographic lines, in the effort to do good And to show mercy. And to prove that the walls of enmity have been torn down and that there is no reason for the races to hate each other. To me that is the only possible way that the politics in a politics of fear in promoting racial unrest Will be countered. Let's talk about homosexuals. The homosexual issues that face our nation. Yes and amen Marriage is for one man and for one woman. Any doubt, anybody? Where where I stand with that? Yea and amen. Homosexuality Is a sin against God. It is a sin. It ranks right up there with gossip. Think about that. God's eyes, they're both damnable sins. So when we think about homosexuals and the issues That our country is facing, we are not in the position here of mandating that the government say That marriage can be open to anybody or that it should be restricted to men and woman. Government shouldn't be making any statement about that, period. It's none of their business. But we know what the truth is. The question is, how are we treating those who are seeking to find out how to deal with their homosexuality? Inclinations. Do we have empathy for those who are battling emotions and having desires that we heterosexuals simply don't understand? Really can't identify with. We can only vaguely appreciate what is going through their mind and emotion. that grip their heart? Are we treating them like dirt? Are we treating them as if they are people from whom we should hide our children. Or worse, are we treating them as people that we really ought to just lock away in an institution? Brothers and sisters, to do so is to fall prey to the politics of fear. We do not have to fear homosexuals. We have a God Who is greater than their sin? How do we know that? Because he's greater than our sin. And they don't deserve hell any more than we do. Jesus here teaches us that his way is different. He teaches us that we are to do good to those who are suffering. And to show Show mercy and grace to those who are confused. And that's what he did for us when we were far from him, when we were lost. In our sins. And this is what he calls us to do on his behalf with the gospel he has given us. He healed a Syrian woman, Who had been raised to despise his religion. He fed thousands of Gentiles who knew not Christ nor his law And he healed them in masses and caused them by his good works among them to glorify the God of Israel. And in every one of them One of these applications, brothers and sisters, should that not be our agenda also? Let's pray.