Oh yeah, I wasn't Good evening everyone. Welcome back. Glad we're here. It's good to close out the Lord's Day with another worship service. Let's uh do as we did in the morning, give ourselves a little bit of time to have some silence, prepare our hearts and our minds for worshiping the living God, and then I'll start us with a prayer of invocation. Gracious God, our Father, thank you for this day Thank you for the rest that you have provided for us in you. We thank you, Lord, that we have already gathered once today and sung your praises and Heard from your word, and we thank you, God, for giving us the motivation to come out and to do it again. We thank you, Lord, for your word. We thank you for saving us and giving us hearts of flesh that want to hear from your word, that want to overflow from our lips in rejoicing praise. We thank you, God, that you have made us love you. And so we come to you in love, begging you to send your spirit. We call upon him now, the Holy Spirit, the Holy Ghost, to be with us, to enable and empower our worship, that we can worship you in a way that pleases you. For w that is why we're here, God. We are here to bless your holy name and to receive from you sustenance for this week to come. Thank you, God, that we have confidence that our prayers are heard, for we pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's stand. We have our call to worship from Psalm 99, the first three verses. The Lord reigns, let the peoples tremble. He dwells between the cherubim, let the earth be moved The Lord is great in Zion, and he is above, high above all the peoples. Let them praise your great and awesome name He is holy. Let's respond by singing together God the Lord is King, the hymn number one in our bulletin God is in order earthquake for your nation, where God share of his dying. He is holy, he is holy, and only for the God of God is King of Glory, the God of World is me, angel. God is painful. He is holy, He is holy, holy, is all name. He is holy, he is holy to God. One more paper, then they store his face once more. Say amen. You may be seated. We have a passage from Isaiah. That will help lead us into a confession of sin. Isaiah 42, verses 1 through 12. Behold, my servant whom I uphold, my elect one in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the Gentiles. He will not cry out, nor raise his voice, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, and smoking flax he will not quench. He will bring forth justice for truth. He will not fail nor be discouraged Till he has established justice in the earth, and the coastlands shall wait for his law. Thus says God the Lord, who created the heavens and stretched them out who spread forth the earth and that which comes from it, who gives breath to the people on it, and spirit to those who walk on it. I, the Lord, have called you in righteousness, and will hold your hand I will keep you and give you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the Gentiles, to open blind eyes, to bring out prisoners from the prison, those who sit in darkness from the prison house. I am the Lord, that is my name, and my glory I will not give to another, nor my praise to carved images Behold, the former things have come to pass, and new things I declare, before they spring forth, I tell you them. Sing to the Lord a new song And his praise from the ends of the earth, you who go down to the sea and all that is in it, you coastlands and all you inhabitants of them Let the wilderness and its cities lift up their voice, the villages that Kadar inhabits. Let the inhabitants of Selah sing. Let them shout from the top of the mountains. Let them give glory to the Lord. and declare his praise in the coastlands. Let us go to our God now in prayer, confessing our sin to him. Almighty God, your word is clear. You have a chosen servant. You have an elect one. You are delighted in him, and you have given him that all the peoples of this world would turn to you, would see you, would be given eyes that can see, and that we would praise your name. Lord, you do not allow your glory or your praise to go to anything else And so we come to you now asking you to give us the blessing of your spirit, that you would show us how we have praised others. How have we given your glory to something else? Why, God, do we still look for saving, look for help, look for strength when you have been so clear in showing us where it comes from? from. You have shown us that your strength, that your help, that our hope is in the Lord Jesus Christ. Why do we look to any other? Oh God, help us. Help us to see when we are looking for salvation. Help us to see when we are dissatisfied with Christ. Help us to confess it, that your spirit can hear our confession and forgive us of our sins. I pray, God, that you will hear the prayers of your people now as they pray to you, confessing their sin in the silence of their hearts. Father, we trust that you hear our prayers. Your word tells us that you hear the prayers of your people. We trust that you will indeed give us the ability to recognize when we are turning away from you to look at others for our saving. And that by your Spirit you will give us the power to turn away from idols, to turn away from false saviors, and to turn only to you, to your Savior, to our Redeemer, the Lord Jesus. Christ. We trust that you have heard our prayers and that you do so for His sake, because we pray in His name. Amen. Brothers and sisters, from God's Holy Word, Psalm 130, verses 7 to 8, we have an assurance of our pardon. O Israel, hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is mercy. And with him is abundant redemption, and he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities. Let us respond to the pardon of our God by rising and singing together from Psalm 130. Him number two Lord from my cry for the Lord give here to me, Oir my voice and for answer. Sure for a different need, but yes, when we forgive the reference. I wait my soul wave on my own days with his work more than the what's been away for. For holy grace of sleep, and he shall discount bring me for more big present. Amen. If you have a Bible with you, a copy of God's Word, go ahead and take it out. And we'll remain standing as long as we're able to for the reading of God's Holy Word. Open up to Mark chapter 1 And tonight we'll be continuing on with Mark. We're looking at chapter one, verses nine through thirteen. Mark chapter one, verses nine through thirteen. God's holy word for God's holy people. It came to pass in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And immediately coming up from the water, he saw the heavens parting. And the spirit descending upon him like a dove. Then a voice came from heaven, You are my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased Immediately the Spirit drove him into the wilderness, and he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted by Satan, and was with the wild beasts, and the angels ministered to him. Let us pray together. Holy Lord, this is your word. You have preserved it for us, that it would feed us, that it would transform us. We trust you that you will make your word take root in our hearts, that we would not simply be hearers of it, but that there would be something you would have us do. And we pray, Lord, that by your Holy Spirit, you will give us the strength to obey what you want us to obey from your word tonight. We pray this in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ Amen. Please be seated. The sermon from last Sunday evening was that God prepares his people. And now we are going to look at how God prepares his Christ. And so I've entitled this sermon, The Christ Prepared. One of the things that I I think we as Christians can do a lot is we can get caught up in terminology. We have words, you may have heard a phrase called Christianese, where we can say something that has been a term that the church has used for a long time and we don't fully understand what it means. We may say it, but we don't actually get it. And one of those things that I was thinking about is that uh the word atonement We all know that Jesus Christ is the atoning sacrifice for our sins. He is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, but have we ever really given thought to what atonement means? Do we really understand it? Well, atonement defined is the amends or reparation made for an injury or wrong, making satisfaction or reparation for an offense. That should help us, because we see how Jesus is the atonement. He is the reparation. He makes satisfaction. But we have to make sure we understand that it's not for his wrongs And it's not for his offenses, it is for ours. Now the Day of Atonement, the Yom Kippur, is found in Leviticus chapter 16. It's a very important part of Jewish religion. It's a very important part of Christian religion. And so I wanted us to start tonight by just looking for just a little bit of time at Leviticus chapter 16. So if you have your Bibles there, keep them open. But go ahead and turn to Leviticus 16. And I think it will help us and be very important for us to understand what is happening in this passage. So turn to Leviticus 6. 16, and I'm going to just read a couple verses and then point out some of the significance of it. So follow along with me. I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to read verses 5 through 10. And then I'll read verses 15 and 16 and then verses 20 and 22. So I'll start verses 5 through 10. Follow along if you want. And he shall take from the congregation of the children of Israel two kids of the goats as a sin offering, and one ram as a burnt offering. Aaron shall offer the bull as a sin offering which is for himself, and make atonement for himself and for his house. He shall take the two goats and present them before the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of meeting. Then Aaron shall cast lots for the two goats, one lot for the Lord, and the other lot for the scapegoat. And Aaron shall bring the goat on which the Lord's lot fell, and offer it as a sin offering But the goat on which the lot fell to the scapegoat shall be presented alive before the Lord, to make atonement upon it, and to let it go as the scapegoat into the wilderness. That's verses 5 through 10. Let's look now at verses 15 and 16. Then he shall kill the goat of the sin offering, which is for the people, bring its blood inside the veil. Do with that blood as he did with the blood of the bull, and sprinkle it on the mercy seat, and before the mercy seat. So he shall make atonement. for the holy place, because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and because of their transgressions, for all their sins. And so he shall do for the tabernacle of meeting which remains among them in the midst of their uncleanness And lastly, verses 20 through 22. And when he has made an end of atoning for the holy place, the tabernacle of meeting, and the altar, he shall bring the live goat. Aaron shall lay both his hands on the head of the live goat, confess over it all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions, concerning all their sins. Putting them on the head of the goat, and shall send it away into the wilderness by the hand of a suitable man. The goat shall bear on itself all their iniquities to an uninhabited land, and he shall release the goat in the wilderness. I hope you saw some of the similarities in that to what we're looking at here in the passage from Mark. We saw that there are two goats, two sacrifices pulled from the congregation of Israel, from the people themselves. One is going to be a sin offering, both are called sin offerings, but one is going to be a living offering, which will be called the scapegoat. It'll be sent into the wilderness. The scapegoat is presented alive before the Lord, and the sin offering of the goat that was slain is used to cleanse the tabernacle. The blood of that sacrifice was shed for cleansing purposes. And then we saw that the sins of the people are put on the scapegoat. And that scapegoat is driven into the wilderness. Last week we saw that God prepares his people to receive the good news, to receive the gospel. He prepared them with the Old Testament prophets. He prepared them with the last Old Testament prophet who was John the Baptizer. They were sent to get the people of God ready to recognize the Messiah, to recognize the Christ And by John's ministry, the people were undergoing a ritual cleansing in preparation for meeting with God. And the result was that they were confessing their sins. They were looking to God as the only one who can deal with their sin. And so tonight we're going to continue on looking at verses 9 through 13, in which we'll see that God prepares his Christ to take on the sins of his people. We'll see that God prepares his Christ to take on the sins of his people. And we're going to look at it in two sections, verses 9 through 11. We'll see the Christ prepared. And then in verses 12 through 13, we'll see the Christ proven. So let's look together at the first section, and we see the Christ prepared. And the first way that the Christ is prepared is that he is identified with his people. Look at verse 9. It came to pass in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. All Judea and all Jerusalem went out to John, and they were baptized by him. And it's likely, because of that statement that it was all of Judea and all of Jerusalem, it's likely that this was happening in the Jordan River near the place where the Israelites crossed over in Joshua chapter 4. John 1 verse 28 tells us that John was baptizing in Bet-Abara beyond the Jordan. And Bet-Abarah means the house of crossing. And so Jesus travels a pretty far distance. If you know where Nazareth of Galilee is, and you know where Bet-Abbara is, it's a long way to go. So why was he doing this? Why did Jesus travel there? Did he do this because he needed the remission of his sins? Well, of course he didn't. The baptism of John wasn't a magic spell, it wasn't a ritual, it wasn't something that was superstitious, it was a symbolic cleansing. And it showed that the people's hearts were turning toward God. They were turning back to Jehovah, away from their idolatry. It was symbolic of their desire to be cleansed and to turn away from their sin. In Matthew, we're told that John tries to prevent Jesus' baptism. But Jesus says, permit it to be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. So, what is happening here? Try to recall what we just read from Leviticus 16 and the similarities there. There's a cleansing of God's people, there's confession of sin And here we have Jesus. He's coming from the children of Israel, and he's being identified with the people of God. We know that he's going to be killed on the cross. We know that his death would tear the veil that covers the Holy of Holies in the temple. And we see Jesus there as that sin offering which is sacrificed and his blood which cleanses. But we also see him as the living sacrifice, the scapegoat, upon whom would be put the sins of all God's people. Isaiah 53, 6 says, All we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. And so the Christ is identified with his people. in part of his preparation. And then the second part of his preparation, he's identified with the living God. Look at verses ten and eleven. And immediately coming up from the water he saw the heavens parting and the spirit descending upon him like a dove Then a voice came from heaven, you are my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. The triune God is shown clearly in this passage. The voice of the Father, the Spirit descending upon Jesus, and Jesus himself identified as the Son. We have Father, Son, and Holy Ghost in two verses. This is part of the the beauty of the of the quickness with which Mark gives us information. This same statement that the Father makes will be made again when Jesus is transfigured on the mountain in Mark 9, verse 7. The one who John baptized comes from the people, and he participates in all that which is fitting for their righteousness. And he is declared the Son of God, in whom the Father is well pleased. We have Son of Man, we have the Son of God, we have the divine and the human together. And this is Jesus' unique qualification to be our atoning sacrifice. And so the Christ, the Son of God, the one for whom the people have been prepared, has come. He's identified with his people, and at the same time, he's identified with the living God. And so then the next thing we see is we see that the Christ is proven. And we see first in verse 12 that his obedience is proven. It says, There immediately the Spirit drove him into the wilderness. Just like the scapegoat. The iniquity of the people is put on him, and he is driven into the wilderness. There's no time for him to process what has happened. It says, immediately, straightway, the Spirit casts him out into the wilderness. And it's interesting to me that the same word that's used here for driven or cast out is the same, the very same word that will be used when Jesus drives out or casts out the unclean spirits from his people. Jesus obeys. He does not resist. He doesn't delay. He responds to the moving of the Holy Spirit. And even though what he is called to do is tremendously difficult, He does not try to get out of it. The Garden of Gethsemane comes to my mind. Jesus is proven that he will obey perfectly, that he will submit perfectly to the will of his Father in heaven. In his obedience, he proves that he is better than Adam. And that leads us to verse 13, in which we see his perfection is better Proven. His obedience has been proven, and his perfection is now proven. Look at verse 13. And he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted by Satan, and was with the wild beasts, and the angels ministered to him. Forty days is a long time, especially to be alone in the wilderness or the uninhabited places You could think about some of those other times where we had very special servants of God spending 40 days and 40 nights somewhere. Do you remember Moses? When he was on Mount Sinai, he was there in the glory cloud of Jehovah for 40 days, and he also fasted. And do you remember what happened at the end of that time? At the end of those 40 days, he was given the tablets of the covenant that he could then deliver to his people. The flood waters were on the earth for 40 days, and after that time, when Noah leaves the ark, do you remember what happened? God made a covenant promise with him that applies all of his people. It is not unreasonable for us to expect that something amazing is going to come after Jesus' 40 days in the wilderness. And I'm sorry, but we'll have to get to that next week. But we will get there. For now, just notice that Jesus not only obeyed the moving of the Spirit, but he obeyed it completely, staying as long as was required, despite the danger to his life. Forty days and nights in a desolate place. It's a place where there are no people. And we're told there's a place where there's wild animals, dangerous wild animals. That's hard enough. But Jesus' perfection is then proven in the way that he resists Satan's tempting. The word here might be better translated testing as it is when the Pharisees try to test Jesus. It's the same word. But it's important for us to realize that Satan's temptations are tests. They are tests of faith. When Satan tempts us, he is testing us. We are being tested. Will we do what we say we believe? I'm sure you remember how Adam was tested. He was given a tree, and he was told, Don't you dare eat the fruit from this tree. He proved himself to be imperfect. He could not stand up to the test But Jesus, through this testing, is proven to be absolutely perfect. He's proven to be the better than Adam. And at the end of it all, at the end of this trial, the angels come and they minister to him. They don't do that for the one that failed the test. How did the angels respond to Adam's failure? Did they come and minister to him? Did they give him food and comfort They did not. Rather, they barred his entry into the garden. They kept him away from God. But the Christ did not fail. His perfection is proved, and so the angels attend to him. He can go on to fulfill his calling, and he will do exactly as his father wanted him to. He can be trusted because his obedience and his perfection are proven in the wilderness. Jesus' baptism and testing prepared him for what was to come. And though he'd be surrounded by crowds and his disciples, essentially Jesus would be alone. No one would fully understand who he was and what he was doing and accomplishing until well after his resurrection. He would face far worse than dangerous wild animals. He would face wild men. He would face zealous Jews who thought they were serving God by going against him. He would face those who would try their hardest to prove that he couldn't possibly be the Christ. He couldn't possibly be the Messiah. And yet through it all, and we'll see this as we go through Mark, Jesus survived because of his father's great care for him. And we see that Jesus would never stop relying on his Father throughout his ministry, even to the very bitter end. Jesus is the atoning sacrifice. For the sins of God's people. And so I ask you, do you believe it? Or are you still looking somewhere else for salvation? Is Jesus enough for you? Is what he has been called to do and to accomplish proven before your eyes. Has God made it clear to you that this is the one that he wants To go to death to save his people. Is it clear to you that Jesus is the one on whom your sin, your iniquity has been placed? Your sins are really on him, and they really were paid for. There is true atonement in the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. He is the one. He is the one that we should adore. He is the one who is our Redeemer and who gives us strength for the fight. Our God has done the work of atoning for our sins. There is reparation has been made, and it's been made in Jesus. He has been prepared for that. He has been proven for it. And as we continue on through Mark, we're going to watch how Jesus shows the power of God as he atones for it. for the sins of his people. Let us pray together. Gracious Lord Without Christ, we would have no hope. And we are grateful that your word is clear, showing us exactly who He is and what He came to do. Please, God, help us to have greater love for our Christ. Greater love for your servant, the one in whom you delight. Would we delight in him, please, God, give us pleasure in Christ's ministry. Give us pleasure in his person. May we love him so much and delight in him so much that We can't even countenance when someone would speak against him. That we would shudder and turn away if somebody tries to use his name as a swear, as a curse. We pray, Lord, that you will help us to see what Christ is doing for us. And that it would give us such great joy that we would sing. We would sing from our hearts among the nations. Give us boldness, Lord, that we would proclaim Christ to be whom you have prepared him to be and whom you have proven him to be. He is the Lamb of God who takes us Away the sin of the world, who takes away our sin. May we be so enamored with Him, so delighted in Him, that we can't help but share that good news among all those that you put in our Please, God, hear our prayers for Christ's sake. Amen. Let's stand and respond to God's holy word by singing together, O Lord. I love you, my shield, my tower. Hymn number three in your bulletin. Oh Lord I love you, my still boys don't brought my stay I worship them to the way forward speed. Save me from his best. Save me my broad answer for no storm outside as God. Lighty plastic bunders for your water sports more. You think that will my need for my say to me off and grow my hold away. Your right hand forsake has for me embrace it for me. Now upon thy good swing, praising our ungoins for our king. Here we spry up, cry up from the race, we ever leave the wall of the spray. Here's the righteousness that is the same becoming of the Lord. He'll be victory and please Amen. I am going to call an audible because Pastor Skip Dusenberry is here. Skip, would you mind coming up and just providing the benediction for us? And then after that benediction, we'll be seated and we'll continue on with our time of prayer. Thank you, Skip. And now may the God of peace who brought up from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep to the blood of the everlasting covenant, even in Jesus our Lord, equip you in every good thing to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory, forever and ever. Amen. And oh, have it on men. Please be seated, think like