When you're entering into family life something you think of or when you see other people trying to enter into family life something you think of for them, especially if their children are tearing cereal boxes off the aisle shelves as an educational philosophy for families. And I think a sound one is designed around equipping children to be useful. Here's you know my philosophy equipping children to be as useful around the house as soon as possible and also to leave as soon as possible. I know that sounds cruel. But it's not. I really think that's what the Lord intends is that we'd raise people up that are capable and that can head out. Not uh, you know, no failure to launch. So Those are the goals that would direct our efforts in any kind of family philosophy. And you can begin to think of how each of the means in raising our families would move toward that. We feed our children food to give them strength. Why? So that they can do work for God and for neighbor. Young men and women should be taking out the trash. setting and clearing the table, changing cat litter, walking dogs, folding and putting away laundry, and doing dishes as soon as possible And in my opinion, this might again sound cruel to you, I think that most of those things, if not all, should be in effect by about age six or seven. But this isn't about my educational philosophy. The tragic thing that you would end up seeing, though, whether you agree with that or not, the tragic thing that you would see is that you'd feed the children and then they'd use all of their nutritional energy on themselves. That's the tragedy. Or, you know, a c Video games or whatever it is, um, we could see that it ends up being a waste of time and a waste of energy that it's spent on themselves. And if you use the if you if you were to use biblical language You would say that they are quenching the nurture that their parents have given to them So in other words, their parents have lit the fire and they keep putting it out with the waters of selfishness. Or whatever it is. Have you ever been a part of have you ever shared your life with someone where you have invested so much and they just quench your investment? They just figure out a way to destroy all the hard work that you have put into them. I think we have relationships like that. And that's really what's going on here in this passage, but it's being applied to the third person of the Trinity. Which is amazing. And he's saying here the second caution. The first caution, of course, was last uh week and I I keep forgetting the cautions. It's uh I'm I I apologize. No, we can't. Okay. Well, this week it is do not quench the Holy Spirit. And last week it was do not grieve the Holy Spirit. Excuse me. Do not grieve the Holy Spirit. And next week, which is our last sermon in the whole series, will be Do not resist the Holy Spirit. So to end this series, we're looking at the three cautions concerning the Holy Spirit. And this one here is do not quench. So we're going to unfold that to see what does it mean to quench the Holy Spirit. Here's the big idea. You can see this in your bulletin there. And how it's going to unfold. The big idea is that the church quenches the Holy Spirit when she, the church, does not stoke the gifts he gives to her We are meant as a church to fan the sacred fire. That would be another way to put the same thing. And we'll look under that uh look at that under three main ways. Um we're gonna look at this metaphor of quenching and survey it, a metaphor surveyed. a problem defined and then a practice revived. So you see in verse 19, it's really clear, there's really not much there because it's so short. A metaphor is being given for our survey. Of verse 19, the Holy Spirit and His work is likened. Do you see a simile here? The Holy Spirit and His work is likened to fire in verse 19. Do not quench the Spirit. Now it's interesting because the verb quench appears throughout the scriptures and it means to put out a fire or a light I'm brawling that that fire imagery in here. So consider these different passages if you will, just to to um Become convinced of this. You know, the most difficult part about this sermon for me personally is because these are a list of differing commands that are kind of random at the end. It's very difficult to tell, to evaluate what I'm saying by the context. And you need to evaluate to make sure that I'm preaching to you the truth. Be a good Berean. So listen to these other scriptures and how the word is used so that you can make up your own mind on these conclusions that I'm drawing. And Paul in Ephesians 6, he implores the church to pick up their shield. This is the Christian's armor. And then he says, why are we to pick up the shield? Why are we to have all of these pieces of armor? It's to quench The fiery arrows of the evil one. It's directly related to fire. Once again, this quenching. Or Jesus paints by parable a picture of some whose lamps are quenched. from a lack of oil. Or the groom and bride express their loyalty of love by confessing Many waters cannot quench love. You see the water and the fire imagery there. Many waters cannot quench love, nor can the floods Drown it, and that's from Song of Solomon. In addition, the Holy Spirit himself is viewed as a flame throughout the scriptures. I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. And that's from Matthew 3, or consider Acts chapter 2. Then there appeared to them divided tongues as of fire, and one sat upon each of them, and we know what the tongue stood for. It was the gift of the Holy Spirit being given to the first century church to perform particular gifts. And then consider this. Perhaps you haven't seen this one. This is Isaiah 4. 4. When the Lord has washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion and purged the blood of Jerusalem from her midst, by the spirit of judgment, capital S, and by the spirit, capital S, of burning. Now you see there's a there's a cleansing. The Holy Spirit as a fire is particularly referring to his work So that's the simile that's often used for him, the quenching and the fire. But it's not just it's not the Holy Spirit in his person. We're not speaking that way. We're speaking about his work. amongst his people. And you can see that specifically here in that Isaiah passage. The spirit is considered a spirit of burning in the context of the Lord washing away the filth of the daughters. Do you do you get the imagery? We have it in our culture. The point is that both the water and the fire are a way to cleanse. Water purifies and fire purges, is the idea. Thus, the Spirit is said to work among God's people, purifying them. And of course, once you begin to see these connections between quenching and fire and the spirit as being a spirit of burning, a spirit of fire, a spirit of purification, then you could easily turn to And he placed within the scriptures and begin to see this imagery played out. And I'll just give you one example from Peter in his second epistle, describes a day when the world will be purged by fire. And this, of course, is referring to the work of the Holy Spirit making the new heavens and the new earth in which righteousness dwells. And then you take that big picture and you think about the series that we've just given, and you can bring it down to your own personal scale or go up a level to the scale of the church. And it refers to the work, his work in the church now, the new creation of the church, burning from you any unrighteousness, any unreconciliation, any shame, any guilt, burning it all up. According to Roman eight Romans eight, this new creation of the church is the first fruits, the purging are these first fruits of the full creation of the entire cosmos. And now you're beginning to see all of the work spanning all of the decades amongst the church and the entire world. Just by following this motif of fire throughout the scriptures. Do you know what it means, the first fruits? We don't use that language as often. I have first fruits of cabbage. You know that? I um we play at my dinner table, agree or disagree, and I said, agree or disagree, I have cut heads off in my backyard. And they say disagree. I say wrong, agree, because I cut cabbage heads. And the and the reason being is that when you cut the cabbage head, if you wait, it'll actually sprout up into four more cabbages in each of the quadrants of the original stalk. Now the first cabbage head is the first fruits of the harvest. And the fact that I get four more after that shows that there's a second harvest, so to speak, and that's the imagery here, is that the work of the Holy Spirit in his flaning influence in our lives and the raising up and gathering and perfecting people called the church. Those are the first fruits. And when Jesus returns in his bodily presence and the Holy Spirit renews, the entire cosmos That's the fruition of the harvest. Now, do you see how this motif here leads to all of this work that the Holy Spirit is doing? That's what's going on within the passage. And that's the metaphor that is being used here in this letter in order for us to understand a caution that is given to us. Don't quench. The flaming influence or sacred fire of the Holy Spirit. And now you can begin to see the volumes of things that He's doing, and therefore volumes of things that you should not be quenching. Now, this brings a problem, and so we have a metaphor surveyed, but then you have a problem defined. He says, do not quench. So their implication here is that there could be a problem that's formed within the church, and that of course would be the church casting wet logs on the fire. Now she can be good at that, the church. Casting wet logs on the fire. The passage is not simply about the spirit or the metaphor of fire, the verses of caution not to quench the spirit. And the caution is that if the spirit is a fire, And his fire is a metaphor for his burning influence and work in our lives, then Paul is saying, don't quench the Spirit's work in your life. That's the conclusion. Very powerful what he's saying here. Don't quench the work of the Holy Spirit in your life or in the life of others, actually. Now, have you ever been camping? And you just had someone that thought they knew what they were doing because they had watched someone build a campfire on TV, and they collect wet logs for the fire. That doesn't ever how's that working out for you? You know, it doesn't work out. And likewise, we have to ask ourselves the question as the church: do we place wet logs upon the fire that the Holy Spirit has lit amongst us. And you can think of a thousand different ways in which he does that. But I want to think through this a little bit. What is the work that the Spirit Is what is it he is in fact doing? Let's really start to get specific now. Two weeks ago we summarized his work as consolation or comfort. And I like the second one better, as we're really getting at the heart of what's going on, that the Holy Spirit's work may be summarized as that He is our Comforter, as it says in John sixteen. As a remo as a um A reminder, I'm not sure if you know this or not, but the word can be broken up, comfort, into two words in Latin. Please stay away for me here. And the second one you should be able to notice the comp forte or forte we have in our language, which is that's not my forte. And what that means is that's not my strength. I asked the youth that they said that's not my thing, man. But that's not what I'm getting at. It's not my strength. And so what we see here is that the Spirit is meant to comfort his church, that is to say, to strengthen her. The Holy Spirit strengthens his church, as we saw two sermons ago, in the bodily absence of Jesus. Jesus had to ascend to do work in heaven until he returns again to earth. Now, in what ways does the Holy Spirit strengthen you, his church? That's the question we want to ask then, so we're not quenching those things. He strengthens his church. If you want a summary of of a summary or a main title. For all of the work that the Holy Spirit is doing amongst the church, it's this. If you want to walk with the Spirit, you ever wonder what that means? This is what it is: holiness. He ushers all of his activities and his energy and his means, both natural and supernatural. Toward your holiness, that you would be presented as a spotless bride before him in love. Before Jesus Christ. That's why Jesus has sent his spirit. It's holiness. And we are made holy in large part during suffering, so too, he seeks to strengthen us, especially in our afflictions, by reminding us that even though things are tough, God loves you. He's not an evil, hateful father. He spends a lot of his time doing that for you. And the Spirit knows that this world tempts you, third, away from this holiness, and so the Spirit is seeking to strengthen you by giving you a longing for heaven instead of earth. He stands contrary to every one of your sinful desires. He raises the conscience. He gives you friends and a wife as a backup conscience once you've steered your conscience. To remind you of what the Spirit would have you do in walking with Him. And then lastly, He supplies us a great deal of tools in order to be able to do a great deal of work with him. He supplies us with singing. He supplies us with praying. He is our spirit of supplication from Zechariah. He supplies us with the preaching of the word. He supplies us with the illumination that we could understand that word in a saving way. He supplies us with the word made visible through the sacraments, the Lord's Supper and the baptism. And he supplies us with each other as a fellowship, as tools to strengthen us for holiness. Which are called gifts of edification that the Spirit gives. You can see this in 1 Corinthians chapter 12. The point is, then, in all of these ways that you can see in which he's seeking to strengthen or work amongst you his church. The point is that if you don't walk with the Spirit and His purpose for your life, then you quench the Spirit. You put a wet log on His work of the sanctification in your life. Now I've asked this question to you before. But are you already off on the wrong foot? Let me ask you again. Does holiness matter to you? Does holiness matter to you from the heart? Does holiness matter to you from the heart? While growing up, we tried to be as creative as possible in the decoration of our Christmas tree. And we would string on a thread kernels of popcorn. Did any of you ever do this? Or and cranberries? Right. Well, you know, I'd spend two hours doing that. You can pick up the string to put it on the tree and there'd be no popcorn on it because my golden retriever was eating it under the table. Perfect picture of quenching. The Holy Spirit is likewise threading kernels of sacred character upon your soul. And you're allowing your sin to just eat away and for it to be quenched and it for it to disappear both in your lives and the lives of others. That's what he's warning us against here. That's the great caution. It's don't be the golden retriever at Christmas time during the church or in the church. And lastly, we see a practice that is revived. So you see this metaphor that is surveyed with the quenching of the Spirit, which leads us to really see all this work that He's doing amongst us, and that we are not to be working against Him by placing a wet log upon this sacred fire Well, interestingly, there's an opposite aspect to this. And so you'll see there in your the outline of the sermon, I won't be discussing Zechariah this morning, but you see a listing there of 2 Timothy 1. 6. And this is really important because he doesn't just say what is forbidden, but he says what is required. Our Holy Spirit does in the scriptures. He says, don't quench, but then we see in 2 Timothy 1. 6 that we're to stir it up. Interestingly, in that chapter, or in that word right there, Paul is using a term that if you were to break it apart, It is very vivid and colorful and descriptive. It literally consists of two Greek words and then a particle in the beginning. And the two Greek words are life and fire. And so they combine together, and it means to revitalize, or to re-kindle, or to breathe on the flame so that it roars. If you put a bunch of dashes in between those words, that's the idea there that Paul is saying to Timothy, breathe on the flame until it roars. And that's the positive aspect as to what we are to be doing as we walk with the Spirit. Paul encourages Timothy not to quench, but to stir up or fan fan or rekindle the gifts from the Spirit, and we of course are to do the same. Now the question comes up, how in the world are we supposed to do that? How are we supposed to rekindle and to revitalize? I want to give you one and then there are so many we could just talk about this for a really long time. But I just want to give you one that I think is primary. The primary way is to flame the fan of Scripture. Now if you think about that, a lot of times we don't make this connection, but who is it? Whose work is it that has given you the scripture? It is the Holy Spirit. He is the one who has inspired it. It did not come from fables or from the minds of men, but the Holy Spirit, carrying men along, have given you the w has given you the Word of God. We see that in Peter lays that out for us very clearly. So he's working with his his uh the spirit is working with the scriptures, and we must embrace those scriptures then. We must stoke them and fan that sacred flame. And the answer on how to do that when you look throughout the scriptures is meditation. It's meditation upon the scriptures. You see this in the analogy of the cow, of his digestive process where you chew, it goes in, it digests a little bit, it comes back up. It was called rumination, and then he chews again. It's called chewing the cud. And it just keeps coming back up and he just keeps working it and breaking it down and breaking it down and breaking it down. Now isn't that a lovely image for what you're supposed to be doing Eat the book and eat it again. Uh if you wanted to think of the book of Revelation. Now here I um there are whole works done on meditation that are excellent, and uh I hope to be giving them to you soon. So that you can be reading them at home. But let me just break down meditation into two main parts. You want to meditate on God's Word. Until your mind is clear and your heart is hot, that's what it would mean to revitalize or rekindle the work of the Spirit and His inspiration of the Word among you. Meditate upon the word until your mind is clear and the heart is hot. Now, if it's a clear mind, here are some suggestions for you. The Bible is written in the active voice. What do I mean by that? I mean there's always a person of the Trinity back behind everything. So when you're reading your scriptures, ask who is doing what? Which member of the Trinity is doing what? And if you want to become even more specific, you can say, what gift is the member of the Trinity giving me now? What is the Father revealing about himself that he's giving his church? What is the Son revealing about himself that he's giving his church? What is the Spirit revealing about Himself that He's giving His church? Just ask those three questions when you do your devotions, when you meditate upon the Scriptures, and you will start to have greater clarity. Because it won't be an abstract idea that you're discovering. It'll be the work of a person. Watch the people work. Watch the person's work. The persons of the Trinity. And then secondly, to make the heart hot, you need to meditate on those things. primarily in prayer between you and God until those gifts that you see the Trinity giving become your greatest delight in all the world. Now let me give you an image. I've given this image to the leadership, but um uh when Addison came home uh with her candy, I went into work the next day. She had Halloween candy and Holly sent me pictures. What Addison would do in iterations throughout the day is she would dump all of her candy out on the floor. And then she'd line up all of her candy in a single file in different ways, and she would know all the colors and the names of the candy. She'd lay them out on the table because she wanted to see it on the table. She'd lay them out on the floor because she wanted to see what it looked like on the floor. Then To know the true uh impact of the candy on her life, she would count the individual pieces in the individual boxes of the wrappers of the candy. And to make your heart hot, you must do the same things with the gifts of Jesus Christ. All of the gifts of Jesus Christ. All of the gifts of the Father, all of the gifts of the Spirit. Put them out on your table. Count them. Count the ones that are inside of others. Relish them, know the colors, arrange them in different ways. Let them be the delight of your life. If you want, um you can see me afterwards, I'll show you a picture of that so you can see a picture of the Christian life, really. Of laying out the gifts of the Trinity before you. Let me ask you, do you have a list of the excellency of Jesus Christ? All the ways in which he's beautiful and the ways in which he's excellent? Do you have a list of the way that God the Father has loved you? You have a list of all the works of the Holy Spirit. You should have a list of those. And you should be going through the list. You should be counting your blessings. Until your heart starts to rise and to get hot for our God. And that is the beginning of meditation. Then here's the second part. You've moved yourself from having a clear mind, you know exactly what God is communicating to you, and your heart is warmed towards that, and you're delighting now not only in truth but in beauty. And here, you now have the opportunity, and all of those gifts that God has invested into you, you are now able to return the investment. In a life of praise, thanksgiving, and giving him glory. In everything that you would do. You see, the Holy Spirit is working towards your holiness, don't forget. And so now you can, out of gratitude and in thanksgiving and in love, you can move toward Him in holiness in all of the vocations of your life. From truth and beauty, you can strive to love God and neighbor in all of your vocations. A metaphor surveyed is what he gives us here. A problem ends up being defined in that we really like to put wet logs on the work of the Holy Spirit in our own lives. And the life of other people. And then we see this just one example that I give you of Christian meditation, being able to meditate upon his word as your mind is clearly Seeing what God is trying to communicate to you and that your heart is warmed by it, by laying out all the blessings like Addison with candy. Now I'm going to end by asking you a few questions. The one is do you stoke the scriptures? And now let me put you on a scale here, because that's the way that it works, because we're all progressively becoming holy. And try to try to take this survey. On a scale from 1 to 10, are you searching out the meaning of the scriptures? On a scale from one to ten, are you diligently understanding the work and gifts of each person of the Trinity in at least one of the letters of the New Testament? On a scale from one to ten, are you meditating on the work and gifts until your heart is hot? And are you doing this as a community? You know, it's strange with all the social media that's going on out there. I never see a Facebook post that says, hey, what does this verse mean? Can anybody try to help me start to work through this? Because it's so important to me that I would understand and that my mind would be clear. And why is this so significant? Anybody else's heart hot out there? Don't ask it that way. Ask it a different way. Are you returning the investment in love for God and neighbor? Or do you feel like soggy cereal and a bowl of milk? Based upon this survey, you have to ask yourself the question and consider the caution of the passage. Where in particular are you quenching the Holy Spirit? The church quenches the Holy Spirit when she does not stoke the gifts that he gives her. Please pray with me. Father, there's so much confusion that can happen amongst us where as we think about you as our Father, we become angry with you because you're asking us to do things that we don't want to do. And so, Father, I pray against the temptations of Satan as he tempts us to think that you are incompetent or mean. I pray that instead, Holy Spirit, you would work in our hearts and strengthen us that we would know the love of the Father. And I pray, Lord, that you would strengthen us that we would have out on our tables lists a range of the excellencies, the graces of Jesus Christ. And I pray, Holy Spirit, that these things would be sealed to our hearts and that we wouldn't grieve you. You are grieved when we're not walking with you, as a close friend is grieved. At the loss of another friend. But here, Lord, we also see that your spirit can be quenched And we pray, Lord, that you would allow us to heed this warning that you have given to us, not because you're mean and you want us to do things that we don't want to do. But because you love us, you have shared this with us this morning. You have declared it. And so I pray, Lord, that we as a church would not quench the spirit ourselves, and that we would not quench the spirit for other people. And I pray this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.