Mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Him we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. To this end I also labor, striving according to his working which works in me mightily. Pray. Lord, these words are your words and they are life. We ask that you would give us life from them, that you would renew us. Perhaps for the first time or for the thirtieth, we ask that we'd grow in faith. In the name of Christ, Amen. Please be seated. Last week we looked at verses twenty one through I hope you remember some of that sermon. In verse 21 of Colossians, if you want to look very quickly As a review, it says that you were once alienated in enemies. That's why we needed reconciliation. And then in verse 22, it tells us how we were going to receive reconciliation. And that's from the Father sending the Son. Huge, huge story, huge narrative behind what's happening and what the destiny of human beings are. And then 23 is just talking about how we oftentimes put uh that that great narrative aside and it becomes supplemented with other things. That are a part of our life. And the story just isn't exciting anymore. And we were looking at how the love of the Father should always be exciting. Why why did we need reconciliation? Who did the reconciliation and what were the the dangers. And if you look at the end of chapter of verse 23, you're going to see that we're going to move now into a different topic. We're no longer going to be talking about reconciliation, although they're connected. You really should be thinking of like an associative mind map. These concepts are all connected. And in verse 23, if you take a look, it says, from the hope of the gospel. Did everybody see that in verse 23? 23 from the hope of the gospel. Follow along. From the hope of the gospel. And then notice these little qualifications that are added. Signified by the word which the hope of the gospel which you heard, which was preached to every creature under heaven, of which So what do you think the topic is now that he's moving into? It's the hope of the gospel, but he's going to call it by A different name which would have been very familiar to the Jews within his culture and the Christians within his culture, and it's the uh topic of the mystery of God. It's a phrase that's actually actually within this passage. And what we're going to do is we're just going to explore that a little bit in terms of what Paul uh in terms of how Paul wants to explore it in verses twenty-four through twenty-nine. So the main topic is the mystery of God. And we're going to be looking at the meaning of the mystery, the messengers of the mystery, and the man of the mystery. So that's three three things we'll see here. The meaning of the mystery Mystery, the messengers of the mystery, and the man of the mystery. So the very first thing that we see him presenting here is the is the meaning of the mystery. Um take a look here. In verse uh 26. I'll start in 25 just to get us rolling a little bit. Of which I became a minister. Notice that That repetition, the thoughts continuing. According to the stewardship from God which was given to me for you to fulfill the word of God. You see, the hope of the gospel when verse twenty-three. Now the word of God and In verse 25, and now he's going to give another name to it, which is in verse 26, the mystery, which has been hidden from ages and from generations. but has now been revealed to his saints. Now we need to unpack that a little bit. You know, if he were speaking to us now, he would have unpacked it. But because the language was so familiar to his culture, he didn't need to. So let's So let's just take a look at a couple of the phrases first. The meaning of the mystery. When he uses the word mystery here, he's really speaking about that which was secret, which was then revealed. And it was a secret that you could not tap into by yourself unless the person revealed it. You know, there's a huge story back behind this, and it has everything to do with who our God is that the God of Christianity, Yahweh, the Trinity, is a God with is the God with a plan. You can see this in in most Multiple places within the scriptures. If any of you remember the book of Ephesians, in chapter one, he speaks about choosing a group of people where he will be their God and they will be his people. And he says that he chose those people before time even began. And then there's another place within the within the Bible or the scriptures where it says that Jesus Christ referring to his sacrifice that he needs to make is the lamb slain slain before the word Now, how do you make sense of statements like that? The way to make sense of statements like that is to realize that the The God of Christianity, the Trinity, is a God of plans. And he makes his plans like a divine architect before ever building anything. So what we see revealed to us within the scriptures is that there he has There was a time before time where they decided we will create the earth. We will populate the earth. We will do this, we will do that. All of the destinies of all of the races of mankind are planned before one act or one word is spoken. There be light. That's the background to this, and that is certainly full of wonder, that our God is a God of plans, and that these plans happen before He acts. You know, you can see this very clearly. There's like a microcosm of this view in some of the more familiar Bible stories. If you have not read this scriptures you have probably seen um Joseph Prince of Egypt or something along those lines or maybe you got a little wild and you went and saw um technicolor dream But in the case of the case, and Joseph when you think about the story, the simple children's owner. A children's story of Joseph, if you think of it right in the beginning, what is the thing that makes his brothers so angry? Is he has that dream where they're all worshiping him, right? Where they have all bowed down. Now the whole rest of the story is really that coming to be, isn't it? So we see that this dream has been given to him that it was known within the secret plans of God, but then God chooses to reveal it in a kind of dream which doesn't show the full re And it looks like things aren't going to work out, but what does Joseph end up saying in the end? What you intended for evil God intended for good. You could use the word instead of intend, you could say God planned it for good. Before anything was laid out, before Joseph was thrown in the pit, before he before he had to Before all of that, God had planned that all of it would take place, and he showed just a simple glimpse of it to Joseph in a dream. That's the kind of God that we have. Saw it in the dream, it was a secret in the mind of God, just as much as a reality as if it had already happened. That is what is amazing here about our God. You know, you see this all the way through the scripture. That is a microcosm, the story of Joseph, on how God revealed just that small part in a dream. God not only has planned the life of Joseph, according to Christianity, God has planned everything out and is now watching it unfold as He sustains it all in His providence. You could think later on when the prophets speak There's a prophet named Daniel. And you can find him in the book of Daniel. And it's a very interesting read. If you've never read the book of Daniel, you should read it. And in right in the beginning, in the first seven chapters Daniel is confronted with another with a vision from God. This is different than Joseph's vision, but this is a vision of a statue. And the statue is made up of different layers. Of materials. And now nobody knows what this means, but God knows what it means And so they have to go to God and they have to ask him, What does this mean? This is a mystery to us. This is a mystery of God. This is a secret. And God decides to reveal the secret. And he says, Each layer of the statue is a different nation. And one nation will come and crush the other nation, but then there will be another a final nation that has teeth like iron and this and that and the other thing, and they will crush all of the other nations. And you end up seeing later that this is beforehand. And that before we knew it, before it was revealed to a particular person, it was in the mind of God, so to speak. And then and and as such it was secret, but then he chooses to reveal it. Look at the other phrase here. This lets you know that we're on the right track. If you look here in um again down at your uh down at your scriptures, it says that the mystery which has been hidden from Now this should remind you of something. If you want to just write this down or look, you can. So in 1 Peter. Um yeah, it's in 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 10. And I think a lot of you will recognize He says, Of this salvation, the prophets have inquired and searched carefully, who prophesied of the grace that would come to you. Searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ who was in them was indicating when he testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ and the glory that would follow. Do you see what he's saying there? He's saying that there are a group of men that have been searching that that for the secrets of God, for the mystery of God, that the mystery of God of how he was going to unfold has lay hidden, out of sight and out of view. No one has known it. You know, this is, you see this little picture here in 1 Peter of prophets seeking these things out. It kind of reminds you, if you were watching um uh like the National Geographic Channel or something, of Nostradamus, right? Very, very similar feel. It should have a similar Similar feel because we're dealing with similar things, at least within the same ballpark. Surprisingly, you can gain a really clear picture of what Peter is talking about if you just remember Even if uh um you haven't reviewed the gospel of Matthew or of Luke uh lately, particularly Matthew chapter two, I think you remember the Christmas story. Now, let me remind you of a group of characters that maybe you haven't thought about for a little while, the wise men from the East. Now, aren't they an interesting group. There is an angel that goes to the wise men of the East in Matthew chapter 2, and the angel says to them to Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem Saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and have come to worship him. as in like Jews, these are wise men as in like men from the East. And they have heard prophecies about some secret thing that God would have that God would do that that they didn't know what it was, but they knew that there was going to be some star, and that when they saw the star, they were to follow the star, and there they would begin to start to find out the mystery that God would eventually reel for the reveal for the destiny of humanity. This is all the mystery of God. The wise men, they they they come and they look for this star you see. They see the time period during this culture when Paul says that the mystery of God has now been revealed, the people would have just been startled. And then we can turn to Gospels to the Gospels to see how this has happened. God is revealing the destiny of the world. That which laid secret in his mind. Where is he who has been born, King of the Jews? For we saw we have seen his star in the east and have come to worship him. Now listen to this. This is how Popular this was the mystery. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. Everyone knew what the mystery of God was. That there was a Messiah that was to come, that would determine the destiny of all the nations. So they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet, For you, Bethlehem, and the land of Judah are not the least among the rulers of Judah. For out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. And then it goes on from there. You know how terrible Herod can be. But the whole culture was seeking in a kind of Nostradamus way, looking and flipping through the scriptures. Trying to find out clues to the mysterious and secret plans that God would have for him and for his people. So the mystery of God then is the council or this secret plan which God shares with his people. And in most biblical passages it relates to the wise counsel of God and his guidance of history. Now there's another phrase in here for us to be able to understand the meaning of the mystery of God. Not only is it secret, not only is it hidden from ages and from generations, and then all of a sudden shows up in a star in the east, and then other prophecies being fulfilled. Not only can we summarize it by saying that it is the council or the secret plan Which God shares, but we can say that He only shares it with His people. Notice the qualifying remark that Paul says: the mystery which has been hidden from ages and from generations, but now has been revealed. to his saints. He doesn't say that it's revealed to everyone. And this should remind you of 1 Corinthians chapter 2, where Paul again is speaking And he says, However, we speak among those who are mature, yet not the wisdom of this age, nor of the rulers of this age, who are coming to nothing. We speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the ages for our glory, which none of the rulers of this age for uh knew, for had they known, they would not have crucified the Lord have But as it is written, I has not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of man things which God has prepared prepared for them. Do you hear the mystery? Do you hear the secret? And do you hear how only certain people will be able to hear the secret and see the secret? And it is those who will be filled with the Spirit of God. In fact, look at how the story of Joseph is being played out all over again as we begin to understand the narrative. When we turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 2, which I had just written to you, the leaders missed it. Just Like Joseph's brothers missed it. And the one who was to be bowed down in worship that would save all of God's people was thrown into a pit. And Jesus Christ was crucified by his brothers. I don't want to make too much of that and go too crazy with my interpretation, but certainly what the leaders meant for evil, God intended for good. So we see this mystery unfolding, these secrets that God has revealed. And these are the mysteries of God. I was recently uh uh uh uh watching a documentary on people that live in Antarctica, and the winters are very long there. They are so long and they are so cold that the major sea that is present near the town can have ice that is up to Three feet thick. Now that is quite an accomplishment. And once you go through a winter that is that long, that you have to begin to worry about being malnourished. For instance, where are you getting your vitamin C from? from? Where are you getting your vitamin D from? Some of them hunt narwhal and eat the skin. The narwhal has uh skin that has just about as much vitamin C as a full orange. Uh which can Can be helpful to them. And another thing that they look for are muscles. But muscles are on the seafloor. So how is it that we get to the muscles that are on the seafloor under three feet of ice? The time is at hand. That's what they would say. They would watch very carefully the tides, and there is going to be one day within the long winter when the tide Goes all the way out. The sea level there will drop 40 feet. The ice will land on the seabed and begin to tense up. They will then enter in little holes. They'll climb into little holes and these these places where the ice is tented up will form tunnels and they will walk through and they will mine and they will find all All the little secrets of the seabed. All the little secrets of the sea floor, they will harvest the mussels, bring them out, and they'll have a giant feast, not too giant because it's in an igloo, so we can only give And that is the picture that you need to have of all of history. So too God descends not to the seabed but to humanity, particular humans. And he allows us to stick our little heads in there into the the tunnels of his mind, so to speak, and to see all of the riches and the glory and the things that he chooses to reveal. And then he asks us to leave and He reveals no more. Throughout history, God has revealed many things. There are certain people that he has allowed to climb into those little tunnels. And you can find them here within the scriptures. And here we see Paul has had entrance into the tunnel of the mind of God, and it is revealed, and certain things are revealed to him that he calls the mystery of God. That is what the mystery of God is. So last week I've quoted Shakespeare and saying that he was right, and this week I will quote and say that he is wrong. At least one of Shakespeare's characters says that life is a tale. Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing. But here we find that God is revealing that He is in control of all destinies and everything is exceptionally meaningful. That's what we see in the mystery of God. But there are also the messengers of God, which I've almost started to get into when I said if you flip through your scriptures, you will see That God has allowed some people and not others to climb into the tunnels of his mind. And these are the messengers of the mystery. So not only do you see the meaning of the mystery, which can be understood. In those different gospel accounts that I just showed you, but you also see at least one messenger, and his name is the Apostle Paul here. And the very first thing, and the only thing that I'll deal with quite quickly is that this messenger is entrusted. It's inherent within the metaphor or the story that I told you about the ice. And you can see here in verse 5. Of which I became a minister, according to the stewardship from God which was given to me for you to fulfill the word of God. Do you see that? That the stewardship That him being a steward for God, he did not grab at it and and dominate the situation, taking that which was not rightfully his. Rather, he was entrusted with Now this is fully consistent with all of the story of the scriptures. We do not see God condescending and speaking to God Just anyone. I remember going through a phase of thinking that I always had to get God to talk to me. That's not how He works. God has chosen to reveal Himself to specifically And they are his messengers. Those are the ones that will be entrusted with his message. You can see some of the names if you were to just grab your Bible and begin to Flip you would see some of the names that were of the men that were allowed, and there are women also, uh that have been allowed to walk into the tunnels of God's Numbers are is a very important book in terms of this. It says in there that God in the past has revealed himself and the destiny of the nations and of the world little by little in vision. Visions and in dreams, and he spoke to Moses face to face. And we see that same thing taking place within the New Testament. We see visions happening. We see dreams happening and we see God taking the uh flesh unto himself, in other words, the incarnation, speaking face to face But Paul is an interesting character because if you notice, Jesus had already ascended by the time Paul had entered the scene. Paul, Jesus ascends. The message begins to spread throughout Jerusalem. Stephen is preaching this awesome sermon, and then his c he is murdered, and his clothes are piled at the feet of Paul. Or Saul, and then Paul sees and meets Jesus for the first time in a heavenly vision on the road to Damascus. And then later it says throughout the rest of Paul's biography that Jesus revealed himself In other ways at other times, giving him the message of the mystery of God that he was to relate to the Gentiles. Now, Paul would then preach these things to people. He would also write these things down, which was called an inscripturation, which is in which is why we uh in fact call this our scripture. It's the inscription message that is revealed from God to an apostle to other people. It is then written down and preserved that we might have that which was Revealed to some people, namely the apostles and the prophets, in order for us to know exactly what the thoughts are of God are that he wanted us to know. And so now you, in this way, may stick your head into the tunnel of God. God's mind as the Spirit reveals to you what is being spoken in the words that have been revealed to apostles and prophets before. Now here, this is where we can really get stuck. Because when we begin to talk about the messengers of the mystery, what I'm telling you is that Christianity believes and that we We as Christians believe that God speaks to men that He has chosen, and then they will preach or write down the message that He has given. So that we can have it for a while. And you have got to realize that this is an exceptionally unpopular thesis for our Now, there are a couple different things that I could go into, but because we're running out of time and I still have one more point, let me just Just let me just say this. Jeremiah this morning compared us to allowed us to have A perspective of a global scene. And he said, Are you rich? No, we're not rich. But then he says, But compared to the rest of the world, you're the one percent. That's what you need Do you see what I'm saying? And I think a global perspective is important here also. You know, if you begin to read sociological studies on different tribes. That have not made much contact with Western civilization, all of them have men who are spokespeople for God. It is our culture, perhaps alone, that has rid itself of the prophet. At least kinda. I'll make an argument another day that I think physicists are the modern day prophet. I'll make that argument another time. It's not it's not a good thing, but that's what I think has replaced it. And this is what I have to say. This is what I have to say. Is it possible here let me put let me put it this way. Are you telling me That you in your Western mindset and the way that the West thinks about things, that you're right and everyone else in the world is wrong? That everyone else is just primitive and we by science have been able to conquer things and really understand the nature of the universe? Could I just ask you to consider whether you're being culturally narrow? for not thinking that God speaks to some people and then those people reveal God's mind to other people? Perhaps you're being cultural And I'll leave with that consideration. So we have the mystery of God, and we have the messengers of God, and then lastly we see the The man of the mystery. And here you can see that as Paul unfolds this, these are like China, these are like um not China dolls, the um Russian dolls. Thank you. They're like Russian dolls. He says one thing and then inside of that is another, and inside of that is another, and inside of that is another, where he says, of which I became a minister, according to the stewardship from God, which was given to me for you to fulfill the word of God. Then you have inside of that the mystery which has been hidden from ages and from generations, but now has been revealed to His Saints, to them, another inside of that, God willed to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery, and what are they? What are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles? Which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. And so you move from a general understanding of what the mystery of God is, In its general aspects to very particularly and specifically what is be being revealed to people now. What is the great secret that was around before the world began that God had not revealed? Until 0 AD. Jesus. And it is the great mystery that is being revealed to many people throughout the world every day. Jesus. Jesus the Messiah. Jesus Christ. And so here's the great truth, that the great mystery, the great secret that has been kept from every creature in the universe is not a concept, it is not a technology, it is a person. It is a personal God taking on personal flesh, which we refer to as the incarnation and his and he grew up in Nazareth and his name was Jesus and is Jesus and he is the Messiah. Now I don't want to focus on too many things here. I just want to I just want to focus on what is brought out in the passage. Notice first that this mystery of God of Jesus are the riches. Look at the phrase. This is so important for us in our day, and what Paul is trying to do here. To make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you. The riches of the glory of this mystery. The riches of the glory. What he is trying to get you to see here is a kind of palace that is filled each room with different artifacts that are treasures. Now I've never been in a palace full of treasures. When I was young, I didn't run around in a palace full of treasures. But there was, and maybe I'm just lame, but that's what my great-grandmothers House was like in its own way. In York, Pennsylvania, it was a small row home. But each room that I went into as a young child was the most fascinating room that a young child could be in. I'd go in, she was a painter so I'd go into one room and there'd be all this oil paint and the smell and the the old rags that were there and the paintings that she was working on. on. And I'd go into the backyard and there she would have a garden full of big cabbages. And I was fascinated by the garden. And I would go downstairs in the basement and my uncle had a a wood shop down there. And he would make all kinds of uh ornamental wood pieces on his bandsaw, which was another young man's dream. And then I would go upstairs and they had a whole room set aside where they had mounted the heads Of different animals. When my uncle went boar hunting or deer hunting or whatever it is. You can imagine me at Jack's age when there was rifles in there and shotguns, and that every single room was like a treasure that I had found I could have just spent all day in each of the rooms because I loved art and drawing and I enjoyed just having my hands in the dirt. There was something wonderful about being a part of a garden. And the same thought came through even when I was at seven years old. If I could have had a beard and had wood chips in it to because I was working on wood I would have. Or always smelled like sawdust. And then when I went upstairs and found the idea of hunting and living off of the land, it was another the riches of the glory of my great-grandmother's house my great grandmother Klein denst. And that's the picture that you need to have here of Jesus Christ as a as a house, as a palace, and in in And in each room that you go into in Christ, in the house of Christ, you would find another blessing and another and riches that have gone out to the Gentiles. The Gentiles never had it before But now they have. They can walk into Christ and they can know God. We talked about that last week. Where before you were alienated from God, and now through Jesus Christ alone, you may be friends again with the Father. He divorced you. He excommunicated you. He kicked you out of the garden. I know you feel the angst of life. It's not a philosophical problem, it's a theological problem. problem. God has a problem with you. And the only way for that to be resolved and to be reconciled is through is entering into the house of Jesus Christ. And seeing the riches of the glory, of the hope of the gospel, or your personal transformation that takes place only in Christ Christ. If you are not transformed by Christ, then you are just a moralist building your house on empty sand. There's no real transformation. You know that within your heart, if you are personally just trying to transform Transform yourself without the power of the Holy Spirit doing it, you are turning more and more into a hypocrite. You are just figuring out ways to look good on the inside while inside you are full of stinking Rotting flesh. You are a whitewashed tomb, a grave that looks great on the outside, but is full of dead man's bones on the inside. inside. That's the only thing that humanity is capable of. Dr. Hyde and or Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Or what about this one? I know this is too far beyond us. What about immortality? What about living forever? It is a rich. Jesus Christ. It is only by being in that house. It is only through Jesus Christ that you would see that you would have these blessings. And that's why it says here Which is Christ in you? To make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles. All that God had planned for his creation may be found. In knowing Jesus. Anything worth having joy about. Now it doesn't just say Jesus, it actually says Jesus Christ in you. The hope of glory. And there are two interpretations of that. You can, you know, it's a preposition, and if you're in the original language, you could say Jesus Christ among you. He could just be saying that before the promises of God, which Jesus is the embodiment of all the promises of God, was only among the Jews, but now it's being extended out and he's bringing in pagans like us. But I don't think that's what he's saying. I think it's the second one, and he's saying that Jesus is actually in you, which is the hope of glory. And let me explain that. In what way is Jesus does Jesus become a part of you? This is a basic teaching of Christianity that after Jesus ascends, the promised Spirit is sent to his people And Jesus indwells them through his spirit, renewing them into the image of God, recreating them, and that one day when he returns, he will fully recreate them to where to recreate us to where we are completely immortal and have been made into a new creation. Now relative to the truths of the world, that sounds absolutely crazy. But notice the parallels here that just as Christ incarnated the world now we're saying that he is in some sense incarnating us. Don't confuse the two. Don't confuse the incarnation and the indwelling. And this is the significance of that that you would have picked up on if you were walking around with Paul through the Roman roads. Remember what Peter said. Peter was very skeptical of allowing the Gentiles to be a part of the people of God. But then Peter one day went to Cornelius' house, and he saw the Holy Spirit descend upon the Gentiles, those who are non-Jews. And he realized just at that moment that God had chosen them. And so what Paul is saying here is he's saying that I have been among you, I have preached the gospel to you, I have brought to you the mystery of God And you have been reconciled to God through Jesus Christ. And I know that because the Holy Spirit has indwelt you in order for you to have faith That which was secret to you and would have been overlooked, just like the leaders have overlooked it, you have embraced because greet because Jesus Christ indwells you, and that is the mark or the badge or the sign of you being the people. of God, and the people of God exist in a continual and perpetual state of hope, of glory, because of what God is doing for them. Now that is the mystery of God, that is the messengers of God, and that is the man of the mystery. Jesus is the fulfillment of all things. The great secret that is to be revealed and was revealed is not a concept or an idea, but a person. And in him are all of the riches of the glory of the kingdom of God. And if you do not know him, then you are in poverty. But if you do, then you are the rich and rich richest person alive. That's basically what this could boil down to. Now last week we saw, particularly as if you're a confessing Christian, That since you don't delight in the Father, your friends and family aren't attracted to your Christianity because it looks like drudgery. And we had talked about that before. Want to go into it again. But this week it's on the Son. It's not on the Father. Remember, last week the Son was a part of it, but this time the Son is emphasized as opposed to the Father. And Paul is implicitly here and In chapter 2 will explicitly say that you are to be delighting in the riches of the glory of the sun. And that's the question for you. Everyone right now has a crisis. in front of them that I'm getting ready to make. Do you delight in the great secret of the universe? Jesus Christ. If you don't, then there means that there is no reconciliation with the Father in some sense. Or if you don't, there at least needs to be a renewal if you have already made yourself or profess yourself to be a confessing Christian. But there is to be delight in the riches of the glory of the Son. Now we have trouble doing that. And I want to speak to Christians for a minute here. This is another instance where if we're where the Uh for the sake of Christianity, or Christianity itself, is not seen as attractive because you do not delight in the Son. So you do not delight in the Father, and you do not delight in the Son Light in the sun, so why would anybody want to be a part of something that is not delightful? That's not what people are looking for. And so let me let me um give you one example. Of perhaps what you could begin working on and delighting in some of the riches of the sun. There is a little girl that I know, and I'll end on this. There's a little girl that I know And if you notice the title of the sermon, it's called the Martin Luther Phase. There's a little girl I know who's in her Martin Luther phase. This is what this means. Whenever she sins, she comes and she tells her parents about it. Whenever. I don't just mean externally, I mean in her head. Now, how many times a day do you think the girl goes and talks to her parents? I mean just within one hour, it's a lot, don't you wouldn't you think? Now what is the little girl eventually going to learn? The things that are going on inside of my head, we can just kind of overlook those things and I don't need to really worry about those sins. anymore. Well what's going to happen when she does that? What's what is she going to do when that happens? She has just figured out a way through the act of denial and deception to be to be better than she actually is. She is now living with a false view of a false sense of herself And she thinks that she is more righteous than she really is. And so now the message of the gospel will come to her. You can have righteousness through Jesus Christ. And you know what she's going to say to herself? Well, I just do that through denial and deception. Why would I need Jesus? And here's my question for you. Are you doing the exact same things? Now I don't care if you're a Christian or if you're not a Christian. Are you lying to yourself in order to not have to be confronted by the goodness of Jesus? Christ. Here's a tip. Here's a test for you. Last thing I'm going to say, here's the test. If Jesus Christ is not delightful to you, As a modern American, it is probably because you believe that he is irrelevant and you don't really need him. And one of the ways for you to do that is to lie to yourself about who you really are But if you were honest with yourself and you recognized, like if you stayed in your Martin Luther phase, and you saw all of the corruption that was a part of you, all of just how embarrassing of a human being you were, then the only solution, it's not just about your external behavior, but your motivations are Are so warped. You could think of yourself in so many different ways as a human being and how perverse you have become. And you can't change that. All you can do is put on A smiley face and hide what's really going on. It's lying and that's deception. But the Father is telling you here that He's presenting to you the riches of the glory of Jesus Christ and that if you go to him he will not put you away seek knock and he can be yours and you can begin to experience you can walk into the room you can walk into the room of the palace of Jesus Christ and you can see the first riches, which is that He will forgive you for everything that you have ever done and that you will do, and that He will begin to transform you by His Spirit into a totally new New creation and a new person, and you will find that instead of being an orphan and alone in the universe, you will have God as your father and Jesus Christ as your brother. Christian and non-Christian, I would ask that you would discover how glorious is the mystery revealed by appointed messengers. Concerning the riches of Jesus Christ. That's it in a nutshell. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your mystery. Lord, where would we be if you just Kept things to yourself. If you were just uh kept everything secret, but you haven't. You have allowed us to climb into the tunnels of your mind, and there we have discovered. Jesus the Messiah. And Lord, the discoveries keep coming. The tunnels seem endless, full of the riches of the glory, the hope of the gospel, Christ in us, even us. We thank you for this, and we ask that you receive as a living sacrifice this song that we are about to sing to you. In Christ's name, amen.