This is God's word. Now it came to pass, as Peter went through all parts of the country, that he also came down to the saints who dwelt in Lydda. There he found a certain man named Aeneas, who had been bedridden eight years and was paralyzed. And Peter said to him, Aeneas, Jesus the Christ heals you. Arise and make your bed. Then he arose immediately. So all who dwelt at Lida and Sharon saw him and turned to the Lord At Java there was a certain disciple named Tabitha, which is translated Dorcas. This woman was full of good works and charitable deeds which she did, but it happened in those days that she became sick and died When they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room, and since Lydda was near Japah, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent two men to him, imploring him not to delay in coming to them. Then Peter arose and went with them. When he had come, they brought him to the upper room, and all the widows stood by weeping, showing the tunics and garments which Dorcas had made while she was with them But Peter put them all out and knelt down and prayed, and turning to the body, he said, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter, she sat up Then he gave her his hand and lifted her up. And when he had called the saints and widows, he presented her alive. And it became known throughout all Japan, and many believed on the Lord. So it was that he stayed many days in Japha with Simon, a tanner. Let us pray. Lord, who would have guessed that you were this compassionate? And that you showed your compassion and power for such purposes. We pray, Lord, that our rebirth and resurrection Would be for the good of our neighbor. We ask these things in your name. Your name. Amen. You may be seated. Over the last few weeks, we have had the opportunity to acknowledge through acts That Christ not only calls his people into a general or effectual calling, but he calls them specifically to vocations. Last week, as we were working within that vocational structure, we further acknowledged that we cannot serve God without the help of each other. And so we not only have vocations, but our vocations are for the common good. And then within that structure, like nested Russian nesting dolls, We saw that we must pay attention to God's particular providence for our lives. He made us and placed us where we are. We are with this specific group of people for a reason And we need to take our place seriously. We secondly must not fall into the trap of pietism, but instead we must show true piety With our spiritual disciplines they too must be nested like Russian nesting dolls inside of the teaching on vocation In other words, we pray and we help each other read the scriptures not as ends in themselves, but as means to accomplish the good works that God has planned for us to do beforehand in Christ Jesus. Good works for our neighbors. This week we are continuing to build on that foundation. And this passage in particular, with Tabitha in particular, in the hands of her Lord Jesus Christ, has become very dear to me. I have people telling me all the time, my favorite Bible verse is such and such. And they always ask me, what's your favorite Bible verse? And I never have an answer. And I still don't today. But this is getting close, this passage. It's just so dear. There's so much there. There could be 20 sermons on this passage. It's so delightful to see what Jesus Christ is doing here. The main thing that we're to learn from this precious place is that Christ gives us our vocations in order to bring life to this world. We are life bringers. That is what we do. Now what I want to do first before we get into our lessons today, is I just want to show you why I'm thinking that Christ is teaching us this this morning. That Christ gives us our vocations in order to bring life to this world. How is it that we arrive at that conclusion here in these verses Well, in verses 32 through 43, you witness Jesus Christ healing Aeneas, and then you witness Jesus Christ raising Tabbit from the dead, and really what I'm going to do this morning is focus on Tabbit. Raising Tabitha from the dead really happened as a fact. And you are meant to stand in wonder before that fact. But it is more than a fact. It also has tremendous significance as a kind of symbol for what is going on within the kingdom of Jesus Christ. It is a picture of what happens with all of those whom Christ calls out from the dead. As Paul says in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1, and you he made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins. And then, of course, another excellent vision of this moment is from Ezekiel 37, where he prophesies to the valley of the dry bones. And they stand up and they live, and then they are enfleshed and given breath to breathe. That is at least part of what's going on here. It is a picture of what is happening as Christ and his ascension is taking those from darkness into light. But I want you to notice something else that allows us to be far more specific than that there is a rebirth or a resurrection here in one person symbolizing what happens to all of us when we become Christians. Tabitha was raised as an act of Christ's compassion on her community. Did you notice that in the passage? Verse 36 and verse 39 give us really important details, and you should know by now. That Luke is not going to waste one pen stroke on unnecessary details. And you should also know that he's not interested in just giving you chronological historical facts for the sake of a fact. Verse 36, he draws our attention. He says, She is a woman full of good works and charitable deeds. Now that charitable deeds is what you'll sometimes read as almsgiving. It's above and beyond the tithe, it is giving more to the community. And then in verse thirty-nine, notice the specific way in which you can see how she's acting out her charitable deeds All the widows stood by weeping. It's because she had a ministry to them. She had a ministry to the poor. Those who were on the margins, struggling financially perhaps. And her particular ministry was, as you can see with the widows in verse 39, as they showed their tunics and garments which Dorcas had made, you can see what she has made for them. And as a modern person, you may not see this, but Tabitha or Dorcas ran a business out of her home. She was a small business owner. And she was probably a seamstress. She would make clothes to be able to feed her family if she wasn't a widow herself. And she would make clothes to clothe the community. And that's why they're charitable deeds and not just obligatory deeds. She used her vocation to provide clothes to the surrounding poor as an act of charity or almsgiving. That's where the attention is going here with this woman, with Luke, in this passage. And it is meant to remind you, even the way in which this is pronounced, it says, Tabbitha arise Should remind you of Luke 7, where it's where Christ Himself, although Christ is here in this passage, of course, Christ walking amongst his people. Before the ascension, sees a little daughter, and he says, Talitha, kumah, or kume. It is meant to remind you of this play on the words And if you turn to Luke chapter 7, you'll see him raising this young daughter from the dead. But right after that you will see a further similarity to what is going on here in this particular passage. Let me Read it to you because it's through this framework of Luke chapter 7, verses 13 through 15 that we are to understand what's going on here as Christ, the ascended Christ, worked through Peter. When the Lord saw her, the widow, he had compassion on her, and said to her, Do not weep. Then he came and touched the open coffin, and those who carried him stood still And he said, Young man, I say to you, arise. So he who was dead sat up and began to speak, and he presented him to his mother What we often miss here is we think that Jesus is compassionate by just the mere fact of raising the dead in some sense. Because she's so sorrowful. She's so struck with grief at her loss of her son. And we never move beyond that in understanding where the Not just the temporary or the most inflamed part of the grief will be, but where will her grief be until she dies? The fact that she has lost her only son We make the mistake of thinking that Christ only had compassion for her in loss in the sense of the loss of death. But here is where the of course that's true, but here is where he goes to the real compassion. He was being compassionate to her because it was the practical loss of a widow of her only source of survival in her world. So that she would not be destitute. The real compassion is that Jesus raised the Son so that he could continue to bring life to his mother. You can see that this is a story told over and over and over again. You can think, for example, of Ruth and how she was able to bring life To the women in her story. And that was the compassion also of God on that community. And what I'm saying is that the same is true here. This is not just a resurrection for you to be amazed. Of course we should be. But it is a resurrection from the one in whom we should be amazed, not just at his power, but at his compassion and what he is doing for this world. What he's doing for this particular town. Jesus, through Peter, presents Tabbit to the widows. Notice that in the passage in verse 42. They show right back up. Jesus through Peter presents Tabbitha to the widows, risen from the dead, as an act of compassion And that's where we really get the specifics of our teaching this morning. Tabitha, like all disciples of Christ, are not only raised from the dead They are raised from the dead and given vocations in order in those vocations to bring life to their community Just as the son would bring life to his mother by being raised, so too is she raised that she would be able to continue bringing life to those widows. That was part of why they were weeping. What would they do without Tabbitha? Well, they didn't have to answer that anymore because Jesus Christ gave her back. And boy, does that have a lot to do with us today. Boy, does that put a fine point on it. That we too are raised from the dead and given our callings in order to bring life to the people who are around us. How glorious is that that you get to be a life bringer and giver? How creative we get to be And being a source of life by way of Jesus Christ to the people in our lives. Well, I believe there's a few lessons that we have to take from this as we start to work it out here. As we, in a sense, become like Tabitha in our vocations. And as the habit has become, I have two D's for us this morning. The first is a set of D's, and it's destruction versus demolition. And the second D is duplication. So we're going to take lessons about how we are given our calling in order to bring life to this world by looking at destruction versus demolition, and then our second main lesson will be duplication. Now I imagine you're already beginning to guess why we need to have a lesson on destruction versus demolition, and Brad did a great job of getting us to uh confess this before even the sermon began. Let me try to give you a picture between these two and a warning. The word destruction, I'm using this as that which just destroys. That's the end goal. And I want you to know that in my mind I have a picture that involves my apple tree that I planted in my front yard. Last summer, when the fruit trees went on sale, I bought a self-pollinating apple tree. It has five varieties fused into one stock so that it can pollinate I was quite impressed that even though I have a busy schedule and often forget about my plants, that it did in fact make it through last August dry heat. It made it through this winter's brittle ice that we just had. I was nervous about that. And yet, though it could make through the summer sun and wintry blasts, it is not making its way through the onset of the little children in my neighborhood. It seems to me, although I am not able to prove this, I'm working on it. I'm going to set up a deer camera. It seems to me that children in the neighborhood like to walk by and snap off the tips where the buds grow. It is a tragedy, you're right, and you should feel sorry for me. That's destruction. For what end are they snapping off the ends of my apple tree? But there's another D word, and it's demolition, and you could confuse the two, but I'm okay with demolition. And let me give you a picture here. My other experience is something like demolition. When Holly and I bought our rancher in Saverna Park, it had a main load bearing partition running through the center of it and it separated the kitchen and the dining room from the living room. What this practically meant is that when we had social gatherings, we would end up getting divided into two separate groups that never really talked. And the other thing that happened is that in the living room is a main six-foot-wide, maybe eight-foot-wide bay window. And what that meant is none of that light that comes up in the east makes it into my kitchen. And so we tore the wall down. And we put in a beam. We demolished it. You see the difference between destruction and demolition? Given our reality revealed through Tabbitha, that is the kind of calling that Christians have. Sometimes we are called to demolish, but we are never called to just destroy. Given our reality through Tabitha, we can realize this. Christians should not be little, nasty little children snapping off the ends of things. With a little snot nose. I know they have a little snot nose. We are not meant to be like that. We are instead to be like young couples buying old homes. In the end, we are upgrading not only the house, but we are elevating the whole neighborhood. That's the picture I have to say that because every church has its own personality And our church has the personality of the reformer. We don't put up with stuff. One of our sayings is: enough is enough. But there are dangers in being a reformer. Reformed churches like to reform. But I was reading G. K. Chesterton the other day, and I thought, man, is he right on this one? The reformer is always right about what is wrong, but generally he is wrong about what is right. And that's the easy thing. It's easy to see what's wrong. It is very difficult to know what is the right thing to do in place of it. It is easy to tear down, but it is so much harder to build up. And we have to work this truth down into the deep tissue of our lives as we stand here before what Christ has done through Peter in Tabitha, recognizing that we are meant to bring life. We do not destroy for destruction's sake. When you interact on Facebook, or you are with family, when you contribute to the church. In whatever you do, if you have to demolish, make sure that your main objective is to do what is right. And they should know, even if they don't want to admit it in the end, they should know that it was done out of a heart full of love. Now that is hard because you will have to be disciplined enough where you don't just act out of anger and impatience. Which means that you will need to delay your wrath just as your very God does. Which means that you will have to become like God Himself. You will have to grow in his image. Because, like Sabbatha, Christ has raised you in order not to bring destruction Though sometimes we do bring demolition, but no matter what we bring, it better be life. And it better be to the people that are around us. Now that's the first lesson with the demolition and the destruction. This is the first set of D's. And now we have a second one, which is duplicate. And what I mean in this lesson, bringing life through our vocations, what I mean is that as Christians, we must know who is worthy of duplicating. Who out there has God given to us for us to copy? Who are our examples? Who are our role models? Now, why do I bring that up in this particular passage? Well, it's due to a couple facts here. When I was doing research on Tabitha, I found the most interesting finds There are a significant number of old churches in Europe, you know, the kind that still have stained glass windows and awesome divine architecture. There are many churches in Europe that still have Tabbitha in their stained glass windows. And here is another fact that I found: the Eastern Orthodox Church has set an entire day aside to remember her. Now, I am not suggesting that we buy stained glass windows, and I am not suggesting that we have a Saints' Day for Tabitha. Though I was very excited about Saints' Days when I was younger and Roman Catholic because you got off school, I'm not excited about Saints' Days any longer I'm not suggesting either one of those. I am saying, however, that we have to make the observation about the basic human impulse that is behind the stained glass window and the saints day. The impulse underneath. Is that we need concrete examples for the church to duplicate? Who are we to look up to? That is a major problem within our society right now. Who do we look up to? If you were to look at who are the most famous, who are the most well known What name does everybody know? Are those the names that our children should know? Should they be infamous or should they be infamous among us? The church needs concrete examples to duplicate, like we see here with Tabbitha, which is why she is given in part. Now, do you know what keeps us from doing this kind of thing, from having the concrete in front of us I believe that it is as people we tend to prefer to think big and in general, which then keeps us from actually doing the work. So therefore we end up having very little, though very little amount of role models among us. We like to think about the entire system, but never put it on earth. We love to form committees We love to state policies. We love to make declarations. I just described General Assembly. The problem, as Chesterton pointed out here also, is that when you visit a city or a park You know one thing you never see in those parks? A monument to a committee. And the reason being is that whether it's committees or general thinking or thinking big, Those are not the way to actually get things done. At least not among us While the government, says Wendell Berry, is studying and funding and organizing its big thought, nothing is being done But the citizen who is willing to think little and accepting the discipline of that to go ahead on his own is already solving the problem. A couple who make a good marriage and raise healthy, morally competent children are serving the world's future more directly and surely than any political leader, though they never utter a public word. And I really believe that. And if you don't, then you contradict one of my favorite people in the imaginary world of Lord of the Rings, Gandalf. Gandalf says, Sorrowman believes it is only great power that can hold evil in check. But that is not what I have found. I found it is the small everyday deeds of ordinary folk that keep the darkness at bay. And that is what we need. What I'm saying to you in this second point, which is duplicate, is that all of your lives should be a stained glass window And that every day is Saints' Day. Here is the reality, brothers and sisters. Like Tabbitha, Christ has raised us from the dead to bring life to our community. It is why we are still here. We will need to demolish and not just destroy. In other words, if you tear down a wall, it better be to let the light in. We also need people to duplicate. You, everyone here that I'm talking to, you are in your own way meant to be a model. I think there is one thing that is holding us back, perhaps among many things now that I think of it We will always suffer until Christ returns. But I do want to end with this. I believe that you see what I'm saying is true. I think we have become so attuned at knowing what the disease is. But I have got to ask you, seriously, are you willing to pay the cost for what will actually bring the cure? The cure will be the devotion in your public and your private lives. It will be not to just be hearers of the word, but to be doers of the word to start in your little corner and nook as ordinary folk, ordering all things to the glory of Jesus Christ. And that will mean that you must bring life to those who are around you. May we be imitators of God as dear children. And may we walk in love, as Christ also loved us and has given himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling aroma. Amen. Let us pray