Uh sorry for being late today. I'm running a little behind. The um two quick announcements uh starting next week, is that right, Nick? Starting next week, we do have a new uh Sunday school um format starting for the total church and so there will be a high school class And if you have more questions about that and the kind of things that are going to be offered, then they can speak with Jeremiah Horner. Is that right for now? And then there are some I think there's others that you could talk to too, but we'll start there Okay, we're kind of redo there'll be a letter going out soon to the whole congregation where the whole Sunday school program is going to be redone and you'll be able to see what's going on for all of 2026. Okay, and then the second announcement was I know some of you ever since uh Tom Wanger Jr. 's uh death, he's now home with the Lord, you've been praying for Trinity uh Presbyterian church. They've been without a a they've had an interim pastor for some time. Well last night I had the privilege of of being at their installation and ordination service for their new pastor. So this morning, they are all worshiping together with their pastor who will also be able to administer the sacraments. So uh we we can give thanks to God for that. They were um thrilled last night. It's been a long process. And uh Tom Jr. 's dad was able to actually give the charges to the the new pastor, which was beautiful to see. So I thought you would want to hear that news. Okay, well let's go to our Heavenly Father in prayer. Heavenly Father, everywhere we turn, if we have eyes to see, we see more and more proof of what James tells us that every good and perfect gift comes from you. We thank you for your great work at in supplying the needs of Trinity Thank you for helping uh Chris and his wife Alyssa to find a call and to know where to exercise the gifts that you've given to him. I thank you for Doug and all the interim work that he had done with that congregation And Lord, we thank you that you've given us this day here as a congregation where we can encourage one another. and where we can give praise to your name. Please help us to grow more and more in love with you here in this class. In the name of Christ. Amen. Okay. So we are moving into the next chapter of our book here with uh Joseph Pipo's The Lord's Day. I hope that you're getting your reading done. I can't cover everything that he says. And so the reading is important. But I am going to take time to go over uh the same arguments that he has given in order to make sure that we're really uh understanding what we mean by the Lord's Day and how to practice it. So with this week We are going to move into chapter two, and I know that we're one week behind, but I, Lord willing, have endeavored to make that up at another time. So what I'd like to do is I want to start with a quick review of what we've covered so far. And then I want to go into the specific arguments that he's going to give so that you can see the um case that's being made from the Bible on what the Lord's day is and and how to how and how to practice it. You'll by the time you're done this chapter If you were to go to the shorter, the larger, or the Westminster Confession of Faith, you should be able to understand every sentence. on the issue of the Sabbath. You'll see why they say what they say. If you don't have the information of this chapter, whether from this chapter or elsewhere, you can't really understand what the issues are, uh what the terms mean, and so I'm hoping to to get to all that today, which he did in his chapter. So very quickly, just as a review I'm gonna back this up a little bit so I don't fall off the stage and give everyone a good laugh. Alright, so with the first chapter, there was a lot that we covered in there getting the vocabulary down. But the main thing that Dr. Pipo wants to accomplish and as well as others is um just trying to put together a positive vision For the Lord's day. The whole first chapter was captured under an analogy or an allegory An uh an allo uh an analogy with a garden and how the garden should be used. The analogy translates into the day and what are the purposes of the day, and he places these in a positive light. Number one, it is a day set aside for you to delight in God Number two of the positive vision is increasing victory over sin. And number three, we have categorized under a neighbor Linus. We have the opportunity, in other words, to offer mercy and to help people with necessities. That would be the positive vision. A lot of the time we only hear don't do this, don't do this, don't do this, and don't do this. But here he really is trying to make sure we have a positive vision for the purposes of God. This is really important. When we start to get into But not only is it important that you're able to see God's heart for the day, when you enter into the day and you have to make decisions As to how can we serve God this day, knowing the purposes that the lawmaker has for his law is of vital importance in being able to make ethical decisions. It really does boil down to that. You as you seek to be a person who is faithful to God by way of the fourth commandment There will be innumerable situations that you'll have to work through ethically to figure out how do I serve God in the midst of this. And knowing his purposes for the day are very important. I'll also say, though, this is a bit of an aside at this point, just ethically. Uh none of us fulfill any of the commands And we all, by way of the ministry of the Holy Spirit, are growing in in loving obedience to God as reflected in the law. And that'll be true for the fourth command, too. We'll really have to learn, number one, to even like any of this For example, quite honestly, we all have the experience that it is way more fun and enjoyable to be angry and hold a grudge with somebody. than it is to forgive them for the things that they have done to us. And that runs through all of the different commandments. We are creatures that do in fact need to learn to delight in God. After about ten minutes of delighting in God, we've had about enough of that. I would much rather do something else. And there is a growth there is a sanctification. We're we're being conformed by the Holy Spirit into his image where we really enjoy being with him and delighting in him. And then I won't keep going on with this, but just know that the fourth command is just like all the others, we really need to learn how to do this and actually to enjoy it Okay, so that's the main purpose of the first chapter. That's what I think Dr. Pipa is trying to do. I'm glad that he did it. Now, what you got from looking at Isaiah 58, which is where he developed the positive view, is you started to see what some of that is supposed to look like. And where in the Bible do we get the positive view? You can get the positive view from other places as well, but he used Isaiah 58 primarily for his argument, which you'll notice. that uh the church uses Isaiah 58 and has for a long time in understanding what the what the Sabbath is. Now let me go ahead as a by way of a transition into the next chapter here. I wonder if this would be helpful for you. Just imagine with me that we have read Isaiah 58, verses 13 and 14, especially. And imagine with me that you were reading that passage as a Jew. And as a Jew, let me just ask: would you have any question as to whether or not Isaiah 58 was relevant or applicable to you? Or would you see it as, oh This uh this has everything to do with me, and I am supposed to have a positive and careful observation of this specific day I think that's a helpful frame of mind to get into. I think that there is real no question that the Jew was meant to pay attention to Isaiah 58. The doubts that start to creep in is that you say, I'm not Jewish. I'm not so sure that these kinds of details have anything to do with me Now we've gone over a couple different arguments where I was trying to show the universality of it, but meaning that it is not just true for the Jew, but also for the Gentile. And really for all of humanity, Jew and Gentile covers every category. Chapter number two is now going to focus entirely on saying Isaiah 58 and the fourth command and the careful observation of the day is not just for Israelites. It's always been meant for all human beings. And the primary way that he's going to do that is he's going to take us back into the creation account to show you that it's been there from the beginning. Okay. So that's the main argument. So don't forget that. Really uh this is not just Dr. Pipa's argument. This is a this is the argument of Um I don't know, anyone who's sabotaging really. So for the longest time, they're always looking back into creation to see what were the laws that were given even before the fall. Okay? So that's what we're doing today is we're going to look at really the universality of the law, but we'll have to get a couple vocabulary words down. So let's just step through his argument now And understanding this. Okay, so we have the positive view of it, and now we're looking at God's intention Uh in the book he says, all concede that the fourth commandment requires a careful observance of the Sabbath. The question is whether this commandment was a temporary ceremonial law or a permanent moral law. In the Bible, there are temporary laws called positive laws and also permanent laws called moral laws. So as you're going into this argument, you can see the vocabulary that's emerging and the distinctions that are being made. So we want to put that up on the board. And immediately we're seeing terms like ceremonial law and moral And these two are connected with a particular aspect about themselves, and that the ceremonial is temporary. In a sense, and then the moral is permanent And then, furthermore, he attaches another set of words to this that are very old words for these kinds of things And we're going to have here positive law. Is that big enough? Can everybody see that still? Okay, so positive law. Now this word right here, positive law, if you were to ask a lawyer today, they're still dealing with positive law But I'm not so sure it's of the same definition that they're being that's being used here in a theological discussion. This is more for I'm not so sure, I'm not a lawyer. But the This is from the etymology of the idea of the word posit. And you can see right away just the way that's structured. That's from the Latin. And it has to do with Just a something that is declared or commanded or assumed or granted And the the whole idea is that it is not, for our purposes theologically, is that this is not going to be rooted within the eternal nature of God, but it is something that He declares. uh to be the case based upon his authority and sovereignty to do so, and he can remove it whenever he wants. So for example, can you think of a situation where people had to live under a particular law, and then just like that God said, no more? Can you think of any biblical examples of that? Yes. Okay, that's a possible which part of that? The sacrifice part. The sacrifice part. Okay. So the sacrifices that were to be offered uh the in that specific way, they're no longer they were temporary and were fulfilled in Jesus Christ. who is now a sacrifice once for all. So we no longer need to remain within that way of doing things. And in theology they call that an economy, an administration, or a dispensation. All they're just tr trying to say is that God governs the world in different ways and different times. When they say he governs, they mean he sets up a particular way of doing things. Some of it is temporary. Just like the sacrificial system, it was temporary in order to lead everyone to the sacrifice of his son. Is there another one? There's actually really like a uh less elaborate ones too, yes. When Peter gets his vision to eat the food, eat the meat that previously been considered unclean. Yeah, all of a sudden he's allowed to go to Aldi and get a pork loin. Like no problem. Right? Yeah, exactly. And that law was so entrenched within Peter that he had to have that heavenly vision It was such a change in the way that God had ordered his administration, economy, or dispensation of his people That there was there there was the grace that he gave Peter was a heavenly vision and he kept repeating himself. Right? So that Peter could get this. Take and that led him into the place where now other things were being changed in that Cornelius, who was also unclean, just like pork, is now being allowed into the Holy of Holies by way of Jesus Christ. There is a new administration that's going on relative to some things that were temporary, as Paul would say that these were kind of like tutors leading us up to a to the fullness of time. Does anybody have a last one that they want to give? There's definitely ones from the Old Testament too, yes. Our hearts are now circumcised. Your hearts are now circumcised? Yeah, you could make an argument that the physical circumcision is no longer necessary. Most people will still say that there's some kind of medical reason for that, but I I don't I don't know about it. I'm not a doctor. But it that would be way different than what the Bible's saying. Sorry. Yeah I wasn't looking at the medical reasons. I was looking at Yeah, i exactly. Very good. Do you remember the one that he brought up in the book that's another temporary law? Had to go with consanguinuity. Can somebody tell us what consanguinuity means? If you need to, you can break that down with uh with the Latin. Okay, it has to do with blood. Why do you say blood? Sanguine, yeah. Yes. Yeah. It has to do with marrying your relatives. Sister. Yeah. So early on that was permitted. And then later it wasn't. Okay Yeah, thank you, Carol. So early on we have a temporary law where that is permitted and later that's not. And now I think they're still enshrined with our own civil laws that you can only marry so close to a particular line of family. It needs to be your third cousin or something along those lines. And uh that's consanguinuity, the law of uh how close can I be to a relative. Alright, very good. Yeah. And we see that within the scriptures with some uh some temporary Then besides the ceremonial or the temporary or the positive, we have the moral which is permanent and this is really important. If you go to look at your confession, for example, and the way that the Bible is summarized for us to help us is that it's not only permanent, it's universal. And by universal, this is a terminology that's being pulled from the world of logic. And it just means all. So all human beings that ever were, all human beings that are, and all human beings that ever shall be are meant to have a due proportion of time set aside to worship God. You see that Now that that's important. That's already going to start rubbing up against some things that you perhaps have adopted, which is that the Lord's day is for Christians to obey. It's not a law directed to humanity in general. But here the art the traditional argument is no. Worshiping God is meant for all of humanity. All humans should be worshiping him and setting aside a period of time to do so. Got that? Okay, so moral, so you have ceremonial, temporary, positive, moral. Okay, so that's the those are some of the definitions that we needed to get down. And uh d do you have your books on you by chance? Could you turn to page twenty-seven? And you'll see there indented because it's a quote from the Westminster Confession of Faith. You'll see some that we're starting to already use the language that they wanted to use, which means we're we're tapping into their distinctions and viewing of these things. So as it is a law of nature that in general a due proportion of time be set apart for the worship of God, so in his word by a now notice the commas The it's a positive moral and perpetual commandment Binding all men in all ages. Do you see what we're doing there? See, we're starting to fill out what these words mean And let me just add one more thing at this point. Do you notice that in that list, it combines the two into a single sentence? It's not just that the fourth commandment is a moral commandment, but it is also positive. This is the observation that they're making. In other words, what they're trying to say is there are some things in the Bible about the fourth commandment that are temporary. There are other things that are tapping into the eternal nature of God and should continue perpetually. Now you've already read the book. What's the f one what's one of what's the main thing that they'll argue is temporary? Yes. Which day do you Which day in which you observe the Sabbath. That for a period of time it was designated as this day by a declaration and command, and then it is It changed and then the day changes. See that? So that's a temporary aspect. Okay. So there so uh here you have you're starting to see and be able to make sense of the of the summary. Let's continue then on page 27 and let me just show you uh uh uh uh what else we have here and then we'll start to work it out from the Bible. He hath particularly appointed one day in seven for a Sabbath. Now pay very close attention. Now that you know that there's temporary aspects, what What is significant about that formulation? One day in seven, what does it not say? It it doesn't say which one. It doesn't say Saturday. It doesn't say Sunday. It doesn't say Monday. It doesn't say Tuesday. It says one day in seven And that's going to be important. When they're looking at Genesis, they don't see, and then God made light, and it was Tuesday. They just see relative to six days of God working, there was one that was appointed and set aside as sanctified and holy for a different set of purposes besides labor. They haven't worked out, they haven't, Genesis, they will observe, Genesis hasn't told you any days of the week. There's just a principle that's being laid down for us that one of the seven days is a day of worship and then the other six are for labor. So it's uh it's a one-seventh print one-seventh principle. Did I get that right? I'm not a math person. That's right, right? Yeah. Yeah, okay, very good. Okay, so you can see that, and we'll start to go through the Bible in just a second. So keep going with me on this confessional portion to be kept holy on to him, which from the beginning of the world To the resurrection of Christ was the last day of the week, which in the Jewish calendar is a Saturday. And from the resurrection of Christ was changed into the first of the week, which is a Sunday, which We're still you I'm still using names from the Roman Empire and their gods when I do when I give you these days of weeks, but that's what we know But on that first day of the week, which in Scripture is called the Lord's Day and is to be continued to the end of the world as the Christian Sabbath. So now you can see why they're writing it the way that they're writing it, because they're working within all of these categories right here And they're just trying to do their best to describe, these are descriptive categories, they're trying to describe to the best of their ability the full counsel of God with regard to what is revealed in his word. And now they've summarized it for you here within the confession. Okay. So that gets some basic stuff down. And I'll put like a little, this is meant to be a chain. Okay? Like two links. And that just represents that these two things end up being linked within the fourth commandment. And what we mean by that is there are some things that are temporary. in the fourth commandment and the most important one for us in this class is that the day on which it observes is it observed it is observed is temporary. Okay. Now let's go ahead in to establishing that uh from the Bible that the fourth command And the the one day in seven is in fact a moral law and not a temporary ceremonial law. So what you want to do is you'll want to turn to Genesis chapter 2. And we can look at the institution of the Sabbath And before we get into the specific institution of the Sabbath, let's back out just a moment and ask a couple questions. I'll first put down here that let's make this the first point that we're making in our lecture today. And then the second point will be that there are laws Uh let's put it this way. I'm gonna give you a chance at a bonus point here. What is the name used in the book for creation laws? That's the most common name used within the literature also. Creation laws that are in the creation account. What's the name what is the name that that uh people that think about these kind of things gave it? Natural law? Uh natural law sorta. Yes, it is it would be the natural law revealed. So it's a little bit different. But uh there's a different different terminology that he uses in the book and that everybody else uses. Yes. Are you looking for creation ordinances? Yeah, creation ordinances So the word that they like to use is creation ordinance. Creation ordinances. So this you could think of this as like what are the what's the the order that God has given to human society? So you could think of that word dropping back into that. I just say creation laws. That kind of makes sense in my head. Oh, there's laws that he gave even at creation. Okay, now the difficulty that we'll find when we go into the scriptures is that you're not going to find the laws in the exact same form. that you would find them in Exodus 20 or in Deuteronomy 5 when they're given as a part of when Moses is able to hand those down from from God to the people. Are there any obvious observations that you could make nevertheless, or there any arguments where you could see that yeah there are actual laws within the creation account? Anybody here already have that conviction, this is going to be one of the first convictions you'll need to develop in order to to follow this argument. Pardon? Sabbath is one. Yeah, but we're gonna get to that one. Are there other laws that are present at creation showing uh uh what God intends for human society? Okay. Uh we got one. So marriage and then can you say a little bit more with your Bible open, even if you need to use your phone or if someone needs to hand you the Bible? Or just memorize it and say it out loud. I like that better. That's great Hey, you win today. Okay, so let's turn and we can find that in uh chapter two beginning in verse number twenty-four So let's just go through and put some creation ordinances here. Genesis 2, 24, and following. Uh Darren is saying that this is a law saying that humanity is meant to be married. I have a confession. Who? Python. I read that in the book. Oh yeah. I'm not saying anything original either. So that's great. And and the moment I do say something original in my in my role as pastor, I usually get removed from my position. Yeah, I'm the most unoriginal person there is, so you're good to go. I got no good ideas. I just try to tell everybody God's ideas Okay. So Genesis 2. 24, marriage. Is there anybody that could supply for us any particular evidence from the scriptures that this should be taken as a law? We got a Sunday school answer up here. Marilyn Dorfell has called out Jesus. I knew what she meant, but I was using this as an opportunity for levity. Uh Jesus says you have heard the fashion. Uh huh. You know, he's well none of the one he's talking about. God from the beginning made them, you know said in many post chances. And so proving that here isn't headed with a manager to be this with one man and one Okay. Yeah, and then anybody know where you can find that in your Bible where Jesus talks about this in the context of divorce law? Matthew nineteen, that's right. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, Matthew nineteen. So in Matthew nineteen it says, and Pharisees came up to him and tested him by asking, Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause? And he answers, and now Jesus is going to give you his doctrine of marriage, uh, divorce, and remarriage. And he says, Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female and said Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate And um then he continues and he says, uh I think I can stop there. Yeah. So then he's appealing to Genesis 2. 24 there and he's using it The very first verse in verse number three is, is it lawful to divorce? So we're in a discussion about law, and then Jesus turns to Genesis 2. 24 to show you what the law is. Okay, so that so that's very important for you to be able to make up your mind and to exercise a true faith is to realize that Genesis 2. 24 is being categorized here as law. And it is the main evidence given is Matthew 19. And the argument is is Jesus uses it as law, then it's law. That's the argument. Yes. Yes. I'm gonna trust Oh dear wrong watching. Is it also is it implied in the commandment that thou shalt not commit adultery? Is there a in the law, so to speak, is is it is there an implication with regards to marriage There is that we can okay, yeah. That's original for the MSP. I haven't read that anywhere. And what uh Is there an implication in you should not commit adultery that one sh that there is an ordinance of marriage? Yeah, that's not original at all. Oh, okay. Yeah, that's that's what so the way that the way that this runs is all of the Ten Commandments in seed form are given in creation. Okay Okay. And then they are republished at Mount Sinai. And then they are written on the heart in the next administrative. So yes. I mean, obviously since Jesus said it, yes. But it also the the language, uh I think I heard somebody say it back there, the word shot. Yeah. Oh okay is a command. Okay. That means it's Yeah, so we could we want to make sure we're not anachronistic, but we could at least say the um it's possible if language is still functioning then as it does now. then the word shall could be an indication and an arg and a another premise for our argument that this is a law. It would be as opposed to May. Yeah, as opposed to May. Yeah, that's good. I'll put shall up here as another possibility. Okay. Okay, is there another law present within the creation? Yes, Christina. How you doing today? Good. Um well I'm still thinking through how where this would fit in the Ten Commandments if they're all going back and forth, but it does say that God took man and put him in the garden to ten So we have multiple iterations of subduing the earth and filling it and the concept of dominion. So that's I know that we go back to that as a creation ordinance. I'm not sure how it fleshes out in some of the things that happen in in the in the Ten Commandments. Necessarily I mean I can start to think Yeah, very good. But you're already starting to point out that, hey, wait, we use this kind of language already, maybe we just didn't realize it. I I think most people here will recognize that there's something called a dominion. Uh or a creation. Um people don't like to use this word very much because it makes people angry. Uh but this the law they will say creation and then they say mandate. And and honestly that would be like saying that there's a law. Right. So the way that you could also put this is especially with regard uh since this is a uh class of the Sabbath is that there's a labor law. That we are to be workers. That's also in the fourth commandment. That's also in the fourth commandment. Six days you shall labor. And a lot of the times the as we're trying to understand these as seeds that will grow up and be um More specifically revealed within the Ten Commandments, this will be uh tied to uh that you ought not to steal. for example. And that has to do with a person who um is who has property, who's working to maintain it, who has worked to earn it. Those kinds of things. You'll notice that I think the same kind of thing is given with the you shall not murder. Instead, you're looking for the person to have life. even in their a in their a state that they have worked for. So things going along those lines. And I think those are the two connections that they make. Okay, can you think of any other laws besides marriage law and labor law? Uh uh I've been going a couple of times, so I'm gonna call on Cheryl Cher Cheryl. Hey Cheryl. Uh would be fruitful and multiply be one? Excuse me? Would be fruitful and multiply Multiply BS. Yeah, yeah, that's right. Be fruitful and multiply. I think that's going to be usually included within the marriage one. You could see um but sometimes you could break out a law of procreation. And um so you have law of procreation and What was the thing I was gonna say? I don't remember. Um The this is also connected in in those who think about this a lot, that under Jesus this is also happening by way of the preaching of the word. And actually, people like John Frame say that the Great Commission is a is a under Christ republication of the procreation mandate. And and uh Dominion Mandate. So that's pretty I'm just mentioning that as an i interesting. Rachel. I think I want to say that being fruitful is a command that applies to us in every arena of life. Yeah. Right? Yep. And even Christ talked about bearing fruit. Eating in the vine, bearing bearing its fruit. Um, not just the children, but You know, even going back to the Dominion mandate mandate, why are we working? We're working to make everything fruitful. Right. Yeah. Yeah, I would say there's It seems to me the more I study the law, whether it's here in creation or Ten Commandments or whatever, it seems like there's just endless ways and connections to make where All of the domains are fitting together in this multi-perspectival understanding of God's character. It's wild. Thank you for pull pulling out. We shouldn't be thinking about the laws in s in water pipe compartments. These are all rel these are all revelatory of w of One God and three persons. Dwayne, yes. Oh, yeah, right, right, right, yeah. you know, original sin and from that you're going to die. That's right. Um but it but it's interesting because I think about that and I thought, okay, well one of the commandments that comes from that is stealing. Because God said This is my garden, I'm giving you everything. Don't take that one. Yeah, right. And then also Satan points out later the tie-in to that you should have So it's that means it's sort of like two laws of a man that's king from God that because they desire to be a daughter to themselves and also were stealing his concept. Don't think that's the thing. Yeah. And that one obviously ties into the all of the first table of the law in terms of our relationship with God. This will also be pointed out that this was a very specific d the this the law is specific. It's not just general. It's do not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And that law they argue is was temporary and was probationary. That law doesn't continue. There is no laws telling you you shall not eat from the tree. All right, that was a one-time thing with the federal head for God's specific purposes there. Okay, and then we need to keep going. Obviously we're going to eventually arrive that the argument here this morning is that there is also a law called the Sabbath law And that this would be reflected in the Ten Commandments within the fourth command. All right now, why is it what the we gave some of the premises here? Some of these probably seem self-evident to you. This one we gave some evidence for. Here, what's the evidence that's given to us in the book? Well, the first bit of evidence is that there is an authoritative and example example Another way that you could you could put this is that this is a normative example is the argument. You are made in God's image. And one of the ways that you would image him is that you would follow, you would do what he does. In Ephesians chapter 5 it says, as children of God do such and such, like father, like son. So there's this relationship. And here the argument is that God has shown you how he wants the society of his creatures ordered by way of authoritative example. In the same way that you would follow your father in how he forgives, so too you would follow your father in the rest on the day of rest. The second argument that is given here, which we'll look at and we'll just look at this, is that he actually makes a declaration about one day in seven, and that is that It is holy and sanctified. Okay, so let's take a look at that now in the specifically within uh Genesis. Okay, so we have um let's see da da da da do It's not good that man should be alone. That's not it. Okay, and so I'm looking at two 1 and let's just start at chapter 2 together of Genesis. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done. And he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So that's the first part. That's the example part. Now, if you were to look at it being an authoritative an example, one of the main points of evidence given that we should categorize it this way, this is all about what belongs in what categories here, that's what arguments are. primarily. So we're saying that this example here that God is giving to us is uh showing us how we too are to structure our society And what they'll do is the evidence is you'll find it in the Ten Commandments, for example. So let's take a look at Exodus chapter 20. And when we look at the fourth command, which begins in verse number eight, it says this. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do your work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son, or your daughter, or your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gains And then here's an appeal back to the creation account in verse number 11. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea and all that is in them, and rested on the Sabbath day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy. Do you see he's giving here within the commandments that word for is saying upon here here is the basis for the law. The basis for the law is twofold. One, you have an authoritative example from God Himself And two, he has declared that it is holy and sanctified this day. Now we already know from our definitions within the first two classes that for something to be holy, it is set aside for specific purposes. It is no longer to be considered to be used in any fashion that you would like or according to your own pleasures, as Isaiah 58 says Instead, it's set aside for a specific set of purposes, and we see here that it is set aside for rest. Now when we got into the definitions before also, we saw that rest was not specifically napping all day long, though there is an element of that, that the labor should cease so that the delight Victory over sin and neighborliness can commence. That's the idea. That's how the whole thing will go together. So you can see the reason why they would say that this is a normative example because when we turn to the laws themselves which are the moral law we see that's the way that it's being used. It's his authoritative example as the basis for understanding the law. We then also have a holy and sanctified, and you see that is the basis within the law there also, but Dr. Pipa has a few more things to say about that. I'm not going to go into what it means for God to rest. And what it doesn't mean, that's in your book, uh in three main ways. Um but he goes on and he says this about blessed and sanctified. Having taught these things by his own rest, God formally consecrated the seventh day for man to do these things. In addition to giving us the example of his rest, he blessed the day and sanctified it. Then God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it, because in it he rested from all his work, which God had created and made In this dual action of blessing and sanctifying the day, God instituted the pattern of six days of work and a seventh day of rest. And then he goes on from there. The um important thing to recognize also with this is I'm losing my thought. That's it. Okay, that's good. So the you have the normative example, and it is holy and sanctified. And It is treated within the Ten Commandments as the basis for an understanding of that law. We saw the appeal in Exodus 20, specifically back to this verse that we're dealing with in Genesis. And so all of that is supposed to accumulate for you to be able to put it in the category law. So you have another creation ordinance Which that is that a due a proportion of time should be set apart to worship God. And The due proportion of time that is revealed to us is one day and seven. From the beginning of time to the resurrection of Jesus Christ. That is on the last day of the week. We haven't gotten into that argument yet, but I'm just going back to the confession now so that you can see what they're saying. And then from the resurrection of Christ to the end of the world, it is the first day of the week. That is what has been revealed. That's the day, and these are the purposes for the day, and it is a law that was given at creation and not just to the Israelites. This is a law to all of humanity Everybody should be worshiping God in the way that He has commanded. Okay, so I haven't given you anything new. That's what Pipa lays out. Uh let me just go now and consider a couple of objections. Let me just say, and this is uh for you too, Zach. There are unlimited objections. It seems to me that there could be a new objection every minute Uh people really wrestle with this, and it's worth wrestling with. Uh but I'll just share what Pipa's object the objections that he brings up And then maybe we could hear other objections at another time to start working through this. Um it it takes people some time to get their heads around this. Okay. So the first objection brought up is Genesis says this. Genesis 2, 2 through 3 is a perpetually binding creation ordinance. We actually understand that sentence at this point, which is kind of a miracle. Some maintain that we are therefore obligated to observe the seventh day. The problem arises from failing to observe that certain moral laws have positive or temporary elements attached to them that may be altered. You see how he's already working that out? And the reason why he's going to do that is because he's going to need to make sense of why is it that the day changes for the observance of the Lord's Day within the New Testament when you begin to see that happening. And we haven't gotten to that yet either. Okay, so you can you could um uh and uh let me just read a a Couple more things here under the first objection. With respect to the Sabbath, the moral requirement is for a regularly recurring amount of time to be allocated exclusively to God's worship. Specifying a day or a period of time is a moral positive law. The changing of the latter does not affect the character of the former. Therefore, God may and indeed has changed the day The Westminster Confession alludes to this when it refers to the Sabbath as a positive, moral, and perpetual commandment. So that they're looking at the scriptures, and that's That's uh the way that they make sense of the total counsel of God and I I'm in agreement with this. I take I subscribe to the all of those as you know. Okay, objection number two. Others object at this point saying that God did not command Adam and Eve to keep the Sabbath day. So what they're looking for here in the objection, this objection, is that there's no explicit command. And how would you answer that? Yes. Okay. Well I'm talking I'm saying The there's no explicit command for the the worship that for one day to be set aside from the other six for worship. No explicit command. That's the way you have to put it So already they're saying the only way in which this could be a law is if there's an explicit command. Yes, Christina. As we go through the history of Uh the people of Abraham, there are indications timeline wise that there is an expectation for them to observe So there seems to be an understanding between God and the people that because he expects it of them before they Right, and you're referring to Exodus chapter sixteen. Yeah. Okay. So that would be one argument is that, well we know it's a law because the people thought of it as a law even before they were given the law. So even if it's not explicitly commanded, we still know it's a law. That's not the only mark we need to see in order to determine if something's a law. True. Right? Okay, is there another way you could put that, Sarah? Well Tiger's main argument is that uh the other creation ordinances are regarded as laws even though neither of them have specific, explicit commanding language. And then that Yeah, exactly. Yeah. And then you can see uh elsewhere in scripture that laws are given to us by way of normative examples all over the place. That's especially true in the book of Judges By the way. Uh there'll be c uh commendations and and just the way the narrative is told. Okay, so very good. And then objection number three Um you already dealt with. It's um still others object that there's no record of weekly Sabbath observance before Moses, and you're saying that's not true. Right. Okay. Okay, very good. And that brings us right at to 1030. So thank you for your time this morning. In my mind, we've made it through chapter two. So we're still behind, but we're moving on to chapter 3. And we'll see if we can make up some time there. If you I did what I didn't do in this class was go over what does it mean that God rests You really want to look at that because that's going to start to unfold for you what your rest should look like also in terms of the day. Okay, and so that puts us, let me just, so next week, oh this is fun. Next week in chapter three, we're going to go over the Market Day of the Soul. Okay, I think you'll like that if you haven't read it already. So make sure you're reading uh your chapters. Try to stay with the syllabus also, because I will eventually catch back up. So don't get caught there. Alright, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the saints that have gone before you who were careful in their observations about the full counsel of your word. looking at the entire canon to understand your mind for human society. We thank you for their observations here that there are laws given in the creation, even before the fall. ways in which you intended for humanity to conduct itself in love to you and to each other. O Lord, we more desperately than ever it seems need to need time and a heart to delight in you. Time and a heart to love our neighbors. And Lord, we ask that you would help us to fulfill those purposes here today by the helper that you've given to us, who is your Holy Spirit. He has certainly written the fourth command on our heart also. So please, Lord, help us to live that out today with each other. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.