We should get started. You can turn it down just a little bit. Let's go ahead and start though with prayer, if you don't mind stopping for just one second, and then I'll get started on the lecture. Father, we thank you again for our fellowship this morning for this beautiful day that you've given to us. It reminds us of just how good you are and that you do good. Well, we thank you for your word and the word that you have given to us. over the past four sessions and now with the fifth continuing in your word. We pray that you would help us to not just be hearers of it, but doers to really think these things out. That our our lives and the lives of those under our care and the lives of those um that we fellowship with would be influenced by you. And we pray, of course, that you would be glorified. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Alrighty, so we have hit the fifth and final lecture of this particular series. And so uh next month you will be rid of me. For this one, our title is The Judgment of Christ and Public Life: Politics as Evangelism. We have taken quite the uh story arc in the series, going from angst All the way to this. And we'll cover, we'll review that in a minute. But let me just remind us as we head off into to this lecture of our main theological vision or main catechism of reality that we have received by way of Ephesians 5, which is also envisioned in Psalm 8. It ends up being the basis for all of our work as we construct a positive vision for Christian life in this world. All the lectures fall under a vision of Psalm 8 and Ephesians, which is why we worked out of Ephesians for almost every lecture. Psalm 8 is actually a vision of what Paul says in Ephesians. And in Ephesians 1. 10 is where we really found our loc our local point, that in the dispensation of the fullness of the times He might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth in him. Now when you look at something like that, it's easy to just kind of skim by it uh not realizing that it is the heart of the whole letter to Ephesians, which is a catechism for reality. To get at the heart, we turn to Calvin, Jean Calvin. In his commentary. And he says this about Ephesians 1:10. The meaning appears to be that out of Christ all things were disordered and that through him they have been restored to order. And truly out of Christ, what can we perceive in the world but mere ruins? Without Christ, the whole world is a shapeless chaos and frightful confusion. And of course Calvin is referring a bit there to our understanding of the Christ from other places such as Proverbs chapter 8 as the master craftsman. who formed and shaped all of the earth to be a habitable space. So we go from that vision there in Ephesians to An easy transition into Psalm chapter 8. It says this in the second part of the Psalm. You have made him to have dominion over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen. Even the beasts of the field, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea that pass through the paths of the sea. Morning. Christ as the second Adam is pictured here. And we know that not even you don't even have to do any kind of theological analogy. yourself, the author of Hebrews himself draws the line and connects the dots that this is Christ set over the creation. And that's the same thing that Paul was talking about in Ephesians chapter 110. It's what it means for all things to be united in Christ. All things one in Christ. You can picture a kind of pyramid with Christ at the top and then all of creation under him. And he's ordering all of the domains, if you will, heaven and earth, and all of the domains in each of those places. Christ as the second Adam orders all things under his rule. That's the catechism of reality. And really, Ephesians then As really the rest of the canon of the scriptures is working out, okay, well, if God the Father has authorized Jesus of Nazareth to be the Christ, who is the Son of God, what does it look like for him to order all things according to the counsel of his own will? And that is what we have been discovering. That's why it's a catechism. It's a catechism because it's showing you the basics and the fundamentals of how your very reality is structured under Christ. You know very well within our world that there are other folks who try to be at the top of the pyramid and they try to order things according to how they think it should be ordered. We've seen kingdoms come and go. who do that. Um but even them in their ordering, they are under Christ in his ordering. So, with that picture in mind and with that catechism of reality in mind, I want you to think of each of the lectures that we've gone through as different domains or spheres under the order of Christ. And we've just been seeking to understand what we are to believe about what he has done and who he is, as well as what he requires of us in each of those domains. In the very first lecture, it was really a repetition of this catechism of reality because we learned from the elders of Israel from Exodus. That um we learned a lot about what it means that they were groaning in prayer. Pharaoh held them captive in disorder, and they cried out for deliverance to the one who orders all things. In our second lecture, we saw that the deliverance that Christ will give Though the impotence of the prayer calling upon Christ for deliverance may have been anger mixed with angst and groaning. It does not stay there. When Christ delivers, he does so by way of his church And the church is not primarily a grumpy people, but primarily those who are set on a constructive, positive task of kingdom building. If Christ does in fact tear down, it is always for the sake of building up. That's just who he is. He is life himself, and he cannot act outside of that. Now in the third lecture, what we started to do there for, if you do you remember when I said, talk to you about the Saverna Park Parade? with all those folks going by. And then I showed you the picture of a reinterpretation according to the LGBTQ plus movement of the Garden of Eden. Remember that? How could you forget? Well what I did well what we what we did there is we said, imagine the painting comes to life. Imagine the parade stops and they say, Okay, you um you're criticizing us, Christian. What's your vision for life? How do you think this whole thing should unfold? Where are we headed as a as a as a race of beings? And we had to pose that question because there's not much positive contribution by Christians these days in answer to that. Okay, Christian, what is your view on sexuality? Okay, Christian, what is your view on X? Name it. And so what we did after the second lecture is we began to start answering the question. Okay, well this is what it would look like for us to positively construct something. And so the third lecture, we began constructing a theological view of the family. And that theological view of the family was just a tip of the iceberg, but we saw it in Ephesians, where Paul legitimizes the authority structure. That the family runs in, and how that's supposed to work. In the fourth lecture, we constructed a theological view of the church. That was last month. And the church is a political body. A formed and placed on a path by Christ, inclined toward a common conscience and a common good And we summarize the church as a political body in those terms by calling it a commonwealth, which is what we saw there in Ephesians, that is a commonwealth. And we we try to just understand what commonwealth meant, commonweal and having a common well-being, common formation by one spirit, common conscience by one spirit, since we all have the same faith. And now, this morning, we're doing the same thing in each iteration of a positive construction of reality according to Christianity. We've looked at different domains. First the family, then the church. And now we're looking, keeping Ephesians 1:10 and Psalm 8 in mind, we're developing a theological vision for the commonwealth of the church in civil society. In civil society. So you can see the nice neat domains. This is has a long history within reform thought. Goes back much further than Abraham Kuiper, for example. although he espoused the same thing. You can think of the basic spheres of life as self-government, government of the family. government of the church, and then civil government. Those would be the main spheres and callings to which people are called. So then we're asking this morning then, and I'll ask you to be patient with me, because this is again a kind of theoretical structure that I'm laying out for you. And then I'll try to make it a bit more concrete at the end. The question we're asking this morning is, what is the ordered relation between the church and civil society? And I should say what is a what is an ordered relation between the church and civil society? Because this is a huge topic. But I just want to focus on one. The scriptures have a ton to say about this and uh I'll just focus on one. And to do so, what I would what we'll do is I'm going to do an exposition, a very quick exposition of 1 Corinthians chapter 14. Verses twenty-four through twenty-five. And I'm really just going to be focused on one line in that. So um Let me go ahead and read that to you. You're welcome to turn in your own scriptures in 1 Corinthians 14, 24 through 25, and we'll unpack this a bit. So it says this. But if all prophecy and an unbeliever or an uninformed person comes in, he is convinced by all, he is convicted by all. And thus the secrets of his heart are revealed. And so, falling down on his face, he will worship God and report that God is truly among you. What I'd like to focus on is the phrase, he is convinced by all. He is convicted by all. It's an important enough phrase that we need to exegete it a bit. The you can tell that there's a bit of a play on words here with the convinced and the convicted The first word he is convinced by all is the Greek elenko, and it means to bring to light, to expose. It denotes both conviction of sin and conviction of truth. The situation that you have here overall in 1 Corinthians 14 is a discussion on the gifts within the commonwealth of the body. Paul's main argument is that these gifts are meant for the edification or the building up of the body. And if you get these things out of order, what you're actually doing is degrading. uh what God intends. And that can even happen with those who are outside of the body who visit. And so he gives you a picture here of someone visiting a church, and if they're if if things are set in decency and in order, and they're prophesying, which a person can understand, prophesying in the sense not of foretelling, but of forth telling, if they're prophesying then the unbeliever can be convinced by all and convicted by all that spoken all of those truths and the secrets of his heart are revealed He falls down on his face, and he will worship God and report that God is truly among you. You really should be thinking of Cornelius. You remember the if you remember the sermon where I talked about uh pulling on the sleeve, sleeve tugs This is a reference to that same verse in the minor prophets, knowing that God is truly among you. They will grab the sleeve of a Jewish man, knowing that God is truly among you. So it's the same thing here. It's outsiders coming in and being convict convinced and convicted, ha uh having their hearts revealed, falling down on their face in worship, and joining the Commonwealth. That's the picture that you have here. And so when we look at these two terms, think about the process that Paul is telling us that a person goes through when they come in contact with the prophetic word. Which is always given by the prophetic community, which is the church. It says first that he is convinced by all, and then he is convicted by all. Like I mentioned, the Greek word alenko is the word here for convinced, and it means to bring to light, to expose, and it denotes both conviction of sin and conviction of truth. But it doesn't stop there. Well, actually, hold on. We see the same use of this word in John chapter 8, verse 9. This is a really great example of the word. This is the moment when they were getting ready to stone the woman, the adulterous woman, and then Jesus stops them, draws the line in the sand. Do you remember this story? Listen to what Jesus says using the same word, elenko. Then those who heard it, being convicted by their conscience, went out one by one, beginning with the oldest even to the last. And Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. So they became convicted by what he said, even in their conscience, and they left the scene, dropped all their stones. That's the first word. So you get a picture of what's happening in a person who is interacting with the prophetic commonwealth. The first thing that happens is they begin to recognize, even in their own conscience, that this is true. Now, because it involves the conscience, that's why we have that second word in the sentence there in 1 Corinthians 14, convicted. Convicted. That's the way the NKGV translates it. Convicted by all. This is the word Anacrino. I don't know if any of you have taken Greek, you should recognize that you have a prefix and then the main word, ana, and then krino. Krino is the word for judgment. Alright? And here it has different, it can have different meanings. It can mean to question and to examine someone. It also can mean to judge, to discern, or to call to account. Even where it means to question and to examine, it is often almost entirely set in judicial hearings. So it's still a matter of being judged. And you can see what is taking place if you look at verse 25 of 1 Corinthians chapter 14. Look at 25 of the he's convinced that something is the truth. He is convicted By way of a kind of judgment that happens on him personally, he's not detached as if it were just a theoretical point that he acknowledges. He becomes personally convicted or judged by it. And then look at verse 25 with the reaction. It makes it plain that the hearers perceive themselves as falling under judgment. Whether for their unbelief or for their conduct or for both, because they fall on their face, presumably in repentance, and now seeking in faith to worship the only true God. Those are what those two words are getting at. This reality that we're seeing here is very important for us to understand. um our role within sus within civil society as a commonwealth. And so I want to take one more step with you just to try to understand this scene in 1 Corinthians 14, because I think it's a paradigm for how the church operates in the world. And so I want to do so by way of revisiting our conversation last month on the conscience. Do you remember that the conscience works in three parts? The conscience first and foremost acknowledges something as true. You have to have a standard or a rule by which the conscience operates. That rule can be the word of God, or that rule can be something else. It could be something your mother told you when you were little. Um whatever. It acknowledges first and foremost that something is true. Then, using your memory, it evaluates yourself by that truth. And then it renders judgment on you. And that's where you would either feel accused or excused by your conscience. So let me give you an example. Here's a phrase that is true from the scriptures. All those who sin deserve death. Do you agree? Okay. So now moving away from a theoretical discussion, the conscience takes your memory, examines your all of your actions, all of your life, all of your thoughts, all of your words. And then you s and the conscience by way of your memory says, You have sinned. All those who sin deserve death. I have sinned It just came up in my conscience, by way of my memory, I have sinned, and therefore I am condemned or deserve death. And now that becomes very personal, where you can see where if you really believe that. You would fall on your face seeking mercy. If you understood Christ as he is offered in the gospel, otherwise you would wring your hands in agony, not knowing how to escape his wrath. Or you would try to distract yourself, perhaps, with drugs or something. Trying to escape it. But that's how the conscience works it works. It's not just a theoretical question for the conscience. Conscience. The conscience always makes it personal. Here's an example, another example for you. Again, I'm just trying to give you examples of what's happening in 1 Corinthians 14 so that you can have a paradigm and model for how the church interacts with the world and everything. Here's another example from the scriptures, which I think is a great picture of what's happening in 1 Corinthians 14, actually. This is from Acts chapter 2, verse 36. And here's the this is the the end of Peter's sermon, and he then calls out uh on the conscience. He says, therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. So they are convinced that Jesus is Lord and Christ. If you go back on that sermon, they become convinced of the truth that Jesus is Lord and Christ. Those are really like the same thing there. There's Messiah and Curios, right? The Lord Lord and Christ. They're convinced of that by way of the Spirit through Peter's reasoning with them through the scriptures. He quotes various psalms showing that Jesus is the Messiah. So they remember the scriptures. They see that Peter is exeguting it correctly. And then Peter also says to them, Whom you crucified. So the conscience uses the memory. They go back to that day when they were yelling, Crucify Him, crucify him, and the Conscience says, You did crucify him. And now they're held guilty. They're held guilty for the action that they have done, and they are held accountable for the truth that is now present right before their face that Peter has established. And so then you can see the how the tr the conscience sees the truth, uses the memory to establish it personally. and then there is rendered a judgment and you'd have to tease out what the judgment would be upon them. But based upon their reaction, um you can tell that they got the point, even if it was implied. They said this Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart. You could even think of that as burdened in their conscience, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? What shall we do? You can see that they got the point. They knew what was in store for them and their conscience had done its full work. in relationship to the message of Christ or the gospel. They believed the truth, they evaluated themselves by it and believed that too, and they realized the judgment that was made upon them, and now they were seeking for something to do. The same kind of thing is pulled the the this uh more abstractly, Paul pulls out more abstractly the inner dynamics and logic of what is happening with those in the world from the prophetic witness and preaching of the Commonwealth. And he says this. And thus the secrets of his heart are revealed, and so, falling down on his face, he will worship God and report that God is truly among you. It's the same kind of thing. He is convinced, and then he is convicted. That's the work of the conscience. And then you can see the response. because of the judgment that has been rendered. Whatever truth convicted that person visiting that church that day in 1 Corinthians 14 Whatever truth convicted him, he accepted it. He became persuaded. The conscience therefore evaluated his life and found it true of himself, whatever he became persuaded of. And he realized the judgment and fell on his face worshiping God. And now that gives us a better sense of what's going on there within that passage and what Paul's expectations are for how the Commonwealth is to interact with those who are from the outside, it says. Let's tie it back to understanding the ordered relationship between the church and civil society. I think um And I don't say that with hesitation. I think, I really do think, that 1 Corinthians 14, 22 and following is a paradigm for one role of the church in civil society. And it's this in a sentence. We are to be a prophetic witness to the truth of God. It is a primary role of the church that we are a prophetic witness. This witness is present as we embody the kingdom of God and speak the words of the king. You have no authority, as a Commonwealth, to do anything else. You have no authority to pick up arms, for example, except in lawful defense. This witness is present as we embody and speak this truth. And if we wanted to elongate that out into a fuller explanation, it would be something like this. The Spirit takes our witness, both our embodied witness, as people can then see the kingdom of God manifest in family, etc. The Spirit takes our witness to their conscience for personal evaluation. Insofar as civil society accepts the truth of the gospel, insofar as they are convinced and convicted, Then they will fall on their face, seeking their proper and ordered relationship to his ascended reign. And I mean this almost especially for the rulers of our age. So you can think of presidents for us in Republic, Senators. This is what's supposed to happen among them. It has happened before, brothers. We have seen kings fall to the name of Christ. And the same thing is to be continued today in the prophetic witness of the church. Insofar as civil society accepts the truth of the gospel, then they will fall on their face seeking their proper and ordered relationship to his ascended reign. In other words, in the words of Psalm 2, which is about Christ, they will kiss the Son before he becomes angry. But that doesn't always happen. And so, insofar as they do not accept the truth of this gospel, which includes that Jesus is Lord and Christ, they will conspire against the Lord and against his anointed. So let me um try to explain what I just said there. by way of the artwork that uh was publicized with this event. Did everybody see that artwork? It was pretty catchy. Anybody seen that painting before? I o I only gave you half of it to avoid a second commandment violation for some of you. Um But I what I what uh the reason why that is a good painting for this talk is because it summarizes everything that has been said. It is a painting of Michael the Archangel. You cannot see it, but he is situated below the ascended Christ. who is reigning and ordering all things. That's what the picture is. He stands above, like this, ordering all things below. And Michael the Archangel is that one minister ordained to accomplish that ordering. And if you'll remember in the picture, Michael holds scales in his hands. Did you see that? The scales hold human beings. Did you see that? He holds human beings in who they are. He holds human beings in all of their actions that proceed from them. The relationship between Michael and the scales and Christ are seen in that as the angel holds the scales, and they're like this. You recognize them as the scales of justice. And justice and judgment are pretty much the same thing in the scriptures. Christ sits, therefore, on his throne with all authority in heaven, judging. What is pronounced in heaven is enacted on earth By way of Michael. That's what the painting is doing. Christ and his the counsel of his own will declares And whatever he declares is done on earth as it is in heaven, with his various ministers enacting it. Everyone comes before the judgment of Christ, and therefore everyone ends up on the scales. There is no escape. His judgment is always true and right and completely enforceable by his power So I want you to think about that picture and what we have been saying because I really am just repeating from our earthly perspective what is happening in heaven. And then enact it, we as a prophetic community are enacting on earth by his power. Because Christ has authorized us to do this. Otherwise, we would be illegitimate in the technical sense of that word. Think of the relation between ourselves as the church. Think of that in relation to ourselves as the church with the prophetic witness. By the Spirit and the Word, Christ teaches us the judgments which He has rendered. Now that is not only true for things that have happened in the past. He will also teach his church through experience and the Spirit and the Word how we are to judge things of today. We will judge things today, determining whether they are good or evil. And Christ will have guided his church into that. I believe that's happening right now, by the way. It happened, you know, a great example of seeing that kind of work is in the Council of Jerusalem. It took about ten years for Christ to work with his church and his providence and word for them to understand Christ's judgment on including the Gentiles. It took them a while to get that. And Christ is teaching us things now, and we will eventually be crystal clear and all have the same conscience on how where we stand on certain issues that are happening today. We're just in the early stages, so we're at odds with each other uh quite a bit. But that w that won't last. Christ won't let it last because he keeps his church unified. So by the Spirit and the Word, Christ teaches us his judgments, even about judgments on good and evil today, because he has pronounced By the counsel of his own will, judgments on those things. We have the responsibility as the prophetic witness and are authorized by Christ to pronounce those truths to this world. We are Yeah, because we have the mind of Christ. That's why. Yeah. The Spirit then works on the conscience of the world, and now I'm starting to quote the high priestly section of Jesus from John chapter 17. Go back and check the work with the that the Spirit does with the community on the world, convicting them of sin and of judgment and of righteousness. You remember that section? Right? So we're pulling all of that together here. And we therefore, as the flyer said, act as a political commonwealth. As a political commonwealth, the church communicates the judgment of Christ in our civil public life as an act of evangelism. And you can go back to the 1 Corinthians 14 to see what would happen if a person if the Spirit permitted a person to see that this is true, to evaluate themselves by the truth and the judgment that would be rendered, the whole world would say What should we do? And we would say to them, repent and be baptized. Right? And and and um that's the prophetic witness. Okay, so I've given you the uh a review of what we have done, that we are just seeking a positive construction of the different domains of life. The domain of life that we're on right now is the church in relationship to civil society. And by way of 1 Corinthians chapter 14, which is a paradigm case, I'm seeking to show you that the church has a prophetic witness to civil society. and the spirit working on their conscience is to gain certain results. And I'll I'll just restate it in terms of all the words that are on the flyer. As a political commonwealth, the church communicates the judgment of Christ in our civil public life as an act of evangelism. You could see the great tragedy that would happen if the church lost its voice. and lost the judgment of Christ and instead adopted the judgment of an Antichrist. That would mean that truth has been taken from the world. It would mean there is no need for repentance. There would be no conflict any longer. What's that? Yeah. Yeah. And his hand is on us in the words of judgment. And by judgment I don't just mean the bad things. I mean anything that Christ we want to think God's thoughts after him. And the church only has authorization to basically repeat the words and to draw out good and necessary consequences from those words. for today, and as people fall under those words, they are to repent and to believe. Or they can again conspire against the Lord and His anointed. They can do that also. But you can see our role there within civil society, and that is supposed to happen across uh all areas of life. So let me go ahead and now I I I that's a bit abstract. It is a theological construct, but once you get that model down, if you were to take the time to start thinking through it, it's there that The tree is built for all the fruit to go forth. So let me start to draw some conclusions for you based on everything that has been said, and then I want to give you one example of the church in the world that may surprise you. Here are some conclusions. Sometimes we picture the church as one department on a large ship. My family and I have been on several cruises, not sure that'll ever happen again because of COVID. But one of the things they do on the cruise ship, since a lot of the times it goes through a Sunday, is they offer a chapel. And they offer a chapel for all religions. It is in fact one of the services which Royal Caribbean offers among all the other services on the ship. You could go to chapel or you could go to the gym or you could learn how to cook a steak with a chef. or do the climbing wall. It's just one service among many on the ship. Okay? That's how they view it. And sometimes we picture ourselves like that as a church. that there's this giant ship called the state, for example, and we're one of the services that the state offers to its people. You hear this kind of conversation happening in the news when they referred to the church as a kind of therapeutic organization to keep us all from suicide during COVID. uh or or whatever. And the church does have utility there, but the picture is wrong because the picture is as if we are one of the services on the ship of the state. And that's not true. One of the implications of what I'm saying to you is that the church is is uh not even on that ship. It is another ship. We are our own ship cruising alongside and actually out in front with the state ship in our wake For example, our role as another ship is to witness to the state by framing the whole situation for them. They don't realize it within our culture. Well, I should say some don't realize it in our culture. I can't speak for everybody. That's ridiculous. They don't some don't realize it, but they are a temporary institution in service to Christ until he returns. At his return, Christ will dissolve all temporary institutions. There shall be no more marriage and giving in marriage, for example. By the way, the word temporary is also an archaic definition of the word secular. When you hear reformers talking about secular institutions, all they mean by that is temporary, which is of course derived from the idea of temporal. During this time, Christ has them in place as ordained ministers in order to enforce the good and to punish the bad. That's their job. He keeps a calf on sin till he returns. You could put it that way. But we are another ship from them, and we are to continually orient them by way of the prophetic word that they might know what is good and what is evil. For how else would a person know if they don't have the moral law of God? That's was supposed to that's the the way the supposed the relationship is supposed to be. We are not a service on their ship. I had someone tell me that this used to be standard teaching within the public school. I'm thinking of like my mom's age. She's I'm not gonna tell you my mom's age. Oh th my dad's age. He's in his seventies And apparently when they were learning the relationship between all of the areas of knowledge, at the top of the list was theology. and it oriented all of the others. And that's a pretty old diagram of the the what did they use the call? The queen of all the sciences. Yeah, the queen of all the sciences. And you the same thing is supposed to be present within us as a church. That's just another example of how we relate. We're not on the same ship, we're a separate ship, and they're in our wake because we are giving them the judgments of Christ that they might know how to enact good and evil. Throughout, here's a that's the first conclusion that we have to start to picture ourselves correctly as a in relationship to the state. And by the way, the church is not a temporal institution. If you look at Revelation chapter 21, the church enters into the new age. The relationship that I have to you now will continue as my brothers in Christ. Right? There's a question about the familial relationships. Will there be mothers and fathers in a biological sense? That seems to be the answer, no. There's a whole new set of relationships that are present now in the world, and this is a great sign, an eschatological, prophetic witness as to what is coming. Do you see what I'm saying? The church, therefore, is also a picture of what is coming. It's not a temporary institution. Anyway, throughout hist here's a second uh another conclusion. Throughout history, the prophetic witness of the church You should do a little bit of historical work. I know that these kinds of things are debated. Um, so let me know what you find out. But I I think what can be devaded let me just make this statement. Constantine converted after the conversion of society. That's my point. Now I understand that you could go ahead and debate with me on whether or not Constantine had a legitimate conversion or not. For the sake of our discussion, just grant that to me and realize that he did not convert before society did. society had become largely Christian and then it was of his conversion. And the same kind of relationship seemed to happen in the civil rights movement. The rulers of our nation submitted to Christ's judgment on race. Remember, that civil rights arguments were primarily theological, coming from Martin Luther King. The rulers of our nation submitted to Christ's judgment on race after many of the populace were convicted by a theological understanding of civil rights. I think primarily his arguments were theological, actually. And so there we have we see an example of rulers coming under the dominion of Christ and his judgment on race You see that? Isn't that great? And so now you can begin to picture how we might want to become activists again, what it would mean for us to do so. Martin Luther King is a great example of that because he did so peacefully also, didn't use coercion. or anything like that. He's a good example for us, that civil rights movement. But he was also killed, so be prepared. Third conclusion. Our country is like the moon. Just as the cratered face of the moon bears witness to asteroid activity, so too the laws and practices of our nation bear witness to the earlier adoption of Christ's judgment on what is good and true It's still very much a part of our society, uh Christian judgment on things. And it would be in our best interest where people find those things to be helpful and useful and good to point out that they are in fact from Christ. Number four. We should define our activism, and the church should and be involved in a kind of Christian activism. We should define our activism by way of our model. And that means that we are a prophetic witness. We cannot be activists like other activists. We are a prophetic witness. And then conclusion number five. And this is a pretty big one, but I I think that we've been prepared to receive this truth. You cannot, according to the model that I just gave to you, reduce evangelism to Christ's priestly role. You can't just talk about saving somebody's soul. You have to recognize the entire authority of Christ in the gospel message, not just his authority to forgive sins, but his authority to determine what is good and what is evil. And his authority to determine who will do what in society. He has decided that the state has a certain job and the family has a certain job and the church has a certain job and you were only legitimated. if you stay in line with, or you only have authority in those realms if you stay in line with the authority that Christ Himself has given to you. So those are some conclusions that we can start to draw from the model. Let me give you an example. If you start to work out this model from 1 Corinthians 14. then um and you want to start putting uh putting it out into the world the here is um here's an example from visiting a person at prison Uh just imagine with me that the person who committed the gazette shooting, um you don't have to imagine because it's actually on the front page of your papers. The person who committed the gazette shooting was sentenced to multiple life terms. Am I correct in that? Was it four life terms, Doug? Something like that? Yeah, I think it was four life terms. Okay. So go ahead and look at what several hundred years. So and you know what? That's the role of the state. Do you agree? Well what if you're going to be able to do that? Okay, so you would you would disagree on the the way in which the state the way in which the state wields the sword. But you would agree on the judgment of the st that the tr that the state has the right to judge good and evil in matters like this. Yeah, yeah, right, exactly. They have a biblical responsibility. That is in fact the role of the state. They judge by way of the judgment of Christ and what is good and what is evil. And they have done so, to the best of my knowledge. And based on that judgment, they then punish or they praise. And now there's a debate on what the punishment should look like, but they do punish and they do praise. Now this is just from Romans chapter 13. That's just what Romans chapter 13 says, okay? Now that's the role of the state. That's one ship. Now let's bring our ship in. If the ver church visits The gazette shooter. And Christ decides in that moment, by way of the Spirit and the prophetic word, to grant them repentance onto life. then something else has happened in the world. Then the whole church will put the whole situation in perspective because the state, even her prison system, rides in the wake of You would say something like this if you were using the model that I gave you this morning. You will not be imprisoned forever, brother. Christ has chosen the state and its punishments as a temporary institution until he returns. And you will stay in this institution by Christ's ordination, because the state is doing its job But when you die or when Christ returns, whichever happens first, you will be set free and at complete liberty and forgiven. In the meantime, live for Christ in your situation in prison And what this does, therefore, is it puts the whole thing into perspective and it actually has a great profound meaning that there's a whole other order that will be taking over things. And it puts everything in its proper place before Christ. And what it means also is that the church is not a therapeutic service to prisoners, which the state offers. We are a prophetic witness of the coming kingdom of Christ and what that means for all temporal institutions. And so that's one example. And at this point, let me go ahead and pray and then see if you have any questions. Even if they're questions of clarification, because I know that the model, especially when you don't have the written words in front of you, can be difficult to catch. So let's pray. Father, we thank you for this paradigm that you've given us in 1 Corinthians 14 that we might better understand ourselves as a commonwealth in relationship to civil society. And we do pray that you would make us a prophetic witness of your kingdom and that we would not step out of our bounds in what you have authorized us to do. We, for example, do not have a sword in our hand I pray, Lord, that you would give us wisdom in all of the domains in which you have uh taught us through this series. And I pray that you would give us the right questions even now as we seek a way. forward of being in the world, but not of it. In the name of Christ. Amen. Alright, that was pretty abstract. I tried to bring it down a little bit with some examples and conclusions, but that's just where you got to start. And then uh you'll get more and more fruit the more you think about it. I'm really just trying to pull out what's underneath of Paul's statement in 1 Corinthians 14, so you know, blame him. Do you have any questions? Uh even if they're just you're trying to get your head around what I'm saying here? Clarifications. Yes, sir. Do you see in terms of revelation the Holy Spirit is a restrainer or is the Holy Spirit acting in all of us as a civil society as a common wheel? being the restraint on evil in society. Okay, can you say that one more time? I'm trying to catch all those connections you're making. Is just the Holy Spirit the restraint in Revelation, or is it the Holy Spirit acting through us as a church as he embodies us and dwells us, we are temples of the Holy Spirit, acting in the person behalf as we become through our sanctification more and more like Christ, are we then functionally a restrainer of evil I think it's both. It's our duty, right? Yeah, I think it's both because it seems like Christ um the Spirit has operations that are hidden from us and how he's influencing society, but that he definitely works through secondary means such as his church. He will even work through secondary means that are not his church, like a decent minded governor or something, right? Yeah. Yes. Given that, where did you see the rapture of the church? Is it pre-tribulation? That's a that's a really great question, but I don't think there'll be a rapture. Oh you don't a rapture guy. is the rapture as a judgment. Yeah. It's not only a blessing to the church, but it is the it is the curse on those left behind because the restraint is now gone. Yeah. As as the Lord removes us, He removes the restraint on evils, and therefore Satan has his heyday from that Yeah, and that would make sense within the model that you're saying. I just don't adopt that model. So I I think as you're working through your understanding of that. That seems like you're staying consistent with what you believe, but I deny the rapture completely. What happens at the twinkle What's that? I said what happens at the twinkle Well because I I also believe in the rapture of what is described. Um So then what does happen at the sound of the last trumpet? Yeah, I would say the completion of the restoration Yeah, so that's you know you know those passage you're quoting right there is from 1 Corinthians chapter 15. And in sh in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 he alludes to Psalm 8. Which is or doesn't allude, but quote Psalm 8, which is what I'm talking about this morning. And uh my beliefs are that Christ will return raising the dead, uh reconstituting their bodies, and restoring this particular earth. And I don't know when he will return. Well, I didn't I don't mean to sidetrack the conversation. I'm an A millennialist if you want to look it up. I find it um interesting. Uh But I didn't say a hold on I didn't say a pan millennialist, which is like the worst cop out ever. Have you heard that joke? It'll all pan out in the end? Yeah. Yeah, I don't enjoy that Sorry, go ahead. The uh the prophetic witness that uh duty and authorization in Christ is given the church. That's right. Um Um really and and the conflict between the church being a therapeutic service and a an authorized witness um duty bound by Christ is interesting because so many people these days are interpreting the church as a therapeutic service to society. When I when I read about the things that people struggle with, it's all inward focused, it's all how can I be better? Everything Everything that is uh people struggling with life are told that, well, Christ is the answer for your struggle and this is how instead of Stating the situation or stating what our authority really is to be that convicting witness in society. And and mine is not so much a question, but a I see a need there as as you pointed out, what our our duty is, I see a need To interpret that duty in various situations, such as conversations with their neighbors, conversations with their family that say they believe but you know their their actions don't bear that out. I I just see This is like an a never-ending interpretation of what that duty is, how to accomplish that duty. You know, there's the strategy What are the leg what are the tactics? Yeah, exactly. And that needs to be worked out for us. Yeah. And and I would say um the the the good thing about having the model is that now we can get to work. It it's like we haven't been doing the work for a while. Yeah. And so we're at a bit of a loss. Well, by the way, d ha I know you were just kind of laying out the pieces on on for the logistics, but have you thought of the kind of conversations you would need to have with your neighbors or your family that say they're Christians? uh conversations with my mom. Okay. Uh 98 years old. Um says she believes in Christ, never opens her Bible. Only praising him. I said, you know, it's more than just a monologue, there's a discussion going on what does God have to say to you through his word? Um and I and so now I'm I'm thinking about how do I couch what you've just said in conversations with her. On the other hand, I think of Christ and him saying, you know, when you go through a town and they you tell them the word and they don't listen to you, you shake the dust off of your sandals and keep on moving, you know. Yeah. But I know it's the work of the Holy Spirit. Yeah. Um, but you know there's Still that Arminian sense with somewhere deep within me that it's up to me to convince her of this reason and mocking. Yeah well God well God uses your reason and your logic and um how how can they hear without a preacher, right? Yes. So um you know with your I I don't obviously know the answer with your mom. But one thing um w I'll first say I'm sure I'm sure I'm glad she's praying. Um That's excellent. Uh as the church I would say though that What has fallen off our radar a bit of importance is working with people in their conscience. So we're in a society where we have information overload. So it's very easy for people to hear things as just a kind of theoretical proposition, but they never take it into themselves with personal evaluation, which is kind of a a necessary act in our culture. I mean imagine taking in everything. You just can't do it. And so I wonder if there's some steps for her to begin seeing truths that are very that you believe are very important and that Christ believes are very important. I wonder if she can begin to see those as from the lips of Christ and along with the truth saying, and Christ calls you to believe this and to do this. I wonder if there's just a bit of an im, I wonder if it's I wonder if there just needs to be more of an experiential and personal nature to the relationship. I don't I don't know. But when you put people in a spot like that, you can really see what's going on pretty quickly with them on terms of what they actually understand to be true and also what they are rejecting. Yeah. It's a game of dodgeball with people who gave not Knowledge God, there must be a God from everything we see, but they will dodge anything that is uh has conviction associated with it because Yeah, it requires action. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's great. I love that you use the word conviction there. Because that's from the 1 Corinthians 14, right? But do you see how it's necessarily coupled to the truth, which we would call being convinced, right? But conviction goes beyond just seeing something outside of us. We now have we have to change because something is true in the world. It's like it's more like receiving a diagnosis that says this. You have cancer and two months to live. Now when you you receive that and everything changes and everything changes for your family, it's not a theoretical proposition. And the second one, not that content that I gave, but I w I wonder if there's a way forward with your mom, if we if you could approach her, but with the second one of the message being that way. I don't I don't know. I have never met your mother. And she's ninety-eight and probably you know wiser than all of us. You know God has closed the ears and shut the eyes. Um and when you are spiritually dead, you can't be quickened Yeah, that's right. And so Lazarus, you know, Christ didn't say, Who wants to come out of the tomb? Raise your hand. And that's a great point. You know that's the context of 1 Corinthians 14. He quotes Isaiah where Isaiah says what you said So you're right about that. And that's why we are not only the prophetic community in speaking to the the judgment of Christ to the world, we have authorization to do that. But we also have authorization to call upon God that he might bring bring his will to this world and gather his elect. Yeah. Yes. Exactly. Those are the two main actions of a prophetic community in my mind. The preaching and the prayer. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. And the water and proceed. We all tend to hang on to mothers and both nowadays. We can't. Only got you Yeah. I'll pray for your mom. Oh, I watch it for you. Yes. Because we have that that right to pray. My name is Louise. Okay, Louise, yeah. Very good. So with my father, uh similar situation, you know, like my father see my mother come to Christ, see my mother die of cancer, see my brother, my sister, and myself all come to Christ, all our families. And my father remained a God hater Um and I used to pray for him, I used to share the gospel with him, he used to get angry. He used to say that if he would go to church the roof would fall in. Um but and then I changed my prayer. My prayer was Lord just put someone in his life. Yeah. And uh my father ended up being stricken with Alzheimer's to the point to where he needed to be cared for for everything. And be During uh right before that, before he got Alzheimer's and he had some surgery and he needed to be cared for. One of his friends gave him this most but a czar. book. Um oh what is it called? The Shaq. If anyone knows Ellen Shaq is the most bizarre thing that makes God into this woman. Um but I saw this in Opportunity to read it to my father. And in reading it to him, I got infuriated by what was going on. So, but I kept reading it to him, and then when we were done reading that harassment medical book. I said, Dad, can I read the Bible to you? And he started letting me read scripture to you. And he started thanking me reading scripture to you. And um I never will forget at his funeral, Pastor Tom Langer from Pasadena did the service. And Pastor Tom was speaking cle uh speaking of two elderly men that he was seeing visiting on a regular basis and my father was one of them there was another father of uh someone else in the congregation Tom who spoke of the change that he saw in my dad when my dad couldn't really speak couldn't articulate but just the change that he saw and witnessed in my father at that same time when he started asking for me to read the scripture. And he was 85 years old. And I thought there was no hope. But God brought this heretical book and I read it to him and I got infuriated and then had it. But the uh give up hope. Don't stop praying. Don't stop praying for someone else. That's a good idea. Good word of encouragement, Dwayne. Thank you for that. Roger, did you notice that I use the language of authorization for prayer also? So authorization for prayer. For prayer. Yeah, because what's going on? You're giving me the opportunity to keep deepening the model for us. If you'll notice what Ephesians is doing and what we're doing here with these models is we're really trying to unfold what does it mean for Christ to be ascended. I think we've done a decent job in some areas of life figuring out what does it mean that he has been crucified. What does it mean that he was resurrected on the third day. But what is the significance of him sitting at the right hand of the Father and his ascension glory and exaltation? That's really what's going on here, because that's the vision that we see in Ephesians 1. 10 at the top of the pyramid. He's in his Ascension glory. And now because all authority in heaven and earth has been given to him, he is the one that has all full rights to authorize what is lawful for people. And what I have said is that the church alone has been authorized to give a prophetic witness to his judgments in terms of what to believe concerning God and what God requires of us. The state benefits from us in knowing good and evil, but the church alone also has been given authorization to petition him in prayer. There is no other commonwealth on the face of the earth that has that authorization. Isn't that interesting? That is interesting. And when you begin to think about the fact that we as a commonwealth alone have the authorization to petition him in prayer, that our incense alone is smelled by him then it really shows you the tragedy of the neglect of prayer, I think. You know? So and anyway, those are interesting. Doug Smith was being extremely patient with his hand up for about forty-five minutes. Comment about the sentencing of the capital murderer. Yes. And that brought to mind uh something uh that I was Yeah, yep, that's right. I think there's a word before it something prison fellowship. Okay, yeah. Yep. Mm-hmm. Uh prison fellowship had uh Created a related organization called Justice Fellowship. Okay. The focus of Justice Fellowship was To exercise persuasion on decision makers like legislators to make the law Truly just. That is to provide justice not only to the offender, but to the victim. And one thing that they were uh stressing is well somebody will break into your house And steal your your television, your computer, and everything of value that they can find. Okay, put them in jail. Now what Has the justice system done for you, the victim, other than remove the offender temporarily? From society. And what is the punishment doing to the offender? Is it making him or her less likely to a fit is helping that person become convicted of the wrongness of what he or she did. Of course not. It doesn't. But Justice Fellowship was was stressing the importance of making the victim, the offender, making the victim whole. That is, put a person in prison where where the person can do nothing constructive for the victim. Yeah. Put them in work police and devote all of their earnings to the restitution of the victim. the value of it uh to both the potential value of it to both parties and it's a testimony that The state really wants to do justice as far as it can. Now, justice fellowship then set a pattern that I think you need to think about Here we are a short distance from the state capitol. And if you look at those that sentencing and many other sentences And do we, does the Lord tell us something about what we need as followers of Jesus Christ to communicate to our legislators about getting closer, the state getting closer to true justice in in these types of cases. Yeah. And and my feeling is is from it from what you have said today and from listening today is yes, we have a responsibility to try to persuade the legislators To continue thinking about the consequences of these laws that are on the books and to change them for the better. So there'll be justice to both sides of that equation. Yeah, I think so, and part of that communication needs to be a kind of H humiliation not humili uh humility before Christ um as the the only law giver. And I and I think that that um is not going to happen if you just quote the Ten Commandments to somebody. You're gonna have to be someone who actually has worked out at political uh theology and can speak to the the the intricacies of law, which Christ is well prepared to do. You know, there is a if you read on the pages of scriptures, there's legal experts all over the place. They happen to be abusing the law, but there's it doesn't delegitimize the the role within society to have lawyers. But this discussion has motivated me, or maybe the spirit has motivated me, to go back to prison fellowship and find out if they still have active or actively supporting and enlisting people to do this kind of thing. Yeah. Because I I'm a former prosecutor and my perception was We used to joke every morning at coffee if we stop crying yet. Um button We we we have an opportunity to wake up people who are not going to be lobbied by anyone Like the bankers and insurance companies lobby the legislators. We need to try to bring it to the attention And a ask the Lord to convict these people to make decisions about our laws that the laws need to be improved so they really come closer to working. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, which is part of justice. Yeah. Why is there out of out of sight, out of mind Go ahead, sir. Yeah. Right? Well we have confiscation. They capture a drug lord and he's got all this money on. The government just confiscates it and it doesn't go back to the victims Uh if you do financial crimes, you know, they're they're sent to jail and none of the in your government conceives the money. It never goes back to the victims that they defrauded. Yeah restitution needs to take place. It needs to be part of the sentencing guidelines. And it's not strictly that could be lobbied for. Is it not a part of the I know that the main term they use now is rehabilitation Um do they not have restitution as a part of restitution by some state laws it is, but it's state by state. I always try to enact restitution with my children when they break each other's things. And then I say, Okay, you owe your sister thirty bucks for this and then the sister always says, Oh I forgive you, don't worry about it I'm like, come on, not with the forgiveness. But they don't give the prisoner any ability to earn to make restitution. No, that's true. Yes. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, that's right. And that's foreclosure to reality. Um okay I have a question over there. Yes sir. Oh Mike, you're you go ahead and and can you tell me your name? I'm Tom Williams. You're Tom and you're Carlson. Did I get that right? Carlton. Carlton. Okay, very good. Good to meet you. Hey Mike. Um my my real question is really uh just uh clarification type thing on judge judging judgment yeah yeah yeah being judgmental okay you know I know what God calls us to do and that is to to judge from a biblical Christian perspective. And uh that might be in the word or you know, wrongdoing. or whatever it is, but the world wants to say, oh, you can't judge me. Don't judge me. You know, so sometimes you teeter on being judgable. Okay. Right? And um and then the turnaround on that is how are we in being judged? Right. So um you know I know that um I try not to judge Yes. But from a Christian standpoint, I have no problem doing that. You know, in other words, um if somebody's is doing something wrong or or um not uh walking out their faith or or or anything along those lines you know I I Would bring that to their attention or whatever, and not be judgmental in that. But to be clear uh uh uh what scripture states where they should be and uh how they should be in that. Um so I I have to re really try, you know, because uh you know I I come from the world, you know, uh, but I'm just visiting now. And um so I have to be really clear in my conscience, which we talked about, on how I'm going about that. Right? Yeah. you know, uh make sure it comes from um a Christ centered love for the other person and uh and not from uh A hard heart. Yeah. Uh but I just kinda wanted uh to get your perspective on that. Okay. If I'm hearing you correctly, you're tr wrestling with the different uses of the word judge within the scriptures and in society and how you are what is required of you in those different ex Okay. So I think there's a couple different guidelines I guess I could give to you to kind of organize these things. One thing that you seem to be asking about is I'm just going to try to put these into the form of questions and please let me know if I don't get your actual questions. Is it okay for me to judge? Yes. Okay. When sh when should I judge? Good question. Because you are not called to judge in every situation. And so I would say that your judge uh I would remind you of 1 Thessalonians or 2 Thessalonians that says, mind your own business. And mind your own business there means pay close attention to the responsibilities that God has given to you, and He expects you to exercise judgment and those responsibilities. Otherwise, mind your own business. Okay. Now some of you might find this. Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, that's right. But this is especially for you. But your conscience is going to make it yours. Uh I don't mean this to be offensive. Well, if you disagree with me on what I'm getting ready to say, then just disagree with me. Don't throw anything. But um when the George Um Floyd situation took place The news headlines were that he murdered. And I was not willing to say the word until the court decided on it. Because it is not my business to judge the matter. I can be grieved over the situation. I can do a lot of different things. But I was not appointed by God to judge between that police and officer and George Foy. You see what I'm saying? But the court was, and when the court gives their ruling, then I will be willing to go along with the court. Because I'm not interested in becoming an anarchist that did not all. You know, I I think there are times when you can, but in that situation I chose not to. So that's an example of mining your own business. Pay attention. to what your vocations or callings are and judge within them insofar as you need to in order to accomplish the purposes that God has given you that day. Number three, so you have, should I judge? Yes. When should I judge in my vocations in accordance with the goals that God has given to me? Number three, how should I judge? And that was one of your questions from Matthew chapter 7. Matthew chapter 7, judge not that you be not judged. If you go on and read the rest of that chat that paragraph and let the rest of the paragraph inform your meaning of what he means by the word judge there. You're going to realize that Christ wants you to judge equitably. He does not want you to judge too severely or too laxly. He wants you to judge just right. Right. And one of the ways that he gets at that is for you to so listen to this. With the measure you use, it will be measured back to you. So there's a You can see he's concerned about the measure of your judgment. How how are you as a judge in terms, are you a measured person? You see? Or um do you treat a two-year-old like a forty-year-old? Mm. Because you should not. Right. You see they they deserve a different equity. Because the two two two year old is largely ignorant. Yeah, but you should know that. as well as their mental um exactly mental health. Yep. And to put some of what he's saying into perspective and Carlton I I don't mean Tread on Can I just say one last thing, Roger? I'm sorry. And uh everything I'm saying to you, just to put it back into the model, is Everything that's everything I've said to you, I've just tried to repeat to you what Christ has taught me about how He wants us to judge. Do you see that? So I'm always looking to the ascended Christ for what I'm what is what is lawful for me to do. your condemnation of another person right and where the point I was making. And sort of you're murdering that person in your mind, you know, when you have Oh right. And his audience was uh a group of teens, young teens. And one of the teens stood up and and quoted the Bible and and and and talked about how, you know of homosexuality was a sin. And the response of the speaker was, let him who is without sin cast the first stone. He conflated this judgment with is the act sinful with is the human being condemned? The act is what we're supposed to judge, I think. If somebody murders somebody and says, Well, I had every right to do it because of blah blah blah, you know it was a sin. You didn't have it authority. If a person is a homosexuality uh homosexual and and says it's okay because God loves me. Yes, God loves you, but you're out Actions are what is sinful. And so we we we are not to excuse actions and and say they are not and judge them as not being sinful when God says clearly this is a sinful action. And that's the world as Satan gets in there and twists it all. What an interesting story. Because you know earlier I quoted Jesus and the woman in adultery with the stoning. And you your story that uh is he who has who he who has not sinned cast the first stone. By the way, there's an old Roman Catholic joke with that where all of a sudden the woman gets hit in the head and Jesus says, Mom But the um that's interesting that because you were drawing the same distinctions that are present in that passage, you notice her sentencing is as what's at stake. Her sentencing is the death penalty Christ doesn't say she's not sinful, but he doesn't uh end up applying that that death penalty sentence for adultery. Which is a it's an imper it's an it's an interesting conversation. But so I think there's something going on there in terms of the distinctions we want to use to try to understand judgment. But that's good. Uh I have Adrian and oh no, no. I'm sorry. You've been very patient also. Yeah. Sorry, go ahead. Could you please state those the two actions? Oh. From member manager. Yeah. It acknowledges something as true, and in the discussion, if you were to look in the literature on this, you're going to see that it always has a rule to which it submits And then using memory, the conscience evaluates yourself by that rule, and then it will either excuse you or accuse you And then if you are accused, it brings the sentence along with it. And if you're excused, it also brings the praise along with it. So all right, we I'm getting the I'm getting this sign from Nick. You guys have been very uh gracious going seven minutes over, so let's let's go ahead and and close our full time in prayer. I have one more thing. Lord, we thank you for this time together and we do pray that you'd help us to Continue to see that your word is sufficient for what you have put in our lives, uh our callings. Pray that you would help us by the Spirit to know how to divide your word well so that we can actually see the things that uh that are there that are for glorifying you in our generation. And we ask these things in your name. Amen. So I'm going to stick around for a couple minutes and answer Adrian's question. If you want to hear