We ask that you would help us to see, or really permit us to see. Lord Jesus Christ, you have been given authority in heaven and earth to grant To give life to those whom the Father has chosen. And we pray that you would give us life that comes in many forms. We think of course of our regenesis, but we also think of the way that you give us life by helping us to see the truth. For that truth to accumulate through experience and to wisdom, and how that wisdom is love. We ask that you would bring all of these things together today as we uh revisit uh what what uh every Christian used to know and um help us to develop a positive view of your reality that we might be a witness to your coming kingdom. And we ask that you would come quickly, Lord Jesus. Amen. All right. Um you may want to take notes this morning. And I'm going to try to get through this pretty quickly because I think the Q<unk>A time has been selfishly my favorite part of this breakfast. But I do want to set up a framework so that we can because questions and answers come out of frameworks. So that's what we want to do. So let's begin with a review real quick here. In our first session, we gained biblical justification through the model of the Exodus for being angry. In the second session, we realize that anger is not just to make up make us grumpy old men. But that Christian anger is meant to stir us up into something different, and that is good works. And so what we did last time was that we considered a major question. By way of the Saverna Park 4th of July parade and the perverse painting that I placed in front of you, the the remaking of the garden scene in paradise or what paradise is. It was an eschatological vision. The question that we raised in both the painting and the parade is that if the parade and the characters in the painting could talk and they stood and they said, okay I hear your disgust, I see your anger, and I hear your criticisms. Why don't you therefore tell us how you think the world should be? How do you conceive of reality? What is your vision of truth? What is the Christian vision of beauty? What is the good? Or what are common goods for society? And that is what we're doing here for the next few months is that we're now going to see from a pastor's perspective and not an academician. It's just I don't have those tools. So to the best of my ability, what I want to do is give you a positive Christian vision for men in relationship to various things. And Nick gave me permission to do one more month In addition to the months that I already had planned. So we've got this month, you've got me this month, you've got me next month, which was the original plan. And then you've got me even the month after that. And what I would like to do, the reason why I want to structure it that way, is that today we're going to look at a positive Christian for vision for men within the family. Next month, Lord willing, we will look at a positive Christian vision for men within the church. And then the next month after that, it will be men within the civil or civic and political sphere. And that covers really the main domains of vocation, at least according to Abraham Kuyper, whom we all love. He's our brother. So that's the plan. And then after that, we're really hoping to get some competent folks in here for you for men's breakfast to continue talking on important issues and giving us positive visions. And you can pray about who those folks would be. So this morning, that's the review and a little forecast. This morning, what I want to do is I want to give you a number of observations on the book of Ephesians. I then want to summarize that in In a summary, but also in a parable. I'm going to give you a few points on where you can start with your family. And then of course with any topic like this you need to have a question and answer and and we would just need to keep talking because there are so many, you know, there's a thousand different situations we're all facing. So let's begin with observations from the book of Ephesians in order to develop a positive Christian vision for men. and their relationships to the household or the family. Observation one. The letter of Ephesians is a catechism for the order of reality, and nothing less. I'm going to say that again because uh You know, I know you guys you guys are great, and I expect that this is not going to be new to you. But if I were to it is my impression that to the majority of the folk Christians that I run into, if I were to say that Ephesians is a catechism for the order of reality, and that that is what Christianity has always been under the Lordship of Christ. People would kind of do that dog thing where they kind of tilt their head like, hmm? What are you talking about? And and so I hope this isn't new to you, but if it is, just make sure you take notes and talk to me afterwards. about these things. This is you're going to be pretty heavy stuff. The letter of the Fesians is a catechism for the order of reality And in order to try to unfold a little bit of what I mean there, I want you to remember the distinction which we introduced last month between poiesis and mimesis. Do you remember that distinction that I gave you from the book for that Carl Truman wrote call uh On the Self. Okay, well there's a distinction between poiesis and mimesis I don't care if we use those words or not. That's just the distinction that we see between people in our very society. A mimetic view Regards the world as having a given order already. It's not so much raw material that you and I get to play with. It has a given order and a given meaning, and thus we see human beings as required to discover that meaning and to conform ourselves to it. The poetic or the poiesist view is what you see in our society where even gender is up for grabs. There is a fluidity even to that. It's been disconnected from biological sex. within their construct. Okay? But but we say that that no, all of these things have already been established by God and we are to conform to it. And that's called a mimetic view But the point I wanted you to get from that quote from Truman is that a mimetic view regards the world as having a given order. Remember, Ephesians is a catechism for the order of reality. Same kind of thing. So let me just give you a trivial example. You're probably going to think this is stupid. That's okay. I want you to take two items from the world and thinking about their order, vegetables and animals. What are their ordered relationships? Well, or you could use trees, trees and human beings. What are their ordered relationships? Sane people say that the vegetable creation is ordered to serve the animal creation in a kind of ecosystem. And that trees are, in one way or another, the um are ordered to do the same. I had a professor in my in my very short-lived and failed undergraduate degree. Who found his grandson whacking a tree with a stick And so he whacked the boy so that he would know how the tree felt. So he obviously has got a very different way of looking at the order of reality in how trees relate to human beings and human beings to trees. And you could find people probably who are doing something weird with vegetables in relationship to the animal creation. This is a kind of thing that Ephesians is addressing. We continue, we could continue, and we could build a whole series of order relations within the domain of vegetable and animal, and we we really what we would come up with is the science of biology or natural history or something along those lines. But what if I were to raise these kinds of questions? What about the order of earth and heaven? How do they stand together? What about the church? What about angels and men? For example. What about all of these things and how they are to be ordered to each other? If you keep those kinds of questions in mind, then you will begin to see the substructure of Ephesians. as a catechism for all ordered relations of reality to Christ. Now I want you to look at a, I'll give you a couple examples here. that bear much study and we're going to go through them quickly, but I'm just going to show you them. And let's start with chapter one, verse twenty through twenty-three, in Ephesians. If you want to flip there, I'm going to go I don't want to spend a lot of time waiting for you to flip. So I'm going to start reading these things and I'm going to keep going. So you try to keep up, okay? So starting in verse uh 20 of chapter 1 He raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all principality and power and might and dominion. and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in that which is to come. And he put all things under his feet, and gave him to be head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. Now most folks just kind of fly right through those things because they're very difficult to understand, but And we can't get into a full exposition of it. I just want you to notice the spatial metaphors and words that are not really trying to show spatial relationships, but it's using spatial metaphors to show other kinds of relationships. Christ is far above. He put all things under him. He is head over all. He is the fullness filling. Those are all ways of communicating the ordered relation which the Father has chosen for the creation in relationship to the Son. Now, if you want to keep looking at similar language to this, go back a little bit with your finger and look at verse 10 of Ephesians of chapter 1. That in the dispensation of the fullness of the times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth in him. This idea of gathering together in one all things in Christ is technical vocabulary for developing an order of reality. This is about ordering all things in heaven and earth to one main head who is Christ. Now some of you at this point might be thinking, Jesse, I don't know what you have been smoking. But this is crazy stuff. And if that's the case, then s Calvin and I are smoking together. Listen to this Out of Christ, or all in Christ, or comprehended in Christ, or gathered together in Christ, it's an cafale. It's that uh that head idea, Kafala is head, pulling all things together into him as the head. Out of Christ all things were disordered. And that through him they have been restored to order. And truly, out of Christ, what can we perceive in the world but mere ruins? Which is the image of a disordered city or town. Such a gathering together in a cafale as might bring us back to regular order, the apostle tells us, has been made in Christ. If you were in Geneva with Calvin and you were sitting with your brothers there in the congregation, they'd say, yep, that's normal Christianity. That's always been our message. It's about all of the cosmos being ordered by Christ and reordered by him. You can think how that connects to our talk last week when I showed you in Psalm 8 that the Sun ordered all of creation. He is, of course, the master craftsman. And so therefore the same one who then becomes incarnate in the flesh is given authority by the Father to do the reordering. You can see how this all makes sense But that's what Christianity is. It's all things being ordered by Christ. He's been given the authority to do so. As moderns, this is difficult to digest. Especially as Paul words it in those major Christological sections within Ephesians, but he is doing nothing less. That is the wisdom of God, by the way, that the angels are watching, the reordering of what they, some of them, disordered Elsewhere, I think we can get a the same picture as given elsewhere by by Paul, and I think that will help you to understand more of what's going on within Ephesians. So I'll just draw your attention to the same catechism of reality within 1 Corinthians chapter 15, using the same language of putting under Christ's feet. Paul teaches this, for he must reign till he has put all enemies under his feet The last enemy that will be destroyed is death. You can see there's a kind of reordering that has to happen there too. And it can't ha it won't happen until the general resurrection when he conquers it. That is and then he says, for he ha quote, he has put all things under his feet. Okay, it's the same language that's used in Ephesians, same phrase from 1 Corinthians 15, 25 through 27. Now, why is it in quotation marks in 1 Corinthians 15? For he has put all things under his feet. Joe, you look like you got the answer. Well, that's probably true, but the more prominent one is Psalm 8. He has put all things under his feet. Listen to this. You have crowned him with glory and honor. Okay, this is Psalm 8. And now I want you to listen for the ordered relationships. Listen to how about how Christianity is about putting law and order back into place through Christ. You have made him to have dominion over the work over the work of your hands You have put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, even the beasts of the field, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea that pass through the paths. of the sea. And of course, what else does that remind you of but the creation account, right? Under Adam, the one who was originally with his wife Eve to subdue all things. Can you see the order of all creation? Can you see how Christ has been given authority to do the ordering? That is what Ephesians is about It's a catechism for reality and the ordered relations in reality, especially with regard to the church. Now, that's the first observation. You got that one? All right. Good stuff Observation number two: angelic beings contribute to the order, but also, and in Ephesians mostly to the disorder of God's cosmos. This is important for us, in part just because I put the word Leviathan on the handout and I had to say something about it. But but Paul in uh chapter six ends up saying we fight not against flesh and blood only, but principalities and powers. So we've got to keep them in view as to what the war is. Paul mentions the principalities in chapter 1. He will mention the principalities again in chapter 3. They are witnessing God's wisdom and reordering the creation. Sometimes people call them the watchers in chapter 3. And most famously, principalities are mentioned in chapter 6, for would you not wrestle against flesh and blood, etc. If you were to take a look through, you'll see a decent reformed angel angelology there in Ephesians. But if you also were to turn to the letter of Jude, then you can see that those rulers, the Arkai or the Archon is what they're called in the Greek, of darkness, that's what Paul calls them the rulers of darkness. They work for disorder And they can do so as you look in the book of Revelation, they can do so through entire nations and empires. And when you see them in the picture of a nation or an empire, they end up taking the form of the Leviathan. Just as we see with in Pharaoh and Egypt as a premier example through the scriptures as a model, as a Leviathan, they end up Um their main goal is to disorder what got how God would want things to be ordered. And they'll they'll work through uh everything that the nation has power to work through, they will work through that. I'm uh you can come up with some examples in your mind. Uh you sh you should probably think about your television, because th that's a major way in which they're used they're seeking disorder. I just saw another Netflix documentary that I'm going to have to watch because it'll be a talking point. I think it's called Praying in a Way or something. Uh you know what I'm talking about? And it's going to be a real slam on Christianity relative to a kind of um conversion therapy So you're gonna need to get your big boy pants on for that for that one. Um but that if you were to trace it all the way back, you're gonna find that principalities and powers are responsible for the poisoning of people's minds against the order of Christ. And this continues in the letter of Jude. As Leviathans, they do this across nations and empires. And they do this, but they also do this in small and practical ways. For example, in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 27, when Paul is listing disorders of lying. the disorder of inappropriate anger, and the disorder of stealing and laziness, Paul says, nor give place to the devil. Yeah, so we we can see it showing up r right there and not just on the big scene. So that's the second observation. The first one is that this is an order of the the uh Ephesians is a catechism for the order of reality. The second observation is that angelic beings seek to disorder reality. And then uh and and then observation number three. Salvation, considered as in its most general aspect, is about moving the creation from disorder to order. This is what the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are doing. It is the gospel. Salvation is about moving the created order from disorder to order. And this begins with moving creatures like us from disorder to order. Now, of course, moving the created order from disorder to order is still a means to an end. The ultimate end is the glory of the Son, who will then hand over all things to the Father to the glory of the Father, right, by way of the Spirit. So then we have the triune God, who is one God but three persons, glorified in all persons. and their and their great what we would call salvific or redemptive work. And so you can see that on a large scale, and you will, when Christ returns, it will all be manifest. But it begins as we see him moving specific creatures who have been appointed to eternal life, like us, moving us from disorder to order. That is repentance unto life. And you can see this in Ephesians chapter 2, verses 19 through 22. The unclean Gentiles are cleansed. entering into sacred temple space. This is one way that Paul wants to talk about the great translation that's taking place as Christ orders things. He says this. Now, therefore, you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household. That's a very important technical word there. That's oikonomia, right? So we're talking about an order of relations right there, the household of God having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Jesus Christ himself, now listen to the order here. Okay? Again, you're supposed to see something that has been built in a specific order. Jesus Christ being the chief cornerstone in whom the whole building being fitted together It's the idea of him gathering all things together in himself. Now he's just focused on his special providence with the church. We are growing into a holy temple in the Lord. Notice how all of a sudden we've moved in the sacred space. that is that is no longer outside the camp with those things that are unclean. I can't get into it, but there's a lot going on there with Paul's theological development of Leviticus. So this is more, however, than just a translation of status from one realm to another If we wanted to talk about this covenantally and in a 16th century sense based on what was going on in those particular conversations, we would start using legal terminology here and talking about justification and the difference between justification and sanctification. Here I'm using Levitical language in order to try to explain the work of Christ because that's what Paul does, at least in Ephesians, with the order of reality. But it's more than just a translation from one status to the next. It is also us being reborn and operating within the new realm. So once we are reborn into the new realm by the Spirit, in Ephesians 4. 1, we must walk worthy of the calling. That's the whole point. And again, remember, observation three is salvation is about moving the creation from disorder to order. Okay, so there is a an objective movement where we're God, um, justification is the act of God alone, right? We're based upon the work of Christ, we are declared as righteous or clean. But then we move into sanctification, which is also a part of moving things from disorder to order. And that's where we in Ephesians chapter 4, 1, are to walk worthy of our callings. And then from chapter 4, verse 1 to the end, Paul is showing us what it looks like to walk in the new realm. That's the whole point. The whole second half of Ephesians is about what does it, he's answering the question, what does it look like? to to be in Christ's order. If you wanted to use the word kingdom, you're welcome to, because that's what kingdom is in the scriptures. It is a specific order under a specific head who orders things. Alright. So you could also think of our confession, shorter catechism, and larger catechism, which follow the same order. The scriptures principally teach two things, what is man to believe concerning God, and what are the duties that God requires of man. It's the same two halves within Ephesians. Okay, you see the gospel message in the first part, and that is to say what is God doing through Christ, and then onto his own glory, and then what does it look like? What does he require of us as we come under his headship? Okay, so that's observation number three. Observation number four. Now we're really, you can see how I'm funneling this. how Paul is funneling us from a cosmic picture of what God has done with all of time and space. So uh you know, it makes you want to drop like Paul does into just doxology for a moment, doesn't it? He's funneling us down. We get into chapter four here in verse one. Seeing that Christ is ordering all things to himself. And now we're going to start to see him lay out what that order looks like for us here on earth. And um This is where he says where we start to get into the ordered relations in the household. Okay? And that is, I want to point out some things to you to show you not just the ordered relations in the household, starting in chapter 5 roughly. But I want to show you your pinnacle role as a man within the household. And let's begin by looking at chapter 5, verse 25. I just want you to notice A couple things with me really quickly. You see the framework that Paul has set up. We're talking about cosmic ordered realities, and now you are going to find your place. within the overarching what Calvin and Irenaeus call system of creation. Okay? That's why we think systematically, because God has given us a system world. And we want our thought to match reality. Okay? That's mimesis. So take a look at this as we start to find our place within the world. Ephesians 5. 25 speaks to husband, does it not? Okay, take now go ahead and scan down, look at Ephesians chapter 6, verse 4. Speaks to fathers, does it not? Ephesians chapter 6 verse 9 speaks to masters, does it not? Which is uh all part of the ancient household. I mean you uh ancient household is basically a small business. Okay What do, here's my question for you, okay? What do husbands, fathers, and masters all have in common? Hmm? True, they have authority. There was something even more vital for you. They all have responsibility. That's true. Those are the kind of words that should be used in this context. That's good. Just flowing out of the framework. They're all the same man. So what you end up seeing here is within the household treatment is that you can leave one domain after or one kind of subdomain after another within the do within the within this major domain of household, but you will find that there is one person who has been given headship and responsibility for maintaining order within the domain. And you can see that because he ends up being the kind of lattice or structure that holds each of the components together. I mean are you not a husband? Are you not the father? Are you not the employer? If you had an ancient household like that? Even if you have an Etsy account, your your wife's selling stuff on Etsy, you're the master. And this really starts to show us not just what households are within the created order. but what the role of men are in the created order. Now flash back to the original created order. Was not Adam given those kinds of responsibilities? And held responsible when things went wacky and became disordered? That's right. And so we don't have a new Eve being sent by God. We have a new Adam who was then given a new Eve, who is us the church. And that's what all of those things have in common for our purposes this morning is that they are all you. So let me go ahead and summarize here, and then I'll give you a parable, and then we can I'll give you a few practical tips and then we'll go into a QA. So here is what we find in Ephesians. God the Father has given Jesus Christ all authority in heaven and earth. As such, Jesus Christ is subduing all of creation to his order as the master craftsman. Angelic powers, nations, and empires, Leviathans, work against him. Christ has brought some into his realm or kingdom of order. Under his lordship, men have been given as the husbands, fathers, and heads. Notice that the word head there is Derived from the same language that is used for Christ as the one who orders all creation. It's an ordering term. It's talking about who's responsible for the order here, right? Like governor. Under his lordship, men have been given as the husbands, fathers, and heads in order to establish Christ's order. In anticipation of his return to complete his order. And I think another way to summarize the same thing, and I can add our emphasis this morning is from Romans chapter 16 verse 20. Here's just a little bit of a different take on it that's kind of a optimistic eschatology for you this morning. morning, which I'm all about. Brothers, and the the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. Shortly. as you establish his order in your households, his referring to Christ. And the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly, as you establish Christ's order in your households. Right. So I think there's something like that going on there in Romans. If you were to look at that context in Romans, it says that he wants us to be simple in doing evil and wise in doing good. Right? Something along those lines. It's interesting that the same themes pop up in Romans 16. 20 where we see angels seeking to create disorder. Angels institutionalize themselves in universities and governments and all that kind of stuff in order to give power to their disorder. But then you see Christ working through those who are considered to be powerless and unwise and their sacrifices in their households in order to establish his order. And he uses all of those things. Okay. So that's the summary. Now let me give you a parable. And actually let me give you the summary one more time, because that was a big summary. Here is what we find in Ephesians. God the Father has given Jesus Christ all authority in heaven and earth. As such, Jesus Christ is subduing all of creation to his order. Angelic powers, nations, and empires, Leviathans, work against him. Christ has brought some into his realm or kingdom of order. Under his lordship, men have given men have been given as the husbands, fathers, and heads in order to establish Christ's order in anticipation of his return to complete his order. And the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly as you establish his order in your households. way that I would put it. Okay. So here's a parable for you for those of you who have a bit of difficulty with system theological systems like Paul gives us in Ephesians. Let me give you a parable from Luke chapter 12 verses 42 through 46. It's teaching the same thing. And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward? whom his master will make ruler over his household to give them their portion of food in due season. You see the picture? So Christ leaves in his ascension. is how we could go ahead and look at this. He leaves the responsibility to a particular steward, and the steward is meant to keep the order that the the master of the estate would want, right? Uh and he gives it the example here of the the their portion of food in DC due season. So it shows you that there has to be a um a diligent management of all of the resources and of the time I mean you you gotta know how everything is supposed to go together. So he says, Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes. Truly I say to you that he will make him ruler over all that he has. But if that servant says in his heart, My master is delaying his coming, think of Habakkuk there and begins to beat the male and female servants, and to eat and to drink and to be drunk, the master of that servant will come on a day when he is not looking for him, and in an hour when he is not aware and we'll cut him in two and appoint him his portion with the unbelievers. Christ is really sensitive to our feelings there. I think they will be really surprised to find how masculine he is, you know. Okay, so then if we look at that parable, I think you kind of get it right on the face of it on him talking about how things are to be ordered under him as the head. Likewise, Christ rules over all of creation. He entrusts his estates to his servants. He expects his servants to keep the estate in the order that he has commanded And this includes your household as you serve Christ as husband, father, and master, small business owner, for example. So that just reaffirms the whole thing that Paul has told us in Ephesians. But I'll tell you, it also reaffirms the warnings that we see within Ephesians set into the context of created order and the catechism of order. Your flesh wants to bring disorder into your relationships with your wife and your children and your employees. That is what the flesh wants to do. And the institutions that surround you, including the media institution, the universities, and even our government, since it's moved away from honoring the authority of Christ They want you to be disordered in your ordered relationships within your household. So you had your flesh has all of these things, all of these resources to be successful. And that is a warning for us. We use the verses of Ephesians, for example, those who don't have heavenly wisdom. They use the verses for of Ephesians for leverage and in order to fund Making their wives and children, their personal children, personal servants to serve their laziness and their selfish ambitions. Everybody has an order, and everyone is seeking to create an order. The question is, is it's is it Christ's order? And if it's not, and you're getting everybody to work towards that thing, then You're really getting everyone to work towards your selfish ambitions of your flesh. You've created your own church, you've got your own body, and you're doing your own kind of edification. It's an alternate reality that's not Christ's. Now we know that it is not good for man to be alone. And so God gives us wives, and he gives us a quiver of children as a blessing. And our helpmate and the arrows are all a gift toward one thing, in order to bring Christ's order to this world. And that is what the parable is saying. That is what Ephesians is saying as a catechism for the order of reality under Christ. Now, the last thing that I want to do before we go into the Q<unk>A is I just want to give you some places to start. The main goal here, remember, is for me to answer the people in the parade. to answer the people in the picture. So what I'm doing is I'm seeking to give an overarching framework in from which you would make 10 million decisions as you go through your day. If you don't have the framework, then you can't make the decisions, or you will make them according to some other framework that you're unconscious of. Here is where I would start if I were you. It is in fact where I'm starting. We should start with the needs of our families or households Now let me define that. Remember, now what I'm doing with you is I'm already going to start. This is what I did last month. I will look at everything by way of the framework. Okay? And I'm asking you to do the same thing. So, what do I mean when I say need? Well, from the framework, a need are those things in life, in the life of our household, which are not under the order of Christ. Those are the things that I would need to start working on, the things that need to be changed, or there is a necessity of some kind of change. You will have many such areas and you and your wife need to prudently choose one to get started. So you're basically looking out and you're saying, okay, well what are the thing what are the the needs that we have? And you're saying, well, we need to bring order under the Lordship of Christ as his disciple. So what are those things that are disordered? And there's going to be many of those things. So you have to, with the counsel of folks within your church community, and in prudence and by the power of the Spirit, choose the first that you would want to work on. This may mean that the need is you. You may not really be submitting to Christ yourself. Your immaturity, quite honestly, is probably evident to everybody around you, but you have just suppressed it and you have refused to make any changes So you could be the problem. You could be the disorder. And this is the really difficult thing here is that if you are ahead And you end up being that trellis in each of those areas and you are disordered, then the whole plant is gonna, I mean everything in the garden is going to be diseased, and it will be because of you. And you need to take responsibility for that. Christ has given you the resources in order to make progress in this as a Christian Now, it may not be just you. I mean, all of us have to do some self-examination. All of us can see where that can be the case. But it may be your children. Are your children well trained? That's another way of saying have they been ordered to the order of Christ? And have you been using the means in order to train them? Do your children, if we were to bring them in here, would we look at them and say, ah, the picture of order? If not, and they're a wild mess, then we've got work to do together. If that is primarily the case with you, I'm not trying to just make you feel guilty or something like that. I'm just saying the responsibility is first and foremost with you. So let's say you and your wife, you take a survey of the garden that God has given to you, metaphorically speaking, and you see all this disorder, and the wife and and both of you look at each other and you go I mean I don't know who you you wanna uh who's how do you what the wife should say hey man I'm gonna help you but you are primarily responsible You are primarily responsible. And then there are, of course, there can be a breakdown and there can be a disorder in your relationship with your wife. What disorders are present and how you two relate. And again, the main reason why we want the healthy relationship between the man and the wife is for the glory of Christ and the ordering that we're doing. I do think that there should be a kind of Christian romance that is present and all of those kind of things here, but I'm just focused on this main framework for right now. All of those things feed ordering for Christ. That's the first thing. We want to look and see what are the disorders or the needs of our family. Each of us will have different things that we can mention. And different vices that contribute to it as hits. Here's the second thing that we would need to do in order to start. When you look out at your family like that, you're you're not meant to try to just tend to the garden by yourself. You need, we need to build each other up as a body. As men, we should be helping each other get our households in order. That's the second. So if I were you, I would figure out a way to get together more often as men and be speaking about the things that are actually happening in the household. And what can we give to each other in order for there to be order? And this is actually a pretty big vision because I think as the head goes, as someone uh actually A brother of mine said this yesterday. As the head goes, so too does the body. Now I really think that if you were to group together as men and focus on your households and leading them into Christ's order, that it would end up creating a kind of tidal movement for the whole congregation to start moving forward. in the right direction. And it would provide us the basis from we and the foundation from which we would then start to be a witness to other churches in the area and to the larger society within Andorano County. But I really am thinking that it begins with you. It's going to begin with you if you want to get this thing rolling. Our uh what I said at this the 2021 State of the Church address is that uh Severn Run Evangelical Presbyterian Church exists in order to order all of life to the glory of Christ in Anorono County. Right, you can hear the order language that we as a session have been thinking about for a while now, and we're bringing that to you here in the men's breakfast. So I would encourage you not to get together just for your individual benefit, but start to get together as men so that you can start leading this congregation forward into Christ's order. I really think that's where the revival is going to be. And the question, the big question mark will be is, are you going to start, are you going to take Christ seriously? That will be the question. You know, because this breakfast is going to end and there's a thousand other things that Leviathan has given for you to think about so that you never pick up and do anything really for Christ. Or if you do, it'll just be a kind of individualistic pietism. Okay. Woo! Lastly, where to start? Christ's order is called love. It is the order of love. And guess what love is? Hey guys, love is love. Come on man. Didn't you I mean didn't you see the sign? Love is love. No, that's not what the scriptures say. It says love is the fulfillment of the law. This means that if you don't know God's law in wisdom, you stand no chance No law, no order. That's the way that it works. And so we as the men of Christ seeking to bring order to the households of Christ must understand the law of Christ. And that is not a new covenant theological statement that I just made. I'm talking about the Ten Commandments wisely understood in relationship to all of the case studies All of the narratives, all of the working outs. No law, no order. That's it. So now we have a time for QA, and I'm imagining that You could do a number of things. You could want clarification on what did you just say? You could have that in your mind. And you may not really have ever tried seen Christianity look like this before. This is the Christianity of the reformers, but you may have not seen it. So you may have clarifying questions Or you may have questions where you get the framework, basically, but you want to start working out for your specific situation or the things that you see, okay, given that framework, What does wisdom look like in this area? You may have those kind of questions. That would be like working out the implications of the biblical teaching. Or you may have some other kind, but I just welcome them all. uh at this time. And let's try to speak up because I think we're trying to pick up the mic on the on the QA. I wonder, by the way, just real quick, how the people in the parade and on the picture would respond to everything I just said. Be interesting. Maybe I'll try that next 4th of July. Yeah, maybe so. I don't know if they would recognize it as Christianity though. I missed last week and we haven't gone to the parade in two years. So were there rainbow flags everywhere? What what what were the examples of disorder and afraid that I'm under there. Yeah, I would say that the primary disorder was that you could see that the whole town had the pretense of declaring that they were a community. working toward the top the common good and flourishing of each other, but but just below below that thin veneer of a surface was personal peace and affluence. They wanted to get back to their boats on the severn. They didn't really care about each other. There's no real community present there. It would break down in a second. Harry. There's one verse that clarifies it for me. And I'll do my best to be accurate. It is he who knoweth and loveth my commandments, that truly loves me, and the Father will love me. So love is obeying the laws of God. That is love. And love is in heaven, and it's here too. Love's the key to everything, but love is based upon the Word of God. We don't love him if we don't know his word Oh we don't try to obey that would Yeah and what I'm saying is that I'm just trying to take you t to t I think that what what you just said could be said in any church. That's fine I'm trying to get us to take the next step and really get in line with the language of Paul and saying that's all within the context of bringing Christ's order to earth as it is in heaven. Okay? Uh what you just said could be put in any context. And I'm trying to get away from big evangelical or big Eva s um thin junk trying to move us back to the Christian a Christianity that Christians knew. So we want to say what you said, but we want to say it within the framework of working with working as Christ's bride in the ordering of reality according to him. And so he gives us his law, and wisely understood, not legalistically understood, that order comes to be when he chooses. Yes. So I think I'm gonna take this where you want to take it, but it'll be offensive to some. Okay. Speak up so everyone is offended online too. Um to to go further on that statement that a friend told you that the head wherever the head goes the body follows. Yeah. Um a good friend of mine used To say that anything with two heads is a monster. And in this world, we are so taught indoctrinated for egalitarianism. Women are equal and in the family it should be the same way. But that is not the biblical order, that is not what is prescribed in scripture, it's not what's prescribed here in Ephesians. When my wife and I uh were convicted by the scriptures of headship, um it was It was a blessing. In in my relationship with my wife, it was simple. She's more passive and I'm more dominant. So this biblical principle is easy and I used to look down on men that were passive that had dominant wives. But I've really come to learn that those men have a hard place and those dominant wives have a harder place. But God creates opposite to attract. And we're all different purposefully. Yeah. Sure. It is a this is a biblical truth and for those that are dominant we have a biblical responsibility to be uh Great leaders in our family with love and patience and gentleness and kindness, laying down our lives like Christ did for us. For those of us that are are passive and our wives are more dominant, we have a biblical responsibility to stand up and take responsibility for everything that happens in our household. To not look at our So it's a it's a tough biblical truth that is people step on toes. You mind if I develop that just a little bit? There were a couple of different things. Number one, the word headship there, you want to start looking at in terms of the establishment of Christ's order, not permission for you to be a jerk. Okay, we I think we all know that, but when we're in our worst moments and we want to go ahead and try to justify ourselves, we can get real quick into a different understanding of headship. So we don't want to do that. If you want to look at what it looks like when someone does that to its ultimate extent, read the book of Judges. That's what happens. Women and children, they get the short end of the stick The um so that's the first thing I would say. The second thing is as a pastor here at Severn Run, sometimes The man wants to bring Christ's order to his household and then the woman is resistant and takes a kind of dominant role like you said. But I would say the majority of the time the woman has been forced into a dominant role because the man won't pick up his responsibility. I cannot tell you how many women have come to me and said, I pray every day that my husband would eventually take responsibility for the family. In the meantime, I have to do everything. I'm the one who orders our household. And now that's a disorder of the creation order. That's not the way that it's supposed to be. But here we have Christ pouring out gifts on women. Um in order to make up for your slack if that is something that you have um participated in. Yeah. Also that's Leviathan getting in the church. too 'cause you know, have the military we've been to churches all over the United States and seen the big Eva thing in the church nowadays is very tempered towards women. Yeah. You know, feelings and Entertainment and and so forth. So what you said I was I was the disorganized male. weak male but you guys call me my wife and she's smarter than I am so I have to catch up. Uh you know and and and praise God for that, right? Um but she really mean the strong one also called me to be better, called me to do more. Um you know, so I totally agree with that. Uh on a sidestep then new new topic. It's interesting since we first got here seeing, you know, a And bring me to this point. A lot of things are clicking for me today. Um you know what you know uh the law. Um you know, Christ orders love and love the fulfillment of the law and when we first got here you were finishing up Deuteronomy. Since that time I come to absolutely love Deuteronomy and go through many times. And you know I I know that But Brad and I talked about Christian reconstruction can kinda be a dirty word. Yeah, it can kinda be a dirty word, but at the same time some of those some of those topics are worth at least seeing what they're putting out of it is good. I don't want to I'm not not promoting those things but at the same time Well rightly understood, I'll promote it. Rightly understood, I think they're good to go. Okay, there's some people that misunderstand what's going on there. But I think you can go ahead and summarize well Can I just I'll launch off of a couple things you said? Okay. First, number one, absolutely, what is taking place within our society is those who have been given power are using their power to bring disorder and they're seeking to do so even within the church Absolutely. A and if they can poison the mind of our women, then that would be a great way for them to be successful. They can poison the mind of our children and we give our children power to order then that they'll be successful there. Okay, that's one thing. Second, I'm okay with theonomy and Christian reconstruction if we understand it correctly. Christ has been given all authority in heaven and earth. That means that every single morn morning, Mr. President Joe Biden should get on his knees and ask Christ to please help me to submit to you today and everything is he listening right now? Is that what's happening? And I uh some of you may think I'm crazy for saying that. I have a very robust biblical framework in theology to support what I'm saying if you want to talk about it. Okay, so I'm okay with talking about that. I mean I really think that's what happened should happen every morning for Mr. Biden. That was at a greater level in the past the case, and we called it Christendom. I would like to return to that. People use that as a dirt dirty word, and I don't use that as a dirty word. It means that Even the temporal and secular state recognize that they are under the authority of Christ's reign and that they are preparing for it. You know? And in some sense that would mean that they are preparing for their extinguishment because when he returns they will not be necessary. So Thank you, Nick. And I'm glad that uh your wife pushed you to step into the order that Christ has called you to. Really. I'll say one last thing. Don't get the impression here that this means that you are responsible to do everything. It is good that man is not alone. And we will find that though we are the ones that are responsible for the order, that our wives, who are named after Eve, the mother of the living, bring far more life into the world than we do. Sometimes that is the case. If you look at the bride in Proverbs 31, they're bringing a lot of fruit into the world. Right, yeah. But it's because the husband sits in the gate and brings order to the entire community, so they're not all raped and pillaged. You see, you can't you can't can tomatoes when you're raped and pillaged. You know. It's just really difficult. Adrian. Eschatology eschatology. Oh yeah, yeah. Welcome to seven rounds. Yeah. I've been uh attacking that word and can contact Contextually it can it can mean some different things. Yeah, that's right, it sure can. And so I'm asking again. Yeah. But you mean you say yes get that? Yeah, sure. Um I mean uh where is uh Christ taking everything? Everything. Well, that's what Ephesians just said. Maybe me or us. So let me do it. This is my after let's go. So I want you to put it on the point. So where is Christ taking this creation? When he returns and he brings all things into his manifest order, what will human life look like? Okay. That's what we're that's what we're after. And what he's telling us is he's saying, go ahead and get started now. So that's an eschatological life. Yeah, that's right. But but you're supposed to start to bring what you're supposed to start to bring now what he will bring in the future. And he has already started to do that in you. And now you are going to take what he has given to you and you're going to start, everything that is around you, you're going to start trying to organize that in the same way that you will see it after he returns. I understand that it is a complex thought, but that's what I mean. Yeah, opera or or or living in anticipation. That would be another way to talk about. It's good stuff. Steve. Uh I have a question. Yeah. And I think you know being a strong leader, being a Master in the family. Right. We talk about how God loves us. We gotta love our family like God loves us. Yeah. And we talk about love is obeying the Ten Commandments. Yeah, that's right. And people can study the texture of the Ten Commandments and memorize and read syllable and know it inside out. Yeah. But to me love and it's a form of a question. Mm-hmm. To me love is not just knowing the Being something, it's feeling it. It's something in the ear. It's something in the ear. Yeah. Okay, and I kind of you know like sometimes you sing a hymn And for me, I might just become features because of the words in that end. I think that's a sensation of love. Yeah. just to kind of see how we were doing. And Marlon was talking to her. And just I felt the sensation of Happiness that our child was concerned about how we were. And I think it's important for us all to understand that I don't know I I I wouldn't know how to teach it. Yeah. Yeah, sure. I wouldn't call it how do you define love in terms of energy Yeah. Ten commandments. Don't deny you gotta obey the commandments. But you also have to, you know, a lot of there are a lot of professionals And doctors and everybody else that know the word but they got no common sense. They have children, they have sensations Men tend tend to be more specific. Yeah. Well what's it think to be Yeah. Um so when you were describing that experience that you were having and that what you ended up calling sensations I was just doing a scan just to make sure that I really want to say this, but I would say that's not love. Those feelings that you have, you can't say that that's love. I don't think that's what we gain from and anthropology in the scriptures. Love is the fulfillment of the law. If you were to look at all the other love passages, I don't know how you would make sense of replacing the word love with sensation. I just don't s um sensations I I don't I don't see how that would work. So I would say what you were talking about are the affections that Christ has given to you as a created being. And then what we would need to do is start to talk about what is the relationship between human affection and law. And that's something that has to be worked out. Which I can't do that for you right now. I can't give you a theology of human affections in relationship to the law this morning. But I do think that would be good to work out. So it's really like you have to load the wall sometimes. And once you load them all, I would say that I would be very careful in approaching God's law. from the f frameworks that you unconsciously hold. I don't think that Christians really get a good idea of what we mean by law these days. And uh I if you remember I said the wise understanding of the law. There's a lot of bad stuff going around with in terms of the law. I don't think Christians know what to do with it, to tell you the truth. And I would not be surprised if I spoke with you and you didn't know what to do with it. I'm not trying to be offensive. I'm just saying we're out of practice with it. So remember the Ten Commandments are the comprehensive or the summary of love. It is the summary of God's law. You can summarize it in two if you want, and you can say love of God and love of neighbor. There are different ways to summarize it, and Christ has summarized it for us, or the Son, at that time in in in the ancient church. summarized it for us for catechetical purposes because you can't memorize everything that you would need to to have a wise understanding of the love of of law. So he gives it to you in ten, right? Or he gives it to you in two. But you, through your experiences in walking in the spirit, will with Christ will start to understand the wise understanding of every law. Now I would encourage you if you really want to understand the law that you would start to read the larger catechism. Look at the exposition of the law in the larger catechism. Under every law is given what is required of us and what is forbidden. And in those domains, there's probably a hundred applications to give you a sense of what is required or forbidden in those laws. under each head. And that was just like a tiny s you know that little spoonful of ice cream you can get at at Baskins and Robins because you want to try all the different flavors? That's what they're doing with that exposition of that law. You could go on and on and on and on in the wise application and understanding of each one of the commandments. Remember, they're not primarily negative, but they're meant for positive flourishing of life in every domain within the created order. I mean, there's a there's a lot there to truly understanding what's going on with the law That makes sense? Okay, uh uh you you well Brad you haven't gone yet so I'll let I'll let you go and then Nick. So uh kind of tying this back into the headship of the household What you are saying, Steve, is true, but you can't have that feeling of love without first loving God as the only God of your life. without worshiping him as he wants to be worshipped, without taking his name upon you in sincerity and truth, honoring and all of the summary of this law, the Ten Commandments is what leads a human being into being a a loving entity. You can't be a love a true lover of anything until God has made you into one who can obey his law. So the the first step, uh I think uh could it's important to remember the three different kinds of love that are spoken of in the Bible. And you're you see to be referring to women as having more love. They have that familial love, right? It's real easy for women to love me. Or to love the children. Much easier than it is for men because like you said, the way we're constituted, we have different we have different uh goals. But if we're loving Christ and we're loving God, because His Spirit makes us care more about Him and His will and His kingdom than anything else. That is going to then translate into the second table of the law, which is how do we love everyone else? So that The best way for us as Christians to love our neighbors or love our families is to love Christ more than anything else in the whole entire universe. So if you want to love your family, you have to love Christ more than you love your neighbors. family if you want to love your wife you have to love Christ more than you love your wife. And I I get that the idea of love is this uh has been uh turned into a emotion an emotion Right. It's been hey Roger. It's been turned into a a very different thing than what it is in the Bible. Remember God God's love is our example and he loved the world so much that he gave his son. We wouldn't think of that. We don't you don't show your love to your wife by sacrificing Well just notice that that's summarized in an action, a covenantally faithful action. It is an ultimate action of righteousness. Which fulfills the law is love at all. So if the idea is that only in our heart, but it you I think you said it. It's heart and head. It has to be both. Right? We're not men without chests. I think we've got to focus on what I I think the only way to get to what's in here is to know what's on the the word. What about one comes first and fulfillment? It's gonna be when you really love somebody to the point where you sacrifice yourself. Yep. You gotta feel. You can't just read it in a little piece of paper. I don't know. I think I think a whole lot of men on eBay uh weren't feeling that they just did what they Yeah, but he's not asking that question just a I'm not trying to contradict you, but I'm just saying here's a good lesson about the law. He's asking that question relative probably to something that's going on in his specific life to where he's trying to make sense of a couple different things. And I'm just wondering if you were to pull him inside personally and find out what that is, you may find why he is so preoccupied with emotions at this point. Uh what, Tracy? What is love? Yeah, I think that's true. I think that's the vision we receive in Ephesians. And I'll just launch off of that real quick, and then it's Nick and then it's Roger. Um Notice that order is brought to the household community through our sacrifice. That will be the primary way in which it happens. is you're going to have to give up yourself. And that's the picture that we receive in Ephesians. Pretty much any major headway you're going to make within your family. uh in order for the household to be ordered will n need you to go ahead and and be sacrificed. No other way, brothers, but the way of Christ. So Nick and then Roger. Just to some it may help me not um to frame love more instead of feelings or thoughts because those can go with times, right? But as purposeful action. Love your neighbor yourself but he's the one that stole my garbage can last week and his son broke my window and you know whatever. But a purposeful action and our purpose if that's in Christ, if that's in the law, you know that that That gives us that reason to having a standard that so forth. But marriage, right? Sometimes marriage isn't isn't love and isn't feelings, but purposeful action, commitment, and so forth. Come back. Yeah, I'm not I mean listen guys, love is the law. I don't know what to tell you. You want to figure out how your affections relate to your actions, we can talk. That's fine. That's fine. Uh I think we're Roger. You got this. Can you go ahead and solve the relationship between affections and My thought was that um the word love has been uh the object of disorder by Satan himself. What is God? God is love. Satan uh wants to stoke discord, confusion, and so love, the word love itself has been uh misused and abused and uh uh define incorrectly. I love my wife. Nick was saying you have to be intentional. Sometimes I don't like my wife But I love my wife because I know in order to keep order, um, you do things that you aren't necessarily motivated by your heart. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately looked at right. And uh so I think that uh the word love has been hijacked by our society in that universe need to feel an emotion in order to love somebody and I don't think that's true. I think that um there's that verse that says they perish Because they refuse to love the truth. Truth itself is beautiful. And when you're talking about those words in the hymn, I also have been struck by Can't even finish singing because I get so choked up because truth is beautiful and when it hits you and there's that realization there's just Yeah, that's right. Um and you were affected emotionally by that, um, because truth is so rare in our world. to begin with. Um that's a good summary, Roger, by the way. That's really good. And I think sometimes we say um To our teenagers, I don't care how you feel. The garbage cans need to go out to the street. In love. In love, yeah. Um Ryan and I were having a conversation yesterday and um Some of my um Armenian friends have a difficult time with uh those people who aren't saved to succeed as Satan, you know, if you go back to Genesis and uh his seed. Um we're so narcissistic in our society we think everything is about us. Well God's doing this for me and he's doing that for me this for me without seeing that we have an uh a a higher purpose in life. We've been placed here at this time for a purpose, for a specific purpose. The hairs of our head are numbered, so is the purpose. We were created by him. Nobody creates no craftsman creates something for nothing for the purpose. Yeah, great. Um so the purpose for all those ennoble clay vessels sort of goes against the compassion that God has for all human beings, you know, um, as His created. He loves everyone, but there's some people that seem to be sacrificed, you know, in that order. Satan sows disorder. He attacks mankind as God's ultimate creation. And um I just I just wonder, you know, if man is so what is your view of if man is is this object of love, then the Those who have not been chosen, predestined, um are they truly Satan's seed? I I guess I'm struggling with the imputed sin. So Adam and Eve were there, they were sinless. This sin was imputed to them that somehow corrupted them. Their flesh. I I guess I don't understand all of the complexities of that. Sure. Can you do me a favor and just summarize your question one one last time? Yeah. Is to my friends who are many in how do you explain the God loving everyone There are those who are just not going to be part of the kingdom that were predestined for destruction in order Yeah, you know, I think the place that I mean here's uh you guys with me here? Harry you're talking about Okay. The um You know, I'm thinking about it for 15 seconds, but there's a couple things that happen immediately in my mind. Number one, I would want to evaluate the proposition that God loves everyone. I would like to look at that. And then I would, if I don't want to accept that proposition, I would want to look at how does the scriptures talk about how those who have been appointed to eternal life and those who have not, what is their relationship to God and how does God relate to them? And what is the terminology used in the scriptures to describe the relationship? And we can start to see things like there is a kind of goodness in the Father because he sends his reign on the righteous and the unrighteous. But what is the terminology across the board, if you were to develop a theology of it, what's the terminology used to describe his relationship to those who are children of wrath? Right. And whatever those terms were, that would I think lead us to knowing how we should be thinking about that. Am I am I missing your question? Is there foreknowledge of I would say that um that is a really dangerous word. And so the way that I would put it is I would say that God has decreed all things And that decree took place before the execution of the decrees. Supervised. Right. Yeah, so he has decreed all things, and then he executes the decree. So I think that starts to answer the question, but I I g I gotta stay in in those categories. Does that make sense? Do you see where I'm doing? I do, and I'll have to think about that. Yeah, yeah, I think you I think you probably will. Um I think you probably will, yeah. All of us are are thinking about that one. Uh Jeremy. Well I was just just gonna add um talking. about God loving everybody. Um yet we've talked about how to understand love. And you know, I think the Bible explicitly denies that God loves everyone I mean Psalm five seven Psalm five five says he hates wicked people, not just their sins, he hates them. He says the wicked are an abomination to God who 16 and 4 said that God has created everything for its own end, teleology, eschatology, even the wicked, for the day of destruction. So it is true that There is a sense in which God is good to all, right? Isaiah twenty-six says, favor is shown to the wicked. How is favor shown? The wicked is still breathing. They can eat. Well they're doing a lot more than breathing, man. I mean Teslas and all kinds of stuff. I don't have no Tesla. Everybody in the sense that his providence is, shall we say, equally dispensed amongst the righteous and the unrighteous in the sense of temp temporal temporal blessing. Sure, but when we talk about his eternal disposition towards people, he either has loved you with an everlasting love or has hated you with an everlasting love Sure. And that's an interesting branch off of this conversation. But don't forget the title of the talk is the Leviathan Created Order and Household Codes. I've got a question for you. Oh great. We've been talking about creative order, order of reality. And a couple of times that's been put in opposition with uh big evangelical how would you say that they have disordered the reality compared to what you are speaking of Yeah, I'll speak to that. Some of it is really obvious. Like if you see a pastor come out and he's wearing a dinosaur costume. in order to make a point on his sermon. That's what I mean by be it big be big evangelical in some sense. That's one version of it. It's really extreme and it's really obvious to note. I also think there's a new coalition of churches in our area that I would categorize as big big evangelical that fall within the ARK community, I think is what it's called now. And they'll basically receive licensing for sermons from people like Stephen Furtik and all hold the same kind of programmatic sermon and series across their areas. Those are some kind of extreme examples, but if you want a kind of definition that I'm using inside of my mind, it's It's going to be those churches who have forgotten the original biblical framework in which we are to understand all things and have instead adopted one secular framework or another in order to try to understand the kingdom of Christ So what they do then within that framework is they start to redefine all of the terms in relationship into that framework to where Christ really looks like a Democrat or Christ looks like a Republican. So that would those would be two examples. Or Christ looks like um some uh uh uh a effeminate um Robin Hood or something. I don't know. I only thought of that 'cause he wore tights, I don't know why. But um Underneath of all of those ways in which the church is conducting itself is showing that they have adopted a framework. And if you put that framework under close inspection, you will find that there are some biblical pieces to it, but that they have neglected the overarching point. Right? So they really got the story wrong I'm you know, um I don't want to discredit anyone's reputation. That would be itself an act of not love because it would be a violation of the of um of the commandment to destroy someone's reputation is an act of murder in a sense. Um I will say though that there is no denomination that is safe from my words here. including my own. And there has to be a real retrieval back to what in the world is Christian what is Christianity here. And I think that sometimes I find more Christianity in the Anglican and in the certain Episcopal fellowships than I do even within certain Reformed churches at this point. Now that's some. So I got a couple in mind. I'm not saying across the board. Do you need me to get more specific than that with how I'm evaluating those folks? Yeah, so I've become pretty disenchanted with most publications. I'm talking about major publications that would normally be accepted by people in the PCA, for example. or even in the OPC. I just look at what they're giving and I it just looks to me like fluff. They're not really getting to the heart of what Christ is all about. So I'm really sad to say that and I'm sure I'm guilty of some of it myself. But brothers, I am trying to repent. Yeah, Adrian. What writer was talking about. Just love. I did a like a casual five, ten year study on the word. Yeah. And I went back through The years old dictionary, nineteen uh seventy, nineteen the definition of love was like a uh a half a page maybe in nineteen fifty. Uh huh. Today if you go in one of those big dictionaries, the definition of love is is uh a page and a half. Yeah. And what I've I've said this to you before in private conversation that the the battlefield is language. Yeah. And the devil can cannot change Change the words in the Bible. But you can change piece or you can add some meanings in the dictionary and withdraw meanings. So I I as I study love, I saw some Some meanings were subtracted, new ones were added in. So that's part of the trickery. Now uh the word unity in order for Christians to be unified in serving Christ you must you must be unified in your language. You can't have I mean, maybe you can have the different Bibles, but a church needs to read from the same script if you're gonna if you're gonna be unified language. And I find a lot of argument with uh I put it like this. My argument I used to get a lot of arguments, especially with women. I don't argue women anymore because I have learned women's life. There's a in every uh uh uh ethnic group, in every language there's women's women there's feminine language and there's masculine language And sometimes the meanings of the words are different. Yeah. And they create you know, love has a different meaning for women and men. And I I just think it would It would be helpful to get somebody like maybe that woman's husband to help her know what the words mean, or maybe the woman to help the husband know what the words mean if the husband's off. She could be a good helper there. When the when the uh pastor or leader talks has something to say to women, he goes through the husband. Well in the in the in the Uh y if you want to show me if you want to show me the scripture we can get into that. Because those are going to be good questions for us to wrestle with as men in the congregation because there there's g there's gonna be a way to miscreated Christ's intent for the family both to the right and to the left. And we're going to try to get right on. So I think the words are important, which is why I encourage every man here to have the shorter catechism memorized. It's d it's a bunch of definitions. Um we need to end. And I'll just say lastly that um Um to answer your question again, Nick, what I don't want to answer it as general. Just think for yourselves. What are some frameworks that the churches have picked up because they are not aware of a biblical one because they don't know how to read the scriptures? What frameworks have they picked up in your time and your place to try to understand reality and order it? Enneagrams. Enneagrams? Critical race theory? Anything coming out of BLM, any of those things, those are alternative frameworks in order to order reality So any church that's using that, I would consider big evangelical. So there you go Just kidding. Let's go ahead and pray. Father, we thank you that you have given us in your word your created order, that we would understand exactly how things are meant to be. and that you have given us your spirit who hovered over the face of the deep and by way of your decree and the command for the execution of it made habitable space. That same Spirit that raised up Christ, you have given to us, and you have made us a new creation, that we may begin to bring the order that you will make manifest upon your return. Lord, we pray that as men you would help us to take up our mantle and responsibility for ordering our households, and we pray that you would give us a deep, deep love. for our wives who are the mothers of the living. Lord, you give them so much respect the way that you place them in the scriptures. You treat them with your nurture and you cherish your bride, the church. And may we do the same. And may we, Lord, not exasperate our children in seeking to bring law and order, and may we not mistreat our employees. In the name of Christ. Amen.