For there are many insubordinate, both idle talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision, whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole households, teaching things which they ought not, for the sake of dishonest gain. One of them, a prophet of their own, said, Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons. This testimony is true. Therefore, rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith, not giving heed to Jewish fables and commandments of men who turn from the truth To the pure, all things are pure, but to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure. But even their mind and conscience are defiled. They profess to know God, but in works they deny him, being abominable, disobedient, and disqualified for every good work. Amen. Let us pray. O Lord Jesus Christ, you have taught us so much, even from the book of Judges, learning the symptoms of canonization of the church. And here in the letter to Titus, you are showing us the remedies of such symptoms of sickness. We pray, Lord, that you would work through your word. Your word preached this morning, that we would not just be hearers, but doers of your word. O Lord, order us by your mouth. In the name of Christ, amen. You may be seated. We ended with a few questions last week as we looked at verses five through nine. One of the questions was, what works of justice has Christ given to you? That's another way of talking about what's crooked and what needs to be straight. What is crooked around you? What is crooked even in your own heart? How is Christ empowering you to make it straight? We are to take the rich and full understanding that Christ has given to us throughout his whole canon of Scripture and how we are to be ordered, especially by way of the ten words. We are to use those and to remember that as a part of our witness to the world, we are to keep our church, society, ordered by the power of the Holy Spirit. Well, we continue this morning in 10 and following, 10 through 16, and I'll begin by just making a couple observations this morning, and then we have a few applications. The first thing I want you to see is there's multiple points where I just want to point out the profile of Paul's opponents who are on Crete, Paul and Titus. This whole first observation could just have a major title called The Profile of the Opponents. I'm going to make a couple observations about their profile. In our passage last week, if you remember, Paul wrote that the Cretan elders must hold fast to sound doctrine and exhort and convict those who contradict. This week we are introduced to those who are contradicting. You get a little snapshot of what they looked like. I want you to notice a few of their attributes, for example. With your scriptures open. Take a look at verse 10. We see a couple remarks or features of these opponents right away. They are insubordinate, they are idle talkers, and they are deceivers. Well, what does that mean? This means, in terms of the insubordination, this means that they refused to submit to apostolic teaching and instead taught something that was different from that standard. If you continue into verse 11, this deception was no light matter. This deception created serious problems among this group of people. Take a look at the problems. Paul specifically mentions that they are subverting in the faith and in practices entire households If you keep reading, it looks like the families became so convinced of this false teaching that they were financially supporting the false teachers themselves. If you keep going down to verse 13, Paul therefore goes so far to draw an analogy between these deceivers and what the poets have said about Cretans. And I'm telling you right now, it's not pretty. You heard the quote earlier. They are liars. They are, I'll give you a paraphrase here. If you did a little bit of work in the language, you'd see that they are liars. They are uncontrolled wild animals. And actually Crete was known for not having many wild animals. And there's a little bit of a pun going on here with Paul saying, we used to not be known for wild animals, but now we got these guys. And they are lazy and they have no boundaries. Now, what kind of thing did they teach? What kind of thing did they use to subvert entire households? Not in only in what they believed about God and what he's doing in the world and what he re and what he requires, but also what he requires of us. You can see in verse 14 a little hint of what's going on here Interestingly, in verse 14, they teach from the Jewish tradition. Isn't that interesting? So it could be outside of what we consider our Bibles because there is other literature written that would be a part of the Jewish tradition. But it also includes the Old Testament, the same book that we have before us in our Bible this morning. Paul calls their teaching something very important, however, in verse 14, he says that they teach fables. This is a key word in all of these pastoral epistles, Titus, 1st and 2 Timothy. The Greek word here you could translate if you just wanted to do kind of a direct transliteration, it's myth. They are teaching myths. They have a kind of mythology that they are delivering to people. And the idea is that these false teachers cleverly use the scriptures. But they would twist and spin the stories and the lessons in the scriptures to support their false narratives. If you have ever had the opportunity to read The Church Fathers, especially in the second century, there are just volumes and volumes of false narratives that these poor young Christians had to fight against. If you ever like to look at some of that literature, perhaps we can look at it together. But that's the idea. We here today call this the spin zone. Well, they had a spin zone back then, too. They furthermore were misunderstanding what it actually meant to have godly practices and to live before God and be holy as He is holy. Look at verse 15. Here they are making the same mistake as the teachers whom Jesus confronted about purity laws or ceremonial washings and Jewish dietary restrictions. Paul's point is that they can have all of the ceremonial washings that they want, they can have the strictest diet that they want, and they will still not be purified Because they've missed the whole point as to what actually makes you clean. Now Jesus talked about that a lot, and Paul is bringing it up again. Food and water do not accomplish those ends. And then lastly, they profess to know God, but they show that they do not really know God because of the way that they live. And that's really what Paul's emphasis is here in this letter going throughout. That's mostly what he means by the word doctrine. It is the lifestyle or the life that is flowing, the works that are flowing out of the faith. I want you to imagine a person saying that they are a great carpenter. And then you go to check on their work and you find that they have a long list of houses that have fallen down. They profess with their mouth that they are good with a hammer and a saw, but their works deny that they are truly carpenters. That's basically what's going on here. They claim to be God's representatives, but their lifestyle clearly shows this to be false. They do not know him and they don't know what they're talking about. They are liars and wild pigs. That would be a good paraphrase of Paul and his energy. Now the second observation is the response we see to the opponents here. As you can see, the Cretan church situation is quite seriously. This is not light stuff. And you have to ask the question: what is Paul going to say to Titus in order to be able to clean this mess up? How should Titus and the elders address this? Well, there's a few things that you can see right there in the passage, and they've been a part of God's people from the beginning, when we have needed to correct error, or since we've needed to correct error. In verse 11, for example, Paul directs Titus and the elders to stop their mouths. Now how? That's in verse 13, at least in this particular situation, and I'll explain that more. In verse 13, what they are to do is rebuke them sharply, so that they would have their mouths stopped. Now there's a biblical history to those words. If you're familiar with Nehemiah, for example, He confronts or rebukes sharply his brethren for enslaving their own people through usury. And they realize that what he's saying is true. They fall under conviction, and then it says by the Holy Spirit in the Word, and their mouths were stopped. Or then they were quiet because they came under realizing what had happened. And they changed. And that's the same thing that we see here in this passage that is the end of Paul. If they're going to rebuke them sharply, what's the goal here? Just to embarrass them? Just to vent your anger? Is that what's going on here within this teaching? That you've just got to say something and get it off of your chest? That's not what's happening here. In verse 13, we see the end. Actually, it doesn't have much to do with you and your feelings at all. It would be that they would be healthy. This is a medical term, by the way, sound that they would be healthy or sound in the faith. So this is a restor this is a restoration project. The rebuking sharply is a part of the restoration project so that they could walk in line with the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's the end. Now, if you were to pull these things together, here is our doctrine this morning. It's quite simple, it's short, and you should be able to write this one down. The church is called to remain healthy in the faith. There it is. The church is called to remain healthy in the faith. Now that sounds kind of obvious, but we need to hear that We can forget that the church is called to remain healthy in the faith. So, along those lines, I want to develop that under the titles Idle Talk and Sharp Rebuke. Idle talk and sharp rebuke. Children, are we ready? Do you have the whole outline listed? You got the doctrine and the two points, right? Okay, idle talk and sharp rebuke. Now Who here walks around saying idle talk? You ever walk into a room and that you know people are talking about stuff they shouldn't be talking about and you go, stop all that idle talk. I've never heard that before in my life. I've never heard anybody say that. May maybe you have, maybe you have that experience. That is not a part uh usually of our personal histories and experiences, people telling us to stop our idle talk. But it is a part of Paul's history. This language goes way into the scriptures. There is quite the sacred history behind these phrases. It is a word used to describe someone who tells lies. Now it's not that narrow. There's other meanings, but it all has to do with lying And especially in this case here, this has to do with someone who's telling lies. You usually find large clusters of this word in the prophets where the prophets are confronting people that are lying to the people. And that's especially if they're leaders. Leaders who are leading everybody into a ditch. The prophets are confronting them In the name of God, and so you end up seeing this word. Now, here, for example, I'd encourage you to confer or have discussion this afternoon over Isaiah chapter 58. In Isaiah chapter 59. You can do that over at the meet and greet or whatever. If you review these chapters, the priests are fasting and they are praying all during the Sabbath They are seeking relief from God, but they say that God refuses to answer, and so they bring up a dispute or a kind of lawsuit with him seeking to convict him that he is wrong for not answering because of all that they have done. And Yahweh responds saying that he ignores their prayers because they fast from food, yes. But they have not stopped fasting from lying and destroying the people around them, and that when they start to do that, then his ears will be open again. That is the point of the two chapters. Now, what is Yahweh referring to when he says that? The affluent had enslaved the population in back-breaking work and rigorous religious practices. Now, that should remind you of the same group of people that Jesus confronted when he was walking the streets of Jerusalem and the surrounding areas. Because it was, it was the same kind of person. Same kind of confrontation, the same affluent people. Now let me ask you this question. How did the affluent accomplish that? How did they enslave and have a heavy yoke on the neck of these people Well, there's a lot of different ways that they would do that, but it can be basically summarized in that they did so by way of raw force. And deceiving the citizens with lies. This is the message of Isaiah. Raw force and lies. Listen to this: Isaiah 59, verses 3 through 4. For your hands, he's speaking to the priests And the leaders. For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquity. Your lips have spoken lies. Your tongue has muttered perversity. No one calls for justice Nor does any plead for truth. They trust in empty words. That's the idol talk. Empty words, and they speak lies They conceive evil and bring forth iniquity. I should remind you of James, by the way. How were they so successful? Because they twisted the scriptures. There's that muthos or myth idea or fable. They twisted the scriptures, just the same thing that Jesus had to confront. I tell you the truth, it you have heard that it was said, but I tell you it's this way. Or you keep teaching that this is how it's supposed to be. I tell you the truth, you have no idea what the scriptures are talking about. This is always what my father intended. You've got the whole thing wrong. You're missing the day of your visitation. You remember those kinds of words? They twisted the scriptures. They did not throw their Bible scrolls in the trash. They still held synagogue. Instead, they reinterpreted the sacred scriptures to fall in line with their illusions. In our Titus passage, as I mentioned already, Paul called these myths. And this terminology was used with the early Christians also. From Christ's ascension until about 300 A. D. , it's of course it's still going on every day today But there was a kind of concentration then. The early church was inundated with lies. One lie after another. They were inundated with people twisting and disordering what God has said to us in the canon of Scripture. There was one early church father who likened this whole thing to kind of putting together a puzzle. That's not his exact words, but that's okay. And in fact, I'd like you right now, as we're talking about this topic, to picture the Bible, the whole Bible, as a giant jigsaw puzzle. Doesn't that sound fun? Anyone here really get into jigsaw puzzles during COVID? You just had like five jigsaw puzzles showing up in your house every day from Amazon, wiping them down with chlorox wipes. Well you can think of the Bible as a giant jigsaw puzzle. You could put together one section of the puzzle, it'd have all these little pieces, and it would be one part of the picture, and that would be the five books of Moses and the main message. The same kind of message that Jesus would have taught the disciples on the road to Emmaus. You'd have another section that you could put together, and it would link up with this section. You could put together another section, you'd have all the message of the prophets. When they had been allowed into heaven to see the great plan that God had and the covenant of redemption and how that was going to work through his son's voluntary work. That could be a whole nother section. You could put together another section with the wisdom writings, and that would click in with those. And you could add another section for the gospels and then the letters, including Titus And that would click into those. And then what you would have before you when you were done, it would be a beautiful jigsaw tapestry of who God is What he is accomplishing through Christ and his Spirit and what he requires of the human race, especially of his church. That's what you would see Now a myth is this. A myth is when you take the same jigsaw pieces like you're a two-year-old and you say, no, it goes here. And you just cram it in. You do not obey the natural shape where it clicks, and it has that wonderful little clicking sound, and you can feel it click. No, we just jam in the pieces wherever we want them to go We are not trying to follow some determined order or the picture that is on the front of the box. Forget the picture. I got my own picture, and I'm going to use the pieces how I want to use them. That's the myth. Now let me give you an example. This one is a real obvious one, and it's important to state obvious things sometimes. David Koresh. Anybody familiar with him, but not too familiar? Okay, you let me know. You've been reading this stuff, we'll talk. I'll show you what a sharp rebuke is. David David Koresh. He is for those of you who are younger and you don't know who this this guy is, that's great. You're better off. He is a cult leader in the nineties. And he would use the scriptures in order to support all of the ways that they believed about the world and the practices that they would do together. Okay? So here's one. He taught that we should not eat any dairy products. Now this is a really light one. Okay, he's got some other stuff that I do not want to mention in a mixed audience But here's one for you. Hey ladies, no cheese. Those of you who like tacos, no cheese, no sour cream. Okay? Is Ryan Donovan here? Ryan, no milk with ice in it. Okay? No dairy products for you if you're going to join this cult. And this was his reasoning. Dairy products are made from milk, which is baby food. And milk is what you drink when you're a baby. And we're adults now. Okay, now let me ask you, what scripture is he twisting in order to get you to practice the abstinence from dairy products and to never enjoy a taco again? What scripture is he using? He's got a couple there's a couple here. Can you anybody quote it? Yeah, the Hebrews passage, right? So here it is. For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the first principles of the oracles of God, and you have come to need milk and not solid food For everyone who partakes only of milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. But solid food belongs to those who are adults. Or full age. That is, those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. Now, picture those two things. You have the Quaresh version and you have the Bible version. Same jigsaw pieces. Do you see how he took those jigsaw pieces and crammed them in? And it is a very different picture than what we see here in the author of Hebrews. Now we're trained enough to know that, but they were not, and terrible things happened to those families. David Koresh convinced those men To give up all of their wives and give them to him so that he could bring forth the Davidic line, since he was the Davidic Messiah. Tell me that that wouldn't take you a long time to get over if you were released from such enslavement. Now that touches the heart, doesn't it? We're not just talking about dry doctrine. I don't really believe in dry doctrine. I think it's all sweet. But sometimes the way that we talk about these things is that you think Paul's just concerned about intellectual abstractions or something. We're talking about people's lives here. He mentioned That there are entire households that are being overturned or subverted. It's the same thing that happened in Waco, Texas, with David Caresh. That's the kind of situation that Paul is dealing with. Now, what are some things that we can notice about this? First, the scriptures are used by some people, but they are not put together Like we see the picture on the front of the box. That's really important. They use the scriptures, but they twist them, and it's a different picture than what is right on the front of the box And the church has gone to great lengths to make sure that we can all agree as to what the picture is on the front of the box. And you want to know a good snapshot of it? That the Western Church has agreed upon. It is the Apostles' Creed that you sang this morning. That is the picture. It is a Trinitarian picture, three persons, one God, and what he is doing. And It is not just a matter, this is the second thing we can notice from this, is that it's not just a matter of getting some philosophy wrong As a person thinks, so they are. And those things will lead to destruction. Have you ever noticed that the apple seed is really small? But when you plant that thing, you wait a few years and that thing is big. And it's the same thing with these kinds of false philosophies and teachings. is they can begin small. It can seem like no big deal, but it can grow up and destroy. It can grow up and destroy like we saw with the Davidians in Waco, Texas. Now, of course, lies are made popular in other ways besides false Bible teaching There are many lies going around that do not use the scriptures to support themselves, but it's the same kind of thing, and there is a subversion of one household after another that ends in tragedy. Our culture and its media push the lies, and sometimes our families accept the lies. Grandparents can be liars. That's the kind of age we're in. Grandparents can be liars and they can lead children astray. I have seen that I have also seen children make decisions, and because grandparents don't want to lose their relationship with their children. They will start to shrink from their faith instead of losing the relationship. And I'll tell you what, that is a difficult circumstance. Can you imagine being a grandparent? You waited all your life to be so excited to have a little grandchild and then they finally make it into university and you probably paid their first semester tuition bill And they come back and they say they will not talk to you because of this, that, and the other thing. Unless you do this. Can you imagine what kind of position that puts them in? You know what started that whole thing? You know what the real splinter is between the grandparents and the child at that point? Lies That's the result of lies. It's a destruction of families. It's the destruction of nations. And in our age, these are not light situations that we are facing. We are facing shots at the foundation at every moment. What we are experiencing is what Titus and Paul experienced. Lies, deception, and myths. Now, I want to say a few words about the sharp rebuke also. We've covered idle talk. We've seen a little bit of its history within the canon of Scripture. There's much more that we can say about that. And now let's talk about one of the bombs. One of the pieces of medicine or the pills to start helping with the sickness, and we're going to therefore title this under Sharp Rebuke. Here's the question that we all need to ask. What do we do with liars and myth tellers? What do we do with liars and those who twist? What do we do with those who refuse to put the jigsaw puzzle together the way it was made to be put together? And the answer to that is it depends. It really does. It depends. And I have to put it that way because I don't want us to miss Read Titus here. You could, because of the history of the American Church, you could think that Paul is giving you instruction here that no matter what situation you're in, The response that you're supposed to give is sharp rebuke. That is not what Paul is doing. Paul is not Asking you or telling you or instructing you to sharply rebuke your two-year-old when they said something by accident And that's why I say it depends. One important truth to remember is that Paul is writing this letter in order to give pastoral counsel to Titus. And therefore, that means that Paul has a situation in mind, and his instruction is tailored to that particular situation. Let me ask you this. This is like I think one of the strongest proofs that Paul tailors things while never denying the truth. Is Paul against circumcision? Those of you who know your scriptures. It looks like he's continually arguing against those who want people to be circumcised. But then we notice that he has someone circumcised. And it shows you that he's working in a little bit of a different place. He's not trying to absolutize everything. He is remaining within the truth, but then acting in wisdom and applying the scriptures appropriately, depending on the situation, without ever doing something false. That's what the Apostle Paul is doing. And that means that Paul has a situation in mind here, and his instructions are tailored to that situation. So in other words. Our response to lies or myths should be the appropriate response to the particular situation. In our passage, the situation is quite serious, and I tried to bring that out with the Davidians and Quaresh. The liars are persuading families, and so the liars need a sharp rebuke. Now, I want you to skim down in Titus chapter 3, verse 10. We'll get to this later, obviously. But look at Titus 3:10. The sharp rebuke did not work. So now what is the tool that we're going to use? You see what I'm saying? Here are those same liars, they did not listen, and so now they are rejected or excommunicated from the community. That is a different tool. What do we do with liars and myth tellers? We respond with wisdom based on the degree of concern and the impact on the church and who the person is. We never tell them that they're truthsayers. No matter what, because they are in fact lying, but there are many things that go into how to wisely respond to people. As we read the situation, And the people, the methods change. We can move from reminders to exhortations to sharp rebukes to rejections as appropriate responses to what we find directly in front of us. And how it will affect the larger bodies that we're a part of. Now, the other thing I want to point out about this second point with the sharp rebuke is: did you notice one of the goals? That Paul has for all of this. What is the goal that they are striving for? It's just one goal. There are other goals. What is the goal? That Paul gives to Titus here. Why do we remind? Why do we reject It is this, twofold, that their mouths would be stopped, and they would be sound in the faith In the Bible, when your mouth is stopped, it means you are convicted by the truth and you are leaving your diseased thoughts and ways behind you, and you are seeking health. And the person who rebuked you had the health right there for you, so you just embraced the health, and now you're healthy too. And everybody's healthy together, and we don't have to quarantine you. Sound in the faith is ancient medical terminology, and it means to become healthy after you have been sick. It means to set the bone so that your leg doesn't heal like this. Now let me ask you a couple questions. How do you know if someone is sick? I mean in the way that we're talking about. I don't mean you're going to check somebody's forehead. How do you know if someone is sick? In belief and life, here's the answer: in belief and life, they have strayed from the faith as delivered to us. By the prophets and apostles with Jesus Christ as the cornerstone. That is the only rule for faith and life, and it is called the Word of God. Correctly understood. The Western Church has agreed that the Apostles' Creed, which we sang today, is a good representation of the faith. The Westminster Confession, which we have adopted as a church, is an expanded version of the Apostles' Creed. And it is a good representation of faith in life also. Now, here's a second question for you. What do you do if someone is sick in this way? I think to use medical terminology, we would say we want to give them the medicine that matches. Isn't that helpful? Can you imagine dealing with every medical situation by way of just taking off the limb? Well, I got a splinter in my finger. Take off the limb. Right? Could you imagine? And we don't want to do that same kind of medical treatment in the spiritual medicine that we're talking about here. If a person is disheartened, you apply the balm of encouragement to them. If they are insubordinate, if they are lying, if they are subverting families, you give them the antibiotic of sharp rebuke, and if they do not listen, then they have to be removed from the community. But remember, we're still trying to apply medicine. Look at Paul when he removes people from Christian communities. He even sometimes just drops into a prayer saying that maybe even through this giving them over to Satan, they would be restored to God. It's all medicinal. The prayer and the hope is for them and the church to stay healthy, for the church to match the picture on the puzzle box. That's all we're trying to do. And here Paul has given us some means to handle the kind of people that don't care about the puzzle box and they like that they're sick. They call their sickness health. And they call wrong right. And they call bitter sweet. And sometimes they need a sharp rebuke. But this is all towards a particular end in our doctrine this morning. And that is that the church is called to remain healthy in the faith. Amen. Please pray with me.