Mark chapter six, verses one through six. God's holy word for God's holy people Then he went out from there and came to his own country, and his disciples followed him. And when the Sabbath had come, he began to teach in the synagogue And many hearing him were astonished, saying, Where did this man get these things? And what wisdom is this which is given to him that such mighty works are performed by his hands? Is this not the carpenter? The son of Mary? And brother of James, Joseph, Judas, and Simon? And are not his sisters here with us? So they were offended at him But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country, among his own relatives, and in his own house. Now he could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people And healed them. And he marveled because of their unbelief. Then he went about the villages in a circuit, teaching. Let us pray. Almighty God, thank you for your word. Thank you for keeping it pure and entire throughout the ages. Thank you for The many gifts of gifted theologians and teachers who have helped us to understand your word. But most importantly, Father, we thank you for your spirit. leads us into the truth through this your word preserved for us. We beg you that you would use him to lead us into your truth now. And I pray, Father, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength, my rock, my redeemer. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I don't know if any of you are familiar with the the old TV show Lost in Space, anybody? You might know the new one. They made a new one. It's actually pretty neat. It's very much unlike the old one because it's pretty cool. But the old one, if you recall, there was a robot. And the robot would say things like, Danger, Will Robinson. My favorite thing that the robot would say, do you remember what the old one would say? That does not come back That means children, if something does not compute, it means it does not make sense. They would give the robots data, and the data would not make sense. It could not be computed. Well, we're going to come, as you may have uh seen while we were reading, there's a situation in which there's some discontinuity here between Between what people observe, the data that is given to them, and then the conclusions that they draw, it simply does not compute. to many of you. It comes from Proverbs chapter 3, verses 5 to 6. If you if that doesn't jar your memory, don't worry. I'm going to go ahead and read it. In Proverbs 3:5-6, we are told, Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding in all your ways. Acknowledge him, and he shall Direct your paths. Sometimes when things do not compute, it's because we're leaning on our own understanding. And what do we need? We need in all of our ways to acknowledge God, and He will Direct us. Now in Mark, we have been going through this gospel, we're up to chapter six now, and we've been seeing these snapshots. They're pictures, if you will, as if in a photo album. These are pictures of Jesus' life and his ministry. And they show us something very clearly. They show us that Jesus is the Son of God. He is doing what only God can do. Maybe you've recalled what we've talked about so far. Do you remember that Jesus cleansed and healed a leper? This is something that in all of the Bible only God can do. could do that. He forgives sins, something that only God can do. And he proves that he has that power, if you remember, by healing that paralyzed man, telling him to take up his He casts out demons. He heals many of their diseases and their infirmities, like we read in Isaiah 53. This is what the Messiah came to do. to take that punishment, that penalty, that pain and suffering of sin upon himself. And of course we know that Jesus teaches with wisdom and with authority, like no one else ever had before him. If you recall, even the winds and the waves are powerless against the command of Jesus. Chapter 5 is what we just wrapped up last week. We saw much of Christ's power displayed as he reverses the effects of the fall. In the episode, the photo or picture with the Gathering Demoniac, we see that Jesus has the power to conquer depravity. He conquers our sin. In the episode with the woman who had that twelve-year flow of blood, do you remember what Jesus conquered? He conquers sin, uh suffering, and misery. If anyone suffered more than her, I I don't know if I've met someone. that suffered that way. But Christ Himself could conquer it. And not only did He conquer that suffering, He healed her body, but He cleanses her. Completely. He he shows her that she belongs to him by calling her daughter. That she is a part of his household. And do you remember what he said to her? He said Go in peace. Your faith has made you well, or literally, your faith has saved you. And last Sunday we saw Jesus' power to conquer even death. As he raised Jairus' daughter to life. We saw the faith of Jairus as he he was driven to seek Christ for his answer, and that in seeking Christ his hopelessness, his fear was driven away from him. He sought Jesus in faith. He heard Jesus' exhortation, no fearing, only believing. And through faith, continuing on to his house, he was able to see See the awesome power of God as the Messiah, Jesus, raised his daughter to new life. Well, what we see in the passage before us tonight in Mark chapter 6, verses 1 to 6, is a very different response to Jesus than what we were given in chapter five. And it should serve as a serious warning to all of us. Brothers and sisters, and in this passage, we learn something very valuable. Christians must beware the path of prejudice because it comes with a terrible Price. Brothers and sisters, you and I must beware the path of prejudice if we are to avoid its turn. And so we're going to look at this in two divisions here tonight. We're going to look first at verses one through three and examine the path of prejudice, and then we'll look together at verses four through six, in which We will examine the price of prejudice. The path of prejudice, and then the price of prejudice. So let's look now together at this first section, which shows us the path of prejudice. It's verses 1 through 3. Prejudice, if you were to look it up in the dictionary, most of them would have a definition similar to something like this. It's a preconceived judgment or an adverse opinion formed without just grounds or sufficient knowledge. Or an irrational attitude of hostility directed against an individual or a group. In other words, prejudice is an assessment of reality that is not Based on actual reality. It is a premature judgment, or a pre-judgment, if you will. To get that pre-judgment, it is a premature Prejudice, prejudging. And I want to look at this idea of the path of prejudice. We're going to see it in three different ways. We'll see how it affects reality. And the first way that we see it is we see that it affects uh it affects the reality which we observe. Let's look at verse one together and we're going to go through to the beginning of verse two. Then he went out from there and came to his own country, and his disciples followed him. And when the Sabbath had come, he began to teach in the synagogue. And so what we notice is that Jesus is doing here in Nazareth much of what he has done since he began his ministry. He's traveling around with his disciples, and he's he's going to God's people. Delivering God's word to them. Well, what's the difference here? There's only one And the difference is that Jesus is doing this in his own hometown. The word literally in the Greek means fatherland. the land of his father. It's from where he's he comes. In Mark 1, verse 9, Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee. And after his baptism by John in the River Jordan, and after his time of testing in the wilderness, he returns to Galilee. And this is where his teaching and his miracles they cause his fame to spread throughout all the region around Galilee. You can see that in chapter 1, verse 28. The wondrous works of Mark V. The second half that we were talking about, those happened in Galilee. They were in Capernaum, and that's if you were to look at a map, Capernaum is barely twenty miles away from Nazareth. He's going there to his fatherland, and he's going to do the same kind of things that he was doing in these other places. Those works were real. Jesus is teaching. It's real. That's reality. And so what was happening in Nazareth as he was doing these things? Well, Mark tells us that But for some reason, reality that they observed was not clear to them. And so we see in this next part of this section, we see that the reality which was observed then becomes A reality which is questioned. We see that in verses, the second part of verse 2 and the beginning of verse 3. It isn't that those in Nazareth were improperly observing what Jesus was doing, rather, they were questioning him. the reality of what Jesus was doing. They had heard his teaching. They knew of his mighty works, and many were astonished. Look there at the rest of verse Verse 2. It says, And many hearing him were astonished, saying, Where did this man get these things? And what wisdom is this which is given to him that such mighty works are performed by his hands? This is a common theme we've seen in Mark, this astonishment, isn't it? There are many who marvel at Jesus when he teaches and when he's doing the will of his Father in heaven, demonstrating divine power and wisdom. But we see that in Nazareth there's something different. Their astonishment and their marveling, it was not like it wasn't like the disciples when they marveled, who is this man? It's not like those villagers who saw the restored man who was finally clothed, rational, sitting in his right mind. It wasn't that kind of astonishment. They were astonished because Jesus' teaching and his miracles did not fit into their understanding. It did not fit into their prejudice. It didn't fit with what they thought they knew about Jesus. And what was it that they thought they knew about Jesus? Jesus. Well, they thought they knew who he was. They thought they knew where this Jesus fit into the world. Do you see that in verse 3? Where they say, Is this not the carpenter? The son of Mary and brother of James, Joseph, Judas, and Simon? And are not his sisters here with us? He's the carpenter. That's where he sits. He's a worker. He's a working man. He's just like the rest of us. Who does this guy think he is? Why is he teaching as if he were trained Right? Why is he acting like he's one of those special people who was brought up at the feet of Gamaliel, like Paul says? Does he think that we should listen to him? He's just a carpenter. They say that they they know his family, right? His his brothers weren't anything special. His sisters, they weren't anything special. In fact here with us. We can look at them. There's nothing special I want you to notice something though. They call him the son of Mary. And if you're familiar with the Jewish custom, the custom was to identify somebody by the name of their Father, right? Simon bar Jonas. He's Simon the son of Jonas. Or James and John, the sons of Zebe. We don't know the name of their mother. And that was because it was a sign of honor and respect to identify them with the father. Yet they identify him as the son of Mary. His mother, and that gives us some insight into what their prejudice had made them think about Jesus. You see, they did not forget the challenging circumstance of Jesus' birth. It shows that they did not believe, no matter what Joseph said, that Joseph was indeed his child, adopted or otherwise. They thought they knew him. They thought they knew that he was the product of some strange activities, the products of some sin. And so how could someone like this. How could he have this wisdom and perform these mighty acts? By thinking they knew him, that they knew all about him and where he came from, perhaps even thinking that they knew that unspoken truth. About his origins, they gave themselves the right, in their own mind, to reject him They rejected who Jesus is. And so we see in the end of verse 3, they had observed reality in a very strange way. They were questioning the reality that they saw, and now they reject the reality of who Jesus is. It says in the second part of verse 3, so they were offended at him. Literally they were scandalized by him. This word for translated offended is the word scandalizo. It's from which we get the word in English, scandalize or scandal. They relied on their own understanding, their prejudice, more than on what they could see and on what they had heard about Jesus. In fact, they didn't give reality a chance because they didn't think they needed They already knew all that they thought they needed in order to make a judgment about this Jesus character. And brothers and sisters, this is the path of prejudice. We can fall onto it ourselves. We think we know enough to make up our minds. We we trust our own judgment. We trust our own assessment of the facts. We trust our our own understanding of how God works and through whom God works. And brothers and sisters, we'll see That following that path has a terrible price. So let's look together now at the second section, verses 4 to 6, in which we see the price. Jesus' statement in verse 4 teaches us that prejudice twists our understanding. Look what he said. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country, among his own relatives, and in his own House. The prophets of old were were known far and wide. All of Israel and Judah knew who they were. Good thing, but they were recognized as the one whom the word of the Lord came to, or those who spoke, thus saith the Lord. But I want to remind you of Amos. Amos a prophet. And he says to us that he he wasn't a prophet, nor was he the son of a prophet. Do you remember what Amos' calling and occupation and vocation He was a shepherd. No one would have expected him to be God's mouthpiece. He's a shepherd. He was a working man. His w his hands they weren't they weren't covered in ink or or paper cuts like the scribes. He was a shepherd. You know what his hands were covered in? Filth. Dirt. Imagine if Amos had tried to go back to all of his fellow shepherds and said, Uh, the word of the Lord came to me What do you think they would say? What? Y Your your robe is as tattered as mine is, and why would the word of the Lord come to you? It's never come to me. I want you also to notice that others recognize the blessing of God in those men. Jesus says they were not without honor. That's an important thing to say. But when they were at home, when they were with the people who thought they knew them best? There are many people here in our church who could share with you their experiences in their own families after their conversion. For some, even decades later, even decades after being saved, their families just They just can't believe it. And similar problems occur with people who kick difficult drug habits or who were were alcoholics and and finally uh by the grace of God are able to push that aside. The people who knew them in that former life as drunkards or or as uh vagabonds, those people would have a really hard time Time accepting any wisdom from their mouths. Especially because they could say, weren't you the one that I remember passed out in the ditch over there? Aren't you the one who was Was supplying us with all these terrible things. And so we see that the first price of prejudice is a twisted understanding. We don't Understand what's really going on. But that's not all. We see from the reaction of the Nazarenes that prejudice restrains us from seeking God. Look at verse 5. Now he could do no mighty work there except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them. Boy, if we're not careful, this almost sounds like Jesus had no power. Kids. Are you aware of Tinkerbell? You guys know Tinkerbell? You ever heard of Tinkerbell? Tinkerbell? Yeah? You remember the the story with Tinkerbell? You have to believe in the fairies for the fairy to be real. Jesus is not Tinkerbell, kids. You don't have to believe in Jesus for him to exist. He exists whether you believe him or not. So it is not a matter of lack of belief took away his power or his divinity. divinity. But rather, if we were to look at Matthew's account of this event, it helps us. If you look at Matthew thirteen verse fifty eight, Matthew says, Now he did not do many mighty works there because of their un Okay, so that puts a new light on it for us. Jesus obviously didn't lose his power altogether. It even tells us that he laid his hands on some of them, healed them. The problem is not with Jesus, is it? The problem was with the people. There wasn't a demoniac running full speed at Jesus crying out at him, that then we got to see how Jesus There wasn't this poor woman suffering for a decade who again just wanted to grab the hem of his garment. We don't have that so that we could see how Jesus, his power is exercised. The Nazarenes did not seek Jesus. They were astonished at what they heard him teach. They wondered at the wondrous mighty works that they had heard him perform, that maybe they had even seen him perform. But they did not seek him that he would perform those mighty works for they themselves. What happened there was a self-inflicted harm. There could have been a a record of the mighty work that Jesus did there, but there isn't James, Jesus' brother, who was mentioned in verse 3, after his conversion, God uses him, and he becomes the leader of the church in Jerusalem. He's even a writer of Scripture. Did you know that? His brother writes Christ. What is the book of James in the New Testament? And in James 4, verse 2, he says, Yet you do not have, because you do not ask. And I I wonder to myself if it was this episode that he perhaps he was a witness of or had heard about that the Spirit recalled into his mind when he gave him Those words to write. Prejudice has a terrible price. It twists our understanding, it restrains us from seeking God, and ultimately, the ultimate price is it leads to unbelief. And that's what we see in verse 6. And he marveled because of their unbelief. Then he went about the villages in a circuit teaching. Their unbelief was so severe that Jesus marveled at it. He was astonished by it. Does that give you pause? That he who knows all the atoms in this whole universe by name was surprised or astonished at something. Can you think of the other time we're told that Jesus was marveling or astonished? In Matthew 8, verse 10, we have a record of an event in Capernaum, also in Galilee, where Jesus marvels. And do you remember what he marvels at? He marvels at the truth. Faith of the centurion. The centurion who believed that his servant would be healed if Jesus simply gave the command. And Jesus says, Assuredly I say to you, I have not found such great faith, not even in Israel. The people of Nazareth thought they knew Jesus. They thought they knew where he came from, and their judgment of who he was and what he should be doing led them down the path of prejudice. To pay the ultimate price, which was unbelief. And so what did they, what happened to them? They missed out. They missed out on the great blessings of Emmanuel. God with us. The Lord Himself walked among them, was teaching in their synagogue. He would have brought his royal mercy and forgiveness to them, healing their diseases and cleansing them of their iniquity, but instead Because they didn't seek him. Because they thought they already knew enough about him. Because they didn't follow him. They suffered because of him. And so I'd ask you, in closing, brothers and sisters, are you on the path of prejudice? Really Think about it. Take time this week. Think about this. Think about whether or not you're on the path of prejudice with regard to Christ's church. And his officers. They are gifts from God. This is what the Bible tells us. Officers of this church, this church is itself is a gift from God to you, Christian. But have you already decided in your mind that we can't help you? Are you struggling trying to understand what God wants you to do? How He wants you to live How he wants what he wants you to major in in college? Are you having a difficult time figuring that out? Why not take advantage of the gifts God's given you? Or have you already decided that it just won't do any good? Have you decided in your mind that, well, maybe you would want the help from our the officers here, but you've just the decided that they don't really have the skills that you need in order to help you because we haven't gotten degrees in counseling or psychotherapy. We we can't Help? Or perhaps it's even worse than that. Have you judged the elders and the pastor here as someone who doesn't want to help? Is that what keeps you from coming and taking advantage of the gifts of Christ? Or let's think about it. Think about it, maybe, maybe not in the church. Maybe you do well with that. You understand what God is doing and how he's working in the church, but it's more about individuals and personal relationships for you. Have you become a prejudiced person when it comes to other people? This is one way you can test that. Is there a person that pops up into your mind And you have a specific feeling or thought about them based on something they did ten years ago? Has someone had a maybe a harsh word to you? And because one time having a harsh word to you Do their past mistakes automatically negate any Present or future relationship. Do you say to yourself, when you encounter other people, perhaps let's bring it back into the church. Maybe you think about this. We've had a an influx of many families. families from different areas with different backgrounds in the last two years. Have you looked at some of those families and said, ah, I've got them figured out? They're those people. They came from that church. Or they go to that school. And so I already know. I already know. I I'm not even gonna bother trying to talk to them. Those people. That's how those people operate. If you find yourself resonating with some of those thoughts, I encourage you to go to Christ. Go to Christ and beg him to heal you of prejudice. To heal you of the pride. You know, it's funny, that book, Pride and Prejudice, is so aptly titled because Pride and Prejudice Prejudice are so very close together. They're they're right next to each other. They might even be conjoined twins. Because prejudice really is a form of prejudice. Pride, isn't it? Because we think what we already know is enough, and the judgment we've already made is enough. And so the last thing I'll ask you, maybe you're not prejudiced against others. Maybe you're not prejudiced against the church or against Jesus Christ, but are you prejudiced against yourself? Have you already decided that there is no use trying to say no to that sin because you've failed so many times before? Do you tell yourself that you can't change and you'll never change, and so you don't even try? Do you look at your forebears? Do you look at your father and your mother, and you say to yourself, There's no hope for me. I'm just gonna be a grumpy old codger like my dad. And so you don't even try. That's not always the case. Brothers and sisters, beware of the path of prejudice. It is so close to pride. And like pride, it carries that terrible price. And before you realize it, you may be paying the price Which is unbelief. You may be missing out on God present at work in your home, in your fatherland. Present, walking with you, doing wondrous deeds. You may miss out on that if you do not turn away. May our gracious Lord open our eyes to our own prejudice. if this is who we are, and direct our paths according to his infinite and mighty wisdom and power. Please pray with me