I'll be reading from 1 Corinthians chapter 1 this morning, so you could turn there. And I'm going to read a little bit of the context, although I'll be preaching only on uh verses 30 and 31. And I'll begin in verse fourteen and I'll go all the way through thirty-one. And I'm I am sorry to ask you to do this, but I'm going to ask you to stand. We're doing squats today. So I'll start in 14. Now know though that we're jumping right into the middle of a dialogue that Paul's having with the Corinthian church. Paul is praising them in the first nine verses for the gifts that Jesus Christ has given to this church, particularly in utterance, he says, or eloquence and being able to articulate gospel truths. He's then going to go into a report that has been given to him from a family where there's a number of divisions happening. And those divisions are uh w some people are gravitating toward one teacher over another. And they're now set against one another as if they were in different political parties. And Paul argues against them and says, Christ is not divided. And you don't understand, they're all Christ's servants, and so therefore we should all be unified. And then we jump in here on that argument on verse 14, and I'll go to thirty-one. I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius, lest anyone should say that I had baptized in my own name. Yes, I also baptized the household of Stephanus. Besides, I do not know whether I baptized any other. For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of no effect. For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to those who are being saved it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through wisdom did not know God, it pleased God that through the foolishness of the message preached. To save those who believe. For Jews request a sign, and Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. To the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness. But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men For you see your calling, brethren, that not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called, but God has chosen the foolish things of this world to put to shame the wise And God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty, and the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen, and the things which are not, to bring to nothing the things that are That no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him, you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us For us wisdom from God, and righteousness, and sanctification and redemption, that as it is written, He who glories, let him glory in the Lord. Please pray with me. Father, this is your Son in whom you are well pleased. I ask that you would glorify him in the hearts of your people. Amen. Please be seated. That didn't help, excuse me. We're in a foundational series, Quorum Deo, living before the face of God in a culture that wants us to be ashamed of the gospel. There's a summary. If you'd like another summary, you can look behind me. You can see that it is the Trinity, specifically the Father. who has sent the Son in the ultimate act of obedience, and is now reigning as King and has sent his Holy Spirit to his church There's no other truth outside of this entire series. And our whole church will revolve around that Trinitarian aspect. And that's why we have that there. I'm actually thinking maybe some dove banners on either side for the Holy Spirit to show up. That would be nice. But that is the series that we're in. Now last week we were seeing that we are b can be blinded even after conversion, after being made new, having our eyes opened, I was once once was blind and now I see, we can still struggle with blindness in being able to see the love of the Father because we miss the true nature of the Son. All the focus was on the Father. God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son. Everything was focused on the love of the Father. And we mentioned that the Father, or I mentioned that the Father fills a treasury full of gifts, and that treasury is Jesus Christ. So Jesus came up last week, but we were still just focused on the Father. This week we now move and we focus on the treasury himself. We focus on the Son. How do we live with the Son? How is it that the Son has prepared us to live with the Father? Now, in the last sermon, when we spoke about the love of the Father, we spoke specifically of the suffering of humanity. Because it is suffering and tragedy, even at low levels, that begin to cause us to question whether God really loves us or not And that starts to threaten the love of the Father, which he's worked so hard to establish. And I turned you to the cross to always remember his love. This week, the thing that can get in the way of being able to understand the graciousness of the Son. is we truly believe that he has left us as orphans. And that hope will be dispelled, at least in part. I have this picture in my mind of Jesus. Let's say that he was the one responsible to provide gifts for you on Christmas. And I think a lot of people feel that they wake up on Christmas morning and there's nothing under the tree. That all he wanted was stuff from you and he's never given anything. But the title of this sermon and the topic that we're dealing with here specifically in this passage is the grace of the Son. Now you I don't know that you have picked up on this, but if you were to look at the etymology of the word grace, it really has to do with gift. It has to be with a person who graciously gives. And that's the way in which a lot of our scriptures are translated as you'll see the word grace all over the place, and it has a lot to do with giving. Not receiving, but giving. And so we're looking at the love of the Father. That is how the Father has published himself. That was last week. And this week we're looking at the graciousness of the Son. And here's basically the main point. Everything about him, who he is and his essence, and everything that he does is for you Everything. He is gracious to his core. And if you can't see that, then you don't know the sun. He's gracious to his core. I want to begin to look at that in three ways. There's the personal grace of Jesus Christ, or two ways today. the personal grace of Jesus Christ and the purchased grace of Jesus Christ, and then we're going to the supper. And I can't wait to get there. We're going to go to the supper. So the very first thing we see in this passage, and I'm just focusing on thirty and thirty-one, this is a summary really of There's so many more gifts that come from him, and there are other passages where we can unfold privileges such as adoption, etc. , that flow out of these things. But in 30 and 31, we begin to see a list or an enumeration of the graces that Jesus gives to his people. that the Father gives through the Son. And you can see it specifically in verse 30. And you may not have caught this. So take a look with me. But of him you are in Christ Jesus. Who became for us wisdom from God. Now when you read the for us there, being in our modern age, you think there's some kind of uh uh um Wishy-washy statement here. Some kind of subjectivism that's entered into the text, and that's not what's going on. He's not saying in the passage Although lots of people reject Jesus Christ in our culture or in your culture, at least for us, he is the wisdom of God. That's not what he's saying. And he he's not saying, now you may have what you believe, and I have what I believe, so Jesus for me Is the wisdom of God. That's not what he's saying. He's not making some pluralistic statement to be able to try to be respectful to a bunch of different viewpoints. That's not what's happening here. He is saying specifically That he was created, that he was born, that he came to the earth for you. That's the statement That's what he's making. This isn't a matter of interpretation. He's saying the reason or the purpose for which Jesus Christ is given is for you, who was born or who was made for us, the wisdom from God. Now, wisdom from God often has to do with God's planning, and here we're speaking about the climax and the submation of all of God's plan shows up in the person who is Jesus the Christ. That's what he means here. So he's saying all of God's plan, who is Jesus Christ, has been born, who has been made, has been created for you That's the personal grace. That's what I mean. The emphasis is upon his personhood being perfectly suited for what you in fact need. Everything about him, and we can't get into a Christology at this time because I want to go into some other things, and we'll focus on his nature as a person at another time. But it's not just uh the bald and boring doctrine. His personhood, everything in it, you have an interest in it You have an interest. The emphasis upon his personhood being perfectly suited for what you need. And I want you to think of an example, for instance. You know how there are typologies throughout the scriptures where people that came before end up looking a lot what Jesus will look like like later. Well, that's called a type, and then Jesus becomes the real thing, the anti-type. And one type is David. Many people have recognized that, that Jesus is the ultimate David when D and David was was a type of Jesus. And I want you to think of David and Goliath. And you may not have seen this before. You think that the success of the defeat of Goliath just came out of nowhere. But when you look at David's biography, you're able to see that he was actually made, created, and equipped to be able to accomplish what God had desired for him to accomplish, namely the defeat of Goliath. Number one, he wasn't the firstborn. God didn't like choosing them. He waited till the sixth or seventh, the the runt of the litter. And so David was unimpressive, so that God ends up gaining the credit that everyone would boast in God. David had a faith and a zeal for God's honor. If you look at the Goliath passage, he's so upset that some Philistine is slandering the name of God His chest becomes bold and he says, Who is this Philistine speaking like this? I think the author probably cleaned up the language a little bit because they were on the battlefield. And then I don't know if you know this, but uh in in um an account earlier in David's life, and David brings this up in verse 34 of the David and Goliath account. He when he's questioned about his size, that he's the armor's just he's swimming in the armor, he says, Don't you know that I have experience with my slingshot in killing both bears and lions? And so he looks at Goliath, and he thinks of the bear, and he thinks of the lion, and he thinks, God is with me, and he says, I've got this. I don't know how but I've got this. And all it took was one flat stone. Right? One flat stone. That the point though is that David himself was made or equipped by God over the years, when David was killing the bear or the lion. Or when he was born unimpressive of of the runt of the litter, he didn't know exactly what was happening. But he ends up being perfectly equipped in order to be able to accomplish. He had the personal grace to be able to kill uh Goliath and to give grace to the entire nation. And likewise Jesus is the same. And I don't again I don't want to get into a lot of the particulars here. He's conceived by the Holy Spirit in the womb of the Virgin Mary, so that he can be both man and God, and allows him to not inherit the guilt and the sin, the uh and um so that he can be holy and pure and sanctified. He's given the Holy Spirit above measure. There's a number of aspects of his entire nature really that is given so that he can accomplish the task specifically for you. You can literally see him in the manger, or growing up as a young man, and then as an adult, and the entire time you could say, that is God's gift to me. In his very nature, in his very person. Now that's personal grace, and I hope to get to talk about that more as we get into other passages at another time. The second I want you to see is purchased grace There's not only the personal grace of Jesus, he's made just for you, but also the purchase grace. And you can see this again in verse 30, and this is where you start to get into the list. He became for us wisdom for God. How? What does wisdom look like? It looks like righteousness and sanctification and redemption. So I want to look at those three things. The first thing we see in verse 30 is removal. The removal that he brings. It's the grace of removal. And this is what Paul means when he speaks in verse 30 about sanctification. When we hear the word sanctification, we often think about our behavior changing from day to day. That's fine. That is one way in which the word is used. You could say Last year I acted this way, this year I've made some progress in that, and I only half act that act that way now. Or it's all gone. Whatever it is. I've killed the sin. That's not the kind of sanctification that we're talking about primarily here. Not within this context. Here we're speaking about a cleansing from guilt. We're talking about being made separate, being made consecrated, being washed or sanctified. from our guilt, and Jesus is the one that ends up accomplishing this. Now, remember the beginning of the series. The beginning of the series relay to you the second sermon that we are sinners. Very, very difficult thing to swallow But I argued with you at that time, and I don't need to do it now. And remember that it has to do with the imputation of Adam. That although Adam was the one that sinned, we sinned in him, since he was a public person and a representative And we have inherited the guilt from Adam. Because he's guilty, we got the fourfold death. Spiritual death was one of those fourfold. And so our inclination is bent toward evil. We're born loving evil. We're born loving evil. Because of guilt, we are also separated from the Father. And that is so important for you to recognize here within this passage. When we speak about sanctification or cleansing from the guilt, Jesus is starting to pick away at the fourfold death that has been delivered to you. Do you see that? Everything that happened in the beginning of the Bible that was bad, Jesus is picking away and he's taking it away. He's taking away the fourfold death. He's taking as far as the curse is found, one hymn says. Jesus is taking away that curse. The context of reconciliation shows us that he's taking away the curse because the curse is what gets us uh gets in the way of us being able to reconcile to the father. And it's the father that is seeking the reconciliation. That's how he's expressing his love and he's doing so through the grace of his son. The guilt separates us from God, and the resultant evil creates enmity between us and God. We do something that we desire, which is evil. God says you shouldn't be doing that, and he gets on our case about it, and we become angry with God, and now we realize This isn't a good match. I can't live with you. I'm going someplace else. That's what the world has basically said. And Jesus is trying to break that down so that there's no longer any guilt between you and God And there's no longer this enmity which abides in your soul between you and the Father. And he's doing so by sanctifying you first by removing the guilt. To be reconciled, just as in any other reconciliation, the point of contention has to be removed. If the point of contention remains, you're just a peace faker. And God's not a peacemaker. And so he seeks to remove the point of contention, which is the guilt. Now, this is probably you know, I don't know if this is a good illustration, but it at least makes this a bit more colorful. And don't take the analogy too far, please. I think there was a person that had dropped off food at my home once, and they could not come into the house because they were severely allergic of cats. This is not a Donovan. They were they were severely allergic of cats. Now, if you've been to my home, we keep a clean house, okay? So number one, just you know, I don't have cat hair all over the place. But they were severely allergic to the cats, so they couldn't come in. We would have now listen to the language. We would have to sanctify or remove the cats in order to dwell together in my home. Otherwise their eyes would puff up and they'd sort of go into anaphylactic shock, maybe. And it just wouldn't be, you know, the Epi Pen might come out. It would not be pretty. That's not what we would be looking for. And in the same way I'm trying to give you this image, God cannot come in and dwell with us until the guilt is removed. If you want to think of it this way, God the Father has a severe and moral and just allergic reaction to who we are in our guilt and our sin. Now the allergy seems sometimes to be thought of as a sign of weakness, so I don't mean to communicate that about God. I'm just trying to give you the picture that we can't dwell together. We can't be together. Like cats and dogs would be another one. The removal in this case is not a cat, although I have cats and they do they need they're guilty and they're they need to be removed. The removal in this case is not a cat. The removal is guilt and sin. And the removal can't be just by removing a cat. The removal in this case is accomplished By removing our guilt and sin, by the guilt being washed away or sanctified through a just punishment. When you see Jesus cross, Jesus Christ, undergoing the death on the cross, he is doing that because of your guilt. Was he guilty? Then why would he be up there? It's but you have to say, it's because he's a gift from me So we never confess our belief in God or our belief in Christ. We always profess our belief in our God, in our Christ. Because he's your gift. When you see Jesus on the cross undergoing death, he's doing that for you so that you can be reconciled to God the Father. That's What God did, he sent the Son, that He could remove the point of enmity, both in the sin and the guilt Now you see a beautiful picture of this, and you might want to meditate over this, or you could share it with your children during lunch or whoever. You're going to want to read Micah 3, 3 through 5. You can write that down. Micah 3, 3 through 5. High priest Joshua is being suited. for his office there, and he's brought in, and before he can dwell in the presence of God, they make notice and they say, he's filthy. He has a filthy shirt on, and God says, remove the shirt. And that's the point here. Is that the guilt, the filth, the enmity is removed. That's the first thing is that there's a removal, and in this passage that's entitled Sanctification, and Jesus is your gift to be able to accomplish that. And I'll ask you, you know If that's true, if the real problem is sin and guilt, remember it's always in the diagnosis. Who else is going to help you with that? It's only going to be Jesus. The Father has given us the perfect gift. The second thing that we see, though, is not just a removal that needs to happen, is that there needs to also be a recognition And you can see this here in the term righteousness in verse 30. So not only do we need to be cleansed from guilt and sin, but there also needs to be not just a cleansing, but a recognition. Now if you were to read that Micah passage again in 33 through five, God says, Have him dwell with me, they say, but he's filthy. Look at his shirt. He says, Remove the shirt. And then he says, and he looks and he sees a clean shirt and says, put the clean shirt on him. And that's the second part here. You have the removal and then you have the recognition or the replacement here. In Micah 3 through 5, not only does he take off the filthy clothes, but he gives Joshua clean clothes, and he not only gives him clean clothes, but he adorns him with precious jewels. So you can think of a bride and her best, pearls and diamonds, everything perfect, hair perfect, everything perfect. That's what Jesus Christ makes us in the recognition. But it's not through the removal that he does so. If things are just removed, you just stand there without a shirt on, which is embarrassing. The recognition happens from another act of Jesus Christ, and therefore another purchase and another gift. We not only have our guilt removed, but Jesus purchases righteousness for us, and this is done by his life. Now we lose the focus on this sometimes. We have a cross behind me, and we don't have his life behind us, which is a misrepresentation of all of his work. If he were just to have to die for us, why not crucify him when he was real young? Or let him be born old and then just take him right to the cross? Why not be born at the foot of the cross so he could put him right up there But the life ends up mattering. Every single action, every single thought, every single attitude, Jesus was not thinking of himself. He was thinking of you. And he was making all of those as gifts for you in your stead. In the exact same way that the first Adam In his decisions and being a public person and a representation for the entire human race, likewise we see Jesus being put into the that same place as the second Adam. He's a public person. He stands for his people. That's why we say we're in him He stands for his people and everything he does, he does it for you. Everything that he does is you doing it. And so we see that he obeys all laws that you are meant to obey before a just and holy God in all perfection. Everything that you fail at, he succeeds. And he does it because he knows you need his success. Now that includes not only all of the moral law, even within its judicial components, but also what I want to call the law of the mediator In other words, you were not called in your life to be crucified. But Jesus had to do those kinds of things. You weren't called to be baptized by John, but that it would be fitting for all righteousness. Jesus submitted himself even to these things as your mediator, as your surety, as the Messiah. He had to submit to things that you didn't have to submit to. But he did all of those things too. And here you see the second, really the third great imputation. What's the first imputation? It's guilt and sin imputed to us from Adam. What's the second imputation? Our sins to Christ, and that's why he had to die the punishment. And then the third imputation. Is Jesus' righteousness to us. And so you have three great infutations here: our righteousness to him, and so he becomes sin and he receives the just punishment. His righteousness to us. Now perhaps this is another lame illustration, but I think it pictures it. Imagine an Olympic runner. They've trained all their lives. To be perfect in what they do. And they run the race, and they don't hit any hurdles. Or they're the fastest in the world. They're perfection in terms of running. They get done the race, they're brought over to a block, their head is cut off, and you receive the gold medal. That's the picture that we have here in terms of Olympics. Is that we end up receiving the laurel. We end up receiving the victory in the crown because of everything that he has done. Now, those are the two. You have sanctification, which is the removal of the sin and the guilt, and then you have righteousness, which is him giving you the clean shirt, so that now you may exist before God in complete righteousness. And lastly, we have the reclamation. And this is in terms of redemption here. So you have righteousness, sanctification, and now you have redemption. Now you've heard this word actually within our culture. You can redeem proofs of purchase. It's to buy back. You can redeem a person by way of ransom. We use it within our culture. And that's really what's going on here. Is that Jesus is doing all of these things, both his life and his death. He's doing that in order to purchase us back from the curse that God has placed upon us. If you wanted to think in terms of magic There's a curse, a spell now is going to be broken through Jesus Christ. And it can only be broken at the cost of his own life. And at the cost of his own death, and so he purchases us. The scriptures put it by saying, you have not been purchased with worth worthless things, but by the precious blood of Jesus. You have been purchased. The debt has been released, and he is now reclaiming all that was lost. Everything that he has done is in order to be able to purchase you. Every moment of his life is a gift to you. And he is releasing you from the fourfold death. And he therefore gives you four big packages or four big uh presents under the tree. One, we have our relationship with God. He restores that by a removal of the contention. When Adam and Eve sinned, they felt shame because they knew they did something wrong. And when you know you've done something wrong, you also feel fear because of his authority. And now God, He takes you, now Jesus takes you by the hand, and He leads you into the Father's presence. And he says, you have no reason to be ashamed any longer, my son or my daughter. And you don't need to be afraid. Because you are in me. You are having your true self being rebuilt. Some people have disparaged you and torn you down and they have hurt you, but Jesus Christ is in you through his Holy Spirit. And he is remaking you in his image where you are a solid, stable, psychological being. And you're getting that way more and more and more. We all have stuff we need to work through, but he's going to break through it all. You're learning how to be in human community There is no more eternal death awaiting for you, but songs in the night. There's no death, really You will pass away, and instantaneously, without a beat, you'll be in the presence of God in complete holiness. And then you will be reunited with your body, your perfect body upon the resurrection. And you will live in perfect bliss for eth for forevermore. These are gifts from Jesus Christ. And we can't we really can't even see it just yet. But these are the gifts, and this is why we build our lives around the grace of the Son. It's the love of the Father that has sent the Son, and the Son is bringing all of the grace, all the treasures. He's the great treasury of God the Father. And Jesus makes his own contribution, both in his personal grace and how he is created, being born, for instance, from the Virgin Mary, and also his purchase grace, both in his life and his death. And the cleansing through sanctification, the putting on the clean shirt, and also the reclamation or the redemption from all of the fourfold death. That's personal grace and purchased grace. But the Father, in conclusion, and right before we go to the sufferer here, the Father We we have a lot of suffering in our lives and it meets leads us to mistrust the love of the Father. And I've asked you That if you're going to develop a hypothesis about the Father as being cruel or incompetent or not loving, then I need you to consider the true nature of the Son. And if you do, you'll find him to be the greatest lover. And now I'm presenting before you the Son, and the Son in all of his grace. Now, when I do so, here are some things that can go through our minds throughout the week. In the Gospel of John, he says to his disciples, right before he leaves, I do not leave you as orphans, I am with you until the end of the age. And some of us feel the most perfect or long for the most perfect and loving intimacy between us and the Son. We can really connect with Jesus Because he was made in the flesh. And he said to us that he wouldn't leave us as orphans. But a lot of the times we end up thinking that he's left us high and dry. And that he would give us nothing. That maybe it was a big deal when he was walking around on foot and that would have made a big difference in my life, but now he's decided to, you know, to ascend and just stay in heaven and have nothing to do with me. How selfish. That's a hypothesis to try to make sense of the lack of intimacy in your life between you and the sun, but I'm going to ask you to please reconsider the hypothesis. To fight against the temptation and to remember the grace of the Son. And you can do that by recounting for yourself, both in this passage and in others, everything about Him being for you. Everything about him is being for you. Do you remember the story that I told you the one time? And I'll say it really quickly because I think you do remember it And I I keep telling the story, but it's such a great picture of the of the counselor that I went to and he took his son on the cruise. He took his son on the cruise. He has uh severe aspers. And um I believe that's what it is. And the the sun only eats off of yellow only it will eat yellow things and and that kind of stuff. And everything on the cruise he did for the sun. Every waking moment was for his son. And then the son got locked in the bathroom, started screaming, banging on the door. He's finally released. Do you remember the story? And he looks at the father in the face and he says, You never do anything for me. You never do anything for me in a complete rage. And don't tell me that you don't feel like that about the Father and the Son sometimes. Jesus, you never do anything for me. And I believe that Jesus is standing there and he's saying to himself, Everything that I have done with a complete conscience, who I am in my being, every thought, every attitude, and every action has been for you. Could you perhaps develop a different hypothesis as to the problems in your life besides saying that I am not gracious to you and that the Father is not loving? He is the ultimate present. Everything about him is for you. He's made for you. He lived for you. He died for you. He reigns for you. I'll end with these verses from scripture that I just want to read to you to just start bringing these things to your mind. Every place in the New Testament that the word grace shows up, it's Jesus. And it's a gift. And same thing with the preposition in. And then we're going to move to the Lord's Supper. Listen to this. Jesus is so much for you That the only way that the biblical authors can talk about his relationship with you is to talk about as if you've done everything that he has done. This is a faithful saving. For if we died with him, we also lived with him For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I live, I now live in the flesh. I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. I do not set aside the grace of God. And this is the last one, and then I'll pray. Even when we were dead in trespasses, he made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. Let's pray.