If you have a copy of God's Word, I encourage you to open it to Proverbs chapter 3. Proverbs chapter 3. We'll be focusing only on verses 5 and 6 this morning, but for context, I'm going to read from verse 1 through verse 2. Verses five and six will be the focus, but we'll read verses one through verse twelve. God's holy word for God's holy people. My son, do not forget my law. But let your heart keep my commands, for length of days and long life and peace they will add to you. Let not mercy and truth forsake you, bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart and so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths Do not be wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord, and depart from evil. It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. Honor the Lord with your possessions and With the first fruits of all your increase, so your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord. Nor to test his correction, for whom the Lord loves, he corrects, just as a father, the Son, in whom he delights. Please pray with me. Almighty God, we thank you for your word for revealing yourself to us in this especial way. We thank you for preserving it through the ages that we can trust it. That we do not need to worry whether or not it has been altered in such a way that it is no longer containing your truth. Lord, it is your truth. Bless us by your Spirit today to be led into that truth, to trust it, to hold on to it, to found every aspect of our lives upon it. Oh God, we need you. We need you here this morning to transform us by your word and make us more and more Like your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. O God, I pray that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. New Years are fun, aren't they? I don't know about you guys, but the new year it just always it always seems so fresh. Most years go about the same way for me. They follow a similar pattern. At least they have for a long time. It's been seminary, seminary, seminary, summer. Seminary, seminary, seminary. Your life might f follow a similar pattern in that way, but it's new. It's fresh It almost feels like it's unspotted yet. That's why we celebrate. There will be new opportunities, new wonderful things for us to do and to get involved with. But I'm not a prophet or the son of a prophet, but I can say with near certainty, for at least one person in this room, there will come something else new. Well, for some there will be new babies. But there's others that will have new trials, new challenges. Every year there's something new that God will put before us that will put our faith to the test. So the question we must ask ourselves is how? How will we get through that challenge? How will we endure the trial and the test in a way that honors God and brings him glory? Well, brothers and sisters, it'll be the same way that God's people have done this throughout the ages, throughout thousands and thousands and thousands of years. They will get through those challenges and those trials with God's help. It's the only way to get through it, is with God. I've endured some challenges in my life. One of the greatest challenges I had was uh one that you may not have expected. I spent a little bit of time in Italy when I was in college, and We were touring with a brass band and we practiced at this monastery on the top of a mountain and oh it was glorious and wonderful and I made some friends and one of the friends was a tuba player who invited me to this house for lunch Tuba player was just a little bit bigger than me. And I said, yeah, this is great. It's probably gonna be a great lunch. I'm in Italy. Everybody else left and did their own thing and I was just waiting around with Antonio and immediately I regretted saying yes to go to lunch with him. You know why? Because our ride down the mountain was this little teeny tiny motorcycle. So someone my size and someone a little bigger than me were gonna ride together down a mountain on a teeny tiny motorcycle. It taught me a lot about trust. Let me tell you. Taught me what I don't trust. I don't trust myself to lean the right way. I was terrified. I've never held on to another man that tightly in my entire life You know what else I don't trust? I don't trust motorcycles. And I don't trust Italian roads. They're tiny, you can't see around the corners. It was it was probably the most terrifying thing that ever happened to me until I became a parent. And then of course and then of course there's constant terror I learned my lesson. I never got on another motorcycle ever again. And I probably never will until the Lord has done away with pain, suffering, tears, and death And then if there's motorcycles in the new heavens and the new earth, maybe we can go riding together. But I learned about to trust. At that time in college, I had kind of given up on God. I was I was trying to do my own thing. I was following my own life plan, which was I I had planned it out since I was 14. I knew what I was going to do. And this is all part of it. But in that moment That several minute ride down that mountain, wouldn't you believe it? God made me turn back to him tremendously. I prayed, and I don't think I've ever prayed harder than at that time. There will come motorcycle rides down mountains for you guys this year. Maybe you didn't expect it for yourself. Maybe it'll be worse than that motorcycle ride. I mean Getting older is hard. I'm watching my parents as they get older and seeing things fall apart, not work like you thought. There must be some kind of terror when you need to get up in the middle of the night but your legs just won't work. Probably more terrifying than two big fat guys on a motorcycle. How will we get through these difficult situations? Situations that are even more serious than that, only, brothers and sisters, by heeding the truth. of this passage here for us this morning. Because this passage teaches us very clearly that God's people must submit to Him to experience the wondrous life that He has planned for us. For them. Beloved friends, you must submit to God to experience the wondrous life He has planned for you. And I just want to look at this in t in two ways this morning. First, we're going to look at verse 5 and we'll see how we submit to God. We'll go through the first part of verse 6 as well. So we'll look at submitting to God. And then we'll look at the end of verse 6 at the wondrous life. Let's jump into it, shall we? Verse 5. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. And lean not on your own understanding, and all your ways acknowledge him. This is submitting to God. The first thing that we see here is that we must submit to his will. We must trust in the Lord. We must have an active submission, trusting in Him. Who are we trusting in? We're trusting in Jehovah. We're trusting in the God who created all things, who made the heavens and the earth. Who spoke a word and light existed? What does it mean to trust? You ever thought about that? I like to think of it as our faith being put to work. Or faith with feet, if you will. Faith that'll actually move us somewhere. It's not just what we believe. It's what we're going to do based on our belief. If you want to want some good examples of that, you can go to Hebrews chapter 11. You can watch what they have done. How they lived out their beliefs. Think about Abram being called away from everything he ever knew, following A God he may have never imagined would have called him to do this, and he gave up his whole family. Eventually, he gave up the son that was promised to him, didn't he? He was willing to. He was willing to follow God's command up to the mountain. Was willing to sacrifice his only son. Because he actually trusted God. He didn't just believe that God existed. He didn't just believe that God maybe had some good things that would help him get through life. He trusted in the Lord Jehovah. It reminded me of Job chapter 13, verse 15, where he says, Though he slay me, yet I will trust him. We must also submit completely. We submit actively by trusting in God, but we must submit completely. See what it says there? It says, trust in the Lord with what? with all your heart. We're probably familiar that the the Hebrew concept of heart, it doesn't mean this thing that goes to tunk, to tunk, to tunk, pumps blood throughout your body. The heart is us. The heart is you. This is who you are as a person. It's the part of you that will endure after your body dies. It is who God has made you to be. And so completely, with all of who you are, you must trust in the Lord. Hold nothing back. No aspect of your life. It may sound weird, but hey, if you like playing video games, that's okay. Submit even that part of your life to God. Trust in him even in that. Trust in him that you won't be missing out with all your friends if you decide you won't play that game because of the content or the subject matter. That can be hard for teenagers. It can be hard for adults. Trust in God that you won't miss out because you aren't engaging in that social media. Trust that you won't be missing out because you aren't allowing yourself to be given over to the cultural fads that keep coming up here every couple weeks. Give every aspect of your life over to God. Every decision that you have. Yeah, there's big decisions. Sometimes it may feel easier with the big decisions to trust God in them, doesn't it? When we're getting engaged and we start having those questions, well, I never had that question, but I know Ashley did. Is this the person I'm really supposed to marry? Trust in the Lord. Trust that He is working out His perfect plan for you. Has put you with the person that you're supposed to be. And if you find out that it's not the person you're supposed to be with, what should you do? Trust in the Lord with all your heart. One of the things that's really challenging for me is I'm a planner. Are you guys planners? Anyone sit down and really enjoy at the beginning of the day with your cup of coffee being like I have 40, 15 minute chunks to fill. Yay. What am I gonna do? For me it's really hard because when things don't go according to plan, I'm not the nicest person to be around. I'm not very happy with myself or with how things are going. And because of that, I I tend to have plans upon plans upon plans, fallback plans. A, B, C. Something goes wrong. It's okay, I got the fallback. I'm just gonna go to plan B. Plan C. It hurts when all of our fallback plans are exhausted and nothing is going our way. And so I'd encourage you to trust in the Lord with all your heart. It's not bad to plan. But what does the Bible say? Man, we may make our plans, but it is God who orders our steps. Be sure that you're leaving enough room in the planning. For God to be God and to have absolute control over you and your life. You can trust Him. You really can. He has promised that He will never leave you nor forsake you. He has brought you into his family, into his household. He has saved you. He has invested in you. And he doesn't do that. Willy-nilly. He knew that you will be with him for all eternity, and he knew that before he ever made time or matter. God will never let you down. And so you can trust in him. As Abram did, as David did. Did. Remember David in the in the cave when he came across Saul, the guy who's been trying to kill him? What did David do? Did David say, Ah, this is my chance to be free of this man who wants to murder me? He did not. He trusted in the Lord with all his heart. And Saul went free. And that act of mercy and kindness, that act of trust in God. Caused Saul to see his sin. Caused Saul to realize what he had been doing. And so, how do we trust in God with all of our heart? Well, we need to follow the example of our Savior. God incarnate, God in flesh. What did he do? Many, many, many times throughout all of his earthly ministry, to reinforce the trust that he had for his father. He prayed. If Jesus Christ needed to pray as often as he did, what do we think we're doing? Not praying about every decision that we have to make, not praying about every situation. Pray. May prayer be your weapon of choice this year as you fight the battles and the trials that God brings into your life. Every challenge that comes to you, trust in the Lord with all your heart by making your first course of action to be prayer. That's how we will submit to his will. Asking him to guide us that we would follow him But we don't just submit to his will, do we? If you see there in the rest of verse 5, it says that we must lean not on our own understanding. We must submit to God's wisdom. We must submit to God's understanding over our own. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. They just heard the king say, make the fire seven times hotter. These are no dummies. They know what fire does to things. Had they leaned on their own understanding about what would happen to them being cast into that fire. Maybe a very different situation. Daniel 3 may be a very different chapter. And the reason we can't lean on our own understanding is because, I mean let's be honest, we we get a lot of stuff wrong. Have you ever misunderstood anything? Have you ever misjudged? Miscalculated? I'm not a very good carpenter. Because sometimes I miscalculate how long things need to be and I end up you know that measure twice, cut once? Yeah, I measure thirty times, I still cut thirty times. It's not There's no way to get around it. We must recognize our limitations. And again, we must pray. We must pray. If you're anything like me, one of the trials or challenges you're gonna have this year It's going to be with another person. It's either going to be That somebody's doing something that rubs you the wrong way, or if you're like me, you're doing something that rubs someone else the wrong way And when that happens, I encourage you, as this scripture does, do not lean on your own understanding and think that you have it all figured out. It may not be your fault. It may not be their fault. It may be a challenging situation that you have to have because God knows that's the only way for you to become best friends with that person. And he's done that. He's done that for many. Recognize your limitations and your challenges and go to the one who has no limitations. There is no social situation we can bring to God that will stump him or stymie him or leave him wondering what needs to happen He knows exactly what's going on in that other person's life. He knows what's going on in your life and in you and in your personality. He knows what needs to be changed. And so I would encourage you again pray, pray, pray. If you think something is being said to you in a way that you just can't abide that, perhaps praying and asking God, what is really going on? Would be the best course of action. And I want to encourage you, just with a warning, when this happens, be sure that you are praying for the other person. And not simply praying about them. You know what I mean? We can get caught up praying about people. Oh Lord, would you make them not say stupid things? Mm-mm. Pray for them. Say, Lord, I don't know what is really happening here, but we are not getting along. Will you please show us? Show them what they must see. Show me what I must see. Make me different if that's what must be the case. Pray for them that God's will would be worked out in their life. Not that your desires and your will will be worked out in that situation. Most of the time when we have these interpersonal conflicts, we just want it to go away. We want to keep the peace and just go away. Remember all of those things we learned in the peacekeepers, uh, the peacemaker series? Learning that we must put God's glory first. And God is glorified by taking those He loves and chastening them and making them more like Christ. And so we must submit to God's will, we must submit to his wisdom, and we must submit to him. Look at the beginning of verse 6. In all your ways. Acknowledge him. Well, first off, if you're going to acknowledge God, which this word here in the Hebrew is the word to know. You have to know him to acknowledge him. And so you must be in God's word this year Let this be the year of heavenly manna for you. If you have never read the Bible front to back, I encourage you, let this be the year, the first year that you do that. If you have read the Bible front to back a couple times, let this be the year that you start doing it every year. Read it. Know your God. Know the God who tells you how you can live in a way that pleases Him. Know the God who tells you what you must reject from your life, that you will honor and glorify Him. Delight in his word, delight in his law, and in his promises. I'd like to think of acknowledging as kind of reflecting If we know God, we can think his thoughts after him. If we know God, we can we can love what he loves and hate what he hates. But if you don't know what God loves, how can you love what He loves? If you don't know what God hates, how can you hate it also? In all you do, in all you think, in all you say, in all your ways, reflect Reflect the God who made you and saved you. His love, his compassion, his mercy. Do what you know will please him. And if you've been going through a period of life where there's a stubborn sin that just won't die. Stubborn sin that you just can't shake. Trust in him with all your heart. He may be allowing you to have that trial to show you that though you say you are dependent upon him, you don't actually trust him. And don't actually depend on him. Do what you know will please God. Maybe try something different. If that stubborn sin is there, try something different. If you've never been tempted to that sin and stopped immediately to pray and ask God to lead you away from it, perhaps this is the year to do that. If someone who loves you dearly, listen up, kids, that's mom and dad, right? Says to you, you can't be this way. You can't talk to your siblings that way. You can't talk to your mother that way. You trust your parents that they love you. Listen to them. God is using them. To lead you down a path that will bring him glory. There are going to be major decisions that you'll face this year, maybe major life changes for some of us. How will we know that we're making the right call, making the right decision? How will we know that we are doing what will be best for us? Please don't get mad at me. But you can't. You can't know with certainty. But you know what you can't know with certainty is that you can trust your God with all your heart in all your ways, always. That even if you make the wrong choice and the wrong decision, he's not going to abandon you. God doesn't just say, I'm done with you. Man, I gave you plenty of choices not to be so dumb. Trust that even in your mistakes and failures, God can work all things for good for you. Seek his kingdom first. When that decision point comes, do you need a new job? Need a new career? Need a new house? You're having a new kid? Don't quite know what's going to happen? Don't know how you're going to make it. Seek first his kingdom. Seek first his righteousness. Do what you know will please God. Start there at the most fundamental level. You will not be disappointed. So if you really believe that God is God, then submit every part of you and every part of your life to Him. Submit to His will, submit to His wisdom, submit to Him completely. He never misunderstands, he never miscalculates, he never makes mistakes. You may look back on your life and think, I've made a ton of mistakes Don't you dare put that on God as though He made some mistakes in having you go through it. It's not a mistake because it's brought you exactly where He wants you to be. And that is exactly what this passage tells us. It tells us that that is the only way. That you will get to that wondrous life, the life that God has planned for you. And it really is a marvelous and wondrous life, Christian. A life that will never end, a life that will have no more pain and no more suffering and no more tears. That's the life that He's leading you to. And all of the things that have happened to you, and all that you've endured, has led you to that and will lead you to that. It says that he will direct your paths. Or in other versions, he will make your paths straight. This word straight also means upright and righteous. He will make your path upright. He will lead you in the way you should go. He will not abandon you. This is a promise. He doesn't say that he will watch there and hope that you make the right choices and follow the right path. He doesn't say that, does he? If you trust in the Lord with all your heart, if you lean not on your own understanding and in all your ways acknowledge Him, He will make your path straight. Have you bought the lie of the world that you are the master of your own life? That somehow if you don't choose the right school to go to, your life will be just a mess? Or that if your life doesn't go according to your plan, everything will be just worthless? Sometimes you actually have to go through the process of making all the right choices, choosing the right schools, following the plan, having the plan work out until God says no. And he makes it all fall apart in an instant. So that he can build you back and set you on the right path, the path that he wants you on. Remember what Jesus taught. He said that if you want to save your life, what do you have to do? You have to lose it. You have to renounce your kingship over your own life and surrender it to him, submitting to him as the king, as the Lord. Giving him full and final say over everything you do. You may. You may be a very capable person. You may be a really hard worker. This is these are good things, not bad things. Please don't take me wrong. But you can't work hard enough to make your life conform to the path that God wants your life to conform to. If you think you can, you know what that's called? Self-righteousness. You can't make your own path straight. No matter how hard you try, no matter how many books you read, no matter how many years in seminary, no matter how many Fill in the blank. You can't do it. You must submit to God and let Him do it. And you know why you can't do it? It's not just because you're a creature. It's not just because you're a sinner. It's because the best Life that God has planned for you is only accomplished through the path that He has set before you. And If you knew what you had to go through to get there, that's not the path you would choose. It's your life. It's uniquely suited to you. It's not the same life that he's given to everyone else. Somebody may have a wonderful life. Following all certain kinds of parameters. And you may say, Oh, I want their life. I want a life like that. That might not be God's plan for you. He will lead you exactly where he wants you to be. And if you had the power, if you had his power I don't think you would choose the same path that he chose for you. Path of suffering A path of challenge and difficulty. And so I want to leave you guys with this. Only one person. In the history of the world, has ever had the power to stop suffering and to stop the misery they were enduring and to stop the pain That was theirs at God's plan. Only Jesus had the power. And what did He do? He didn't stop it, did he? I'm always reminded whenever I think about the goodness of our God and how we can trust in him. And how we wonder why why can't we trust God? Well, it's because if we had God's power, we would do things differently, right? There would be no such thing as credit card debt if we had the power of God. But we don't get that power because if we had it, we would mess it up. And Jesus Christ had the power. Yet even he prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane, not my will, but yours be done. And so when I think about this and I think about how good it is that we can trust our God, He's proven that we can trust Him completely. This is the proof. That he gave his body to be broken. I love what one of my professors has said, a dear man that I admire and look up to greatly. He has put it this way, and it it strikes my heart every time I think about it. It was your sin that nailed Christ to the cross. Your sin nailed him to the cross. But it was his love that kept him there. He had the power to come down at any moment. And if he had, none of us would be here now. None of us would have hope. None of us would have a straight path. Yet because he, for love of you, kept himself on that cross, we can, all of us together, trust in the Lord with all our heart. We can lean not on our own understanding, but in all our ways acknowledge Him, and He will make our paths straight. Please pray with me.