Christ. We thank you that you have gathered us again on your day. We thank you that you have set this day aside that we may give all of our time and attention to you. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you, as our great prophet, priest, and king, would lead us in worship this day by your spirit and in truth. We ask, Lord, that your name would be glorified. We ask that you would reveal yourself to us by your Spirit and through your word and through your sacrament. We ask that as you do this, and we see your glory, that we would respond in praise, that we would respond in the acknowledgement of our own sin in our confession. That we would respond in not only hearing, but doing your word by the grace of the Holy Spirit. We ask, Lord, that you would encourage us, especially during these times, that we would remember that you are the king of the cosmos and that you are restoring all things. We ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship from Psalm 105, verses 1 through 4. Oh, give thanks to the Lord. Call upon his name, make known his deeds among the peoples. Sing to him, sing psalms to him, talk of all his wondrous works, glory in his holy name Let the hearts of those rejoice who seek the Lord. Seek the Lord in his strength. Seek his face evermore. Amen. Let us sing together holy, holy, holy. Only holy golden crit From the call doing door shall we Holy, holy, holy, the altar. Only God rest All my words shall praise my birthday straw I have seen. Amen. Our reading this morning as we behold and confess Christ is from Leviticus chapter ten, verses one through five. Then Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer and put fire in it, put incense on it, and offered profane fire before the Lord, which he had not commanded them. So fire went out from the Lord and devoured them, and they died before the Lord. And Moses said to Aaron, This is what the Lord spoke, saying, By those who come near me I must be regarded as holy And before all the people I must be glorified. So Aaron held his peace. Then Mo Moses called Mishel and Elzephan, the sons of Uziel the uncle of Aaron, and said to them, Come near, carry your brethren from before the sanctuary out of the camp. So they went near, and carried them by their tunics out of the camp, as Moses had said Behold your Christ. Please pray with me. Father, when we read passages like this concerning your will, they are always a bit startling. Well Lord, we see here, however, such an example of Aaron resigning himself to your will. Lord, we know that as we have gone through our lives, we are not exactly characterized as resigned to your will, at least not in the beginning. We know that you are working with each of us to be resigned to your will, and that you have made much progress. And we pray that during this time of confession you will make progress still. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Good morning, brothers and sisters. One of the earliest Christian confessions that we have, a confession going all the way back to the New Testament. Is that Jesus is Lord? The Apostle Paul, writing to the Christians in Rome, said, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, And believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Romans 9, verse 7. Sorry, 10, verse 9. The full significance of this confession can be missed today. In ancient Rome, for a Christian to confess Jesus is Lord, was a direct political challenge to the authority that Caesar claimed over every sphere of life, even religion. To confess Jesus is Lord means that Caesar is not. And throughout the history of the church, this confession continues to pose a challenge to any governing authority that seeks unlawful supremacy over those spheres that belong to Christ, to his church, or to other institutions which God has ordained, like the family. Let me give brief biblical support for this claim. The claim that the lordship of Jesus poses a political challenge to earthly magistrates. Consider the book of Acts. Do we see any concrete cases of Jesus' lordship posing a challenge to earthly rulers? In fact, that's exactly what we find. In Acts chapter 4, verses 18 to 19, we read: so this is a case where the apostles are teaching in the name of Jesus And they, quoting now, their rulers and the elders and the scribes, called them, called the apostles, and charged them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus. And what does Peter and John say? There are ways to comply. They could go elsewhere, to a place where magistrates will permit them to teach in the name of Jesus But that's not what they how they respond. Peter and John answered them: whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, you must judge For we cannot but speak of what we have seen and heard. We see the same answer given in different words in Acts chapter 5, when again the magistrates call the apostles before them. Quote, And when they had brought them, they set them before the council, and the high priest questioned them, saying, We strictly charged you not to teach in this name. Yet here you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching And you intend to bring this man's blood upon us. But Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather than men. Now these texts, the apostles' example, determine at least this much for us as those who confess that Jesus is Lord. Christians are not obliged to every action that an earthly magistrate commands. Likewise, Christians are not obliged to forbear every action that an earthly magistrate forbids. We have this example from the apostles. We must obey God rather than men. And as our Lord taught us, we must give to Caesar what belongs to Caesar. Honor where honor is due, submission where submission is due, obedience where obedience is due. But we also must give to God those things that belong to God. But what belongs to God? What is Christ's will for us in our particular situations? And how have we neglected to know what Christ's will is in our current situation That's the question I want you to ask yourself during this time of confession. As a church, we do confess that there is only one rule by which we may know what Christ's will is for his people. The Westminster Shorter Catechism, question two, what rule hath God given to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him? Answer, the Word of God, which is contained in the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, is the only rule to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him. So, how do we discover Christ's will as it is revealed in His Word? We do get a partial answer to this question in the Catechism as well, questions 157 and 160. I'm only going to read question 157, but I encourage you on this Lord's Day to look at question 160 as well, which has to do with the hearing of the word preached. Question 157 has to do with reading the Word of God. How is the Word of God to be read? The Holy Scriptures are to be read with a high and reverent esteem of them, with a firm persuasion that they are the very Word of God. And that He, God, only can enable us to understand them, were to read them with desire to know, believe, and obey the will of God revealed in them We're to read them with diligence and attention to the matter and scope of them. And we're to read them with meditation, application, self-denial, and prayer. So I have these questions for you to consider. Have you sought the Lord's will by diligently reading His Word? Have you sought from the Lord that wisdom which is necessary to understand his word? Do you approach Scripture with a right heart? With a genuine desire to know, believe, and obey the will of God as it is revealed in Scripture? And have you meditated upon and applied what the Lord's will is? Have you applied and meditated upon that? Have you applied it to your life? I'm going to provide a time for corporate confession. First, I will pray, then a time of silence for you to pray. Please pray with me. Our Father, you have revealed to us in the Psalms That the nations would indeed rage against the reign of your Messiah, our Lord Jesus. The psalmist says that the rulers of the earth would set themselves and take counsel together against your anointed one. But you, Father. You hold these rulers in derision. You have spoken to them in your wrath, saying, As for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. Father, despite the plans of Pilate and the civil magistrates in Jerusalem, you have highly exalted Jesus, and have bestowed on him the name that is above every name At the name of Jesus, every knee must bow, in heaven and on earth, and under the earth. And every tongue must confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. To the glory of you, God the Father. But Father, we as Christ's people, we do confess that we have not attended with diligence To Christ's laws. We have failed to diligently attend to the reading and preaching of Holy Scripture, which is the revelation of Christ's will for us. And often, Lord, we confess that knowing Christ's will for us, we lack the desire and the courage to obey. Father, forgive us of these sins. Father, help us to know what your will is for us. Help us, Lord, to have the heart and courage to obey even when it is difficult. Father, not a single one of us here can obey your law perfectly. We are sinners. And so we plead for forgiveness of these sins through the blood of Jesus Christ. And we ask, Lord, that you would hear our prayers, that you would grant our desire for knowledge of your will, and our desire to have the heart to fulfill what you command us. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Lift up your eyes and hear this assurance of pardon taken from John chapter 3, verses 16 and 17. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. Please stand. And in response to God's grace in the good news of the gospel, let us sing hymn number two, It Is Well with My Soul. Well do I see the control by God? Thou hast caused me to stay, it is well, it is well with my soul. Uh could it spray your scroll grand screw up It's been to the cross and I prefer to go. And Lord when God is Come on, I don't really roll. It is well, it is well, it might Please remain standing as the usher comes forward with the tithes and offerings, and as we sing the doxology. Praise the clothes. Praise one that is one legal. Let us pray. Father, we ask Lord that you would use these offerings that we give to you, that you would use them to spread the name of Jesus Christ. That you would spread the rule of Jesus Christ and His laws, that every knee would bow and every tongue would confess that He is Lord We are thankful, Lord, that we can take part in the spreading of your kingdom. Lord, bless what we give to you now. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Glory me to the water and to last one and to the glory. I was in thoby winning in our shall be Please remain standing for the reading of God's Word and the nurseries available for children three and under. We have a nursery. Please turn with me to Acts chapter twenty-one. Our reading will be from one to fourteen. It's good to see all of you. Between my wife and I, we've spoken to many in the church that are um just coming to the end of their time at home, and so we should see the seats filling back in, which will be glorious for all of us to be back together again. I'm glad that all of you have become well. It is by God's grace alone that that is the case, and I hope that we've all been humbled by our fragility and that we rely more on God. uh seeing just how weak we are as human beings. Our reading this morning is Acts 21, and it is the first 14 verses, and I beg your pardon for my pronunciation of foreign names and places. Beginning in verse one. Now it came to pass that when we had departed from them and set sail, running a straight course we came to Kos. The following day to Rhodes and from there to Patara. And finding a ship sailing over to Phoenicia, we went aboard and set sail When we had sighted Cyprus, we passed it on the left, sailed to Syria, and landed at Tyra. For there the ship was to be to unload her cargo. And finding disciples, we stayed there seven days. They told Paul through the Spirit not to go up to Jerusalem When he had come to the end of those days, we departed and went on our way, and they accompanied us with wives and children till we were out of the city. And we knelt down on the shore and prayed. When we had taken our leave of one another, we boarded the ship, and they returned home. And when we had finished our voyage to Tyra, we came to Ptolemaeus. greeted the brethren, and stayed with them one day. On the next day we uh who were Paul's companions departed and came to Caesarea and entered the house of Philip the Evangelist, who was one of the seven, and stayed with him. Now this man had four virgin daughters who prophesied. And as we stayed many days, a certain prophet named Agabus came down from Judea. When he had come to us, he took Paul's belt, bound his own hands and feet, and said, Thus says the Holy Spirit, so shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man who owns this belt and deliver him into the hand of the Gentiles. Now, when we heard these things, both we and those from that place pleaded with him not to go up to Jerusalem. Then Paul answered, What do you mean by weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus. So when he would not be persuaded, we ceased saying, The will of the Lord be done Let us pray. Father, not only are the disciples strengthened in this passage, but you intend to strengthen us today. And so I pray for that. I pray that you would strengthen the disciples here in Nanoroto County. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Well, over the past weeks of Advent, we reviewed the Gospel of Luke. Luke is standing still on the shoulders of the Old Testament prophets. Luke, in fact, wrote, continuing the concern. about the corrupt church as seen in 1 Samuel and Malachi. And he continued those same themes and with that same framework in the beginning of his gospel. Following on that tradition, we acknowledged that God the Father sent His only begotten Son to reform not only the Church, but eventually the whole creation. What a glorious truth that is, and that's our hope. This week we return to Acts. And then I want to begin with just a few observations, and then I have an application that's just two points this morning, and then we'll go to the supper. And so let's begin with some observations here from our passage just to look a bit more closely. Observation number one is that I hope you notice again that we've moved back into a kind of travel journal Luke emphasizes in this travel journal not the fact of them traveling, but rather Paul's continued service to the disciples of Jesus Christ. Did you notice that emphasis? That we're really focused still on Paul fulfilling his apostolic mission to strengthen all of these churches. Throughout the whole account, you witness each location by which they sail or the harbor into which they land and then unload the cargo. And then you hear that Paul hears, hey, there's disciples here. And so he goes to strengthen them. He's focused on fulfilling his mission to the church. You can notice that in verse 4, for example, and I have loved for the longest time. Verse 6, the beautiful picture of the unity and fellowship in the church where they follow him out to the beach. They all get down on their knees and they pray. I love that. At each stop, Paul is seeking to work out his vocation by strengthening the church, and you can see the love that abounds among them. That's the first observation. Now here's number two. Paul is resolving and does resolve to continue in his vocation in each of the stops. We cannot take for granted That Paul will just be able to fulfill his apostolic mission. Do you know what that man faced? You'll notice the repetition of the warning that you see here throughout the passage given to Paul. For example, look in verse 4. And finding disciples, we stayed there three stayed there seven days They told Paul through the Spirit not to go up to Jerusalem. This is pretty tough, folks, to have those that you'll kneel on the beach with, those you love. Those that have the same confession of faith for them to seek to discourage you from a path that you know you're supposed to be on And yet he seeks to continue. You can see this continue in verses 10 and 11. I wonder if it startled you to see this interaction between Paul and his companions. He says this, and we stayed many days. A certain prophet named Agabus came down from Judea when he had come to us. He took Paul's belt, bound his hands and feet, and said, Thus says the Holy Spirit So shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man who owns this belt and deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles. That could be a bit dissuasive to go to Jerusalem. Imagine that happening at your dinner party. This last example, I wonder if it is familiar to you. Have you seen things like this before in the reading of your scriptures? It's a bit unfamiliar to us, I think, but in this culture, it's a typical prophetic action, actually. You can see, for example, and I'd encourage you to look through Jeremiah. But I'll just quote for you Ezekiel chapter 12 verses 5 through 6. Before the people of God are to go into captivity, God has Ezekiel play out a prophetic drama. For them to see what is getting ready to happen to them. This is what it says in that twelfth chapter of Ezekiel. Dig through the wall in their sight and carry your belongings out through it. In their sight you shall bear them on your shoulders and carry them out at twilight. You shall cover your face so that you cannot see the ground, for I have made you a sign to the house of Israel And the sign is that they too will be deported, carrying their stuff out of their city. So likewise, Agabus plays out the drama of Paul's future. You can see by verse 13 that these warning, these warnings and the congregation's concern was quite difficult for Paul to resist. And that brings us to observation number three, which is really the pinnacle and main point of this passage. In the end, Paul demonstrates fortitude and courage. And this is an example to Christians throughout all of the ages. Then Paul answered, What do you mean by weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus. Despite the danger and despite the grief of those who love Paul, Paul cannot make their concerns or even his own life his primary ethical concern. That's just not how he can order reality. The main principle that he builds everything Upon which all of his actions are governed, especially his apostolic mission, is this. What is Jesus Christ's will for me? And this, my friends, when it comes down to it, takes not only the knowledge of his will, which is hard enough, isn't it? But courage and fortitude to fulfill it. And that's really what's being highlighted here. You can see that the whole passage comes to a kind of crescendo. in seeing that the Lord's will is the most important thing, no matter what it takes. In all, really what we should be doing this morning is we should be viewing this passage I want you to pretend that Paul, in a sense, came into the Annapolis docks, or actually it's closer for him to come down the Severn. And he docks at the Indian Landing Boat Club. And he comes up here to strengthen us in Millersville. Maybe he'd stop at the coolies for some refreshing tea or coffee, because it was a long voyage. And he wants to strengthen us this morning. And he wants to strengthen us by his example of how he follows the Lord's will, even when it takes courage and fortitude. We want to look at this man. and in whom Jesus Christ dwells. And we want to follow him insofar as he follows Christ. And doesn't he do that? Is not Christ the ultimate example of courage and fortitude, of doing the Father's will no matter what it takes? Well, that's what we are to learn this morning. We are encouraged this morning to accept this doctrine. We are shown by the example of Paul that the Lord requires us to pursue his will with courage and with fortitude. That's what it's going to take. Now what I'd like to do is just have two main points of application here. The first one begins with an R, and then the next one begins with an S. So R, S, just like the alphabet. Retrieving virtue. And S strengthening the disciples. That's what I want to do this morning. I can't move into a long dissertation on virtue, and I think Chase would probably be better at that than me anyway, so you can talk to him. since he teaches the great books at Rockridge. But I do want to talk a little bit about retrieving virtue as a church, and then also it is my hope that you'll be strengthened by this framework this morning. Strengthening the disciples. So we are shown by example that the Lord requires us to pursue his will with courage and fortitude. Let's retrieve virtue and become strengthened. In the past, the church was familiar with words like courage and fortitude, which have been mentioned multiple times here this morning, and that makes me feel good. It was a part of really the biblical teaching on virtues. Some people like to try to locate virtue just within a certain denomination of the church or something. You think of maybe Roman Catholic virtue theory. or the Anglicans or whatever, but they don't have a monopoly on virtue, folks. It has brought been broadly held by the church, and uh if you want to look back at your forefathers you will see them quoting, for example, 2 Peter chapter 1, verses 5 and 6. And it says this, but also for this very reason, giving all diligence, add to your faith Virtue. To virtue, knowledge. To knowledge, self-control, to self-control, perseverance. That's the fortitude part. And to perseverance, godliness In summary, the church knew that Christ by the Spirit transformed his people, giving them faith and hope and love. Those were considered the theological virtues, and that from this purified heart filled with the Spirit, that we now lived out by the grace of Christ virtuous lives of righteousness and prudence and courage or fortitude and temperance. I'm sure that you have those words as a part of your vocabulary. This used to be the regular framework by which a person would govern their lives and the lives of their families. Now I can't make this sermon about virtue in general. I'm not even qualified to do that. But let me point out Paul's example in terms of what I just shared with you. Paul understood, number one, what the righteous course of action was in terms of his apostolic mission. And that's righteousness or justice. That's one of the very first cardinal virtues. Righteousness is giving someone or something its due. You can very easily gain that definition, especially from the book of Proverbs. It is summarized in the Torah as you give someone their due, well what do they do? God is due your love, and so is your neighbor And that ends up being expounded by way of the narrative of the scriptures and the understanding of the Ten Commandments. Paul knew, in other words. that he must love God and neighbor by fulfilling his apostolic mission. He had no choice in that matter, really But Paul demonstrated more than just this first cardinal virtue. He also demonstrated prudence, did he not? Did he not plan well? Did he not demonstrate prudence by developing a plan to deliver the gospel to each city? What did it take for him to figure out all of the shipping routes of Roman ships What did it take for him to know which synagogues were where and how he could receive a hearing in those synagogues? Did he capitalize on the fact that he himself was a well-known teacher and had a well-known teacher over him? Those would have all been part of his prudential nature in figuring out, yes, I know God's will, but how in the world are we going to accomplish this? Bringing it to all the nations, and you can see him capitalizing on shipping routes and synagogue placements. But even then, even if he knew the Lord's will, righteousness, and even if he had the prudence and planning. How is he going to accomplish it when he faces difficulties? There's no way to avoid those. No matter how good you are at planning, in certain situations there will be difficulty. So many times it comes down to whether, therefore, you will have courage and fortitude in order to complete the plan. And that's what we see here. That's what's emphasized with Paul. You can see all of those elements. It's easy to see them. I want you to think of this relative to Paul's ministry. Please think of this relative to his ministry. For him, what must be the most challenging part of his apostolic vocation? Was it knowing the will of God? I am sure that that came with some difficulty, but Christ was very clear on the road to Damascus. Christ was clear in Macedonia. And so we can't say this would be the most difficult task. Jesus made his will clear to Paul because he knew what Paul would face and he knew what was at stake for him. Well then was it prudence? Was it that second virtue? And perhaps this did take some effort. He had the plan all of his travel, like we said, but I don't think that's the most difficult. That's not what we see Paul saying in his epistles. This has been so difficult to plan. Do you know how crazy it is to travel on these ships? If he did say that, it wouldn't be relative to prudence, but instead courage. That's the real difficulty Paul was stoned. Do you remember that? He laid as if dead outside of a city. Once he came to, he tried to figure out a way to get back into the city. They lowered him down the outside wall to escape the cities. He was shipwrecked. He made it through that shipwrecking, landed on an island, and was bit by a poisonous snake The natives thought he was cursed because he made it through the one thing and then was bit by a second, and they thought, well, God really doesn't like you But then he was able to bring healing in that situation. And it ends up being another example of what the real difficulties were for Paul. And that's this question. I just wonder if he laid asleep at night, very much like we see within all of the Psalms, by the way. Can I keep going? Can I keep doing this? And speaking of the Psalms, you know what ended up being the toughest part for David is when his loved ones were against him. That's what made it so difficult. Now it could be against in the Psalms, you see true against. They became enemies. Here, in this passage, they're not enemies. But they view view the Lord's will at different ways. That must have been difficult for him. And I think that's why he said, you break my heart. You break my heart. This is an arduous task, which is why we see the church, in fact, offering this prayer from Acts chapter 4, verse 29. Now, Lord, look on their threats and grant to your servants that with all boldness they may speak your word. Do you notice? Did you notice that virtue present there? He didn't focus in all righteousness or all prudence, all boldness. That has to do with having the courage to speak in the face of opposition. Grant courage to your servants. Grant fortitude to your followers. They truly needed that. Throughout all of these points, what we witness is Paul adding to his faith virtue. And to virtue, prudential knowledge. And to prudential knowledge, perseverance, or fortitude, or courage What a lesson for us to take and to be strengthened as his disciples, which is our next point here of application, strengthening the disciples Now Luke does not relay this reality to us, this reality of Paul and him being a virtuous. He doesn't relay this to us for a theoretical discussion. I don't stand here as a philosopher. Paul's example and the unfolding of 2 Peter 1. 5 is meant for a single purpose. It is meant to strengthen you. In your vocations as the disciples of Jesus Christ, it reveals to you vital information as you seek to serve Him. Information that if you don't have and you do not embrace, you will be startled by the life to which God calls you. Here is a most important truth with which you must wrestle as a Christian. In the most important good works which Christ has planned for you to do before the foundations of the earth. In the most important good works which Christ has assigned to you in your vocations, when it comes down to it, brothers and sisters. You will need courage, you will need fortitude, you will need perseverance, and you will need boldness to complete those works. And God is willing to give those things to you He actually disciplines you your whole life that you might be more and more courageous to do his will. I have got to be honest with you. I need to make sure that I am communicating to you the reality of your actual life and what you can expect as you seek to relate to God as His servant. I know, because of the position that I'm in, some of the things that you are facing as families or as employees or as mothers or fathers or as widows. I know some of the details. of the life to which God has called you. And I have to let you know this morning that knowing God's will, knowing what the righteous path is, that's a good start. And we've been hammering on that in our sermon series. And it's a good start too. It's a mark of wisdom for you to plan out how you're going to accomplish God's goodwill, that is to say, to be prudent. But I'm here to tell you that courage and fortitude will in fact be the most difficult for you I'm going to put this as plainly as I can. I think being plain is good. And here it is: God organizes your life. Wherein to fulfill what he requires of you, you will need to make sacrifices And experience pain, and some of you, I don't know, may even be called to give up your own lives. And let me put this even more briefly for you, because I'm telling you about the nature of how God works and the nature of this universe God accomplishes his will through your courageously bearing the cross of life. That is his message to you through the lessons of Paul And you are not to be discouraged in that. You are to be forewarned that you might be forearmed, that you might know what you have been called to. The kind of help that you will need. Honestly, when we look out at the landscape of our life, I live life just like you, and I do understand that normal everyday deeds don't require that much. But God gives all of us seasons, and sometimes those seasons are longer than we want. Wherein His kingdom and His will will only come to earth through your perseverance and even anguish. And this morning, I am called by way of this passage to strengthen you by making sure you know and that you are ready to embrace that reality. I have a couple questions for you. Is God calling you right now to courage and fortitude? Is that been the missing link that you didn't know that was required of you? You studied your Bibles. You think you know what the Lord's will is, you're a decent planner. But did you ever know that you were going to have to demonstrate courage and that's the only way which this is going to get done? Is God telling you through his word and providence that he expects you to add to your faith virtue? Are you clear on God's will? Do you have a plan to accomplish it? Are you feeling weary? Are you not sure that you can finish the race? Those last two questions have to do with fortitude. Feeling weary, like you're in a marathon that's just lasted too long. And you feel parched. I wonder if the race that you're running is our political climate That can exhaust you. I wonder if it's your family. Boy, can that be tough. I wonder if it's your health. You know you need courage in today's world of health. Do you face an upcoming death of a loved one? Or do you face your own death? Have the doctors told you, you have a limited time left, and it's about this long. You know what you're going to need to finish your life well as a Christian. is courage and fortitude and faith and hope and love. But our emphasis this morning is on courage. I don't even know all of your situations. I have a feeling if I did, I would just stop I would not stop crying and praying. for you in all that you face. But the message this morning is that I have very little doubt that at the bottom of it all, the struggle is going to be your courage. And your fortitude and your ability to keep running that race And so I offer to you two steps that may seem too casual or trivial to you, but I honestly have prayed. I have search the scriptures, I've racked my own heart and mind, and though these sound simple and perhaps too casual or trivial for you, I assure you they are not. This is what the church has done for ages. You have received the diagnosis. And it is that we will struggle with having courage. And here's the first thing that you need to do. You need to recognize that any virtue only ever comes from Jesus Christ and Him sending you His Holy Spirit. spirit. Therefore, you do not need Tim Ferris. You do not need Joe Rogan and his podcasts in order to become virtuous and manly or womanly. You need Jesus Christ to send you his spirit and to make you brave. And that's what he does That's why the disciples in Acts chapter 4 didn't turn on a podcast to try to become courageous, but they went to a prayer meeting and they asked for boldness. And you need to do the same. Don't think that trivial, please. And second, one of the ways in which Christ will give you the courage to continue and to run the race. is that he will surround you with brothers and sisters in Jesus Christ to take some of your burden off of you. Which means you're going to need to confess your struggles to people that you trust To Christians that you trust, that you might be strengthened. I want to give you another example for Matthew chapter 27, verse 32, and I would love it if you were to meditate on this on your own time. I want you to think, I mean, quite literally, and there's also a kind of symbolism going on here in Matthew 27, 32, Jesus is bearing his cross. Do you know what even the Son of God was called to? Was a man of Cyrene, Simon by name, to come and help him to bear it. What I'm saying to you is that you need fellow Christians that you can trust who may need to be compelled By you sharing with them. And you may need to compel yourself to relieve each other of some of the burden. Help each other to get through the finish line. Sometimes it's as simple as a word. Other times it requires much more. What we end up seeing here, those are just two of the options that I think are most important now. We are shown by example that the Lord requires us to pursue His will with courage and fortitude. And the first thing that I have encouraged you to do is retrieve 2 Peter 1:5. Retrieve virtue. Add to your faith virtue, even perseverance. And I have secondly prayed That you would gain some strength from the knowledge of how God works. That He works by way of your demonstration of fortitude And I prayed also, and I also have laid out here that you would, through your prayers and confessions of your struggles to other Christians be strengthened. And I leave you with this from Hebrews chapter 12, verses 1 through 2. Therefore, we also Since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which so easily ensnares us, and let us run with endurance, the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross. He despised its shame, and now he has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for the implicit in this Hebrews passage, the promise of our own glory, after we run our full race. I pray, Lord, that your disciples would in fact be strengthened through this word. I pray that you would implant it in their hearts. I pray that you would make clear to the brethren what your will is, that you would make us a prudential people planning to truly be able to accomplish it. And above all, this morning, I pray that you would give us all the fortitude and courage that we need in all of the various situations that you have placed us in wherein we are serving you. Ask that you would do these things for your own glory and in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen I'd ask that you'd please stand for the invitational hymn, which is when I survey the wondrous cross, and I'd ask Dwayne and Chase to please prepare this table. So, oh, thousand years. Yes, uh When I draw Oh with the No, no, no, no. All those rationals G Dorb. It is refreshing to come to the table of the Lord. It shows us what is central and most important. It shows us how all things are accomplished and restored, and that is by way of the Father, through the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Let us give thanks. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have entered into a covenant of grace with us by way of your Son. He is our mediator. It is by his life and death and resurrection and ascension that we have any life. Lord, that we have been brought back and will be brought back from the dead, and that we too shall be brought into glory. We thank you, and we ask that as we partake of the sacramental sign and seal, the covenant signs and seals, we ask, Lord, that you would continue to strengthen us Especially in our fortitude this day. In the name of Christ. Amen. This is the table of the Lord Jesus Christ, and he invites all those Who profess and confess his name as Lord of heaven and earth, that he is the Son of God come from heaven, taking upon himself human nature. And that He is our Savior. This table is not for everyone, therefore. If you are not a professing Christian or you don't understand Christianity well enough And you are not to come to this table. You are to, in fact, pass the bread and the wine and grape juice by yourself. Christ, in his mercy, gives us a warning. Therefore, whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread, and drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this reason, many are weak and sick among you, and many die. But this table has been offered by the Lord Jesus Christ Himself to all of those who are his children, who are his brethren. Christians. He offers this table to you to see what it has taken in part for him to accomplish the will of God, which is your salvation. Do you see his courage? Do you not know that Christ could have called down an entire host of angels to take him from the cross? but that he instead voluntarily remained to fulfill the will of the Father for you We can certainly not only be grateful but proud of who our Lord is. And we can learn from Him as to what we are to be as He remakes us. We too are to be brave and courageous for the Lord's will. I will remind you also, too, in these days of division That this is a table of unity. And it reminds us what is most important and what our fellowship is over, which is that you have been chosen by Jesus Christ to be a part of his family You did not choose to be each other's brothers and sisters. I know for a fact that if it were up to you, some of you would not hang out with others of you in this room. But it wasn't your choice. It was the Lord Jesus Christ that made you a family. And let this be a reminder of the unity that we must seek with each other in the most important things. We'll distribute the bread and then the wine brothers, and we'll read the words of institution in between. We'll take all of this together as a family and the uh there is a dish of gluten-free bread and you're in the you're in the center. Thank you. Oh So the strong family. So then building problems. So For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you. That the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat This is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Let us take and eat. What was the table? Lord, when we look for reasons for why you should make such a sacrifice for us. We honestly cannot find any reasons within ourselves. We are by nature, in Adam, the first Adam, rebellious by nature. Even if we knew what your will was, we would not seek to do it. The death of your only begotten Son, surely, the reasons are hidden within your eternal counsels We know that you have done so for the good pleasure of your own will, but we know no more. But Lord, even in not having Such elevated knowledge, we are nevertheless the most thankful. We thank you that for whatever your reasons are hidden in your eternal counsels, Lord, we just thank you that you have brought us salvation, that you have saved us even while we were still sinners. And we ask, Lord, that you would continue to sanctify us. We pray that you would give us to be a people who are united in one mind in your will. A people that are careful. And Lord, a people that have courage. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Brothers Everybody Well In the same manner, he also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Take and drink. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ We thank you for your wisdom, for your prudence in the plan that you have laid out, that you shall bring restoration and salvation to your people, and even to this creation by way of your Son and His Spirit. We pray, God and Father, that your Son would be honored and glorified among the nations, and that it would begin with your church. We ask these things in your name. Amen. And then let's stand and close our service with a well known hymn. That's good. Rated by faithfulness, glory by warning, in the first place I think. All wine. Oh, okay. Staller and to rent the ring toil and tours. Thy old dear pressure to be spear to God. Strength portal Gordon. Why didn't you go on with ten thousand peace? Great by faithfulness Praise my gratefulness for me, my glory Christ Jesus. Oh maybe go out again. Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction, peace to the brethren, and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be with you. Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity. Amen. Amen.