This is God's word. Please pray with me. Most gracious Lord, we need you. We need your spirit. And we need the truth that your word contains that you have preserved for us. Please, God, give us ears to hear, that we would hear your voice and your message. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. We pray this in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Please be seated I don't know if you guys are as excited and grateful as I am, but it is springtime. Praise the Lord. It is spring. It is that time of the year when life is unavoidable. It's unmistakable. And I'm always encouraged to watch those perennial flowers show up, and sometimes in the most unlikely of places. Perennials are those plants which endure. They come back year after year. And sometimes during winter, I look out at my yard and I see those places and I wonder to myself, will those flowers come back this year? Can't tell whether or not they're alive or if they're dead. But then spring comes and it is unmistakable, isn't it? We catch a glimpse of green just poking out of the dirt, and then all of a sudden, sometimes later that same day, there's a whole plant there. Might even be a blossom or a bloom. The plant is definitely alive, and it gets another season to praise its God with its beauty Tonight, we get to look at the first of Jesus' official parables. He's been teaching plainly to all the crowds, speaking and healing, revealing his Father's will. He's been revealing that he is indeed the Son of the Living God. And this passage marks a shift in his ministry. How he will be teaching the crowds. Last week we saw that Jesus' family is not determined by a person's blood, but by their heart. Do they love God the Father? Do they do his will? Because those who do the Father's will are Jesus' closest family. They are his sisters and his brothers and his mother. And tonight Jesus tells a parable, a story about agriculture, about sowing seeds, and that he uses to deliver wisdom to his immediate family. To those who do the will of his Father. In the story itself, we see that the way the seed works when sown into the soil reveals the condition of that soil And by Jesus' own explanation of his parable, we will learn tonight that the way God's Word is working in your life reveals the condition of your soil or your soul. The way God's word is working in your life reveals the condition of your soul We're going to look at this under two divisions tonight. Verses 1 through 13, we'll look at God's word at work. And then verses 14 through 20, we'll examine the condition. of souls. So let's look now at verses one through thirteen, in which we see God's word at work. And the first thing we see in God's Word at work is the occasion for this parable in verses one and two. Look there if you have your word And again he began to teach by the sea, and a great multitude was gathered to him, so that he got into a boat, sat in it on the sea, and the whole multitude was on the land, faith in the sea. Then he taught them many things by parables. Jesus is teaching again, but as I said before, this is a different way of teaching. And the way that he is going to teach will show the practical wisdom of our Savior Jesus. We see his practical wisdom in two ways. We see it in the way that he chooses to address the great multitude. He goes out on a boat. into the water. And it forms a kind of natural amphitheater. The the still water would amplify his voice well There are many who believe they've found the place where this may have happened. There are sloping hills where thousands could gather and kind of stadium seating, and there's mountains that are kind of a boundary. They would have bounced the sound around. All The people gathered would have been able to hear God's voice. And in the wisdom of God, all of these different kinds of hearers that would have heard his voice would have heard the same message. And this is why he chose in his wisdom to teach with parables. A parable, you may have heard it put this way, I certainly have. A parable is an earthly story with heavenly significance. You ever heard that? Or a material, a story about material things, which then has an immaterial lesson or a spiritual lesson for us The delivery of this parable is clear for us in verses 3 through 9. There's a common everyday example which all of those hearers could have related to. And on an earthly or surface level, those who had heard this would have seen that it was true. This is what happens when sowers sow seed. But there's another level, there's that heavenly level, the spiritual level. And only some will receive this. This is why Jesus says in verse 9, he who has ears to hear, let him hear. And we'll come back to that phrase many a times as it's repeated. Well, the last thing I want to see in the Word of God at work and this wisdom of our Savior is the purpose for the parable, which he explains for us in verses 10 to 13. Parables are doing double duty. The word parable comes from a Greek word parabole, which literally means beside and to throw or to cast. So these are a side-by-side comparison. He is giving the material story And he's going to directly compare it to a spiritual lesson. All hear that same message, but not everyone is going to receive the same wisdom because parables do double duty They conceal as they reveal. Conceal to those who are not in the family of God, but reveal the mysteries of the kingdom to those that it has been given This is the first parable. And if you were to just look ahead at verses 33 and 34 in chapter 4 of Mark, you'll see that Mark is telling us Jesus is only going to address the crowds. He's only going to teach openly from this point on by using parables. It's only in private that those following Jesus who are close to him will get the full explanation. And then there is a paraphrase And this paraphrase comes from Isaiah chapter 6, verses 9 to 10. And I want to make sure we don't misunderstand This is what God is saying, is the expectation, and it was the expectation for all the prophets. God gave them his words to speak to the people, but only those in whom the Spirit works that they would believe it to be true. Will it make a change and a lasting difference? A lot of prophets came to Israel. Not a lot of change happened This is what God is doing. He is teaching and delivering as our great prophet, as the great prophet, as the perfect ambassador sent by his father. He is delivering to us the will of God for our salvation. He is the incarnate word, delivering God's words to God's people. It's sown into the ears of those present, and it begins immediately to work. Doing its job of revealing. It's either revealing them to be one in God's family. Or one outside of it. But it is also doing the duty of revealing, as Jesus' explanation of the parable shows us, it is revealing the condition of the hearer's souls. So now let's look at the condition of souls, looking at the explanation of the parable, verses fourteen through twenty. The sower is explained for us as the one who sows the word. The seed is the word, the sower. While he was on earth, that was Jesus, spreading the gospel message. But now where's Jesus? He's enthroned in heaven on high. He has given then his spirit to the church, to you and to me, that we would now become the sowers. The fruit which we bear. is the seed which we sow, the reality of the gospel that God is saving sinners. And so let's look at the explanation of the first kind of here. It's uh given to us in verse four, but the explanation is from verse 15. Look at what he says. These are the ones by the wayside where the word is sown, when they hear Satan comes immediately. And takes away the word that was sown in their hearts. We see first the hard-hearted hearers, and God's word reveals that these are vulnerable souls. A vulnerable soul. The word here that is translated in the New King James Wayside is the the word for road or path, and that helps us understand it. If you've ever been on a footpath in the dirt, sometimes that dirt can be harder than the asphalt road. you may have driven on to get to the park where that path is. If you were to throw seeds on it, it has no purchase. There's no way for it to sink in to the ground, and so it's vulnerable to these birds which gobble it up Jesus is telling us that this is exactly what Satan does to a hard-hearted hearer, to someone who is being shown to have a vulnerable soul. The gospel may be given to you over and over and over again. But the enemy swoops in, takes it away before it has any chance of growing. There's a second kind of hearer, the shallow hearer, which is revealed to us to be unstable souls. We see this in verses 16 to 17. And at the first hearing, the gospel is exciting to them. The truth of it is clear. It's amazing. They receive it immediately with gladness. Do you see that? But life is hard, and all faithful Christians will at some point in their life face the pressure and the persecution for faithfulness. Do you notice the other immediately in those two verses? Immediately they receive it with gladness. And then immediately they stumble. This gave me the vision of like a clock pendulum. Have you ever seen a clock pendulum? One side, it doesn't hang out there for any amount of time, does it? It just goes right on back to the next, swinging between the two extremes. Well, this is kind of what I see happening in this soul. It's unstable, swinging between the extremes, swinging back and forth, from gladness to then despair. First the one, then the other. This is an unstable soul, the shallow hearer But then Jesus tells us about the distracted hearers and how they have self-centered souls. Look at verses 18 and 19. Now these are the ones sown among thorns. They are the ones who hear the word and the cares of this world, the deceitfulness of riches, and the desires for other things entering in. Choke the word and it becomes unfruitful. The self-centered soul The distracted hearer is the one who just can't shake that feeling that everything else out there is much more important. That everything out in the world, those cares, those the word is literally anxieties, that they are so much more important than the truth of what God is saying to us in His Word. They can't shake the feeling that it's much more pleasurable or satisfying or fulfilling to live a life as the world is telling us to live it. And this is why they're susceptible to the deceitfulness of riches. They pursue things that they think will deliver them peace and happiness and fulfillment, things that the world is telling them will satisfy them They have a desire for other things, as it says here. Literally translated it is they have a lust for everything else. Everything but the seed, everything but the word is more important, is more desirable is sought after. The world, the flesh, it chokes out the spirit. God's word is quenched in their lives, and thus they are made unfruitful. And then there's the last kind of hearer. The last kind of soul. It's the receptive hearer. And these are the blessed souls. You see that in verse 20. They hear the word. They are receptive because they accept it. And then they bear fruit for God's glory. And like the good soil, God has prepared the blessed souls. He's prepared it to receive his word. He's blessed it to believe his word. And he will further bless it with great faithfulness. He will allow it to mature into a living plant. Bearing fruit that reproduces, that soul will make more seeds of the gospel which they will sow. The seed and how it works, where it is sown, reveals the condition of the soil. That's the earthly part of the story. But the heavenly message for us is that God's word and how it is working in your life reveals the condition of your soul. So, brothers and sisters, I have to ask you, how do you see God's word working in your life? It's His Word helping you see the condition of your own soul. Is your soul vulnerable? Does that describe you? Is that the condition of your heart? Is your heart hardened to God's word? You may have heard this phrase, though you may not be a blacksmith, strike while the iron is hot. Have you ever heard that? When I was a little kid I thought that that was talking about like ironing clothes because I had no idea that there was anything else. Blacksmiths must strike while the iron is hot. Because there is no hope of transforming that metal if it's cold down. You I mean that's why we make things out of iron, because it won't change shape. That's why cannonballs are made out of iron and not hot iron, because that'll just sweat. So I asked you, do you strike while the iron is hot in your own soul? How many sermons have you heard in your lifetime? How many psalms or hymns have you sung talking of the truth of God's grace and mercy? And yet you won't take it seriously? How many worship services have you been a part of? If it hasn't sunk in and you're still unsure of whether or not you believe God's word, what are you doing? What are you doing? Why are you waiting? You should be beating down the doors of every elder in this church that you can put your questions or your doubts before them, that you can receive some answers. Are you sharing your confusions or your objections with the officers of this church? Hoping and beyond hope that they will be given the wisdom by the Spirit of God in them to help you see that this the word would sink into your heart. And make it real. Nothing in your life is more important. Nothing is more important than dealing with your sin. Than running to the cross of Christ for salvation, living with Him forever. That's all there is for us. I encourage you, brothers and sisters, you should endeavor to disappoint Satan. Make him upset Make him angry. Make him shocked. He's gotten so used to hanging around you knowing that he'll find some seeds that he can snack on. Imagine his surprise. When he comes around and he has to go hungry, oh, he's gonna be mad. He's gonna be mad for a couple reasons. One, he knows what's happened. He knows that Jesus Christ saves sinners. And that's what he wants to see. He never wants to see that happen. But there's something else. He will hear the clamor, the noise of the angels rejoicing in heaven because the seed of God, the gospel, has taken root in your heart. They will be rejoicing. Brothers and sisters, is God's word the sure foundation of your life? Does it provide you stability? Is it at work in your life making you stable? So that you are not like that pendulum swinging from one extreme to the next? And so His Holy Spirit may be showing you through this parable that your faith is shallow. May be showing you that you are not firmly rooted. Things do pop up, and you do forget that He is with you, and He is. In possession of all authority and power, and he will hear your prayers. If that describes you, I just want to encourage you tonight: do not despair. Do not give up. You can be changed. This is the beauty of the human condition. You are mutable. You are changeable. He can change you and he does change hearts. He takes hearts of stone and makes them hearts of flesh. He takes dry lifeless bones. And he puts flesh on them. He gives them the breath of life. Throw yourselves with all of your energy into this activity. Pray Pray. Beg a God that He would stabilize your life with His word. It can seem daunting. I I know. But I would encourage you to try starting with just one day, maybe just one day out of seven. One day in which you put aside your desires and your will And you rest in Christ. Just one day in which you will sing his praises, one day in which you will gather with his people, one day in which you will be reminded of his goodness and his love. Can you think of which day I'm um I've got in mind? What a blessing that He's given us this day. And so before that day comes, before the first day of the week comes Put all of your effort and energy into begging God to prepare your heart and your soul to receive that word, that seed. that he will deliver to you. Think about the crowd that was welcoming Jesus. We're gonna focus on this next week in the triumphal entry, but think about them. Do you remember what they were doing? They were so noisy. In the way that they were praising and rejoicing that the blessed one of God had come to them. Do you remember what the Pharisees and the scribes said? They were telling Jesus, you should tell these guys to be quiet. That is contrasted. The pendulum swings to the exact opposite side at his crucifixion. When many of them, were they loud? Were they clamoring in defense of him? They were silent. Their faith did not have roots. They were unstable. I'd ask you also, is the Spirit of God showing you that you are distracted? Are you a distracted here? Or is the condition of your soul one of self-centeredness? Have you been deceived by riches? Are the cares and anxieties of this world dominating your thoughts and your actions? Are you trying to find hope and peace and joy and love in something other than Christ? Could you think of anyone else who might be a self-centered soul? Those who have heard the Word of God proclaimed over and over and over again, and yet other concerns and desires get in the way? My mind immediately goes to Judas, who was able to sit and hear all of the teaching of Christ, to witness these miracles. And yet it was riches. And his desire to have more, thirty pieces of silver, in which he betrayed his Jesus. Or think about the rich young ruler. By every appearance, he was one who cared about the things of God, who loved the Lord, he loved his law. He had spent his whole life trying to keep the law of God. But do you remember the one thing that Jesus said to him he must do? To take his vast riches and his great possessions and to sell them and give them to the poor. And he went away sad. What an unstable faith he had. The self-centered soul is distracted by the world But it's even more than that. You cannot live in both kingdoms. You can't serve the world and you can't serve Christ. You can't serve Christ the king and you can't serve yourself as king. And so, brothers and sisters, I encourage you, don't be mistaken. Don't be sitting around waiting for the wheat to choke out the thorns Don't imagine that somehow, some some way, maybe you've been in your 500th worship service and then all of a sudden, snap. Now the wheat will grow up and the thorns will disappear, and the distractions of this world and this life will somehow go away. You will be dealing with the distractions of the world for the rest of your life. And you will need to work hard to clear out the thorny plants, to avoid the world and its many temptations. And it will have a steep cost. To do this in agriculture, you know what they have to do? They have to burn the fields. They have to burn them. And then they have to dig up all the roots, because the roots don't go away from the burning. Brothers and sisters, there will be a steep cost to this in your life. It may cost you jobs, it may cost you friends, it may cost you family, but this should be the focus of your life because it is worth it. It is worth it to follow Christ. I want to just remind you of something that Pastor Jesse said this morning, a very good application, a very good point. This doesn't happen from ten minutes of Bible reading each day. That's not the effort we're talking about. You will not avoid the cares and anxieties and the forms of the world by having a devotional calendar that each day gives you one verse taken out of context. This must be the goal of your life, the driving focus of your life. Your soul must be centered on Christ and on His will and not on yourself. Well, perhaps the Holy Spirit has been at work in you for a very long time. He's convinced you that you belong to God the Father because of the salvation of his Son Jesus Christ. You are that blessed soul who has received the seed, the word of God. And yet, brothers and sisters, it is not time for you to sit back and relax If your plant is strong, if your faith is living and reliable and stabilizes your life, what should you be doing? This passage tells us that the blessed soul bears much fruit for Jesus Christ. And so the plant that grows in that good soil, it yields a harvest 30, 60, 100fold. This should be the focus of your life. As one blessed by God to have salvation, beg him to make you more fruitful Pray that he will make you that plant with the hundredfold harvest. Beg him to rearrange your life. And this is a very hard prayer. Ask him to do whatever it takes that he would bear fruit for his glory in your life. Ask him to cut away whatever must be cut away. Ask him to remove whatever is in your life getting in the way of fruitfulness for him. He will hear your prayers for Christ's sake. And he will grow you. And he will change you. There are many needy souls in this world who need the seed that is produced in your life. And they need you to sow that seed. May our gracious Lord bless us all with a deep and abiding love and trust of His Word. May He hear our prayers and answer them with His mighty power, growing our faith into healthy, mature Christian plants bearing fruit for His glory. Please pray with me.