The message for today is taken from Colossians 2, verses 6 through 15. I would ask that you please stand as we read God's Word. As you have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith as you have been taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving. Beware lest anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit according to the tradition of men, according to the basic principles of the world and not according to Christ. For to him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead, for in him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. And you are complete in him, who is the head of all principality and power To him you were also circumcised with a circumcision made without hands by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ, buried with him in baptism, to which you also were raised with him in which you were also raised with him through faith in the working of God who raised him from the dead. And you being dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he has made alive together with him having forgiven you all trespasses, and having wiped out the handwriting of requirements that were against us, which was contrary to us And he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross, having disarmed principalities and powers, he made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them in it. And may the Lord he's blessing and to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Please be seated. As I said before, I love to baptize babies. One of the great joys of my life was to have that privilege. And the watching kids, many in this church who are here today that I have baptized and now see sitting out there, parents of their own children. And to see them grow up and to walk prospering before the Lord is a great and deep satisfaction. One of the great blessings that Jesse also, I'm sure, can say of being a pastor To me, there is a a prime illustration illustration of why it is that covenant theology is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. For in it, covenant theology, we see the glory of our covenant-making and covenant-keeping God. Showing most brightly, shining most brightly. Covenant is what it's all about If we understand covenant, then we understand baptism and the Lord's Supper. If we don't understand covenant, then we really don't You cannot understand any of the biblical sacraments, Old or the New Testament, without understanding the covenant theology, of which they are signs and seals. Because, in essence, the sacraments embody that theology. Take, for example, our passage today. As we look at that passage, understood rightly, it is a beautiful expression of the gospel. And it is couched in covenant terms from beginning to end. Now let's review this a little bit, this idea of covenant. And then look at passages with that in mind. I have to get the right glasses here so I can see things. Still not working. Alright, first let's ask, what is covenant? A covenant is an agreement that establishes a relationship. Now that shouldn't be real earth-shattering to you, but maybe you haven't thought about it. A covenant is an agreement that establishes a relationship. It's different from a contract You have a plumber, you want him to do some work for you, you enter into a contract with him, and you when he's done with it, if it's done to your satisfaction, you pay him off and that's it If you initiate a relationship with your plumber, we need to talk. But the basic idea behind it is that the contract is fulfilled when the work's done and it's paid Take for example in our uh I'm sorry. But marriage, now that's a covenant, as you well know. You don't contract with your spouse or your spouse to be before marriage with the idea, okay, you're going to do the cooking, talking to the husband And you're gonna keep the the uh yard nice and clean, talking to the wife. I know of at least one family that that's kind of the distribution But the idea is that you don't do that. That's not what marriage is about, assigning duties and responsibilities. Marriage is about a relationship. You establish a relation between a man and a woman, and then they live out that relation and grow in that relation as a result of walking in covenant with each other Now God, as our Westminster confession states plainly, because of the great distance between Himself and us, as far as his difference from us making him so that he is inscrutable to us otherwise has been pleased to make himself known to us via covenant That's what it says, interestingly enough. God reveals himself, he makes himself known to us through a covenant relation. Therefore, to understand him, we have to think of him in terms of that, in terms of a relationship, in terms of a binding relationship with him. He gives his word to us as a Bible in the Bible for us to understand this relationship he's established between us and how to grow in it. And how we're to do those things which this relationship requires of us, but is not the essence of it. So we must live in covenant with our God. He reveals himself to us by means of covenant. So we must live in covenant with him to begin to understand him. To begin to know him. Those of you who are married here today, you know that you didn't really begin to know your spouse until you lived with him And then all of a sudden, some of the things you thought before are changed a bit in the process of living with this other person. And it is the same way with our relationship with God As we live in covenant with him, we understand more and more deeply who he is and what he means. Now, this covenant relationship that He has established with us, that He reveals to us, and by which, excuse me, reveals Him to us, what is this covenant? Well, when God first created the heavens and the earth, he created a covenant with all creation and with mankind in it. Now that was a covenant of work, and we're not going to go into that today, but this was a covenant that God revealed to Adam in his creaturehood. And we know that the first Adam failed miserably in that covenant keeping. And in doing so, sin entered into the world. But the covenant that we are concerned with today, and is represented by our sacraments, is that of the covenant of grace. And it started with Adam right after the fall. Soon as the covenant of works with Adam lay in shambles, broken, at his feet God entered into a new covenant, a new covenant with Adam and with all mankind following him. That is the covenant of grace. Now we read about this in Genesis 3, where in as soon as God has uh mankind has fallen, God immediately promises a seed to be born as a woman who one day will strike the serpent and kill him. And so that promise became the promise on which the covenant was built. Now At that time, in those days, back in Adam's day, they didn't have near the fullness of the understanding of the covenant of grace that we have today. It's our great privilege. But they had enough They had the knowledge that the covenant-keeping God would in due time bring forth the seed that he had promised. And so there's one covenant of grace. One covenant of grace. And that is the covenant that started with Adam after he fell, and that continues down to this day It was the covenant of grace by which Cain was told that sin was crouching at his door. It was the covenant of grace by which Noah is called a preacher of righteousness It was the covenant in which Abraham believed, and it was counted to him for righteousness. It was the covenant by which Joseph told Potiphar's wife that he would never sin against God. by taking her into bed. And it is the covenant of grace That brought Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, into this world to deal with the sin That Adam fell, and which we have perpetuated. It's the same covenant which the Apostle Paul explains so clearly in Romans The point is only this. There is one covenant of grace by which any man may be saved And it is this covenant that was saved. Men were saved in the Old Testament. It's by this covenant that men are saved in the time of the new, that time in which we live And so that's the way we have to read scripture. We have to look through scripture with ideas of covenant. We have to think in terms of covenant And so with that introduction, let's turn and look at this particular passage in terms of covenant and how it speaks to us. Verses 6 through 10. First thing I want us to notice here is look that it definitely proclaims a relationship As you therefore have received Christ Jesus as Lord, so walk in him, rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, as you have been taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving Beware lest anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit according to the traditions of men, according to the basic principles of the world, and not according to Christ. For in him dwells all of the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and you are complete in him, who is the head of all principality and power. Now, throughout this passage, as you see, it is written in terms of Jesus and us. Jesus and us. Jesus is the fullness of the Godhead, the head of all principalities and power. It proclaims for us who are the parties of the covenant, and right at the center of it Is our Lord Christ as the fullness of God? And then it proclaims that we are members of this covenant. We who have received Christ as our Lord. So the covenant parties are identified. We have the form of the covenant made clear The covenant parties are made known to us as the triune God and we his people. It's a great mistake looking at this to think only in terms of individuals. It's probably one of the major curses, if you will. that has befallen the modern evangelical Christian era, going all the way back most prominently to the 1800s and the Second Great Awakening Because it's not just about us as individuals. This was written to a group of people, a church, a colossa. I'll come back to that a little bit longer uh later. But the point in this passage Is that it is framed in terms of God and his covenant people, no less so than when God spoke In Exodus 2, his people gathered at Mount Sinai and spoke to them as his people, so here in Paul is saying God is speaking to us as his people, not as individuals so much as it is the covenant people. So these are the parties of the covenant. God brings individuals into covenant relationship with him. Yes and amen. It is definitely we as individuals are called But we are called not to be and to remain individuals, but to become part of a people. And that's the great beauty, particularly of baptism, as we will get to it when we start talking about the evidences of God's work. From Genesis to Revelation, the most often repeated passage, most often repeated promise from all scripture is this I will take you to be my people, and I will be your God. It starts in Leviticus. It ends up in Revelation 20. You can check it out. It is the most often repeated promise in all scripture. You would think God wanted us to pay attention. This is what he is promising. This is what he will bring about The point is, in this same covenant of grace, circumcision and the sacrificial system that was implemented look forward to the Messiah, that same Messiah that was promised in Genesis 3 as the basis of the covenant of grace. We started in Genesis 3. Well all of this stuff in the up in the movement of time Pointed towards that same, looked forward to a promise. Now, baptism and the Lord's Supper looks to the Messiah who is here. It's no longer the prospect of our Christ. It's the reality of our Christ. He's here. And that's the major difference between them, the sacrifices and are the uh sacraments in the Old and the New Testaments. So In the Old Testament circumcision taught the same thing as baptism. It does. I don't have time to go through and list all of the details But I guarantee you there are people here in this congregation that can do that for you. So the circumcision essentially taught the same thing as baptism, and then the uh Old Testament sacrifices teach the same thing as our Lord's Supper. We'll go into that detail sometime when your elders and your pastor decide to say, hey, we're going to teach a class on covenant theology, and you can beat them up until they do that for you Now let's look at the passage in covenant terms, and let's understand baptism and circumcision in that way, starting with verse 11. In him you were also circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh. By the circumcision of Christ. Buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in that working of God who raised him from the dead. And you, being dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he is made alive together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses. having wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which was contrary to us, and he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross Having disarmed principalities and powers, he made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them in it. Now notice here how circumcision always had a spiritual meaning. It's implicit in the faith, in the passage. And that was reflected, this spiritual significance was reflected in its physical performance. We all know what circumcision is. Now, how many times in the Old Testament did God prompt his people and say, you know, that circumcision in your flesh? What it's really talking about is that you need to be circumcised in your heart. We see it precisely saying this in Deuteronomy. And then in Romans 2, we see the Apostle Paul saying that a true Jew is not one who is just circumcised in his flesh, but is circumcised in his heart. How much more can we uh can we ask than that Circumcision was always pointed toward a spiritual reality and showed in its performance a quality about that spiritual reality. Circumcision signed and sealed a spiritual covenant. How a person was to be born again. Ooh, that's New Testament language. Where'd that come from? Well, what else is circumcision of the heart? But being born again. Think about it. Taking a heart of flesh, a heart of stone, and making it into a heart of flesh. That's Old Testament. But what else is that but new birth, being born again? So as a result of that, when we see that, we see that circumcision signs and seal that Then it was not a ceremony talking to a person who was already saved. It was a person who grew in the understanding of what it meant to be saved. to take a child who's been circumcised and to bring them up to the point to where they knew what it meant to be circumcised of heart So there was never a case in which, in the Old Testament sacrifices, it was administered only to those for whom salvation was already assured. So, here in this passage, we see that circumcision looked forward to the Messiah also. It is he who would perform the circumcision that is not made with hands. That's what it says. They're looking forward to that one who is going to come to perform that circumcision that is not made with human hands So Old Testament prophecy looked forward to the Christ who would do that, where the filth of our sins is cut off from our bodies, and our hearts are purified to serve the living God So circumcision is a fulfilled sacrament. It is no longer necessary or even appropriate. We no longer look forward to the Messiah who will do this And we see that baptism follows it in this passage. Baptism now is introduced as the celebration of the Messiah's historical activities. He was dead, he was buried, he was raised again from the dead. This covenant of grace now celebrates a present living Christ. A living Messiah. And so baptism looks forward to uh to or looks uh baptism replaces circumcision by acknowledging that Baptism celebrates the covenant of grace under the present living King Jesus. A king who has wiped away the handwriting of requirements. A king who has done away with all of the Old Testament forms of sacrifices. That were necessary and understood for the forgiveness of sins. He has nailed them to the cross He has triumphed over all of those Old Testament forward-looking popes and principles and things. And he has certainly taken away the coercive use of the law as a means of burdening our conscience. Now notice that in verse 12. I want you to notice two words very importantly. The words in which. Notice that those words in which point back to baptism. And notice here that baptism, therefore, is not just pointed towards Jesus' death And just as burial, as some emphasize, but rather it embodies all of the truths that we see in verses 12 through 15. When we see this, in which you were raised, is the statement. As we were united to him in his cross United to him in his death, united to him in the tomb, when he was in the tomb. So brothers and sisters, we were united to him in his resurrection And we remain united to him in his glorification. We participate in his inheritance because of his work. Baptism looks to the cross, yea and amen. Baptism doesn't stop at the cross. It goes through the cross to the glorified Christ. In other words, it embodies the whole gospel of the covenant of grace. We see circumcision as specifically related to baptism in this way: as precursor followed by achievement. And fundamentally, they taught the same thing. Now, since the covenant of grace is the same in the Old Testament and the sacraments of each apply in the same people, this is where we come down to the points that I'd really like us to take away today. The covenant of grace in the Old Testament and the Covenant of Grace in the New Testament, along with its sacraments all point to the same people. It's very important. There is only one people of God. There has always been only one people of God. There will always be one people of God. Paul teaches this most clearly when he says that those who are of the same faith as Abraham are the true sons of Abraham. Now think about this. Really focus on it. Abraham believed before he was circumcised. Circumcision celebrated the righteousness that comes through faith. And that is exactly what baptism teaches. Baptism, like circumcision, celebrates the righteousness which comes through faith. Neither one is tied to that faith already being present in the person who is receiving it. If the covenant of grace is the same as the covenant with Abraham and of Paul, then the implementation of circumcision in Genesis 17 is directly applicable to baptism in the New Testament age. In Genesis 17, we are taught precisely That the infants of God's covenant people are to be circumcised in the hope and expectation of the blessings of the Messiah, are to receive in the covenant of grace. And I really can't understand how anyone would believe that infants that are now baptized are not to have that same hope and expectation. Some will say, yeah, that's all well and good. It's a bunch of flowery words and that stuff. But there's not one explicit example of infant baptism in the New Testament. It always comes up. To which I say, Yeah, maybe. I believe that there is passages in the New Testament, obviously, which imply infant baptism. But here's the main point. It's an argument from silence. Here's another truth. There's not a single instance, an explicit statement in the New Testament, where a person who was raised up in the Christian faith is baptized on confession of faith. Not a single one. So there's no statement in Scripture that a child that was raised in a Christian family, and we have some alluded to, like Timothy. They raised up in a Christian family, but we have no record of them being baptized upon a profession of faith. So that's an argument from silence also. I like that argument from silence better than the other one. So let's build on that. Let's go rather than to something we all confess. Let's go to the Great Commission. There's only one true imperative in that passage. You know the one I'm talking about. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations. Well, the only true imperative in that passage, the only actual imperative command in the original language, is the one that says, make disciples. And then the other two statements underneath that tell us how we're to do it. And note the order by baptizing them and teaching them to obey. So, disciples are people who have been baptized and are being taught to obey. Now, baptism is to the end of making disciples who are then taught to how to live in covenant with God. That's what it means, is is to be brought into the covenant and then grow in the understanding of the covenant as they proceed. This is exactly what circumcision was in the Old Testament, which is no surprise. I've been banging on it for the last 20 minutes. But people born outside the covenant community in the Old Testament were told to repent and be circumcised. And in the New Testament, we are taught to repent and be baptized. So those people who are outside the covenant community are, of course To repent and be baptized on expression of faith. But those within the community are to be circumcised, as Moses was very clearly told to do, you know, when he had failed to do it with his child. So, the celebrated entrance into the covenant community is what is present here. Is there a single soul here today who does not think that the Great Commission should begin at home? Is it not the first duty of every Christian parent to baptize their child and to teach them to obey? So does the scripture not say that we're to raise up our children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord? And is not that not the same thing as learning how to keep covenant with their God? And certain there are none here who would deny that, because there's a plethora of teachings in Scripture that teach it. And that's why we find Christian baptism of infants present from the second generation of the church right down to this day. The second generation of the church, the church that followed the apostles, with people in it who knew the apostles and had set at their feet, a baptized baby. And that's to me is a fairly powerful statement, because if they had sat at the feet of Peter, I can't imagine them saying that baptism of babies is not something that Peter would have approved of This is the last thing I would like to bring home today. Infant baptism is essential to a right understanding of the church. The infant baptism, we state that this child, as we did here today, is publicly declared to be a member of this church, of God's covenant people on earth. Now, this child is already a member of the church by virtue of being born. Baptism simply signs and seals that and acknowledges it. But in baptism we celebrate this I said earlier that the covenant of grace is the instrument by which God establishes his church, his visible church on earth. It doesn't mean that every individual in that church is elect and eternally saved. But it means that they are within the community that God is using to bring about salvation on the earth. That's the way it was in the Old Testament. That's how it is in the New. And notice how in both covenant, both testaments, some people who were circumcised or baptized at some point departed from the faith. And think about that. Being a member of God's covenant people, his covenant of grace people, is not a guarantee that every person in it is elect. This is true of those who say that the only people who confess faith should be baptized. They acknowledge that it is not necessarily true that the person is elect. Thus, it is no argument to say that infants should not be baptized until they make a profession of faith. Because as John says Some of them who left us were never part of us to start with, even though they had confessed faith and been baptism, had been baptized on confession. So baptism, when we're talking about it then, says something else. It says that this person is a member of Christ's church. That's what it is. It speaks to the here and now. It speaks to that great question. Who are God's covenant people on earth? This child, born of Christian parents, is born into that church. And upon birth, immediately upon birth, he or she is part of a community. In this case, he and she is part of a community. He has spiritual mothers and fathers, spiritual aunts and uncles, spiritual cousins, spiritual everything, brothers and sisters even In other words, that child is part of a people. They're a member of a nation. That nation is being raised up by the Holy Spirit. Do you see how far more biblical this idea is than its opposite? This was intrinsic in the idea of national Israel. It is intrinsic to the idea of the New Testament church. Jesus said, suffer little children to come unto me. Jesus is present into this world. He is present in his visible church. And we must ensure that children born of believing parents grow up knowing that they have been brought to Jesus. In his church. And that they, along with their parents, have been baptized and are being taught to obey. Well, let's take this glorious gospel. This idea of covenant theology And let's take it to the table. And in taking it to the table, celebrate it in the fullness of our present living Christ. Let's pray.