And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem said, He has the Eldebub, and by the ruler of the demons he casts out demons. So he called them to himself and said to them in parables, How can k Satan cast out Satan? If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. And if a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand. And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but has an end. No one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man. and then he will plunder his house. Assuredly I say to you, all sins will be forgiven, the sons of men, and whatever blasphemies they may utter. But he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness. But is subject to eternal condemnation because they said he has an unclean spirit. Please pray with me. Mighty God, we need your spirit. To make clear what your word is saying to us, what we are to learn, what we are to believe about you, what duty you require of us. Please, Lord God, show us. Shine light on your word. Shine light on our minds and on our hearts today. That we would be able to worship you and glorify you better. And I pray, Lord, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Well, I'm sure all of you remember what happened when the Spirit of God came upon the apostles at Pentecost. They were given power. They were given the power of God living within them. And one way that it manifested. Do you remember one way, one clear way that the power of God, the Spirit of God, manifested in those apostles? It was in the speaking in tongues. They spoke in tongues. Now there's a lot of confusion about speaking in tongues lately. I just want to point out the clear truth of what happened. Those apostles, moved by the Spirit of God, spoke the truth of God. And when they spoke the truth of God, it was people who heard them speaking. In their own native languages, in their own mother tongues. It was amazing. It was astonishing. And everyone who witnessed it What did they do? Did they immediately drop all of their objections to what they were saying and just fall down worshiping Jesus and believing? No, they did not. Do you remember what one reaction was to them? They said, they must be full of new wine. That's a way of saying they must be full of strong drink. That's what the mockers said. But the Spirit that had come upon them showed himself powerful, proved that he was indeed the Holy Spirit. Was that because of speaking in tongues? No. It was because he moved in the Apostle Peter, he gave him utterance. As we're told in Acts chapter two. And at Peter's words, at Peter's preaching, his sermon, at the Spirit's words through him, the people were cut to the heart, and they were convicted of their sin And they were shown their desperate need for salvation. Do you remember what those people said next? They said Men and brethren, speaking to the apostles, what shall we do? And Peter answers, Repent Let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is to you and to your children and to all who are far off, as many as the Lord our God will call. There is no salvation in any other but Jesus Christ. There is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Now, Mark has been showing us that Jesus of Nazareth really is the Christ. He really is the true Son of the one and only true God. In him is the salvation of God that has long been promised to God's people, the salvation that they have been awaiting The miracles that he has been performing, the healing, the casting out of demons, the forgiving of sins, cleansing of leprosy, all these wondrous signs. Jesus performed to demonstrate that he really is fulfilling God's promises, his teachings, he taught with authority as no one else had ever taught. It demonstrated Christ's real wisdom, that he truly saw God and understood the scriptures. A few weeks ago we looked at the earlier part of this passage, and we saw that no matter what anyone thinks, only the power of God can rescue us. And tonight. In finishing out this passage, I hope you'll see from Jesus' response that to hate God's plan of salvation is to risk eternal condemnation. Brothers and sisters, to hate God's plan of salvation is to risk eternal condemnation And we're going to look at this under two headings tonight. We're going to first look at verse 28, in which we'll examine God's plan of salvation, and then we'll look at verses 29 and 30. And we'll examine eternal condemnation. So let's look now at this first section and see what it teaches us about God's plan of salvation. Look at what he says. It shows us, first thing that we must notice is that God's plan of salvation is sure. Look at what Jesus says. Assuredly, I say to you. If you've read the Gospels, you've seen Jesus and heard Jesus say this. This is what's known as an oath form. When he says the word that has been translated assuredly, he says, Amen. Verily, truly What he says is true. And we must remember that Jesus is our great prophet. He's our prophet, priest, and king. He is the great prophet. And in this way, in speaking in this way, he is showing himself to be that great prophet. If you have read any of the other prophets, there is what's called the prophetic formula. Does anybody know what the prophetic formula is? Prophets say it. When they are about to make utterance, and they want people to know that it's not their words, it's God's words, they say, Thus saith the Lord. The utterance of Jehovah. There is no contest. There is no argument that can be made against what Jesus is saying. He is speaking As of the great prophet. And when the true prophet of Jehovah speaks, he speaks the very words of God with the very voice of God. Jesus is speaking the words of God, not the words of man. And to contradict Jesus' words, his teaching, it's not just to contradict him, it's to contradict God. And these scribes knew better. Mark tells us it's the scribes who came down from Jerusalem. The scribes, do you know what the scribes did? All day, every day? They searched the Word of God. They copied the Word of God. Their entire calling and livelihood was to be immersed in God's Word and to know what it says. They would have known it better than anyone else. For they were the authorities at that time on what God has said. They knew that their king was coming to them That He would come and He would be righteous and that with Him would come salvation. They knew this from Zechariah nine nine Which also taught them that he would come mounted on the foal of a donkey, very humble, not coming as a conquering king at that point. They knew that he was the one who would come to rule Israel, that his goings forth are from of old, from everlasting, because they would have known Micah 5, verse 2. And also knowing that, they would have known that he was born in Bethlehem. And you might recall that they surely knew that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. We know that without doubt, because when Herod asked them Where is the Messiah to be born? What do they tell him? He's going to be born in Bethlehem. They knew that the Messiah would be the Son of God. Because they knew Isaiah chapter 9, verses 6 and 7. They knew that his name would be called wonderful, counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Jesus' claim to divinity. It was the final straw for these authorities on God's Word. At the end of his life, it is this very claim that they would say, Do we need to hear anything else? They asked him clearly in Luke 22 and in Mark 14, are you the Son of the Blessed? Are you the Son of God? And his answer left them with no other course of action but to treat him as one whom they said had blasphemed. The Son of God is revealing the true faith. He is teaching as one with authority, this is what Jesus is doing. He is declaring to God's people what they must truly believe. And what he says in this verse teaches us that God's plan of salvation is sure. But it also teaches us that God's plan of salvation is comprehensive. Look at what he says: God is saving us from all of our sin. Jesus says, all sins will be forgiven, the sons of men. Every sin. He clearly teaches that God forgives the sins of men, and he's been demonstrating it every step of his ministry so far, hasn't he? I've already made reference to that paralyzed man in Mark chapter 2. He declared to that man that his sins were forgiven. But do you recall what he did? To answer those who, in their hearts, said that could not be true. He restored the man's body. By the power of God, he recreated this man's legs, basically, and gave him a new ability to walk. He did it with spectacular and amazing power. Whose power? What power could do that? It's only God's power. Do you remember when he cleansed the leper of leprosy? That is something that only God can do. So I ask you, brothers and sisters, can you find some limiting factor in what Jesus has said there? When he says all sins, or every sin, is there is there some sin that is excluded? I draw your attention to our call to worship tonight from Psalm 103. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgives some. Of your iniquities? No. Who forgives all your iniquities, who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from destruction. This is what our blessed God does. And so what Jesus is saying is not news to the people of God. This is and has always been our hope that God saves sinners. This is the proclamation of God that He Himself spoke to Moses, the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands. Forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. God's plan of salvation is sure, it is comprehensive God is even saving us from sins that are committed in ignorance. Look at what he says next. He says, and whatever blasphemies they may utter. And the construction of this verb blasphemeo in the Greek, it's a particular form that helps us understand particularly what Jesus is saying. It's a form that means, it's in the subjunctive, if you know what that means. It means might or may. The phrase is literally, and blasphemies, as many as they might have uttered. As many as they might say. The Lord knows our condition, He remembers that we are dust, and you don't have to be afraid that someday He'll forget or get tired of your weakness and decide that he's just gonna take this forgiveness thing away from you. He doesn't forget who you are. Remember what Jesus said As the crowd of soldiers and citizens watched him hanging on the cross, dying for the sins of the world, do you remember what he said to them? Do you remember what he said to his father on their behalf? Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do. Remember when Jesus confronted Paul, at that time Saul, and revealed to him what he did not know, what he was ignorant of? In Acts chapter nine, Jesus revealed that Saul was persecuting the church and that that was actually persecuting who It was persecuting him. It was persecuting Jesus personally. Saul had no idea. He had done terrible things. Evil, wicked things. And he had done them thinking that he was serving God until God enlightened his mind and changed his heart until those scales fell off his eyes and he could finally see. Where would we be as a church if Paul could not have been forgiven? We know that he was forgiven. God chose to use a great deal of what Paul says, a great deal of what Paul taught and preached. That it would be preserved for us, even now, 2,000 years later. God's plan of salvation is marvelous. It is sure. And comprehensive. All of our sins can be forgiven in Christ. All of our error and misspeaking can be forgiven in Christ. All of our ignorance can be forgiven in Christ. But this presents us with a dilemma, doesn't it? Because in the very next verses, Jesus tells us that despite all of that being absolutely true, there is something. Which will not be forgiven. There is something which will earn eternal condemnation. And so I want to turn our attention there to verses 29 and 30. It says, but he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is subject to eternal condemnation. Because they said he has an unclean spirit. We are condemned for what is in our heart, and what is in our heart comes out of our mouths Blasphemy. Do you guys know what blasphemy is? It's not a word used much nowadays. Blasphemy is scandalous of speech reviling speech. It is speaking negatively about something. As though you speak about something as though it has no value, as though it has no worth. In essence, to blaspheme something It's to treat it with hatred. It's to despise it. To reject it. It's to call what is good evil. Or to call what is evil good. Recall the passage that we read leading us into the confession of sin that comes directly after the parallel account in Matthew of this whole event. The scribes and the Pharisees from Jerusalem had revealed what was in their hearts through their awful words. They revealed themselves to be evil vipers. They were telling terrible lies about Jesus. But more than that, they were telling terrible lies about the nature of his power. Which was clearly evident to everyone, of the power that was forgiving sins, the power that was restoring bodies. They revealed that they hated God, that they hated God's salvation. And they revealed that because they showed that they despised his Savior. And so we learn from them that blasphemy against the Holy Spirit that one sin that will not be forgiven is hating God's salvation. They don't like Jesus. He doesn't look like the Messiah that they wanted or this Messiah that they were hoping for. He doesn't appear to have any earthly power. He's definitely not a king. He doesn't have an army, which they were hoping for, which would come and drive the Romans out. He doesn't have a massive palace filled with servants. They were looking for someone like that. They were looking for the heir to the throne of David. And so they willfully reject what their own eyes see Refusing the clear evidence of God's power at work in Galilee through this man, through Jesus. They wanted to discredit him before the people. In this Matthew passage, if you were to look there, you would see that the people were amazed at the obvious power of God at work through Jesus. And their amazement began to spill out of their mouths. Do you remember what they said? They were saying and wondering: could this be the Son of David? In essence, saying, Would the Messiah do anything different than what this man is doing now? The power that they saw could not be explained in any other way. It is the power of God. And so, what do the scribes do? They lie. They know that Satan does not give up his grip on someone willingly They know that casting out demons and unclean spirits is only something God can do, and he chooses to use men to do it. In Matthew 12, 27, this same account, Jesus says as much. He says, And if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? He adds this one little sentence in saying Therefore, they shall be your judges. They knew that God could cast out these unclean spirits and that he used men to do it. So for them to claim that God was not doing it then. It condemned them. Though they may think that they were speaking against Jesus, against the Son of Man, what the scribes are saying. Literally, verse 30, they are saying the spirit Jesus has is unclean. If you look at the Greek, the word spirit is not in lowercase, it is capitalized. It indicates that he's talking about the Spirit, the Holy Spirit. Jesus' Spirit is not just any Spirit, it's not like the Spirit of any other man. Do you remember what happens in Luke chapter four, verse twenty-one? Jesus reads a passage from the Word of God, a passage that these scribes and Pharisees should have known. He says, The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. Because the Lord has anointed me to preach good tidings to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives. And the opening of the prison to those who are bound, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of vengeance of our God. That's from Isaiah 61, verses one and two. Jesus says to the people that hear him, read that in the synagogue, and he says, Today this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. The spirit that was in Jesus, the spirit that worked through Jesus, is the spirit of the Almighty God. And they were calling God unclean. They were reviling God, despising God, hating God Himself, denying and rejecting the power of God to forgive and to save sinners. Brothers and sisters, do not be like them. Do not be like those scribes and those Pharisees who blaspheme the Holy Spirit, who hate God's salvation. They hate his plan of salvation. They hate the way that he saves. And to hate God's salvation. To hate his redemptive plan is to risk eternal condemnation. That's exactly what Satan wants. It's exactly what he wants from you. Even though you being God's chosen and his elect, he wants you to hate God. He wants to, if he can at all, even though he cannot take your salvation from you, he wants to hinder it. He wants to blind you to it. He wants to take away your joy of salvation. And that by doing that, perhaps You may end up speaking ill of your Savior around those who don't yet know him. This is to risk condemnation. Now we know it's a risk because the way that it's put here, it doesn't say that the Pharisees and the scribes have committed this sin. And will not be forgiven. And the other parallel passages you'll see, it's very clear, they are very close to this. Because they had seen what Jesus was doing. They had seen and knew that the power of God could do those things. And yet they were claiming that it was the power of Satan. But Satan cannot save, can he? All of us are born condemned, aren't we? We are all born enslaved to the enemy. Enslaved to sin, enslaved to death We already belong to him, and he doesn't just give up his possessions. Jesus says that in order For someone to be spared from Satan, saved from Satan, Satan must be bound. And Jesus is the one stronger than the devil, the one who has bound him. Satan is currently bound. He is awaiting his judgment in the lake of fire. And so all he cares about, how many poor souls can I drag with me into eternal condemnation? He wants you to hate God. He wants you to hate the plan of salvation. So that you would speak lies about him and the world would hear that. Well, I want to encourage you tonight. If at any point you have thought yourself guilty of this unforgivable sin, I want to encourage you. To let you know that it's not possible for you. You are still alive You are still walking this world. It is still called today. And there is still hope for you in Jesus. Take your concern and your worry about it, and let that be an encouragement to you, because if you did not belong to Christ, you would not care one bit whether or not you've committed an unforgivable sin. Because you wouldn't care one bit about forgiveness, and you wouldn't care one bit about sin. Yet for believers, we must be mindful and careful. We must guard our hearts and guard our tongues. We must be careful not to fall into the trap of Satan. He wants you to think that the gospel's just a story. He wants you to treat it in your heart like it's just some words on a page. He wants you to treat it like it isn't true. Or maybe even worse, he wants you to treat it like it's just as true as every other religion or every other system of salvation there. He wants you to reject what you've already seen, what you've been taught. And so, brothers and sisters, I encourage you, flee to Christ. Flee to the words of Holy Scripture that tell you that this is what God has been planning all along, from the very beginning to the very end, to save sinners through a Redeemer. And that when you come in the Word of God to see all the things that Jesus did and all the things that He said, and the reactions of people to Him. Let that encourage you to say the truth of God is plain. This Jesus is the one he has always planned to send. Don't look for your salvation anywhere else. If you think that anything else can save you, you are You are despising God. You're hating him. You cannot be saved through that Bible reading The Bible reading can only lead you to the one who saves. So don't think that you're going to do some Bible plan and that's going to be it. If that were the case, then every single person in this world, whether they believed it true or not, would simply read four chapters a day, because that would be the prescription. It is not the case. Brothers and sisters, if you look out in the world and you think that Satan is winning, if you believe what the scribes and Pharisees are trying to say, that Satan has the power. You are despising and rejecting your Savior. Don't do that. You mustn't do that. Because only Christ has the power to save. And he proves it. God has proven it. He brought Jesus back from the dead. He has been resurrected. And this is our hope that one day we will be resurrected with Christ. We will be translated into glory with him, living with him, and serving him for all eternity, all the benefits of redemption. Are yours in Christ Jesus? Do you remember how the benefits are communicated to you? How is the righteousness of Christ put on you? It's by his Holy Spirit. His spirit is what applies to you, the redemption purchased by Christ. It is the Spirit of the living God, the Spirit of Christ. Who unites you to Christ so much that when the Father looks at you, he doesn't see your sin. He doesn't see your iniquity. He sees Christ's righteousness. He sees a son who has been forgiven. If the Spirit of God cannot do this, if the power of God cannot do this, then nothing can, and there is no salvation. Brothers and sisters, may God make you a lover of his grace. May He give you the ability to trust His Word that tells you what He's doing. That shows you his plan of salvation. May God make you someone who so adores his power And his plan, that you would never, ever risk eternal condemnation by in any way thinking or speaking ill of Jesus Of the Spirit of God, of that great mercy that is shown to us through the pages of Scripture and most clearly in the face of Jesus Christ. May God bless us with the joyful hope of the salvation of Jesus. Please pray with me.