If you want to stay standing, please do so as you turn to Luke chapter 6. We will have a reading of the Word of God. It is printed for you in the bulletin. However, there will be some reference to the earlier part of chapter 6, so I strongly recommend if you have a Bible, okay to that chapter. This is the Word of God. For you, the people of God. Starting in verse 27, ending in verse 36 of Luke chapter 6. But I say to you who hear Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you. Pray for those who spitefully use you. To him who strikes you on the one cheek, offer the other also. And from him who takes away your clothes, Do not the holders in explain it. Give to everyone who asks of you. And from him who takes away your goods, do not ask them back. And just as you want men to do to you, you also do to them likewise. If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. And if you lend to those Those from whom you hope to receive back, what credit is that to you? For even sinners lend sinners to receive as much back. But love your enemies Do good and lend, hoping for nothing in return. The reward will be great, and you will be the sons. of the Most High. For he is kind to the unthankful and evil. Therefore, be merciful, just as your Father also is merciful. Let us pray. Father, this is truth. necessary truth that you know we need. For there is no way we can accomplish this without you. There is no way that these difficult commands can be fulfilled by us if you do not make a supernatural change within Lord, we beg you now that you would take this your word, you would place it in our hearts And that it would grow up to bear great fruit in your kingdom. Father, that the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your side of the world, our strength in our human. We pray in Christ's name. Please be seen this. You'll have to forgive me. Went with an experiment, took off the Dr. Seuss saying and couldn't go back on, but here we have it. There might be some meat and I apologize for you Brothers and sisters, uh I haven't been on the dirt for very long. I'm pretty young. And in my short experience I have found that most people are in the same situation. Most everybody is just trying to do the very best they can with what they have. We're all trying to make the best choices. Use our time the best way, be the best friend, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister that we can be to the people that we love. All of us, every single one of us. A failing attack in some way. Everybody has an idea of what they think is the best. And that idea affects every single thing that person does or says or even thinks. The problem we all encounter is that we're all pretty broken, aren't we? Even if we can decide on what the best way is, we can't seem to figure out the best way to. live the best way. If only someone who really knew the true best way Way to live could tell us what that is. Oh, what a treasure that would be, huh? Hallelujah. That's exactly what we have right here in the Bible. God's word to us, explaining exactly what we do in the understand about him and about ourselves. He communicates to us through this special revelation what is the best way for you to live The first audience of Jesus' words we are going to meditate upon this morning were very much like all of you. They too were just trying to do the best they could with what they had. Now, if you were to start reading at the beginning of chapter 6, if you just turn over there and you can scan, then you will see that this man called Jesus of Nazareth. Nazareth declares himself the Lord of the Sabbath. He proves it. He proves it by healing a man whose hand was stripped-like. This to some people was not the best thing to do. And they were pretty angry with God. They hated him for it. But many, like you, cannot deny that there's something about this Jesus. Also like you, these people Flocked to him to hear his words and to be healed of their diseases, as you see in verse 17. He spoke to the people and taught that there is a best way to live, a blessed way to live. We call these In these verses that lead up to our passage, the Beatitudes. We call it the Beatitudes because that word means supreme blessedness. And Jesus, in giving us those statements, of supreme blessedness draws a clear distinction between two kinds of people. There is the worldly man, he is not blessed, he is not living with us. And there is the godly man. To his life and live in the best way. Jesus teaches that the world a man is satisfied with what he can attain for himself. He is satisfied with what the world offers in this way. He does not understand. He satisfied with fleeting things, gold and jewels and riches. The approval of men. But the godly man. So it seems that he should have no cause to vote. He's for, he's mourning, he's reviled and insulted, he's persecuted because of his faithfulness to God. Yet Jesus decides. That he is the blessed one. Our Lord Christ offends the understanding of what even God's people, the Jews, had thought was the blessed. best way to be. Well brothers and sisters now turn your attention to the Word of our Lord here and verses 27 through 36 in which Jesus continues his teaching about the life of God's people. In this passage report this morning, we see that Jesus commands a new way to live for his people. Jesus Our Lord and King commands a new way to live for his people. Now most of this passage clearly shows that Jesus expects much of his people. And he gives commands that devil. Demonstrate a new way to live. We're going to look at this section in verses 27 through 32. Please follow along at the end. Now the first thing I notice is there's a new teaching in this very first part of verse 27. There's a new teaching, and these are the words of the true teacher, the one wiser than Solomon, the true king who speaks with true authority. Jesus Christ alone has the right and the power to command his people. And he says, but I say. In Matthew's accounts, in the Sermon on the Mount, the Lord says this with much more frequency as he gives his teaching. And it indicates that there's something new, something important that he is emphasizing about something that his people have already known. And when the king speaks, when the king imparts new wisdom and new instruction, he His faithful people listen. And that's exactly Jesus' audience in this passage. It's his people. It's the population of the New Kingdom, those given the gift of true spiritual hearing, those with their ears opened to hear. Because he has said, but I say to you who hear. These people are not like the people described in Isaiah 6, 9 to 10, who see but don't perceive, who hear but don't understand These people see with their eyes, hear with their ears, understand with their parts, and have caused Jesus to be in love with healed. To his people Jesus gave commands, which shows that he wants us to have loose perspectives on life. First, We must have a new perspective on our neighbors. Look at the rest of verse 27 and 28. Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you. And pray for those who strengthen you use you. Those who can hear, those who can think by God are to have a different understanding about how to in the in or to relate to each other. These aren't commands, imperatives. You're not optional. You must love your enemies. You must do good to those who hate you. You must Bless those who curse you, and you must pray for those who spitefully use you or abhor you or revile you for any other cases. But notice, these aren't entirely new commandments, rather a new perspective on how God's commandments apply to the life of God's people. The Hebrews have known of the great summary of God's law. ages. Later in this gospel in chapter 10, uh a lawyer asks Jesus, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Do you remember this? And Jesus snaps too What the law says, and what does the name imply? You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, with all your mind, and your neighbor as a son. This was widely understood. However, the main text question showed exactly what had gone wrong in the Jewish religion. It says in verse 29, but he, wanting to justify himself, And Jesus, and who is my neighbor? Jesus' answer to this man is comparable to this Samaritan, with which I'm sure all of you are familiar. Jesus is commanding, as his father in heaven had Love your neighbor as yourself. This is the best way to live. It doesn't matter how people think of you or how they treat you. It doesn't matter why one might eat you. Despite it all, God people also love their enemies. We are the opposite of the worldly man. Worldly people dwell in darkness, but we dwell in the light of Jesus Christ. The worldly men and women call down curses upon their enemies from their false gods and their powerless ideologies, and we, the people of God The blessed people are to respond by pray to the truism in God, praying to God's sake. We pray that those who so behindly hate us would be saved By the same miraculous grace that had saved us. The Jewish religious system had perverted neighbor to mean only those Jews of proper birth who treat you well. But Jesus redefines how how we are to understand our fellow neighborhoods. He teaches us, with these commands, to have a new perspective on our neighbors. And he doesn't stop there. He then commands us in verses 29 and 30 to have a new perspective on our physical well-being. Look there with me. So who strikes you on the one cheek, also the other also. And from him who takes away your clothes, do not withhold your tune of titles. Give to everyone who asks of you. And from him who takes away your goods. Not that so much. Now the Bible is clear, Old and New Testament, that vengeance belongs to the Lord. The Apostle Paul reiterates this in Romans 12, 19. It says, Above it do not avenge yourselves, but rather give place the wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. Perhaps remember in Proverbs 20, verse 22, do not say I will recommend evil. Wait for the Lord and he will save you. Now this doesn't relegate Christians to the position of potential doormats required to be stepped on and abused by any who attempt to restreet us. Obviously, we must be wise. And godly people, able to discern the difference between someone mistreating us and someone trying to violate the strict command. We must not neglect the responsibility we have to protect the people of God that he To put in our care and to preserve our own lives with our gifts from Him. Rather, by Jesus' command, we are shown a new perspective of our His people. We don't need to have the world. the instinctual reaction, which is to protect ourselves at all costs, we can offer the other cheap Because we know that God avenges those who are persecuted for his sins. Now, as you can imagine, this would have particular significance to people in Jesus' day who were living under Romanos. It is hard for us to imagine how important this would be for us to remember, living in an age of what seems like perhaps ideological transition. Hallelujah. Jehovah is still Jehovah. God is still God, and this still holds true. He will avenge his people. And the best way to live is to abandon any notions of vengeance and revenge. need it to go. Now giving our tweet and our undergarment to the mother who takes our clothes is closely related to giving from our goods to those that ask it and not the testing of over the first things that the soul. We know that all we have is the gift of God. He's given us all that we possess, and it is not ours, right? But it's his. And he's given it to us that we can steward it for this purpose. the Lord. Do you not believe that God Almighty can give you a new cloak and a new tunic? Do you doubt that He can return your goods? Even if they're stolen? Do you doubt? And he can provide new or better goods, even in greater quantities than you could have imagined. He is God. He created the heavens and the earth, means made all things and nothing by the power of his word. Why should his children pray? Over the law of a few times. This is full shift for the world. But it is what the Lord Jesus Christ today is best for his people. We are just trust. That God is real. We ought to trust that He has the power to avenge us and restore us. We don't have to feel like we have to take all matters into our own hands at all times. Isn't this quite a different perspective? A new perspective? Derecting a better perspective on our physical well-being? Jesus concludes this section by commanding us to have a new perspective on our own behavior. Look at verse 31. And just as you want men to do to you, you also do to them one word. We now see clearly what Jesus is teaching his people by this one verse. Nearly everyone has heard of the bolt of food, right? This is Luke's preposition of it. I want you to notice that this command To do unto others that you would have them do unto you. If stated in the negative, it's something most people would agree to, whether or not they're Christian. This is how it would be stated in the negative. Don't do to others what you don't want them to do to you. I think that this is probably how most people actually live. Right? I'm not going to be a jerk to you, so you don't be a jerk to me. I think this is why it's so template. by our mistreatment of others when they miscreate us. Christians, you cannot excuse your bad behavior by blaming it on the behavior of others. Jesus is clearly saying that you must behave toward others as you want them to behave toward you. Especially when they are already behaving toward you like a you know what. Like someone who eats us, like a true emerald. We are citizens of a new kingdom. And the King Jesus Christ, through his commands, shows us that this place lives. And he has every right to expect his people to obey the command. The commands he gives here show that you must live a different, a new kind of life, and to do this, you must have the new perspective on your neighbors. Who are you to love? And this new perspective on your physical well-being, how would you survive? And a new perspective on your own behavior, how must you behave towards yourself? Well Jesus then uses three questions to illustrate that in addition to new perspectives, you are also to have new motivations. Our Lord's repeatedly asking the question, what What credit is that to you, and it's interesting that the word good for credit is the very word for grace, for gifts, for benefit And by asking these questions, he indicates that he's talking about the end results we hope to achieve through our actions. What reward do you seek? What motivates you? He shows us that we are. and have a new motivation to the law. Look at 1 32. But if you love those who love you, what credit is left to you? For even sinners love those who love you. It's sad to admit it, but there are some people. Some people in this world are really easy to bother. And as a football to that point, there are some people in this world who make it very difficult to love. And we all would agree that loving someone who's good with us, someone who treats us well, someone who cares for us, and who loves us, is easy. But here we learn that we can't congratulate ourselves. for loving the people that we like. We can't pat ourselves on the back for loving those who are just to love. Even the worst thing that the human race was. Even ISIS. Even the KKK, even neo-Nazis or Antifa, groups that are characterized by whom they hate. Jesus may love the world. Jesus wants us to know that his people are to love for different reasons than the world loves. Our motivation for love is not to love found in the other person. It's not even found in ourselves. It's found in our Heavenly Father who has bestowed his love upon us. Then we turn our attention to verse 33, and we see that Jesus shows us that we are to have a new motivation for service. And if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? Or even sinners to say. Again, we have the same kind of craze, but this kind of supplies service, doing good for others, to others. It's the same as with love. It's easy to serve those who do good to others. It's easy to serve when you're always getting thanked, feeling appreciated. It's so easy that even sinners who do not naturally Seek the good of others will behave this way. But God's people, true Christians, cannot settle for this motivation for service. They cannot be motivated by convenience and reciprocity. There is a better way. Instead, you must be motivated by the Father's example. You must be motivated by the boundless good the Lord has done for you while you were yet a sinner. While you were an enemy against him, your rebellion. To his rule and authority. Well, lastly in this section, in which God shows us a new way to live, we see that our Lord Jesus shows us a new motivation, which is obvious. And if you lend to those for whom you hope to receive back, not try to be back to you. For even thinner lend to thinners to receive as much back. To me this example puts it in the clearest possible terms because it's concrete. consider. Jesus is talking about giving to someone only if you can reasonably expect to receive at least something in return. It's not about formal loans. It's not maybe about having resources to act as a bank for friends and family, let alone for strangers. Certainly the poor and the hungry, as Jesus has already mentioned in this chapter, would not be in that disposition. This is about what motivates us. scare enough about another person to put our goods and essence our life on the light. Will we do it solely for their benefit? Or does service or do and good in that way only enter our thoughts if there's something that we can get out of other words. It's also important to see that this command prevented us from looking at other people merely as opportunities for personal gaining. Christians do not try to get all from other people, withholding our lives or our goods or our service from them unless there's something in it for us. There is a better way. You are to have a new motivation. One that does not take into account what you will see from the person we're helping, rather give to them in obedience to the Lord. You can have any one of the blessed elders here among us who lived a life striving for faithfulness to their Redeemer, ask them if this thing is True. Obedience to God is in the Lord of Word. Jesus has used these commands and these illustrations to show you, his people, those who have ears to hear, that you must have a new Way of life. You must have new perspectives and new motivations for how you live. You are to live in such a way that you demonstrate your faith, trusting God to avenge you, trusting God to provide. Trusting God to bring into your life those people that He wants you to love, those people for whom He wants you to do good and to serve. And those people too whom He wants you to give service. We are here, what it says, which is different. This certainly doesn't describe any kind of people that existed before Jesus came. Brothers and sisters that describes the very new kind of people. And look at me at verses 35 and 36. We see that this new kind of people are a people who are rewarded for sacrificial death. Look at 35. But love your enemies. Do good in wins, hoping for nothing in return. And your reward will be Grace, and you will be slaves of the most power. In these commands, Jesus has laid out the terms with his new sex way of life. He described a life of sacrificial love, love that is given at great cost. without any expectation of responsibility. He has commanded us to love as God the Father loves in obedience to this new light and the greatest reward. Living with these new perspectives and new motivations. Is the fruit of being redeemed and reconciled to God our Father. It shows that the sinful man we were has died in Christ and is born again purified by his tonian blood. By his work we are made sons. and daughters of the Most High God. This is good news to the human race. It was good news to the covenant people of Israel at the time that Jesus spoke it, so they had lost sight of what it was. to live the best way they could. What it means to be God who loves children. Because God's children, His people, Christians, you are receivers and reflectors of God's love. For he is kind to the unsaithful and evil. Therefore be merciful, just as the Father also is merciful. The new people in Christ are receivers of God's love. We are the unthankful. We are the evil. And God has poured out. 1 John 3:1, Behold what manner of love the Father has bestowed on us, that we should be called children of God. But we are not only receivers of God's love, we are reflectors. We are to be like God, reflectors of that glorious image. You have been commanded to imitate God in his amazing works. Being like God means to be merciful as He is, to show mercy to our fellow man, especially those they do not deserve it. For He has shown the greatest mercy to God. And you all know as well as I do that we soon do not reverse by this. And so we have no matter the human force such nurses, but even though he has the right Doesn't it seem like a better way to live? Maybe even the best way to live? Can you imagine living with this new people and this new way of life? Can you imagine Can you imagine your relationships if you follow these commands? Can you imagine your marriages? Can you imagine how you would relate with everyone around you if these perspectives and motivations aren't affecting you? If only that's it. We are sick. And in our heart's problems, I think you might agree. We don't really want This is hard. This is extraordinarily difficult. Because to live this way means that we are not allowed to excuse ourselves Or given that stink eye if somebody's writing 50 on the left lane on 97. This means that for Christians, no one gets their just the verse. No one gets what's coming to them from Christians. Nothing someone could ever do to you could excuse you from showing mercy, as your Father in heaven constantly shows you mercy. Love the people that eat you. Love the people that want to see all churches faithful to the Word of God brought down and destroyed. Love those who want to demolish the civilization in which we live and replace it with a new social order. Who can love people? that embraced and rejoiced in child murder. Who can love even like? Who can love an angry mob that cries out for their destruction? Who can love someone that denies and not once, twice, but three times, just to save their own state? Who can love someone that falsely accuses them, slanders them, spits on them, lots them, beats them? Who can love the very people who are murdering? Only Jesus Christ. He cried out from the cross, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And only he can claim you by his atoning sacrifice and make you into one of these new human beings, living in the best way possible. A reborn human, made not in the image of Adam. But in the perfect, holy image of the Son of God Himself. So all of us, our constant prayer should be that our Father would make us lovers as He commands us to love by making us more. Jesus Christ, the only one who is perfectly right to this life. We must pray that he would transform our perspectives. On our physical well-being and on our behavior that we would obey and give of ourselves as Jesus did. We must pray Then we would be motivated by God's will, His blood, His loving adoption, and not by our own selfish desires. Brothers and sisters, saints of God, we must beg him to make us merciful, constantly reminding us of the great mercy he shows us. This is the best way to live. Made sure you go forth now and live this new life of love as the new people that you have become in Christ Jesus. This great. Thank you for your work. Thank you for these hard commands. For they show us exactly what we expect of us. And that expectation drives us to you and your great dependence. For we know we can do nothing. Nothing close to this what happens. And Father, as we as we approach The very near future, this could have many changes for us in your church We began that this would become even more important, even more necessary, even more of a daily ritual and exercise that we would think on these commands and meditate upon them. Praise you to be able to do it. But we don't know what you have planned is every detail. But we know that you work in marvelous my spheres and other ways. We know that you are glorious When glorified when the full is silly divine We'll put a maximum army from thousands down to hundreds so that you will do all the harmony, not the commander. And so God we ask you to give us strength and courage We still know that you are God. Do not be fearful in the face of those who hate us, because obviously our beliefs that we would be Christians strong and loving. We would not shy away from giving to those in need simply because they may not be like us or agree with us or even care for us. They may hate us. compassion for what we will give us for our lives and we need you guys. We stand in you by the power of the Spirit. We know that we will not be shaken. from our resolve to obey all that you have commanded to. Grant us the joy to come to our obedience and grant that we will see the working we are So we pray this in the wondrous name of Christ. Amen.