But as for you, speak the things which are proper for sound doctrine. that the older men be sober, reverent, temperate, sound in faith, and love and patience. The older women likewise, that they be reverent in behavior, not slanderers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things. that they admonish the young women to love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet, chaste, homemakers, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God may not be blasphemed. Likewise, exhort the young men to be sober-minded in all things, showing yourself to be a pattern of good works, and doctrine showing integrity, reverence, incorruptibility. Sound speech that cannot be condemned, that one who is an opponent may be ashamed, having nothing evil to say of you. Exhort bondservants to be obedient to their own masters. To be well pleasing in all things, not answering back, not filtering, but showing all good fidelity that they may adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior, in all things. Amen. Let us pray O Christ, that you would show us your way and that we would walk in it. We ask these things in your name. Amen. May be seated. Last week we ended, well we began really, and we ended, with a question, what do you do if someone is sick? And we answer generally speaking, you give them medicine. If they are disheartened, you give them the balm of encouragement, for example If they are insubordinate, lying, and subverting families, you give them the antibiotic of a sharp rebuke. The prayer and the hope is for them and the church to be healthy The church is called to remain healthy in the faith. That was our doctrine last week. And we move now into these verses with a different doctrine that we'll arrive there after a few observations. I want you to notice first that this section of Titus is similar to Ephesians 5 and Colossians 3. with what some people call the household codes. I'm not saying that it's the exact same thing, but there are a tremendous amount of similarities It has some of the same features where Paul addresses the vocations of the household. That's how he divides up reality. He begins here, you'll notice it's very clearly structured, isn't it? He starts with the older men. These are men who are the grandfathers of the community During that day and age, it would probably have started at age fifty five, maybe age fifty And the list of virtues in verse 2 flesh out just a small sampling really, a small sampling of what older men how older men are to conduct themselves as an example to the entire community And so you see there, for example, sober. This is controlled certainly in their use of alcohol, but it's broader than that and includes just being sober-minded. You see reverence also within our passage, and it means conducting yourself in a way that evokes respect. So let me ask you very quickly, and then I'll go on with my observations. Have you ever been around somebody that just commands your respect That's what Paul is talking about here. Have you ever been around somebody where you clean up your language, you get your grammar right, and you say no foul words It's that kind of a person. He goes on to talk about temperate, and this refers to prudent behavior. Older men plan well and are self-controlled. And then he has this last word which is sound or healthy, which ends up modifying the rest of the sentence there for the older men, that they are to be sound and healthy in what? They are sound in faith, in love, and in patience. And thus the older men should manifest a healthy trust in God as an example to the whole community. They manifest a healthy Love towards God and their neighbor before the whole community, and they manifest a healthy hope or perseverance and endurance in the faith In Christ and His kingdom before the whole community. In a kind of nutshell, if someone were to ask you, what does it look like to be in the kingdom of Christ, you would point To the older men, then you'll find also the older women. That they end up being living epistles of what Christ has written. They've had enough time Going through the story arc of life to accumulate wisdom and we can look to them to see what does it look like to be a new creation That's what Paul encourages Titus to teach here on Crete. That's the first thing I wanted you to notice, which is the older men. We then move right into the older women Titus is to teach sound living to older women. And these are the grandmothers of the community, round the same age, 50, 55, and it mentions that they are to be reverent in behavior. This refers to living in godliness as a woman. The word is used in that culture. It's used actually for those who are conducting religious services. So you could think of someone who is in a solemn religious experience conducting a service and the composure that they have in the midst of that, that's the picture that is behind this word The idea is that you are so committed to Christ and His kingdom that that shows up in your commitments that you do every day You are a beacon that Christ's kingdom has arrived. It mentions something in the negative here that you're not to do, older women, that you're not to be slanderers. Instead, you can see how this is all relying on the law taught within Deuteronomy, that you are to uphold the reputation of those around you. That would be attached to the ninth commandment, for example You are to pick people up and not tear them down. If you hear other people chattering, you think the best and you throw that out in the conversation Making sure that people are always thinking the best of the people around them, giving them the benefit of the doubt. He continues and he says that the older women are called, like the older men, to be cor controlled in their use of alcohol. This is specifically with reference to what was going on in that church. There was kind of like a housewife of Crete, and they just kind of woke up and got into the box of wine and stayed there all day long. And he's saying you can't do that. The last item modifies the rest, and that they are to be teachers of good things So here you can see that just as the older men are meant to be models to the community, so too are the older women. We're looking at them as role models, and that is how he phrases this by saying, you are to be a teacher of good things. Not just a teacher in the abstract, but of the actual life. And this means that you would teach the younger women to love their husbands, that they would love their children. that they would be prudent in their planning and their pursuits, that they would manage their homes well, that they would be full of good works to those who are around them, and they would live in obedience, or the word is submission, to their husbands This is your ministry to the younger women. Now, the third observation is Paul now moving into the young men. You get the picture, right? Old men, older women, young men. He gives them one directive explicitly, and he says that you are to be prudent and respectable. And then the rest of the instruction is meant to be derived from Titus's living example. And so he says that the young men are to be like Titus. And here he has in mind especially those who are raising up young families. and establishing the foundation of the prophets and apostles with the cornerstone of Jesus Christ, that they are meant and must lead their homes in sound teaching in accordance with the apostles. Now why do you think he place an emphasis like that here? It is because the very place where the faith was being capsized and shipped shipwrecked was in the home. And so he's telling these young men to take control of their homes and to make sure that those who are subverting whole families do not subvert yours. That's why there's such an emphasis here, that they are to lead their homes in sound teaching in accordance with the apostles. They must show serious and respectable living in themselves. And they are to bring up their children in the same. These are some of the lists that we see here. And then I'll just note very briefly that he addresses household employees also That they should not be difficult. This is what these words mean if you reread the passage. They should not be thiefs, and they should be faithful, hard-working employees. When you show up, you don't find that they're always just sitting there eating the product, so to speak. And I'll mention one last observation that ends up being a major feature of this passage, I'm not sure that you have noticed before. There is another feature besides the instructions to the various members of the household of faith, and it is That they are to keep all of these things, all of these virtues, all of these relationships are meant to be tight and godly as a way to witness to the world around them. I want you to notice that there is a repetition that happens throughout this passage. Notice uh first The contrast that is given here, there is a contrast to show that you are not to be like this, and then he's going to give you a repetition of what you are supposed to be like for the sake of a witness. In 2-1, just take a look at that really quickly. Look at the preceding verse to 2. 1. Being abominable, disobedient, and disqualified for every good work, and then we pop right into 2-1, and he says, But as for you. That's another way of saying we're not walking down that same path, Titus. We're moving everybody down a different path And you, in fact, are not just going to walk down that path yourself. Look at that verse 1. That he is going to speak the things which are proper for sound doctrine, and he's going to do so to the whole community showing them how not to be a Cretan, but instead to live like members of the kingdom of Christ. And the church, therefore, ends up being a distinct society in the world, showing the world what real life looks like. That's what the church is doing. And then we move into three important repetitions to substantiate this. Look at verse 5 right at the end. These are called, I'm just going to drop a little Greek on you today. HENA clauses. Alright. Their purpose clauses. Take a look at verse 5. Right at the end. In the NKJV, it will be designated by the word that. And you could put the word why if you wanted to make it a question. So you could say something like this, to be discreet, chaste, homemakers good, obedient to their own husbands. Why? That the word of God may not be blasphemed. You see that? See what I'm doing there? Now go ahead and look at verse 8, right at the tail end, and you're going to find the same thing. Sound speech that cannot be condemned, that one who is an opponent may be ashamed, having nothing evil to say of you. See the that again? So I have to say, sound speech that cannot be condemned, why? That your opponent would be ashamed, having nothing evil to say of you. And then we're going to see the same kind of statement in verse number 10, right there at the end. And notice, not pilfering, but showing all good fidelity. Why? That they may adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior, in all things. So, what's going on here? This is a really important feature of the passage that we can miss But if we do, we won't understand the other chapters that are coming up, because it's a major emphasis. These three statements show that one reason why we live godly lives is so that the world can see That Christianity is a good thing. It is not a bad thing or a useless thing It is meant to be seen as a bright light in a dark world or like salt on tasteless meat. Let's put it that way. The world often thinks that Christians are either useless or bad. Our job, according to this passage, is to show them that show them through our lives Notice the emphasis on the living in this passage through our lives that Christ and his order for the world is good. It actually is meant to be the good. This is the good. And so what we end up having here is a beautiful doctrine that the Apostle Paul gives to Titus, and it's this As a witness to the goodness of Christ's order, Christians of all ages and stages should live in godliness. Let me say that to you again. As a witness to the goodness of Christ's order, Christians of all ages and stages should live in godliness. Now I want to divide this into two main parts. The first is social vision, and the second is social witness. Social vision and social witness. I want to make sure first under social vision, I want to make sure that we know what we are viewing in this Titus passage. Let me start with two analogies that hopefully will frame what's going on here in a way that we can really get at the heart of what Paul is doing. I know that Bill Cosby, his name has been ruined. I get it. But, nevertheless, let me just ask: let's think about him before his name was ruined. Uh did anyone here ever watch the Cosby show? Am I like showing my age here, sorta? Yeah, a little a couple uh hands were embarrassed to start raising them, but I saw your hands. I won't tell anybody. Now, technically speaking, the Cosby show is on television and it's just entertainment. I mean, you're just you could just kind of sit there and be brain dead and watch the show But if you were to really start to see it the way that the producers and the directors were seeing it, you would see that in a very important way, the purpose of the show was not entertainment. That's not the main purpose. Entertainment was the form that it took in order for you to accept it. You know what we need to do with medicine sometimes? A little bit of sugar helps the medicine go down. Isn't that a song with Mary Poppins or something? Yeah. A spoonful of mat sugar helps them. That's a lot of sugar. Man, a whole spoonful of sugar. Nobody ever did that for me Well, we had a spoonful of sugar with the entertainment part in order to bring the medicine down And that was the main purpose. If you were to re-watch these, you'd see that they had a main agenda. The Cosby Show was meant to spread Through the world, a vision for how humans and human society should be ordered. In the Cosby show, for example, we witness possibility for African Americans. I think that was the main problem. Purpose, possibility for African Americans, a future and a hope. If you think about it, think of all of the roles. The father is an esteemed doctor. The mother is an accomplished lawyer. Both of them, however, are extreme family people. They do not neglect their families based on their careers Their marriage was fun and they still had a spark, especially when jazz music was on. Each child was in school They attended regularly and eventually attended university. I think in fact all of them went to university. I don't know what ever happened to Rudy. Did she ever get that far? I don't know But they would listen to cultured music like jazz and be excited about Bach. They had friends from all walks of life And they welcomed them all. That, my friends, is a societal vision and not just a show for entertainment. They were showing the great possibility for the African-American man and woman and for their families. And people were very thankful for that. Now, here is another example which I have mentioned before. I can't seem to escape this guy. He's always impressive to me. Another show that was earlier than the Cosby show that that uh showed a societal vision was the rifleman. Now you've heard me talk about him. But this is another vision for society. The rifleman, I've watched enough episodes, the rifleman is largely about a vision for men. There's a vision for men and their place in maintaining justice in human society. That's what his job is. It is a social vision and not just entertainment. In every episode, the father finds himself around disordered people or circumstances, and it is his job to gather the other men and to right the wrong That's every episode I just summarized for you. And guess what they do at the end of every episode? At the end of every episode, there's a little son that's following him around And the Father uses the circumstances and the situations and the people, and how it unfolded, and how order was restored to give him a discipleship lesson and to impart therefore moral wisdom to his son, so that he too could grow up to be a good man, keeping everything in due rights within his country. Now that was a social vision. It's a social vision for men everywhere. It was not just entertainment. If you were a young boy, I bet growing up at that time you wanted to be like that young boy And I bet you there were some who wanted to be like the Cosby family. And that was the intended effect. Whether it was the Cosby show or it was the Riflemen or any other show, really, what we witness is not really entertainment but a vision for human beings. A vision for men and women and children and animals and the earth around us. And that, my friends, is the way that we should frame our lesson in Titus today Paul is presenting nothing less than a vision for all of human society within our passage. Sometimes we look at these lists in the Bible, and we think that Paul is just giving instructions in personal piety. That if I were to go to a mountaintop, I could just work on myself, like I was training, like Batman or something. But it is, and it is not less than that, but it is so much more. There is so much more happening here. Do you remember the teaching of Jesus Christ on the mustard seed? He said that even though it is the smallest seed, when it grows up, it ends up taking over a large part of the garden. And he was referring to his kingdom. And that, my friends, is what is happening here in Titus The mustard seed of God's kingdom and order. It began in Jerusalem as a small seed, but now it is spreading out into Judea and the countryside, and it has made its way across the Mediterranean To an island over there called Crete. And it will end up, even beyond this letter, spreading to every nation and shaping and forming society in the image of what Paul has written here to Titus. You will officially have a legacy throughout human history of pastors Receiving this letter and seeking to give the same instruction to the household of faith from congregations in the continent of Europe to the island of England into the remote portions of Africa or into the North Americas. This is a vision for human society and not an instruction manual only for personal piety. The list in Titus is not just a list of virtues, but a small sample of a vision for the world. Now Do you know what makes this complicated? What makes this complicated is that we are not the only ones who want to promote a social vision. And for whatever reason, it seems like Christians have the least amount of sugar to help the medicine go down. At every point, Satan seeks to create competing visions. That is the story of the human race after the fall and even during the process of their ruination. Competing visions of social reality. We don't really notice that in the Cosby show when we watch it, which is why my children have watched it. And my children have watched The Rifleman because it's closely allied with a vision of Christendom. There's a lot in common with the Christian vision, but now social visions have become quite twisted. And I'm sure they were twisted during that time too. I'm not a fool. But so in every age, the church has to ask In what ways have we adopted a distorted vision? And how can we, through the power of the Holy Spirit, untwist ourselves and our community? In every era, you will hear preachers rise by the appointment of Christ, calling the church out of their disorder and back into order And it happens in our era also. I wonder what they are. What are the things? What are the questions that need to be asked now? Could we center it around the very division that we see within this passage? Let me give it a try here, and I want you to really think through this. In what ways have the older men adopted a worldly vision for their retirement years? What are the temptations? What is the social vision that is placarded across our communities, telling you what you should do when you hit 50, 55, 60 And is that in accordance with the straight edge of God's Word? Well, that's older men. Let's try this with older women. In what ways have older women adopted a twisted vision for their relationship with younger women? In what way does that show up within our communities? What is the relationship between older women and younger women in our culture at large? Is there one? That might be the biggest problem we're facing right now is that there is no relationship. Have we adopted the same one? Where they seem like the older women and the younger women are vacuum-sealed from each other that they've decided to be in quarantine from each other because of various social obstacles that are placed in your way on both sides. Younger women, in what way have you twisted your understanding to your relationship to older women? Are they just old and they don't get the realities of life And there's no use talking to them. You're contradicting what the scriptures have said. What about your relationship to your children? What about your relationship to your husbands? What about your responsibility to manage the home? And younger men, what is your social vision? I keep hearing from people that the social vision of younger men is visionless and all you do is play video games. Is that true? I hope that's not true of our congregation. That's what I hear. What is your social vision? How is it being twisted by our culture? And are you upholding, are you holding your life up to the straight edge of God's word? Well, that's the first point that I wanted to bring out, which is a social vision. And I leave you with those questions to consider for yourself. I've been asking, you've gotten off easy I've been asking these questions of myself all week long, and it has been a very difficult week because I'm convicted at every one of these points There have been a number of things that the Lord has been seeking to bring to my mind to repent of, and I keep pushing the Lord away, and I have done so for months. And these questions brought it right back up in my face, and I'm finally, by the grace of God, starting to relinquish my absurdity and rebellion. I wonder if in these questions God is doing the same with you. When these questions arise, Is he bringing up an old thorn that he placed in your side and that you've refused to look at over the last couple years about who you really are socially If so, I encourage you to move on the journey of repentance with me. We can do this together. Now there's a social witness component to this too, and this is the major feature of the passage that I told you. There's not only this social vision that we are to have, but we are also doing this for the sake of a social witness. We're not just living unto ourselves. Paul not only gives us a social vision, but tells us that as we live this out, it is meant to witness to a new order that, like the mustard seed, is taking over the world for good. And that can be extremely difficult in our culture. Many of our social practices are contrary to the values of the world. That Christians are viewed more and more so as a plague to society, especially on particular topics. But we should have hope, however, because I would remind you that the early Christians to whom this was written, the fire that they are getting ready to walk into And the fuel that be will be added by the hate of society we have never seen before. They had it far more difficult. The early Christians faced all the same stuff and more. They were hated far more. They were hated and they still found a way For their vision of society to not only be tolerated, but respected and eventually adopted in the third century. At every moment they sought, when I look at their literature and their letters, when I look at their writings and how they are conducting themselves before princes and princesses and kings and queens. and mayors. At every moment they sought to show Christ's order to be good And one of the ways that they did that was they kept clearing the decks saying, what you're saying about us is not true And that person over there who seems like they represent Christ in Christianity, he doesn't know what he's talking about. This is the real Christianity here, and look how good it is. There were rumors going around, for example, that Christians were cannibals because of the way that we talked about the Lord's Supper. There were some other things that were going on, and they had to clear those things away That was a defense. And that defense, early apologetics, when you look at them, were primarily for the sake of making sure that this passage here was fulfilled, that there was a continual social witness. After every moment, they sought to show Christ's order to be good. They sought to show that Christ's way of raising children created the best children. And they worked hard as a community to make sure that their children were not troublemakers so that the surrounding communities had nothing evil to say about them. Doesn't that sound just like Titus? So that we would not have anybody able to say anything evil about us. Our children were raised in a particular way. Before the face of the world, for the glory of Christ. Christ's way for men and women was the best way. Christ's love for neighbor was the best way. And that love for neighbor, primarily, as I look at the literature of the early church, took the form of an intense self-sacrifice When people were running from cities because of plague, Christians ran into the cities to act as nurses. So that they could see that Christ's kingdom is good. It even happened in the way that Christ teaches us to relate to our animals and to the earth. And the ecosystem. It especially showed in Christ's way being the best way to handle suffering that we experience in the world. This ends up raising another set of questions for us. How are we showing the world around us the goodness of Christ and the ways of his people? kingdom. At every moment that thought should be crossing our minds, saying, how can I show them the sweetness of Christ? Do you know how difficult that will be in our particular culture when we already have a certain stereotype? And the kind of creativity, this is kind of exciting to me, the kind of creativity that you're going to have to exercise. To make sure that people can see the sweetness of Christ. Did you realize that you have that responsibility to your non-Christian neighbor? Because we do. We have that responsibility to them according to Titus. Every Christian in every culture has that responsibility. Maybe this will be helpful to you. If you and I decided that God had called us to become missionaries in India, we would have the responsibility in that culture with all of its history and all of its practices That are not the practices of Jesus Christ. They are not in accordance with His good order. They are twisted in many ways. Nevertheless, if we read this letter while we're sitting in India We would have some kind of responsibility to that culture to show them the goodness of Christ and his order and to say, look how good Christ is in comparison to your Indian culture and order. Now there are ways in which that culture can remain intact. But there are ways that it could not, and they would say, and this is good. This is sweet. This is lovely. Did any of you ever have the experience when you were growing up of having family member that would just boil the death out of your vegetables? Did anybody ever have that experience? Do you remember going to a restaurant when people became foodies and then they started cooking vegetables in a way where they didn't boil the death out of it? And you're like, wait a second I used to think I hated all vegetables, but I loved them. There's something similar going on here where we are to show the goodness of something by the way in which we repair our hearts and our minds. And we are showing the goodness of Christ. Our culture has the experience of Christ like a vegetable boiled to death. And that is not who he actually is. So they're rejecting someone that they actually do not know and has not been represented well. It is our job to be his representatives and his ambassadors. And you are to do this, if you don't think your task is tough enough, you are to do this with never compromising the truth. And you never compromise righteousness. So let me ask you, what are some ways that you can show the competence of King Jesus and his order in your daily living? What are some ways that you can show the people around you that Jesus Christ actually knows what he's talking about? Not in just some abstract philosophical way, but the way that we live as older men. and older women and younger men and younger women in relation to children and homes and co-workers and jobs Let me put it this way. Brothers and sisters, I do not know of any of you that have been given the right to have your own TV show to where you can show the world the social vision of Jesus Christ. But this is what Titus is saying to you. Your life is a theater. And on that stage, you play out before the world and witness to those who are around you the goodness of Jesus Christ and his kingdom which has come. The goodness of his person and who he is. The goodness of what it looks like for us to relate to each other when we're older to the younger and the younger to the older. The goodness of what it looks like to be a man and a woman in relationship to our children and to each other And that the goal would be for one day for droves of our culture to say I used to think that Christianity was a joke, but now I see that everything else pales in comparison. This is another way of repeating our doctrine this morning. As a witness to the goodness of Christ's order, Christians of all ages and stages should live in godliness. Amen. Let us pray together.