To to hold back on uh in order to not spend uh uh a sermon on each individual verse And today's section is no different than that. As a lead-in into the section that we're going to be looking at, I want you to realize that the order of things that we see there is as important as what is said. For the things that are spoken of in this passage and spoken of uh as Jesus uh saying these things, are in a different order in the other two Gospels, so the synoptic gospels And so a large part of the understanding of this passage comes down when we realize that the Holy Spirit, through Matthew, has arranged this material in a certain way for us to understand it. And that governs how uh I will be preaching to you this morning. And so perhaps you might keep it in mind as we go through the passage. Today, picking up Matthew 12, verses uh 38 through 50. And some of the scribes and the Pharisees answered, saying, Teacher, we want to see a sign from you. But he answered and said to them, An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. The men of Nineveh will rise up in judgment with this generation and condemn it. Because they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And indeed, a greater than Jonah is here. The Queen of the South will rise up in judgment with this generation and condemn it. For she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and indeed a greater than Solomon is here. When an unclean spirit goes out of a man, he goes through dry places seeking rest and finds none. Then he says, I will return to my house from which I came And when he comes, he finds it empty, swept, and put in order. Then he goes out and takes with himself another spirit more wicked than himself, and they enter and dwell there. The last state of that man is worse than the first So shall it also be with this wicked generation. While he was still talking to the multitudes, behold, his mother and brothers stood outside seeking to speak with him. And then one said to him, Look, your mother and your brothers are standing outside seeking to speak with you. And he answered and he said to the one who told him, Who is my mother? And who are my brothers? And he stretched out his hand toward his disciples. And he said, Here are my mother and my brothers. For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister. and mother. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Like I said, there's a lot of stuff poured into these verses. And it's difficult to focus on individual ones. So as a result of that, we're doing a broad brush approach to the whole passage. And to do that, I want us to focus on Jesus as he is presented here and shown to us and pay close attention to how he is going about what he is doing. To do that, we have to see him in the context in which these words are generated. You can't separate this whole passage from that which preceded it. And therefore, we should see Jesus as literally being surrounded by people pressing in upon him. I think he's standing underneath a hot sun, but it's not that hot sun that's making things warm See, he's just spoken to these Pharisees and these scribes, and he has talked to them about the unforgivable sin, that which we spoke about last week. And they know They knew that he was not happy with them. He had been speaking about the blasphemy that they had said when they had ascribed his good deeds to the power of Satan. I'm pretty sure that in that case, they were reeling, even as we hear them speak today. I think there's resentment. I think there's anger boiling up in them. I don't think they asked that question, show us a sign in a pleasing tone. I don't think they did anything more than just said, well then show us a sign Or something of that order. You claim to be God's teacher on earth? All right, do something about it I imagine that when he turned and looked at them, I bet the look in his eyes And the way that he stared at them would have reduced any one of us here down into little puddles of water. You say you want a sign? Let me tell you something. An evil and adulterous generation seeks a sign But no sign will be given except the sign of Jonah. And it's the sign of Jonah. Not him being in the grave, not Jesus being in the grave that we should see here. Jonah was in the belly of the fish for three days, yes. Well, the Son of Man will be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth, yes. And that is going to be the only sign that you get, because at the end of those three days and three nights in the earth and will put aside the question of numbering those days. Then the sign of Jonah, the sign of Jesus, will rise up against you. You don't understand the nature of this sign that's going to happen to you. This is not going to be like other signs. This sign that is going to be happening is not going to be like Moses turning Aaron's rod into a staff, or rod into a serpent. That sign was just a proof of power The sign that you will see will be a sign of judgment and salvation. And as far as this wicked and perverse generation goes, It will be a sign that in the judgments that's coming, the people of Nineveh, the Assyrians, are going to stand up as a witness to judgment against you The Assyrians, mind you. The Assyrians. One of the most wicked, perverse people that have ever walked the face of the earth. Besides them, the Nazis of Germany look like tikers. Cutting off the heads of Christians over in the Far East right now is nothing compared to what these guys did. One of their favorite tortures was to skin a person alive and then leave him to die out in the uh in the desert. They did it by the thousands. They are going to rise up in judgment against you. Imagine the look on these religious scholars' faces when they saw when they heard this. They knew the book of Jonah forward and backward. They knew all about the Assyrians. And this must have been one of the most shocking things possible for them to hear. How could such a thing possibly happen? How could the Assyrians be a witness against us unto judgment? How could the Assyrians be more righteous than we? And Jesus tells them This is how. The Assyrians repented at the preaching of Jonah. But you won't. And I am greater than Jonah. Jonah came walking into the streets of Nineveh, fresh out of the belly of a fish. I don't imagine he smelled or looked very good. His attitude was not very pleasing. Bedside manner was not high on his list. He had no intent of being charming. He didn't want to be there. The last thing in the world he wanted to do was for the for a God to save these Assyrians. Yet God wouldn't give him any other option. He tried to run away from him. God said, no, you're going to Nineveh. One way or the other, you're going. So he walks into the city. He goes walking through the city, and I can almost imagine him. The way he's doing it, he's walking through it, he's saying, 40 days, 40 days, and the city of Deneh will be destroyed. Going down a few more blocks. 40 days The city of Nineveh is going to be destroyed. Three days journey to get from one side of Nineveh to the other. And he's walking every step of the way Grudgingly saying what God has told him to say. Yet the people were terrified Whatever was happening, the Holy Spirit moving, whatever he was, he got thousands of people were falling to their knees and crying out and wailing, oh boy, I would love to see that You know, the power of the Holy Spirit moving in people's lives and having them responding to the spoken word, even when it's coming grudgingly from the mouth of an unwilling preacher And yet it happens. And then the king, the king of Nineveh, mind you. Sitting behind his walls in that fortress that he calls a castle somehow hears about it, and he's struck to the heart. And he calls upon the people of Nineveh and he says, let us turn from our evil ways. Let us stop doing violence to everyone. He's speaking right to the heart of the issue because the Assyrians were incredibly violent. They're drunkards and violence. That's what they were known for. He speaks to them. He says, let's stop that. And maybe, just maybe, God will have mercy on us. The repentance that came to Nineveh through the preaching of Jonah was from top to bottom. And that was just through the preaching through of an ordinary, sinful, unwilling preacher. These scribes and these Pharisees were religious scholars, as I've said. And so they knew the story of Jonah They knew it better than you and I know it. They didn't have to have the details filled in for them that I have just filled in for you. They knew everything I just said And so when Jesus says, but a greater than Jonah is here, he's talking about two things He's talking one about himself being greater than Jonah in his understanding of ministry and the power of God and God's purposes, and he is talking about himself in power of being able to proclaim the word of God in such a way as to transform the world. That meant that Jesus was saying that you scribes and you Pharisees, indeed this whole evil generation You stand right now, just like those Ninevehes, filling the city of Nineveh. Someone has been sent to you, like Jonah. Someone who is incredibly stronger and better and superior to Jonah. In fact, who's superior to Solomon in all of his wisdom. And the same kind of thing must happen to their generations. And therefore, the call to repentance is going out. And they have no excuse. They have no excuse The Assyrians, the Queen of Sheba, and all of those others whom the Jews call second-class citizens of the world, would be more religious than they if they turned to Christ And these Jewish people do not. Therefore, God's judgment Implicit in all that Jesus is saying will be swift and terrible, and that must have rocked these scribes and Pharisees right back on their heels First, he had just told them that their blasphemy may very well have been the unforgivable sin, and now he's to tell them that the only sign they're going to see is a man coming back from the dead like Jonah did And that man is going to be the sign of their own judgment. Those were hard words indeed. But if you go to the first couple of chapters of Acts and you see Peter's first sermon, you will see it fulfilled in space. For he looks at the Jewish people and he says, this man, Jesus, is the Christ of God, and you crucified him. And five thousand people repented and said, What can we do to be saved? Jesus then goes on to tell them something else. Jesus told these Pharisees then that their only hope, the only hope for Israel, as it then stood. was for there to be a thoroughgoing repentance, a top-to-bottom repentance, an inside to outside repentance, under the heading or under the imagery of a cleaning of a house. And if it did not happen, that their entire generation would find they would have no excuse in the day of judgment when God unleashed the gates of his wrath And let his judgment be rained down from heaven by the angels who are poised to do that. Jesus says, you must clean your house. But then he says something else. Mere house cleaning is not sufficient because the house must be filled after it has been cleaned with a new spirit. Now at first glance when you look at this you say that seems out of place. Why is it that this is here? And if you look at the other gospels, you'll see that this section is not arranged in this particular section place. But Matthew here, through the Holy Spirit, is telling us that Jesus is pointing towards what it is that the people of Israel, and particularly the scribes and Pharisees, had to do. He's talked about Jonah and the Assyrians, he's mentioned the Queen of Sheba, and he tells the crowd that there is a greater than both of those here, and then he talks about this unclean spirit. He says that if an unclean spirit gets cast out of a house, that's the way we're to understand it. It's not like the unclean spirit just simply says, you know, I don't like this house anymore. I think I'm going to go out No. The whole idea is that he's been cast out. He casts out. He goes out into the desert there, he seeks a place to rest, he seeks for some living thing to inhabit like the the demons did who inhabited it inhabited the herd of swine when Jesus kicked them out once before. And if they don't find that, if he doesn't find that, then it comes back to the house meeting the man in which it was cast out. But when he comes back, he finds out that it's been swept clean. In other words, initial repentance has produced a turning away from sin. He finds it empty. He finds it swept. And so what does he do? He goes out, and he gets a bunch more spirits, even worse than he. And that brings him to live in this house. And so that man's life is worse at the end than before. Now what is this all about Jesus here is speaking to these Old Testament scholars, and implicitly he's telling them to remember the Assyrians again. Repent, they had been told. And they repented. They cleaned their house from top to bottom. They turned to God for a while, from their king down to the lowest guy on the street. But then what happened? They didn't fill this newly cleaned house with the new spirit They didn't give themselves over to the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They didn't travel to Jerusalem. And learn from God what it means to worship in his temple and to offer sacrifice. They did not fill their lives with God's word and his promises, and they did not seek the Holy Spirit To stay with them in repentance and faith. And so what do we see in the Old Testament? We see the last state of the Assyrians as it was, indeed, worse than the first. They became even more terrible. They became more brutal, more evil than they were at first. And their repentance was in a sense something like an inoculation. You sometimes see this when a child is raised up in uh a nominal Christian home or a little more than a nominal Christian Christian home, and they're kind of inoculated against the Word of God. It just kind of rolls over them. Same thing happened here. They became inoculated through that early experience, and then they turned to evil in an even more powerful and deadly way. And so therefore, when God brought judgment on them, it truly was terrorism. They were like of this evil generation. They were without excuse. And that's why I think Jesus says these words here. It's not enough just to tremble at the idea of God's judgment. It is not enough to just undertake the discipline of putting sin away from our lives. It is not enough to simply say, no, I'm not going to smoke, I'm not going to drink, and I'm not going to go where girls are due. It's not enough to do that Temporary house cleaning is not the same thing as true repentance, even if it does bring relief from immediate judgment. The house must be swept clean. Yes. But then the house has to be filled with a new spirit, the Holy Spirit. A spirit that comes to warm and to sanctify and to polish the furnishings. A spirit that will make it impossible for an unclean spirit to ever return and inhabit the house. Because why? Because sin will no longer have dominion over that house. There may be struggles, but that house will belong to the Holy Spirit. And he will reside there. And no power of Satan can dislodge him. That's why I think this passage is situated here. Because Jesus teaches us that he who does the will of God He who does the will of God, the will of his father, belongs to the household of God Jesus' mother, Mary, and his half-brothers, perhaps even James, author of the book of James, was there himself. I think they were pretty worried. They're sitting there listening to Jesus go head to head with these powerful men from their perspective. And I think they thought that he may have gone off a deep end. I think that what they're there for is what we would call an intervention. Jesus had to be saved from himself. You don't just walk around talking to the to the Sadducees and the Pharisees and and the Sanhedrin and the scribes and all those guys and tell them that they're blaspheming Talking about himself as if he's greater than Jonah and greater than Solomon. Even Mary, who had heard the angels sing at his birth And had the witness of those three kings was worried. So they asked the seat of Jesus. They ask Jesus to come on out of here, come out of this engagement that you're in. And perhaps if he talks with us we can get him to see what he's doing and maybe get him to back off a little bit from all of these These crazy statements he's making. And that's for his own good. At that point, I think Jesus saw that a man's enemies may very well be members of his own household. And what he says must have fit Mary especially and his brothers very hard. Because Jesus, I don't think he looked at them severely. I think he loved them, and I think there was compassion in the way that he viewed his mom and his brothers But Jesus turned back and he said to those who talked to him, those people outside, they're not my mother and brothers. These. And he points to his disciples. He doesn't point to everybody. He points to his disciples. He points to those who are doing the will of his father. And he says, these are my mother and my brother. And he adds the word sisters. Which also means probably the women who were accompanying him and enabling him in his ministry. And we have to ask how this fits with the previous verses. And this section teaches us that the house that is true repentance is the only house that will offer us hope in the face of the judgment that is surely coming. And it means more than just a temporary cleaning of the house of sins. It means a total turning to Jesus and embracing him. as our Lord and Master, for that is God's will for us. And those who embrace him as such, these are the sons and daughters of God. members of his household, of his house, and Jesus is the one who will fill that house. keep it. Now that's a mouthful. But it is what ties this passage to the preceding two sections. And brothers and sisters, everything I've just said is the gospel truth. Jesus points to his disciples, the ones who have left everything to follow him. He does not point to the crowd, as I said. He points to his disciples, he points to his church, and he said, This is my family. This is my mother. And my brothers and my sisters. Why? Because they have done the will of my Father in heaven. What we see here, brothers and sisters, is the nature of true saving faith. It is a turning away from everything that binds us to the world, certainly just as the Ninevehes turned away. for a while from their old way of life. But it is not just a turning away. It is a turning to God in order to do his will. It is a giving up of our whole self into the whole idea of becoming a disciple as Jesus himself taught us to do. It is to believe him whom God has sent. Which is Jesus' own words. It is to believe him and to believe in him. It is to recognize that Jesus is our Messiah. He is the Lord of heaven and earth. And it is to understand that it was by this man Jesus that all things in heaven and earth were created, and they were created for him. Are you a created thing? Are you? Yes. Are you a created thing? If you're a created thing, who were you created by? Jesus and God. If you were created by Jesus, for what were you created? For him That is to understand your life in terms of Jesus Christ and his reality. It is to embrace the reality that He was before all things and that in Him all things consist. He is what holds things together and He is the answer to every question. It is to see that he is head of all the powers and the principalities, and they must all answer to him for how they have either denied him or followed him. And most of all, it is to see him as the head of his body, the church, the family of God, the firstborn of the dead. That those who were crucified in him have also risen with him. True repentance is turning to Jesus and seeing all these things. And not leaving any of them out. You may only see part of them dimly, but they must all be there. So that we recognize and embrace the truth That in all things he is to have preeminence. In all things. In our lives, immediately And in all things that we do externally. True faith. That is saving faith. And it is only in this total turning to Jesus that we truly demonstrate that we are his brothers and sisters in Christ. That we are truly members of his household. And in such a state, brothers and sisters, we have nothing to fear from unclean spirits. They cannot re-enter a house that Jesus has swept clean and then positioned himself in it. They cannot regain us for the dominion of sin, because true faith clings to Jesus not only as a Savior and Lord. But it moves us to reject Satan and to seek the pathways of righteousness. Why? Not because we fear judgment. That has been done away with. But because we want Jesus to have the preeminence in all things. We want Jesus to be glorified in his life. We long to reflect his image in the world. How could we do that if we went back to that way of living from which we have been saved. Here I think is how Jesus put all of these things together throughout this passage. Here I think we see the way it fits and the nature of true repentance and also of true faith. And I pray that the Lord applies it to your lives and to the lives of all of those with whom you come in contact As we seek, like Jonah, to proclaim to the world that's fallen in sin, that they must turn, or else the judgment that is hanging will fall upon them too Let's pray.