Let's turn now to our scriptures. We're looking at James chapter four. And we'll look at the first ten verses. The title of the sermon is The Beginning of Wisdom, and that theme definitely runs through there, but you could also as Equ equally title it Return to Our First Love. Let's read those first ten verses. Please follow along, and then we'll pray. Where do wars and fights come from among you? Do they not come from your desires for pleasure that war in your members? You lust and do not have. You murder and covet and cannot obtain. You fight and war. Yet you do not have because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive, because you ask amiss, that you may spend it on your own pleasures. Adulterers and adulteresses. Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whoever therefore wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you think that the scripture says in vain The Spirit who dwells in us yearns jealously. But he gives more grace. Therefore, he says, God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Therefore, submit to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Lament and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up. Father, we do ask that the result of our hearing of your preached word tonight would be this humility. We ask that you would reform us here on the spot. We thank you for your delicate care in the providing of your scriptures to us. May we benefit from them tonight through your Spirit. Thank you, Christ, for being with us. Amen. According to James V, which we're almost there. According to James V, James is correcting Christians who have wandered. His desire is for them to be constant, hence the front of your bulletin, to be constant on the path to which Christ has called them, or the faith of Christ, as it says in chapter three, chapter two rather. Last week in the well-known chapter of chapter three dealing with the tongue, we were looking at 13 to the end, eighteen. And there we saw that some teachers had wandered from true Christian wisdom. Christian wisdom, I'll remind you, is pure. peaceable, gentle, willing to yield, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. And when that sermon was done, we prayed for wisdom. We prayed for that kind of wisdom amongst us and amongst God's churches at large Now with this definition of wisdom, I hope you can see the correspondence of James here with the morning teaching and see that James really is calling These congregations from their wandering back to Hasid Vaanet. We're just going to keep saying Hebrew all day. I'm sure I say it horribly. I'm sure there's rabbis out there cringing on Facebook. I hope Rabbi is watching. Yeah. That would be great. Well, uh, he really is unfolding that idea. James has always been known as a kind of wisdom literature. And in fact, if you wanted to compare James 2. 15 and following with Proverbs 3. 27, it would bless you. Proverbs 3. 27 and James 2. 15 and following. I'll let you do that on your own. So nevertheless, the Christians under James' instructions Despite this, they had adopted an earthly wisdom, not the wisdom that is sent from above. And that's why we prayed. We were asking for the wisdom from above. Their wisdom, it says in chapter 3, their wisdom was full of bitter envy, self-seeking, earthly, sensual, and it was demonic. As we move into chapter 4, I want to make sure you know the connection. We're continuing with that same discussion. In chapter 4, we can see that James wants to keep helping those who have wandered into earthly wisdom. We're going to see some of the results. that have happened and the remedy. Notice the coherence between chapter 3 and chapter 4. In chapter 4, right at the beginning, notice the words war and fight. James assumes that the fighting from earthly wisdom is a problem amongst this congregation or these congregations. And then he asks, what causes the fights among you? And in these ten verses, James will answer that question, and he's going to give the remedy. That's what he's doing in these ten verses. And this is what he's saying to us. The cause of conflict or of wars and fights is a worldly orientation. But God gives more grace. The cause of conflict is worldliness, you could put it that way, but God gives more grace. So let's take a look at the cause, and then we'll take at the remedy. Take a look at the remedy. Just to Just two points. So the cause of wars and fights. This is quite explicit and requires no more than a simple reading of verse 1. What do w where do wars and fights come from among you? Do they not come from your desires for pleasure that war in your members? War and fighting come from pleasures that war in your members This is further described as lust for the things that you want in verse 2. You lust and do not have. The word here for lust could be a desire for anything. Some people say this. I don't know how they can say that because in this context, I think the desire specifically here is a selfish desire. I don't think it's just generally referring to I'm not sure why they do that, but this is this is a a word that could be used for any kind of desire. But in this context, it's specifically dealing with a desire That is named earthly wisdom. It's selfish, full of selfish ambition. In fact, in verse 3, it says, goes further. It says, you ask and you don't receive, because you ask amiss, that you may spend it on your pleasures The word pleasures there is uh hedone, and you've probably heard that word before in the English, hedonism. And that is um that's what's going on here. This is This is where we get our word hedonist. A hedonist is one who lives for selfless pleasures. Moreover, we know that these selfish desires are not just desires because if they bring them before God, they're not answered. And why Because they are prayers that request things selfishly. Specifically what it says there. This is the problem with all of this is the selfishness Furthermore, whether a desire or a desire expressed to God, it is at enmity with him, verse 4, in the same way that the unbelieving world is at enmity with him. And that's where we start to get our notion of this cause of worldliness. It's not just a desire, and it's really not just desire for pleasures, because there can be lawful pleasure. uh uh desires for pleasure. It is specifically worldliness that is the problem that is amongst this group of people. So you could think of Esau from Hebrews. That's another example of the same kind of thing. The picture therefore is a group of people whose hearts have wandered into worldliness, and this worldly mode of existence is the cause of every evil thing in their community, as it says. in chapter 3. So just to put it in another way, we've been studying Abraham and Jacob in Sunday school. And although both are called by the electing love of God, they still wander. And you could put it this way. That Abraham left Ur, but there was still some Ur that had not left Abraham. And the same thing is present here within this passage. The thing that they were called out from, this Christian community, was worldliness. But the worldliness was still resident in their hearts, at least to some measure. They had backslid. It would be a traditional way to say this. And the same is true for all Christians. We are not only prone to wander, but to wander into worldliness. This is the second time just in the teaching in the last couple weeks where worldliness is a problem in a congregation. It would do us well to take the warning that you will probably struggle with worldliness. It is through this um I'm sorry. As verse says, we want this is a real simple way to put it. Take a look at verse 4. We want to be friends with the world. Just that simple. That's the thing that's in there that causes so many problems. We want to be friends with the world. And those who are friends with the world are at enmity with God. And so it is through scriptural teaching like this Let me just mention this almost as an aside, but this is very important. It's through scriptural teaching like this about what resides within the heart of humans, even the regenerate. It is through this scriptural teaching that makes the doctrine of original sin so undeniable. I hope this could be at least another piece of the puzzle for you to see the teaching of original sin here. and in a corrupt state of the human heart. Our first parents being seduced by the subtlety and temptation of Satan, you know the story? They sinned in eating the forbidden fruit, and this sin God was pleased, according to his wise and holy counsel, to permit, having purpose to order it to his own glory. Now that's heavy. But by this sin, they fell from their original righteousness, and they fell from their communion with God. And so they became dead in sin, and they were wholly defiled. in every faculty, every part of the soul, every part of the body, they being the root of us, of all of mankind. The guilt of this sin was imputed to all, and the same death and sin and corrupted nature was conveyed to the whole world, all of man. Anyone called human, and descending from them by just normal, ordinary generation. And from this original corruption whereby we have become utterly indisposed, disabled, and made Opposite to all good and wholly inclined to all evil, do precede all actual transgressions of God's boundaries. This is original sin. And I'll be happy to give some of these statements to you. They're very helpful. And here's a really important thing for me to say to you: this corruption of nature during this life does remain in those that are regenerated. This letter here is to the church. And although it be through Christ, this sin, pardoned and mortified, yet both itself and all the motions thereof are truly and properly sin. That's the explanation that James gives. Original sin, the corruption within the heart. And of course, knowing this as Christians gives us the upper hand and insight into reality. Marxists, anybody have been a Marxist in their past life. Marxists look up the definition of Marxists. They blame property owners for the evil of the world. Okay, that's a simple way to say it. Humanists blame a lack of education and technology. Idealists think it's all the older people's fault. Yet, we have formed socialist societies, we have had educational reform in technology, and the younger replace the older, and they create all the same problems. So the cause has been misdiagnosed by the world, is what I'm trying to say to you. So let me just say again exactly what it says here within this passage in relationship to why are all the wars happening and why all the fights? Why the human fallen condition and predicament? Why our existential angst? What causes the human problems of war and fighting? It is your sinful hearts. The heart is adulterated and impure. That's the way he puts it at the end of chapter three. The heart as the fountain and source of all of life is contaminated by earthliness, sensuality, and every demonic orientation. That's what it is, and its natural state. And even after regeneration, there's a great battle going on within the church. So, and as I already said, Christians are permitted to backslide into this worldliness. So that's the cause and the way in which Christians wander in this particular instance. Recovery from worldliness is not easy. This is interesting. I was just thinking about this Later it says that God is jealous. Isn't the world jealous too? Don't they fight for your attention? Worldliness is not easy to escape. So so Christ in his mercy through James has this letter written. Like uh the the world in his jealousy craves our attention and and like a a jealous lover the world will not tolerate any other love in our life, especially God But praise be to God that the Spirit which Christ Jesus has given to us, verse 5, you see him there, is not only jealous, but he yearns jealously for our loyalty to God. The jealousy of the Spirit is greater than the jealousy of the world within his people. Working to bring them back at all times. So they stumble, they would not fall. Yet James does not see the inexhaustible supply of grace as sweeping us along to an effortless holiness. That's not the picture that we're going to see when we move into this next point. He knows of no such easy victory from this cause that we have diagnosed, which is worldliness in the heart. The benefits of grace and more grace are ours along the road of obedience and more obedience. And he moves within the Christian as the Christian moves. What we're going to see is a five-point process. And so now I'd like to move into the remedy, and I'd like to suggest these headings for you as you consider a remedy from worldliness. Submit, resist, draw near, cleanse your hands, and be earnest. And I'll go through each one of those You can see these clearly starting in verse 7, that you would therefore submit to God. James begins his description of the humble walk with God by commanding active allegiance. That's what this verse This is what this word submit means. Usually in our language, submit means to kind of lay dog, lay down like a good dog. That's not what's going on here Christians must have no doubt in their minds whose side they are on, and by their lives they must leave no doubt in the minds of others that they are God's enlisted subordinates and the devil's unyielding opponents. It's actually Francis Schaefer in his book True Spirituality calls this an act of passivity. It's a very interesting way. That's what's going on. And you could picture not just the lowering of your flag of rebellion. But the raising up of God's flag and putting on his arms and fighting for him. So you're not you're no longer a turncoat, you are a returncoat, if you want to be cute Okay, there you go. Sorry, I just gotta get one of those in. So to stay true to the line of James teaching, you will stop advantaging yourself and your worldly ambitions, and you'll honor God with the pursuits of your life And you will disadvantage yourself for the advantage of others as God defines advantage. Now that's submit. Verse 7 also says that a part of returning from worldliness is to resist the devil, and he will flee from you And this is not a word for one who is carrying the attack over into the enemy enemy camp. We've pretty much covered that with submit This is one who mans the defenses, knowing that enemy pressure is ceaseless and that he is constantly under fire. James knows of no act of consecration to God which takes us out of the conflict. The problem, if you have been struggling and backsliding into worldliness, is that you weren't resisting. So it's saying, get back into resisting. All these things that you've accepted and swallowed whole, spit them up. Vomit them out of your mouth. That's what it means here. And then in verse 8, and the third step is we are to draw near. And this refers to the regularity and discipline in Bible reading prayer, private and public worship, feasting at the Lord's table, devoting ourselves to Christian fellowship, cultivating every appointed avenue by where we can draw near to God by His Spirit through Christ. And let me just point this out to you. Some Christians will not draw near to God unless they feel his presence first. But notice the order in this passage. You draw near to him, and he will draw near to you. You see that? That's very important in our return. Nextly, we see cleanse your hands, purify your hearts. This has to do with contamination. Here the command refers to cleaning up the messes we have made, especially. You can't play in the mud of worldliness and not get dirty. So, let me just suggest something to you that I have had from some material in my past life, it seems like. But uh the seven A's. These are seven A's that are supposed to go into confession. But this command here to cleanse, the seven A's go very well with the idea of cleansing, having a full cleansing. So There are seven A's that would help you to understand how to cleanse your hands and to purify your heart. One, because of this worldliness, the sins that you have committed in your worldliness. Definitely affected people, and you need to go and address everyone that has been involved in your sin. Number two, when you do so, you need to, in your humility, avoid if, but, and maybe Don't try to excuse your wrongs, and we'll get to that in just a little bit. Admit specifically, as Brad was instructing us during the time of confession. And here you need to admit your attitudes and your actions. Acknowledge the hurt. Express sorrow for hurting someone. Accept the consequences and make restitution. Alter your behavior through prayer and calling out aloud and lifting up your voice for your attitudes and your actions. to change and then ask for forgiveness. Remember, this is a community endeavor. Paul or um James is not just writing some individual sitting on a mountain. This has affected the entire community. There are wars and fights. So all of these A's are going to be necessary in the cleansing of our hands. You can't just go off to a retreat center to cleanse your hand and purify your heart. That's not What's going on here? Of course, there's attitudinal things to discuss, but it's much more than that. And then lastly, be earnest. Now it doesn't specifically say that in the passage, but that's the idea. Take a look there in verse 9 Lament and mourn and weep, let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. That's the idea. The idea is you have backslid into worldliness. Take it seriously. This isn't a joke. This isn't something we're going to laugh about. Don't be lighthearted. It's not funny and it's not cute, as Addison would say. It's not funny and it's not cute You need to be earnest about what's happening here. In fact, I think there's a whole logic to the passage. There's probably a little, you could put a little bit of a different logic onto this. I'd like to hear what you think. Here's one way to look at the logic of this passage. You submit to God again as you are resisting the devil. That's that first part. This leads to drawing ever near to God and Him drawing near to you. Our God is a holy God. There is no world in him. In the presence of the Holy One, you realize your unholiness, and it's not a joke. And therefore, you take it seriously and you wash your hands and you purify your heart Of any contamination that has separated you from him. Adultery or adulteress, being an adulterer or an adulteress. That's what I think the logic is here. It's very serious business. So let me conclude with this. Let me just give you a summary. Christ, through his Spirit, teaches us how we may get back from our wandering into worldliness. The cause of fighting and wars is a worldly orientation, but God, through Christ and His Spirit, invite us to make a gracious five-fold return to our first love. May we in humility gain the fear of the Lord, would be another way of saying this same thing. May we with affectionate reverence bend humbly and carefully to the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And if you notice our last verse, humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and it is he that will lift you up. Of all the important things that he's teaching us here in this passage, I do want to remind you just one more again. I became the most excited at this point. I think one of the biggest breakdowns in the logic of this passage is that we do not take our worldliness seriously. It is time to lament and to mourn and to weep over it. Let's pray. Father, we really do need your grace that you would grant us repentance. Repentance would be born from taking these things seriously. Father, we find it so difficult. We get so distracted so easily. We think so much of ourselves. Father, we ask that you would chasten us because you love us. We ask that you do so where we would lament and mourn. Over the worldliness that is so prevalent within our lives and the lives of our children, the lives of our friend. Father, we ask that we would return to you our first love. We ask that you would protect us against lukewarmness, that you would not spit us out of your mouth, that as you walk among us, that you would sanctify us Lord, we beg you for the gift of repentance. In the name of Christ. Amen.