Let's open our scriptures together to Colossians chapter one. Our reading is a little different than the bulletin. It'll be one nine through twelve. And the title of the sermon will be Paul's Prayer. I had to divide things up a little bit for the sake of time. Paul's Prayer. Colossians 1, 9 through 12A. For this reason, we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you. And to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding, that you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. strengthened with all might according to his glorious power for all patience and long-suffering with joy, giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in the light. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you are here working through your preached word and even in our own attention span and giving us ears to listen. I pray, Lord, that you would work in your congregation here. I pray that the prayer that was prayed for the Church of Colossae That that uh would be fulfilled here too in this congregation. I ask this in Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated These days they have bicycles that are called balance bikes. But when I was growing up and when the my oldest children, I think probably my oldest child, Ellie, was uh received her first bike. It was not a balanced bike. It was a typical bike that I would have received when I was growing up. And that would have been a bike with training wheels. And that would go on for some time, but eventually there would come that day when it was time for the training wheels to come off. It was a glorious day. And usually you'd have a parent holding on to the handlebars and the seat and we would start off that direction and they would tip into you or tip away Eventually, though, you would get to the point where you're really just holding the back of the seat because eventually you know you're just going to do a little push and they're going to go off down the street. It's right at that moment, you know, when you're a kid and that happens, your experience is this is a little wobbly, but I'm so thankful that I no longer have to use the stupid training wheels Uh and I get to try to keep up with my friends on their bikes because I'm always left behind. But as a parent and you're pushing that bike away, usually your thoughts are You know, what are we in store for? We we all have the experience of what will come next. It will be scraped knees, lost teeth, hospital visits with concussions, broken wrists. Whatever it is and whatever kind of child you have, there are uh dangers that are up ahead. It could be as simple as loose gravel That could be a curve where they weren't looking. Uh when I was riding a bike, I really wasn't looking. I fell off a curb and then ran into a car that was moving. That didn't go well Uh immediately you know not soon after that we built launch ramps. That's like a whole nother story. But it all started with that picture of you pushing that bike off, knowing Wow, they have a lot that is in store for them. There are a lot of things that can happen. You know, I think that same kind of mentality is what's going on here with this letter with Paul He has heard from his co-workers in the gospel, especially Epaphras, that there is a church plant a hundred miles inland from Ephesus uh at Colosi. And he knows that they are just beginning and they they have in fact set sail. The training wheels are off. They are a church plant. But boy are there a lot of things in the future that they are going to have to face. And because of that, the apostle only has a couple different things that he can do. He's in a prison in Ephesus And uh two of the things he can do is he can write a letter. And the thing that's the main focus here, which is really even in the letter, is he can pray for them. He can pray for them after having pushed that seat off, or a paper's pushing that seat off. He can pray for them that the Lord would take care of them. And the way that he pray prays reveals a couple different things for us, which we're going to go through in the sermon. Number one, though, I just want to point out that it shows you a pattern of how we should be working with ourselves and others, and that it should be in prayer. in prayer. But he also reveals in his prayers things that are concerning to him. Things that we should care about, things that we should focus on. And so we'll take a look at what those things are here within the sermon. If you'll remember the sermon from last week, we basically were looking at the planting of a garden or a church plant from a papyrus And that there was growth within that garden, faith and hope, and especially love of one another. And therefore, Paul, looking at that garden, was really thankful to God that it was doing so well. So here he knowing that the garden has sprouted, the plants are coming up, the water is actually working, the sun's hitting it, it's starting to be starting to be this thing of beauty that he and God himself delight in. He is now going to respond to them and write this letter so that they can keep going in the direction that they started off on. Now what I want to do is take a look at his prayer, which is basically in three parts. Really we could say four parts, but we're going to put it into three for the sake of time. And the words are, here's your key words as we go through in the points of the sermon. It'll be knowledge. So he prays for them to have knowledge. To walk worthy, so walk worthy and for strength and thankfulness. So Paul is going to pray for them for knowledge, that they would walk worthy, that they would have strength and thankfulness. So those are the three things I want to look through. We're just going to look at his prayer here this morning. So let's start off in verse number nine together, just looking at the scriptures together. You can see that Paul prays that they would be filled with the knowledge of God's will. For this reason we also, since the day we heard it, he heard about the faith, hope, and love that they had become this garden that he delighted in We do not cease to pray for you and to ask that you would be filled with the knowledge of God's will. As a new church plant, how do you think they were supposed to understand themselves? As a new church plan, how do you think that they were supposed to understand themselves? Now when I say that, what I mean is Imagine that you were a part of the Colossi Church plant. What you would have as a part of your life, which is true for every single generation, is you would have a set of different stories as to what this all means. What does it mean that we're all involved and gathered together to be this congregation? What's the story that makes sense of all of that? And there are competing stories that start to explain what a church plant would be. Is it just another community association? Are we kind of like an elk's lodge? Is that what we're doing? Or whatever it is. And Paul is sharing this prayer to make sure that they would understand what God's will is in accomplishing the kinds of things that He's accomplishing right now, namely church plants. That they would be able to understand a church plant with reference to God's designs. To answer that question, what how are we supposed to understand ourselves? They need to know who God is and what he is doing in the world through his son and his spirit. That's what Paul means when he's praying for them, that they would have a knowledge of God's will. Who is God? What is He doing? And how is He accomplishing those things? They need to be able to understand those things, not in order to just be able to pass an examination or to be able to take a multiple choice quiz, but so that they can understand who they are and how they're supposed to be responding to God in the world. This will make a really big difference as we go on on the letter and see. Actually, if you were to flip just a couple pages around in Colossians, there are competing stories. There is another group of people teaching this group at Colossae No, this is what God is doing. No, this is what God is doing. No, this is what God is doing. And so it's very important for this group of people to know, in fact, what's the real story and what are the false ones So he prays that for them and he encourages them to keep moving in that direction. You'll notice that he tacks on in verse number nine two other words besides knowledge of God's will. You know, you can start to look at these Pauline sentences. This is all one long sentence, by the way So you can start to look at these sentences. They're kind of like a tree. You have like the main trunk of the sentence, and then it starts to branch out into all these prepositional phrases, because he's fitting a summary really of the letter into this paragraph And the first thing he says is there's this knowledge of good God's will, but then he mentions these two other terms that there is this wisdom and this understanding that he prays for them to have. In my translation in the NKJV it says it says w wisdom and understanding, and then it uses the word spiritual. Does that is that what shows up in your translation also? I think a good way to look at this if you wanted to see really the thought that he's getting at is put the word spiritual in front of wisdom and understanding because it governs both those words So in other words, he wants this group of people to have knowledge of God's will in not just wisdom and understanding I mean you can have an unbelieving senator who's really wise and understanding, and you can note that in just the way that he carries out his life. He really knows how to to function in society, he does really well in whatever he puts his hands to. Here, Paul is specifically praying for a different kind or quality of wisdom and understanding. That is supposed to be the like the fruit or accompany this knowledge of God's will. And that is characterized by spiritual It is created by the Holy Spirit, and it has to do with the kingdom of God. Let's put it that way. So he wants them to have a knowledge of God's will in spiritual wisdom and understanding. So now you have three words. You have knowledge, you have wisdom, and you have understanding. Now the reason why I point that out to you is because those are three words that are continually used for what God is after in His people when you look at the Old Testament. You will find those three terms used in Exodus. You will find those three terms used in Deuteronomy. You will find those three terms used in several chapters of the book of Proverbs to describe what God is after and what He wants to accomplish. in the society of his people. He wants them to have knowledge, wisdom, and understanding. And so Paul is pulling that forward in his prayer for this specific group of people. Let me give you just one example, and then I won't continue on this thread. Just want you to be aware of what Paul is teaching here. In Exodus 31, 1 through 5, these same three terms are used of uh Then the Lord spoke to Moses saying, See, I have called by name Bezalel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, the son of Judah. And I have filled him with the Spirit of God. That's the spiritual part. You see that? I have filled him with the Spirit of God in wisdom, in understanding, in knowledge. and in all manner of workmanship, to design artistic works, to work in gold, in silver, in bronze, and cutting jewels for setting, and carving wood, and to work in all manner of workmanship. Now if you were to go to the other examples, you would see the same kind of thing. God is giving this kind of thing to people in order for them to know what he is building and to join him in the building of it. And you need knowledge, wisdom, and understanding to be able to do that. In fact, this prayer that Paul is praying for this group of people is he wants them to have a knowledge of what God is doing, what is he building. And they want he and they want he wants them to have that kind of knowledge in a way that doesn't just answer a multiple choice quiz, but is able to join God in the building of it. That's the wisdom and the understanding. So you do have to ask yourself the question, if we're going to start to benefit here from this letter to the Colossians many generations later, we still, as a congregation here, we want to ask the question, what is God's design for his creation? You know there are some people that will answer that question. No design. He has no design. The only thing he's really trying to do is he's trying to get you to say the sinner's prayer And then you just live the rest of your life and you die and you get sucked away someplace else and there's no and you don't ever think about the earth again. The answer that you heard in Chase's testimony, and what you hear from me in each of the sermons, is actually God has a grand master plan for this creation. Heaven and earth shall meet I can't get into the whole plan, we'll get into that in the next couple sermons. But you have to ask that question and get that right. What is God's design for his creation? You could break it into different pieces. What is God's design for my environment? What is God's design for myself? What is God's design for my relationships in society? What is God's design for my relationship to God and society's relationship to God? Over time, as we are maturing, That prayer from Paul is being answered because that's what God's doing with you all. That's what God is doing with me, to where we would have a more and more robust answer to those kinds of questions. That answer gives us the standard and the blueprint for building. And so I just asked you, just off of this first point Where do you see God increasing your knowledge of His will, accompanied by wisdom and understanding, to bring His will on earth as it is in heaven? Where do you see God making these changes in you now, Christian? Because He is. He is He has you're you're pushed off, the training wheels aren't on, you're riding your bike and he wants you to ride it better and better all the time In order to do so, he's increasingly giving you a knowledge of his will, especially in community. In his word, in the sacrament, in community, in mature community. And where is he doing that now? That's something to be excited about. I I think one of the main themes that I want to get across here in this sermon is we really need to be excited about what God is doing in us And in the people around us. We don't tend to stop and acknowledge that. He's doing a lot. So how is he revealing his will to you now? And if that's too short of a span, if you're a little bit of a different kind of person How has that been working out over the last I don't know, ten years, five years, two years? What has he been teaching you about his will? I know that he has been. Well that's the first part of his prayer, and that has to do with knowledge, wisdom, and understanding, that triad that we see throughout all of the scriptures. There is also a prayer, if we continue on in the passage, to walk worthy. Now one is dependent on the other. To walk worthy, one must know what his will is in order to be able to do so. So we see this in verse number 10. He says that you would be filled with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. And then verse number 10, that you may walk worthy of the Lord fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. Just as a quick remark, you notice how walking worthy leads back to the knowledge? That's the way that it works. It's an iterative process. We don't just sit down and read a book and we've got it. We don't download information. We are not robots The way that it works, it's iterative, it's reciprocal, it goes back and forth. We learn, we live, we learn, and we live, and we live, and we learn, and it goes back and forth with that. That's the process of maturity. It keeps spiraling as we go closer and closer to the image of Jesus Christ. That's one observation that we could make there from verse number 10. And you can see that he prays that the knowledge of God would lead them and us consequently. to walk worthy of our calling. And the way that he characterizes this is that it is meant to be fruitful in every good work. Now this is the second time that we're dealing with fruit. And if you were to have a knowledge of the scriptures, you know fruit's a pretty big deal. And being fruitful is a main theme within the story. And so I really think that Paul is pulling up here and evoking the language of especially Genesis, though we can look at many other places, but he's evoking this idea of Genesis And you could, if you wanted to fill in the pieces of the story that will get later in Colossians, it's that under the new Adam, Jesus Christ We are restored and reinstated in being fruitful and multiplying. There's a kind of return to Edanic Paradise that has already begun. We're back in the garden, each one of us, and we have been given this, given the Holy Spirit, and we've been given forgiveness with God. There's no longer an angel guarding the way back into paradise with a flaming sword. He's been set aside by the work of Jesus Christ, and we may boldly approach the throne. That's the kind of language we hear in many different letters within the New Testament There's an illusion here, and a call back to who we were always meant to be. You'll see this same kind of call in Exodus 19, 4 through 6. And I'll tell you why I bring this up in just a moment. He says, You have seen what I did to the Egyptians and how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now, therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, then you shall be a special treasure to me above all people. For all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words which you shall speak to the children of Israel. That last line there, you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. That is a statement of the purposes of God Not just for one individual nation, but to incorporate all nations in Christ to be his holy priesthood. Now you say, okay, well, but I never received a clerical collar, and I'm not burning any incense. Well, all that has changed. The special dress and all of that. That has the way that this works is goes all the way back to the Garden of Eden. When you look at the language of the tabernacle, tabernacle and the priestly services, the priests Serve the tabernacle. That word serve is the same word that was used when Adam and Eve were to care for the garden. or to serve the garden. It's always been the picture of the garden. You start with Genesis of the garden. You go to Revelation chapter 21. It's a garden. The garden is at the center. And what Paul is revealing here within this prayer is that because of what God has done and that he's given you this wisdom and this understanding and this knowledge of his will, you've got to understand that we're From this, if you realize what he's doing, that he's bringing us back into the garden, that he's restoring us and our relationship with him, our relationship to the environment, ourselves and to each other, then we want to walk worthy of that We want to peck back up the Adamic task, but not in the old Adam, in the new Adam. We are to walk worthy In that way, we are to be fruitful in the multiply in the most profound and robust and thick meaning of that sense now understood in Jesus Christ Now one thing I do want to want to uh camp out on just for a second, because I think it's one of the most important things she says here, is you'll notice When we're reading verse number 10, he says, walk worthy. I've explained what that looks like relative to the story. And he says, and he says, walkworthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him. You see that? Boy, does did that knock me over? We've covered the walkworthy of him being fruitful in every good work. That's really garden imagery. But we haven't covered the fully pleasing him. Phoebu, do we need to hear that today? That we're supposed to be walking worthy of pleasing him He says this other places too. I'll just give you one other one. This is usually a verse that people find to be their favorite verse, so that's why I'm mentioning it. Romans 12, 1 through 2 I beseech therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. All temple imagery, by the way, because you're a priesthood. We'll keep going. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is good and acceptable, acceptable, and per the perfect will of God. Now That's the translation that you probably have. Now if we were to take a look at the Greek roots, what we have end up having is that you may prove what is that good and pleasing will of God. Same kind of thing. This is a fine translation. I think it's great. That's why I have it. I bought it. But it Uh uh pleasing to God also comes a little bit earlier in that same passage. It would be a legitimate way to put it. But here's the pro here's the problem that I noticed within myself that there is a and I notice this within many others who are my brothers and sisters in Christ is that we've really bought into a lie We fought into the lie that the Lord is never pleased with us. And you could say, no, the Lord is someone could say to you and could say to me, no, the Lord is pleased with you. He's pleased with what you just did. They could say that to me ten thousand times and I would still say I have some other thing that enters into my consciousness that um is a counter-argument to that, or even just a counterword, which I find more plausible than what they just told me So I can't do all of the work here this morning for us to be repaired and having a true understanding of who God is in relationship to us. But I thought I would just go through a couple different things for us to camp out out on that for just a moment. Uh he says here that Paul part of his prayer and part of maturity is that we would walk worthy, pleasing God. We better know what it means to please God, and we better know if we pleased Him or we didn't. Is it even possible to do so? Is Paul just setting up an impossible standard to meet? I don't think that's what he's doing here. So let me go through a couple things with you by way of application. Number one, I believe that it is a lie that God is never pleased with you in Jesus Christ. That's a lie. And boy is that lie hard to dispel I think it takes a lot, a lot of work. I don't know that it's going to just go away after I say these words, okay? So we need to keep working together Number one, this is gonna really surprise some of you. God is not expecting you to be perfect right now. I know you probably had a hundred questions pop up in your mind. That's fine. I'm right. I prom I promise you. I really I am right. God does not expect you to be perfect right now. Number two, God expects you to grow in your knowledge of what pleases him in the same way that a two-year-old grows and becomes more and mature over time. Three, Christ is working in you by his spirit powerfully. When God sees your fruit, he is pleased. Now some people say, no. Okay, well here's the deal. This is how plain I'm going to be. I'm not going to do any deductions. I'm not going to do there's no magic show up here. I'm just going to read to you a couple scriptures that literally say that God is pleased. Now listen to this. Here's the first one. This is from Hebrews. By faith Enoch was taken away so that he did not see death, and was not found, because God had taken him. For before he was taken, he had this testimony that he pleased God Now the first thing that pops into your mind is, yeah, but he's a prophet that ascends into the clouds. That's not me. Okay, fine, let's keep going Uh well's drop out of the scriptures for a moment and let me read to you the Westminster Confession of Faith. The persons of believers being accepted through Christ, their good works also are accepted in him. Not as though they were in this life wholly unblameable and unreprovable in God's sight, but that he looking upon them in his Son, is pleased to accept and reward that which is sincere, although accompanied with many weaknesses and imperfections. So there's a super fancy English way to say it. That's what you would say if you wrote it for Parliament. Let's do one more example or two more examples. Here's one that the implication is that there is pleasure in this person. Matthew 25, 21. His Lord said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You were faithful over a few things. I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your Lord. Would you like to modify that? That when Jesus sees you and he says, Oh you all have been gr great at media media you've always been mediocre. I mean I'm not really happy, but I'll smile. Welcome. That's not what it says. It's well done, good and faithful servant. So how is Jesus going to say that? Is he going to lie? I stand up here at funerals all the time, and we recount a person's life, and most of the time we say Well that Jesus is meeting them and saying, Well done, good and faithful servant. Are you just being sentimental or do you mean it? Because there are certain implications. Let me give you the simplest one of all. This isn't a prophet This isn't at a funeral. This isn't a Westminster confession of faith. This is just a normal group of people that decided to help out another normal group of people that is recounted in Philippians chapter 4 verse 18. And listen to what it says. Indeed, I have all and abound. I am full, having received from Epaphroditus the things sent from you So people sent things to Paul. Different congregations sent things to him so that he would be taken care of. I have these things that are sent from you. Comma. These things are a sweet-smelling aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God. Well pleasing to God. So there are a couple different things there. One is they learned what is pleasing to God. So there is a standard. of God's pleasure. And when they activated and moved towards his will knowing it and accomplished it, God was pleased. There it is. God was pleased. It really makes me want to start to go back over my life and look at the things that Jesus Christ has accomplished in me And the different things that are happening throughout the weeks and throughout the years, and just almost make a list of like what are all of the different things that God, by his power, is accomplishing in me that he's pleased with I want to start to do that because I think it would change the nature of my relationship with him. I'll talk a little bit more about this at the end. Let's go ahead to the third point. The last one that he prays for is prayer for strength and for thanksfulness. Out of knowing uh God's will with uh knowledge, wisdom and understanding, and walking worthy and and growing in our knowledge, even in the midst of that walk This this work that God is doing in us uh must continue, and that's why Paul prays that we'd be able to keep moving down that path by accumulating strength and ultimately conducting ourselves in thankfulness. And you can see this in verses 11 through 12. We'll start with verse number 11. You see every good work increasing in the knowledge of God strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, for all patience and long suffering With joy. And then in verse number 12, you see the second part, which is giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints and the light. And he'll go on to explain that in the next couple paragraphs, and that so we'll pick that up next week. But you see there that there is this character work that's being done where we are now walking worthy and producing good fruits And that will continue as God works powerfully in us, especially, did you notice two terms in verse 11? That He'll work powerfully in us As we develop patience and longsuffering. In verse number 11, strength with all might according to his glorious power for all patience and long-suffering with joy. God is accomplishing this productive, being fruitful and pleasing, and growing Christian character in us as people. So that we are strengthened with all power according to his glorious might. And this is come comes out especially. Remember, this is first written to a church plant, so you could see why this would be the case, but it continues on even for us This especially includes patience and long-suffering with joy. Now please do not make a mistake. Patience and long-suffering are not synonyms. Paul's not repeating himself in different ways in order to make the same point. These two different words mean two different things. The word patience largely refers to maintaining your faith and faithfulness in God in difficult situations. While going through difficult situations. There's a little bit of a buzz word around here. I I noticed it in maybe three or four different people when tough situations hit them, they call them hard providences I think that might be because of a hymn. Is that right? Maybe so. But that's the idea there with patience, is that there are these situations that our Heavenly Father allows to enter into our lives There are different seasons. We all have a winter, and sometimes the winter seems like that's the only season we have, like in Narnia. And then finally he comes and the snow starts to fall But that what was need what is needed during that long hard winter is the patience. But long suffering is different. Long suffering isn't in relationship to situations. Long suffering is in relationship to people So you can get hard situations and you can get seemingly impossible people in your life Long-suffering is not giving up, but continuing to love seemingly impossible people. Now you could tell me the truth. Wouldn't that be important to have as a church plant? I mean it's only going to take a couple months for everybody to get on each other's last nerve. And then will the church make it or not? So you can see why he would pray for that, but that's true for us too. If you want to stop being patient in situations and lose long-suffering with people, that'd be a great way for us to just dissolve As a congregation. So it continues for us today, and that's why Paul is praying for it. That's why he cares about it. That's why he's so concerned. And this, my friends, is not something that you're just doing yourself What Paul is revealing here when he says, look at verse number 11 again, very important. This is really serious stuff. He says, You're strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power. Hey listen, the people in the past they didn't escape Egypt by themselves. And you're not going to be patient and long-suffering by yourself. God is going to send other people in your life to help you, but behind it all, it's Him who is working in you. You don't just sit back and do nothing There is a cooperative process that's going on here. But let's just get all these things straight. It's by God's glorious power As we continue participating with Him, that we'll grow in patience and long-suffering in order to keep our identity as the church. Now that's the first part. He also says that there is a thankfulness. You've just got to know at the deepest levels of your heart that God is good. And he's always doing good. When you really believe that, when he's worked that all the way down in there, or you know, way down in there, let's say it that way Then we can be thankful. Then we can be thankful. Now he's not just calling you to thankfulness for these sets of things that we've listed in verses 9 through 12. We're now in the next sermon next week going to look at several paragraphs for giving the reasons for why we should be thankful. So we have we're going to dwell on that, and that'll be great, right? That'll be excellent for us to be able to dwell on growing in thankfulness and joy. But this is what we have here in these three, if you want to count them, four petitions from Paul in prayer. We have uh him praying and showing us that we should be praying for each other and concerned about making sure we have a knowledge of God's will. That's very practical that we would have a knowledge of God's will so that we can keep building the right thing and not build something that God's not building. Very important And second, that based on the knowledge of God's will, we would know what is pleasing for him, and we would walk in ways that are pleasing to him. That that would be a great delight for us. that we would be able to please our Lord. And next, that we would be strong, that we would continue to grow in the strength by His might that we would be patient in our various situations, and that we would be long-suffering with each other. And all of this is to be done in thankfulness to our God. The last word I'll say is you can test me on this. I would like to come we have a meet and greet after service I'm happy to keep the conversation going, especially if we find a seat in front of one of those new fans. The the thankfulness to God at the end there, I'll raise it as a question for you Is it even possible for us to be thankful to God if we never think we're pleasing to Him You know there are uh let's go to the animal kingdom just for a moment. If you train, there are these different tests they do on all these different animals. One test they do on dogs is they put dogs, or did, put dogs, in an impossible situation. So what that means for a dog is Um in this particular experiment they kept giving him a little shock so that he would feel it. It would electrocute the dog. The way dogs work, really the way all animals work, is they're trying to figure out a way to escape it. How do I escape the punishment and be pleasing to my master? In the experiment, if no way of escape was shown, the dogs would become insane. hide and cower in the corner and not be recoverable. And I think that that's why I'm raising the question that I am to you. If you think you could never be pleasing to your master Do you ever think you'd be thankful to him or for him? So as we come to the end of this sermon, I really would encourage you to keep chasing down this theme of being pleasing to our Lord in Jesus Christ. Very important. Know what pleases him and know that he can be pleased. Know that of course he expresses his fatherly displeasure But that doesn't mean that he's always displeased with you. Even his displeasure is a sign that he's your father, and he's trying to move you back into a place where we are always just smiling at each other. I wonder what would change in our lives if throughout the day we did certain things by the power of Jesus Christ and His Holy Spirit. And we knew that when we were done, God was pleased and that he was smiling about the whole thing. I wonder if that would make us more thankful. I wonder if it would make us more motivated and less like tortured dogs who have no escape from a grimace from our God. That's not who God is. That's not who Jesus Christ revealed God to be. And so let's discover more of that as we go to the table. Please pray with me