God's holy word for you, God's holy people. Now as he was going out on the road, one came running. Knelt before him and asked him, Good teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? So Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good but one, that is, God. You know the commandments: do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud. Honor your father and your mother. And he answered and said to him, Teacher, all these things I have kept from my youth. Then Jesus, looking at him, loved him and said to him, One thing you lack, go your way, sell whatever you have, and give to the poor And you will have treasure in heaven. And come, take up the cross and follow me. But he was sad at this word and went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. Please pray with me. Almighty God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for including this particular passage. We thank you that you reveal to us the true condition of our own hearts by showing to us examples of others. We thank you for this. This account. We thank you for this picture into Christ's ministry. And we ask, Holy Spirit, that you would indeed impress upon our hearts. life-changing truth. Lead us into that truth for we need you. We need you to interpret this word for us. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. It's funny that tradition has called this passage and this person the rich young ruler. Personally, I wish it wasn't the account of the rich young ruler. I wish it was just the account of just some guy. And the reason I wish that is because There's so much of each and every one of us in this man. And yet when we call him a rich young ruler, we can think to ourselves, well there's not much I have in common with him. I'm not rich. For some of us, I'm not very young. For most of us, we are not rulers. And yet This is about us. Every one of us shares a lot in common with this one who came running. What the Spirit has chosen to include in the Word for us is applicable to each and every one of us. And I just want to remind you what we've been doing in Mark, what we've been noticing. Mark is all about Jesus. And it's all about showing to you and to me that Jesus is the Christ. He is the Messiah. He is the Son of the one and only true and living God. And he's shown us this through these pictures into Christ's ministry. We've seen him performing wonderful miracles, doing things that only God can do. We have heard him teaching with such incredible, and I mean that literally, it's unbelievable that Jesus could teach with the authority that he has, because no man has ever taught as he did. So far, we've come now to the second half of Mark's Gospel. We were ascending the mountain of Mark, coming up to that very marvelous confession from Peter that we are told was not Peter's confession. It was A gift from the Father that he could recognize that Jesus is the Christ. And since that moment we have been descending the mountain, coming back down, leading to Jerusalem. Where Jesus has been teaching that he will be betrayed, he will be beaten, he will be executed. He has been teaching many wonderful things to us, even though he is on the way to his own death. And the most recent messages that we have been looking at were his teachings about marriage. His teachings about the family. The last time we were together, Jesus was teaching us, all of us, what it is to be a child. He was teaching us that every one of us is like a child, and we must be like children if we are to enter the kingdom of heaven. Every one of us is completely helpless to save ourselves. And yet, in teaching us that we rejoice. Because in Christ there is hope for the helpless. In Christ there's hope for you and for me who can do nothing to save ourselves. And so we come to our passage tonight, which teaches us What we must do after recognizing that we are helpless, like little infant babes, what we must do What this passage shows us is that Christians must surrender the rule of their own life and submit to Christ's rule over their life. Brothers and sisters, you must surrender any claim to ruling your own life and submit to Jesus Christ as the only ruler of your life. We're going to look at this under two headings. We're going to look under surrender, which we'll see in verses 17 through 20, and then we'll examine submit in verses 21 to 22. If we try to hold on to our own claim to rule our own life, we surrender any hope to true and lasting blessing. We surrender any hope To the real heavenly treasure. And so we must surrender. So let's look together at verses 17 through 20 and examine surrender. The first thing that we'll notice. If we look together at verse 17 and 18, we will see that we must surrender any claim or ability or right. to define for ourselves what is good. We must surrender any claim that we have the ability or the right to define for ourselves What is good. Let's look at verses 17 and 18 together. Now as he was going out on the road, one came running, knelt before him, and asked him, Good teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? So Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good but one that is God. At first glance, we might think this guy is pretty good. Right? He's running to Jesus. That's a good thing. Make no mistake, it is a good thing to go to Jesus. He comes and he kneels before Jesus. Good things. Worshiping Christ is a good thing. And he comes seeking answers from Jesus. All really good stuff. He wants to be blessed by Jesus. But do you catch his big mistake there? He wants to be blessed as he defines blessing. He wants to have treasure. as he defines treasure. It says that he wants to inherit eternal life. We need to ask ourselves a question. Does he really want the eternal life that Jesus describes? Or does he simply want his life to last eternally? Do you see the distinction there? He's it from all impressions of this passage, it sounds like he might have a really kind of cool life. He's rich. He's a ruler. He can still run. For some of us that's a big deal. Seems like things are going pretty well for him. And so maybe what he's asking is, hey, how do I keep this going? How do I not die and I keep all this wonderful life I've made for myself from ever ending? But he's very mistaken. He thinks that he knows what is good. He thinks that he can define what is good to him, but Jesus points out to him That he doesn't really understand what good is. He's calling Jesus good as he defines good It's probably likely that he would have found any other teacher that would have come along and said, Oh good teacher. Oh oh good teacher, tell me the secrets. We know that he's not confessing that Jesus is God. Right? There there are some who could maybe take it that way. He's coming to him and saying, Good teacher, and Jesus says there's none good but God, and he says, Oh, this guy thought Jesus was God, so he knows, oh, good teacher. Doesn't seem that way because uh in verse twenty he changes it. He hears what Jesus says and he leaves out the good part. This man wants to know what he should do. And if we really think about it, he's not coming to Jesus as one who is helpless like an infant. He's not coming to Jesus with the hope of one who is helpless and knows that Christ saves the helpless. Rather, he's looking for pious advice. He just wants teaching. He just wants more data, more information. He's not seeking Christ for Christ's sake. He's looking only for his own benefit. He comes to Christ to get what he wants, to see what he can get. He has decided what is good, and now he wants to know what's the best way that I can get what I think is good. He wants to know how he can make his will be done. How his desires can be fulfilled. And so Jesus, as he has been doing, as we have been seeing him do, goes once again to God's word. Showing that it is necessary to surrender any claim to our own right of self-evaluation. We must surrender any claim to have the ability or right to define what is good, and then we must surrender any claim that we have the ability or right to define ourselves as good. Look at verses 19 and 20. Jesus says, You know the commandments. Do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud, honor your father and your mother. And he answered and said to him, Teacher, all these things I have kept from my youth. I wonder if you notice that Jesus takes him. to the second part of the law, the second table of the law. Remember how Jesus summarizes all the law of God, the moral law. He says, love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And the second, which is like it, Love your neighbor as yourselves. And we've recognized for ages in the church that the Ten Commandments are divided into two Tables. We call them the two tables of the law. There's the first table of the law, which is love the Lord your God. And there's the second table of the law, which is love your neighbor as yourselves. Do you notice that Jesus only gives the commands that are on the second table of the law? We'll get to that a little bit more in a second. But that's where Jesus takes him. He takes him right to the love of his neighbors. Why? Because How will they know that we belong to God? How will they see that we are children of God? They will know us by our love one for another as Christians. And so he starts to really poke at this guy's love of others. I want you guys to keep in mind the Sermon on the Mount. And what Jesus has been teaching about these very commandments. Remember what he said about adultery? He said, you have heard, do not commit adultery. But he says, he teaches, that if you even look at someone with lust in your heart, done. You've already broken the commandment. Even if you haven't done anything. In other words, for Christians, there's no such thing as look but don't touch The world says that because they want to make themselves feel better. Oh it's no big deal. I didn't do anything. I only I only fantasized about it and ordered my life around it. made myself real excitable about it. Remember the Sermon on the Mount that Jesus is teaching the moral law that's written on the hearts of man. is not simply a code of behavior. It is a way of being. Had the man heard Jesus' teaching? Had he been there listening to the Sermon on the Mount, there's no way that he could have made a claim to have kept all the commandments. It's interesting in the Matthew parallel passage, and you don't need to turn there. I'm just going to go there so I can show it to you guys. In Matthew 19, verse 17. Jesus says something different to him. He says, but if you want to enter into life, keep the commandments. And the guy answers, Jesus, which ones? It's like he's never understood. What we have heard time and time again. This this poor guy, I I hope, I hope that this man Stayed alive long enough to be present while someone was reading the Epistle of James. Because in James chapter 2, do you know what it says? James 2, verse 10, it clearly teaches: for whoever shall keep the whole law and yet stumble in one point, he is guilty of all. And so we see clearly, clearly, that we must surrender any rights to self-evaluation. Because we will. We'll we'll choose the laws to ignore. Or maybe we'll choose which laws are more important. Especially If we get to choose to evaluate our own selves, we're going to look at our own life and say, I am really good at this one and this one and this one. I keep the Sabbath better than anybody else. I'm not really good at dishonoring my father and mother, but we're going to leave that one out That was not as important. It's the Sabbath that's most important. And I do good, so I'm good. Everything's fine. But that is not true. And this man, if he was a good Jew, he should have known what God has already said to his people. In Isaiah chapter 64, verses 6 and 7, but we are all like an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are like filthy rags. We all fade as a leaf. And our iniquities, like the wind, have taken us away. And there is no one who calls on your name, who stirs himself up to take hold of you, for you have hidden your face from us and have consumed us because of our iniquities. It's likely that that term ruler was a reference to him being a synagogue ruler, someone who should have known better, who should have known those words from Isaiah. And so from this we learn that we must surrender any claim to rule our own life. You must surrender any claim that you might have, that you get to rule your own life, that you get to define what is good for you. And that you get to evaluate yourself as to your goodness. And that's why We must pay attention to the next part of this, verses 21 through 22, and see that we must submit. We must submit to Christ as the King, as the ruler of our life. The Spirit is so kind to us. He's so kind to us because he had Mark record this. Look at what he says. Then Jesus looking at him. Loved him and said to him, One thing you lack, go your way, sell whatever you have, and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And come, take up the cross and follow me. Submission is difficult. But Christian, do you realize I mean this. Do you realize that you are called, commanded, to submit to a loving king, to a loving God You must submit to King Jesus. He loves you. Have you ever realized this? He loves you more than you love yourself. He loves this man, this ruler, more than he could have ever loved himself. He loved him so much that he was willing to make him uncomfortable. He loved him so much That he was willing to make him question his entire identity. He loved him so much that he was willing to shatter his self-conception. To correct him of his wrong ideas about himself, to correct him about his wrong ideas of goodness. To correct him about his wrong ideas of what does it mean to be righteous before a holy God. And so we must thank God that He loves us more than we love ourselves and is willing to confront even you with your sin. Not because he's trying to tear you down or make you feel awful. It's because he loves you so much. He loves you so much. He wants you to be different. Thank God that we're not only submitting to a loving king, we must submit the rule of our life to an infinitely wise king. Jesus knew. Now it it's funny, right? He says one thing you lack. I think this is just another example of Jesus' great sense of sarcasm and sense of humor. One thing. Oh right, like that's the only thing. That needed to change in this man's life. But he really gets at it. He shows, Jesus shows that he knows this man's heart. He knows the idol. That has been there, that gets in the way of him keeping the first commandment. He knows that he's not loving the the Lord with all of his heart, soul, mind, and strength. Because he has this idol that needs to be cast out of his life. He needs to go, he needs to sell whatever he had and give to the poor And so submit to your King. Submit to King Jesus. He is so loving, and He loves you better than you could ever love yourself, more than you could ever love yourself. But he is so wise that he knows exactly what you need to hear. He knows exactly what must be put before you that you would see yourself as you really are. He knows precisely What you need to sacrifice in your life, that you would be a better servant of God, that you would be more loving to his people, that you would be more useful in his kingdom. And so we submit to the rule of our lives. We submit that rule to our King, Jesus, a King who loves us. A king who knows us and knows what we need. And that's not all. Do you see that we submit the rule of our lives to a king Who is generous and rewarding. He says right there to this man, you will have treasure. in heaven. As I was reading that, I couldn't help but think about John chapter fourteen. In John chapter 14, the first three verses, he says, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also. This is how the king rewards his people with his own presence eternally. Where he is, that's where we will be. In his father's house there are many mansions. That's the heavenly treasure that awaits all who have submitted their lives and the rule of their lives to Christ as the king. And so I point this out because do you realize you are not submitting your life to a tyrant? It's not a tyrannical king who holds everything for himself and is very stingy and doesn't distribute the riches that are his. This is a king who is eager and ready to bless you. With true treasure, real treasure, treasure that will not fade away, that moth and rust cannot destroy. And just thinking about that, that we're not submitting ourselves to a tyrannical king, think about this. Jesus is not calling anyone to do anything that he didn't do himself. He tells this man that he must take up his cross and follow him. Exactly what Jesus did himself. He's not saying you need to be self-sacrificial in your love of others. And you need to be self-sacrificial in your service to God and to his kingdom. But I'm I'm I'm just gonna do my own thing. You don't no. He says, look to me, follow me, do as I do And the last thing that we see here, the very final thing we see in verse twenty-two, and I hope it is encouraging to all of us. This is a very heavy thing that we are called to do. It's a very costly thing. It will cost a lot to submit the rule of your life to King Jesus. It is not easy. You will notice. You will notice a difference in your life if you submit to him as your ruler and king. But brothers and sisters, oh, it is it's worth it. It's so worth it. It is worth it to surrender the rule of your own life and to submit to Christ that He would rule you. And so I want to leave you by asking this question. Does that truth, does that fact, make you sorrowful? Does it bring sorrow into your life, into your heart, that you need to surrender ownership of yourself And the right to rule yourself to God. If that causes sorrow in your heart Let's imagine why. Why might that cause some sorrow? There are some who it causes sorrow because when they see what the scriptures say a Christian is. What a Christian must not do and what a Christian must do. They think to themselves, that's pretty boring. You mean I have to give up all the fun things? I gotta give up fun movies and fun video games and all the things that the world that makes me relevant to the world. I gotta give up the ability that to talk on in the same way that the world talks and to have those those fun words that are really colorful and explain how I feel There's a sorrow because they really don't want to be like Christ. But there are others who sorrow at this because they feel like they can't. You just can't. The standard is just too high. I can never meet it. Oh, brothers and sisters, let that not be a sorrowful thought, but a joyful one. Because remember, the kingdom of God is for such as are like children, helpless, totally helpless. And so if you feel helpless in heeding this command and this call to surrender and submit to Christ, hallelujah! Because hope is for you. Hope is for you who recognize your absolute helplessness. All of us know what we must do. No matter where we are in this, even if hearing that doesn't bring you sorrow, it just makes you wonder whether or not you are doing it. Remember. We have a God who is real. We serve a God who is living. We serve a God who sees all things and hears all things and knows all things and he knows. What you want most in your life. He knows what is the deepest desire of your heart, and he knows whether or not it is a desire to have your own good hopes fulfilled, or if you want the goodness that he has defined. And so all of us, every one of us, must go to God and cry out to him. Confess to him that we are still trying to hold on to the rule of our own life. No matter where you are in your Christian walk, you're still trying to hold on to something. Something's yours, not his. Confess that to him. And beg him, beg him to remove all of your doubt in him, that you you doubt his love You doubt his wisdom. You doubt that he knows what you actually need. Right? Because if if God knew what you really needed, he wouldn't take away that income. Right? If God knew what you really needed, He wouldn't take away your social circle or your friends. If God knew what you really needed, he wouldn't dare take away that one thing that keeps you going, which is the thought that you're not as good as Him. But you're also not as bad as him. That you may not be as good as the best Christian you know, but you're definitely not as bad as the worst unbeliever you know. He wouldn't take all that away. If he really knew what you needed. But the reality is, he knows you. And he knows what is right and righteous. He has defined what is good. And he is telling you, by his spirit, what you need to sacrifice in your life That you can submit to him, to his goodness, and to his rule. Beg him to transform your heart. Beg him to transform your desires. From one which is sad and sorrowful in this idea that you must submit to him. Beg him to transform you from a person who is sad and sorrowful at thinking about you've got to give up worldly treasures. And beg him to make you one who will joyfully and eagerly submit to his rule to follow his path and to receive true heavenly treasure. Please pray with me.