Matthew five, twenty-seven through thirty. You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you. For it is more profitable for that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it out and cast it from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. Let us pray. Lord Jesus Christ, you are the good shepherd. You know what we need to hear. You have made sure that it was recorded for us in your scriptures. Lord, we want to be people that are more than hearers. We want to be doers. And we don't want to be doers just in the sense of a superficial appearance of being your followers. We want to change in our hearts. I pray therefore, Lord, that you would use your preached word here today to change us in the deepest places, and that that would show up in how we think. and treat other people. I ask this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Yesterday I had the privilege of being a part of uh Tammy Motis' funeral and I know that some of you were there also. It was a real privilege. If you remember her father speaking yesterday, he gave an example from his traft and crade that he trade that he had practiced a good portion of his life. He was a fisherman and uh had talked about uh training Tammy to uh make a to basically weave a net. I know that that's not how fishermen would say it and I would probably get beat up by fishermen for putting it that way. But basically mend or weave a net and that sh she was under his kind of a apprenticeship in knowing how to d knowing how to do that. And he wanted to be able to pass on that craft and art to her that she could do it properly. You know, there are a lot of things in life that are like that. Where we as parents want to be able to pass down something important to our children that we had learned You could really think of life as a kind of guild where the Lord has taught us a kind of craft and we want to be able to pass that craft on to our children. I think that's a great analogy for us, whether you're children or whether you're adults, and what Jesus is doing here on the Sermon on the Mount. You know, Jesus is the master craftsman. He knows exactly how we should weave our lives in order for our lives to be true, for our lives to be beautiful, and our lives to be good. I think it's good for us to remember sometimes that Jesus doesn't have a triple PhD from some university, but is instead from a family of carpenters. And perhaps he thinks more about the workshop and apprenticeship than you realize. Now I want to put it that way, and we look at these different teachings that are going on here. If you're in the workshop with Jesus, What's he trying to accomplish as he takes you through his ten commandments? What's he trying to do with you as his people? Really, what's he trying to do with you as his apprentice? or as his disciple. Well last week when we were looking at you shall not murder, he wasn't just trying to get you to not stab each other. I mean that's a really low standard. If the standard were you're great with God if you haven't knifed somebody today, then In terms of the kingdom being salt and light to the earth, we don't really offer much. Everybody here is, I hope, pretty free of knifing each other. I hope that hasn't been a part of your existence. What we end up learning from Jesus as we're in the workshop with him is that he's always intended from the beginning, way more than just superficial appearances. And how we're his disciples. That he wants us to live for him from the heart. And that means putting some things away from ourselves. Like actions, like we certainly don't want to murder each other, but it also includes putting certain heart attitudes or thoughts or things that we've held on to, like grudges Putting those aside. And he it also means putting different practices on. You'll notice that that last part of the passage from last week that Jesus said that if you have a problem between you and your brother or your sister, run and take care of it. He has a a positive vision for the way society would run to where You could truly say, well, these people are the salt of the earth. They really are. Light in the darkness. Look at how they resolve their differences with each other. Rather than growing in bitterness and placing each other's pictures on dartboards and having friends over throwing darts at faces, instead they they nip it in the bud, like our grandmothers used to say That's just a taste of what Jesus is after for us as we're in his workshop with him. And he's molding and shaping us to be master craftsmen of life just like him. Well now this morning he's moving us into another command. There's another lesson for us to be able to learn within the workshop. And you'll notice that it's the seventh command. I'm sure you notice that. It's you shall not commit adultery. And the main thing that the Spirit is seeking to teach us here. by way of Jesus, is that although some do apply the seventh commandment superficially in just the physical act of adultery, Jesus intends so much more when he talks about the seventh command. Under his lordship, in fact, he longs for his disciples and is working for his disciples to embrace the full um extent of the seventh command. Making every effort to escape adultery in thought, making every effort to escape adultery in word and in deed, anything that would lead to it. The Spirit teaches us here today a deep understanding of the seventh commandment by way of Jesus. That's what he's after with us here within his workshop. Now what I want to do is I just want to lay this out basically in three points. The points are a little long today, so I'm just going to say point one And maybe you could keep a record of that if you're a person who likes to take sermon notes. But we're just going to look at how, under the Lordship of Jesus Christ, he's calling us to embrace the full extent of the seventh commandment, making every effort to escape from adultery. That's what we're going to look at here as our lesson. The first thing I want you to see, take a look at the scriptures with me. It's really important to see how this is structured and the teachings that he's giving to us right from the scriptures. You can see that the first point I want to bring up to you is that the Pharisees are teaching something different than what Jesus teaches. In verse number 27, it says, You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not commit adultery. And then right at the beginning of 28 Jesus says, but I say to you. Now that pattern, I'm sure you've noticed it as a pattern that that is going to continue through for a little while. And what what Jesus is getting after is that, yes, it was said that we should not commit adultery Within that seventh command, but the way that that has been applied in your culture has artificially narrowed it. And what I'm going to do as the true teacher, speaking as Jesus. As the true teacher, I'm going to help you to see what I've always intended with this law. Now, if you were to back up a little bit within this Sermon on the Mount, don't forget that Jesus says in this same chapter in verse number uh 19, I'm sorry, in verse number 20, take a look at verse number 20 with me. Because it helps us to understand everything that's going on. It says, For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. So what you're seeing with each one of these commandments is he's saying, there is a way that the Pharisee understands this, and the way that I want you to understand this is going to exceed their righteousness. Let me show you how it exceeds it. For murder, I'm talking about everything that would even lead to murder. For adultery, I'm talking about so much more than just the physical act. That's what's going on. So what you could ask yourself is you could say, well, how do the Pharisees teach this command? And if you were to look at our passage, you would not find an explicit statement saying, thus says the Pharisees and the Scribes. But what you could do is you could look at the rest of the Sermon on the Mount and you could see different patterns that are exposed to us on how they tried to look at these things. And one of the patterns is that they only focused on the physical act and could care less about thought life. Could care less about the spirit and the intent of the law and more about just following the explicit letter. I'm sure that you remember, for example, from Luke chapter 18, 10 through 13 Jesus, this depiction of a pharisaical reading of the law. Listen to this. Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank you that I am not like other men. They are extortioners, they are unjust, and they're adulterers. So I just want to ask you, put yourself in their shoes. How is it that you could stand before God? Knowing who you are in your private life, even though you've never perhaps committed the physical act of adultery, how could you stand before God and say, thank you, God, that I'm not like other people, they're adulterers, not me. How would you have to read Jesus' law in order to say such a thing? Well, what we do is we look at the rest of how the Pharisees talk in Matthew chapter 23, and we see, just like we saw last week, that they read it superficially to only apply to the outward action. Now that's a generalization. I don't know what every single Pharisee in all the world has ever said. I'm just saying when you look at their characterization within the scriptures, there's a superficial reading of things. And that's what I'm saying is a possibility for us and our understanding here, especially since Jesus We're going to get into in just a moment, since Jesus goes beyond the surface. You notice how he went behind beyond the surface? And he says, if you commit it in your heart. So that's why that's why we put it like this. And the other reason why we talk about it this way is because it's still a problem. It's still a problem where in order for people to gain some kind of false confidence, they misread the intent of what Jesus is doing with his law. They are in the they say they're in the workshop with him, but whatever they're creating, it's not what Jesus wants them to be working on or how he wants them to work on it. For example, is everyone here familiar with Dennis Prager? He's a Jewish gentleman and I think he owns quite a bit of uh uh different media companies. And he uh we just went uh I guess it was maybe six months ago, he went viral. He was in a conversation with Jordan Peterson, and they were talking about this section of Matthew. And Dennis Prager said that thoughts don't matter, it's just a physical deed. And that he doesn't have as really any problem with a thought life where someone is lusting after someone else So of course that really caught people off guard. It went viral and he had there be on a bunch of different podcasts to explain himself. And every time he explained himself, it just got worse. He specifically said that he disagreed with Jesus on this, and that so too did the Torah. He said, in the Torah you can find no place where it says you shall not lust. That's how he's reading the law. And so Jesus is up against something similar. In fact, he says, and I'm going to be euphemistic about this just as he was. He says, there is only one organ that can commit adultery, and it is not the heart. And he goes on and he said, Judaism is in its essence behaviorist. not concerned with our thinking or our attitudes. And then he went on to even talk about not condone, but to lessen and degree the use of pornography, which is what really has gotten him into trouble. But we're seeing the same thing here where there is this first interpretation, we're in the workshop with Jesus And Jesus is up against those who are taking what he intended with his law, and they're keeping it too superficial. And that's the first thing that I want you to see here. That's point number one. that there is a pharisaical teaching on adultery. And if we're in the workshop with the Lord, we want to move past that. We want to move past that. Of course the physical act is of course adultery, but there's so much more. Now here's the second point, and I only have three points, so we're doing really well on time So here's the second point. The second point is Jesus' teaching on adultery. So we have the Pharisaical teaching on adultery, and now we have Jesus' teaching on adultery, and you already started to see that in verse number 28. He says, you've heard that it was said, do not commit adultery, and then because we're reading this in light of verse number 20, that we're going to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees He's now going to help us to exceed by saying, But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. Jesus disagrees with the superficial reading. He says that what he intends when he gives his seventh command is not only the physical act of adultery. But all of those things that are associated with it and lead up to it. He's very concerned, for example, of a vicious cycle that can happen in human beings. That starts way before the physical act. And he wants you to address and to know that he is concerned by way of the seventh commandment about all of those things that proceed before the physical act. Now this is the same thing that he taught in terms of the sixth command. He said in the sixth command, of course first-degree murder is wrong. But as my people, you begin thinking about your murderous hearts way before the act of murder, and we go ahead and extinguish any chance of murder happening Because we reconcile with each other, nipping it in the bud. And it's the same thing here with the seventh command, the way that he wants his people to work out. He is saying that even if you have refrained from actual adultery, you have not fulfilled the full dimension of the law. Although thinking is a lesser degree of sin, which we could talk about another time, than the actual physical act, the seventh command includes lust in the heart. You know where I think is a great place to begin with this? A great place to begin with our adulterous hearts. or heart adultery and not just physical, the physical act of adultery, is to remember that God talks about our relationship with Him in terms of a marriage. That's I think the place to begin. You can see in the next paragraph that Jesus is going to talk about divorce. But before we even get there, Before we get to our human relationships with each other, why don't we talk about our relationship with God and how we relate to Him? And how our hearts can be adulterous toward him. If we begin there, I think we have a much better chance of having a good relationship with the humans around us. It seems to me that all of the evil from our lives stems from a bad relationship with God. Let me just remind you, therefore, of Matthew chapter 15, verse number 8. This was a criticism that he laid again at the scribes and Pharisees, and it is a quote from Isaiah. There's a fuller part of this quote. I'm just giving you the first part. But listen to this. In Matthew 15, 8, he says, these people draw near to me with their mouth. And they honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. Should remind you of Deuteronomy chapter 6, verses 4 through 5, telling us, of course, Jesus is still just upholding the same law that's always been around When Jesus says in 6, 4 through 5 of Deuteronomy, he says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. See that? You should love them with your heart. That's a really different picture, isn't it? I really like the idea of us being in the workshop with Jesus. Jesus is recreating human beings from what they have fallen into. Do you really want to think that Jesus is interested in recreating human beings so that just our outward actions conform to his law, but we don't actually have any love in our hearts for him? That can't be what their master craftsman is crafting. He's not looking for building up his children so that they can be professional hypocrites. He wants to work with his children so that the way that they live is a reflection of what is in their hearts. And the love that they have for him. Now you could see just in me saying that why there has to be different ways that Jesus what he means when he says, I'm going to fulfill the law He says I'm going to fulfill the law and then I'm going to help you understand this isn't a superficial thing I'm accomplishing. And that's what we're doing here by getting to the heart. But he also needs to fulfill it in that Listen, you sitting here listening to me today, you can't make this change in yourself without the salvation work of Jesus Christ. Jesus needs to send you his Holy Spirit that your heart would be changed to where you could love him. And that's really where we need to be entering into prayer for ourselves, for each other, and for our children. Lord, would you make us a group of people who are actually changed in our hearts and not just going through the motions? Lord, when we read Isaiah, would you please make it to where we don't become the same come into the same problem that we see in Isaiah? Can you imagine how disappointing it would be for you to meet Jesus and for him to say to you, well, you sure did give me lip service, so I'll give you that? But your heart was always far from me. That's not what Jesus wants, and that's actually not what he's doing with his Holy Spirit. What is he doing with his spirit? We know elsewhere from Scripture that He's bringing out of you the fruits of the Spirit, which include love. Love for God, first and foremost, not adulterating from God, but love for God. I mean that makes a lot of sense as to why Jesus would be accomplishing the one and not the other, how he's accomplishing it by way of his Holy Spirit, how he's accomplishing it by showing you what he really meant by his law. He wants all of you. Heart, I didn't finish the Deuteronomy quote. Hear, O Israel, the Lord your God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul. And with all your strength. And I'm encouraging you here to understand and apply Jesus' teaching on adultery to begin with your relationship with God. Let me just ask you. How is your relationship with God? How would you characterize it? What name would you give it? If you were to ask the people in your life what name would they give it, do you exist with God in the same way that people in Eastern Europe exist with a dictator? God is really powerful, so I just do what he says. I don't really want to do it, but I don't have any choice. According to Pascal, this is my better option. Is that how you relate to him? Because he says that you're married to him. Is that how you would relate to your wife or to your husband and say that that's a great marriage? I relate to my husband in the way that I do because if I don't, he'll hit me. Is that really what we're looking for? I just wonder how you and the Lord are doing at the heart level. At the heart level. You know, a way to begin working at the heart level here is to make sure you're going through the scriptures and not just looking at all of the things he says that you cannot do. I really encourage you not to spend all your time doing that. Would you take and go on a journey seeking to discover that he's beautiful, that he's lovely? That the decisions he makes are the best decisions in the world, and that if you ever if you ever have the opportunity among your friends or your family, if you're gonna brag, you're gonna brag about him. Because he's so good. Now if that sounds foreign and alien to you, then that's where you need to begin. If you can begin to brag about the Lord, that's the little light that's starting to come on in your love for him We don't love him abstractly. We love him for who he is, for who he's revealed himself to be and the decisions that he's made, what he's doing with this world and what he's doing with us and our children. I'd encourage you to work on your marriage with the Lord. That's the beginning of the king's teaching on adultery here. As the good king, he shows us, we're not looking for the superficial understanding of what I mean by the seventh commandment. We're looking for a depth dimension here. That includes even those things that would lead up to it. I want not just your physical acts. I want your heart. And I'm doing everything I need to in order for that to happen. He's fulfilling the law in all those ways. Now there's a third point. And the third point takes up the majority of the passage. It's really interesting. The third point has to do with escape from adultery. And we're going to look at this escape from adultery. You can see the examples that he gives us there. I've already read them to you and I'll read them again. But the escape from adultery should be a little surprising to you. Because Jesus does not say, he doesn't say this, and this is sometimes the line of thought that we have to be really careful with. Jesus doesn't say, I want your hearts. Therefore, the only thing I want you to do to love me is to drop into a deep introspection. I just want you to think about everything that's happening inside of you psychologically. And we're just going to do that. He actually, though he says he wants your heart, he says the way to your heart is through your eyes and your hands and your feet. That's a summary of what he ends up giving here. Let me read it for you. He says, if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you, for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and cast it from you For it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. Is that what you expected him to say with this line of thinking? I'm focused on the heart, but we're not going to spend a bunch of time in introspection. The weight of the heart is through the eye And the weight of the heart is through the hand. That's the beginning. Really, the weight of the heart is by way of the Holy Spirit, but He's showing us how we can break the cycle. There's two parts to this, and he's showing you how you can break the cycle. Now, this often comes up with this. Did he really mean that he wants me to pluck out my eye? And did he really mean that he wants me to cut off my hand? Well, figurally, yes, but not literally. There is a church father who did take it literally, and as a sign of his commitment, he went ahead and became a eunuch. His origin of Alexandria, and this was considered an extreme, and in fact Not long after he had done this, in A. D. 325, you can look this up if you'd like, the Council of Nicaea forbade the practice. Just to make sure that other people didn't misunderstand exactly what was going on in the scriptures. This is a figure of speech And when I say that, I want to say that this is a figure of speech in a way to where you don't feel like you're let off the hook with the radical nature of what Jesus is calling you to. He's not calling you to blind yourself and pluck out your eye and cut off your literal hand. But he is telling you to take extreme measures in order to make sure that you don't keep providing fertilizer for the sin to be able to keep growing. And that can begin with what you do with your eyes. Jesus focuses here on the offending eye, writes R. C. Sprohl, because he understands how adultery begins. It usually begins with a glance and a look. King David, a man after God's own heart, just happened to be walking outside on his roof. When he looked over and saw the nude Bathsheba on an adjacent roof, from that look came lust, and from that lust came adultery. The visual aspect, he continues writing, of erotic stimulation must not be minimized. And this is part of the reason why Job in the book of Job says that he has made a covenant with his eyes And Jesus is very wise, of course he is. He is wisdom itself to where he says, this is where it begins. If you want to work on that thing that's going on in the heart, let's stay embodied. And not just drop into introspection, and let's focus on the window in which all that stuff is let in, and that's the eye. Or he gives you the example that if it's the hand, then we're going to cut off the ham. And that would be ha hand and that would be another extreme measure that you would be willing to take in order to stop the the tiny sapling of adultery to spring up, and if you go to the next passage, to result in divorce. That's where this teaching is leading. Instead, we would be willing to cut off those things. And maybe that's surprising to you too. Maybe it doesn't sound spiritual enough. for you to disconnect your internet because you can't get a can get control over the pornography problem. Maybe it doesn't sound spiritual enough for you, for you to get rid of your computer. Maybe it doesn't sound spiritual enough for you to get a dumb phone. But if that is the case, then you think you're more spiritual than Jesus. Because if what is Jesus doing here? He's saying, in the ways in which these things come into our life, cut them off. Get rid of the thing where it would enter into the eye. Get rid of the hand that would reach and grab for it. Get rid of the computer or whatever it is. Let's nip this thing in the bud. I love that he gives us embodied ways for our hearts to be molded and sculpted in love for him and his kingdom. You notice that he does that a lot? Let me give you one more example and then we'll move on to the conclusion here One of the things that you could start to do yourself and with your children is you can try to be more embodied in this worship service. Our bodies are so important to us. Jesus brings up the eye and the hand. That's why I'm talking about this It's like the heart, the way we could see this a lot in the scriptures, is like the heart, under the supervision of the Holy Spirit, follows the body. A lot of the times we think we got to get our thinking straight, and then the body will follow. That's not exactly right. Sometimes I guess that could be the case, but it also happens to where it's the body and then Jesus uses what we're doing with our bodies to mold the heart and the thoughts and the attitudes Let me give you just an example. Have you ever been so in need of God and so distraught at your own sin? That telling him with your words in order to share your heart was not enough, you had to drop on your knees and put your face on the ground in order to express fully what was going on inside of you. It's because there's something about our bodies that help us to connect to our hearts and for our insides to start to be changed. And you know where that can begin in the worship service, even if even with kids here that it would be two, three, four, five, whatever it is, when we're singing that doxology. Worst thing in that glory of potri, you know what we could do even if they can't read the words? Get their hands up in the air. Put their faces to heaven. Let them know that this is the place where the most excellent God reigns. He's the one that we sing to. And I get to and it could be fun if you're young, I get to put my hands up at this time. And hopefully that won't turn into you know this. But if it does, that's a good beginning. It's a good beginning still, where our hearts follow our bodies at a really profound level, and Jesus gives an example here based off of I think that the story from David comes to mind, the story of Achan would come to mind, and staring at the gold, although that's placed under coveting. We need to take our bodies and the extreme measures, practical measures that we need to take by getting rid of our computers, our phones, our internet. our relationships with certain people. If you're tempted by a coworker, that relationship is gone, etc. Are you willing to take those radical changes? This is the workshop of Jesus Christ. He's not just looking for superficiality. He's making you his work of art through and through. There was another example that I wanted to give to you of um from a famous story with Odysseus And this gets at the extreme measures that we are to take. Traveling in his ship, writes one commentator on the way home from Troy, he has himself lashed to the ship's mast so that he cannot move. And he does so so that he can't give in to the temptation of the siren's song. He knew how easily he could veer off course and sail the ship hit sail his ship into ruin. And sometimes, according to Jesus, that sort of radical action is necessary. I'm canceling my subscription. I'm doing this or I'm doing that. Martin Luther said, I cannot help it if birds fly around my head. But I sure can keep them from nesting in my hair. And Jesus is saying something similar. We can, through sometimes extreme measures, keep those birds from nesting in our hair. It's not just introspection. If you are addicted to pornography, or if that is something that you don't consider yourself addicted in it, but you're still partaking of that, find a way to keep off of your computer that's not less spiritual. But if you cannot, and this is written by R. C. Sproul, R. C. Sproull recommends throw your computer in the garbage That would be cutting off the head or plucking out the eye. Well you can see clearly here what Jesus is teaching that this is not a superficial account. There is the Phariseeal teaching, even to this day with Dennis Prager. But there is Jesus' teaching. He's the good king. He'll let us know exactly what he means by his law, what his intent was, and he gives us the power to perform it by way of his Holy Spirit. He teaches us that he wants all of us. Now I gave you the opportunity to think through this in our relationship with God. But you know, given that the next paragraph, if you take a look with me at verse number thirty-one, it says, whoever divorces his wife So this is really on Jesus' mind. Jesus is very concerned about our marriages Jesus is very concerned about our marriages. And so I just want to end by addressing that. And I just want to raise the question for you, as husbands and wives. How is your relationship with each other? You know, one of the things, I've been married for a little while now. One of the things I noticed that can happen is you can become co-workers and not husband and wife. That basically is kind of like a business relationship. And we have delegated our tasks so that we can get everything done. You go do your tasks, leave me alone. I'll go do my tasks. You leave me alone. Don't interfere with my tasks. And then sometimes we'll meet up. And Jesus doesn't want that for marriage relationships. He actually wants our relationship to be from the heart and not just superficial actions. So given that that is the case, what are the practices that you're putting in your life in order to make sure that you remain, let's just remain, let's just put it this way, that your best friends I put it that way because someone brought up this passage to me. It's from um I'm forgetting where exactly where it's from. I think it's from Genesis, but it says this. It says Now it came to pass when he had been there a long time that Abimelech, king of the Philistines, looked through a window and saw, and saw, and there was Isaac. laughing together or showing endearment with his wife Rebekah. And then Abimelech called Isaac and he said, Quite obviously she is your wife. Though you told me she was your sister. You remember that story? But what I wanted you to be able to see there is look at the relationship and how he was able to tell that they were husband and wife is that they enjoyed each other. There was laughter and endearment going on. Now let me just say this. We have a robust doctrine of marriage within the Reformed faith, within the Protestant faith. But oftentimes I hear our doctrine reduced to just wife submit. Submission is a biblical doctrine understood correctly. But if you were to take a look at those who have helped us to understand the scriptures. You would find that they say so much more about marriage than just that. They talk a lot about friendship. as friendship being a vital mark of a marital relationship. And I just wonder, what are the practices that you're engaged in in order for that friendship to be able to blossom. And what are those things that you're doing that you need to cut off? Where you need to pluck out the eye and cut off the hand because it's actually taking away from your affection for each other. I don't know why this example keeps sticking in my mind. I want to give you a couple examples actually. Let me give you the negative one first, so I'll talk about myself. There's a common occurrence where I'm preoccupied. I will show up to dinner. I will sit there and eat dinner with the family. I've told you this before. Now go ahead and ask me, Jesse, when you're at the dinner table, even if the dinner were an hour long, did you hear anything that anybody said Thank you for asking me. No, I didn't hear anything that anybody said because I was preoccupied. So then my wife will say, being patient with me, waiting ten times For this to go through, she'll say, I really would love it if you were present at the dinner with us. And then I say, still having sin within me, What does it look like to you? I am present. I'm right here in this chair. You could take a picture and it would be evidence. But you know the nice thing the nice thing is that she's clued into more of what Jesus intends than I am. Because according to this passage Yes, I am admitting this right now, Holly, and what we can talk about it later. When we look at Jesus, we can see, oh Jesse, I don't want you to just be superficially and physically present only with your family. I want you to give your heart To your wife and to your children. And one way that you can do that is to not be preoccupied at dinner. How about if you find out what their day is like? And you know what I would need to pluck out and what I would need to cut off is I'd need to stop work a little bit early. I once had a friend say to me that when you're on your way home from work, if you're still preoccupied when you get home, as soon as you leave work Instead of thinking about work all the way home, you stop work when you leave the office and you pray the whole way home, Lord, please help me switch in to being focused on my family. Help me to be able to ask about them and to take an interest in them and let me trust you with these things that you have given to me, which are really big and w are serious things, but it's those are the Lord's things. And I need to now switch gears. And he still has that practice. He cuts off and he puts on. Another example of let's use practices in order to train the heart. Is that I still remember, and I still don't do this, I don't know why. But it still sticks in my mind a gentleman named Lance Acrey. Does anyone know him? There's an elder at SPEP. You know, every time they left the function, I've never seen him miss this. He always opens the car door for his wife. And I got to thinking, as I was looking at these passages, I got to thinking, why don't I do that? I mean it is and and then I'll go down the line of thought because I've studied philosophy, I can really be deceptive. So I'll go down the line of thought and think. Well, that might be a good consequence, but it's not necessary. There are a lot of ways to show love to my wife I don't need to do it that way. Don't be so legalistic. This is me just talking to myself. You don't even want to exist inside my mind. But then when I was before the Lord with this passage I was r uh all almost I was like just kind of Banging on the text, banging in prayer, knocking on the door. Lord, I don't want to give a systematic theology lesson about adultery and about ethics. What is going on here with this? Show me And he showed me that I'm keeping myself, there's some kind of f for some reason there's some kind of distance that I keep between myself and other people. And that if I were to open that door for my wife, it would become more intimate. And I think one of the reasons as men why we like to keep distance from our wife is because we're striving really hard in order to remain independent to do whatever the H-E-Double hockey sticks we want to do. So just beginning with that practice of opening the door for our wives with the car door or whatever it is, you can come up with different practices. I just ask you to look at mature men. Look at mature women and how is it that they you can see they really love somebody and then do that same practice. You could begin this practice taking a new step in a new direction, and you could actually start to become, under the supervision of the Holy Spirit, the kind of person that Jesus Christ is actually crafting. You will become, if you love each other like that, you'll become the salt and the light of the world. You'll become the envy of the nations. That's what will happen. And it could begin with just you opening that car door. Now after the sermon we're gonna see all kinds of men running out there opening these car doors. She'll be like, I'm driving. No, I'll cut. Which door? But that's a good beginning too. That's a good beginning too. I love that passage where that king Abimelech knew that they were husband and wife because they were laughing together. Let's let's encourage one another towards that kind of a marriage. Now we could talk about other relationships too, and we will as we go through these things. But let's encourage that kind of relationship beginning there. We are called to be the salt and the light, and that's not going to happen through just a bunch of introspection. It's going to happen by rejecting Pharisaical teaching in its narrowness, accepting the broadness of the teaching of Jesus Christ. And starting it in practice, not just thought. Let us pray.