Father, when we come to this time of year and we begin to hear our family members or even within ourselves from long-established traditions. When we begin to hear the demand for gifts, the dreams of many presents under the tree. And the endless catalogs that we get in our mailboxes. Father, we can't help but to think that we as a nation struggle with materialism. Of putting all our eggs in the basket of our possessions and fulfilling the pr the uh perhaps the bumper sticker of he who has the most toys before he dies wins. Father, we know that we want to be separate from our nation in this regard. We don't truly find any satisfaction in it. We gain one thing, and the moment that we have it, we find it to be thin and without substance, and so we move on to the promise in anticipation of the next thing. Which we find thin and without substance, and behind us is a trail of of just litter a littered past of endeavors and ambitious plans And Lord, we instead know that you are calling us to something that even if it is as small as a mustard seed, it is within our hearts and we can feel That we want to be like the Apostle Paul. Lord, we love his words as he says to the Philippians that he has learned in whatever state that he is in to be content. That he knows what it means to be abased, and he knows what it means to abound. Lord, he knows everywhere in all things that he has learned both to be full and to be hungry. To abound and to suffer need. Father, we thank you for this expression from the lips of the Apostle Paul because we ask for contentment in a time of need. Lord, we don't really even think about whether we'll eat this afternoon or whether we'll eat this evening. We don't think like the woman at the well, where will our water come from? Father, we have other things that we think of. We wonder if we're going to be able to make it through this next operation that we have. We wonder what the effects will be of the operation and our quality of life. We wonder about our children. And about our mothers and our fathers, whether or not they will be healthy, whether spiritually or physically. We have all of these wants in our life. All of these things that we see that are lacking. And they are in fact due, Lord, to the curse that you still uphold. Father, we ask that you'd give us contentment in our time of wants. We ask that we would still be able to raise our heads in pride. Even if someone were to make fun of us for what little we have. Lord, if we are struggling with a medical condition, if someone were to say, Where's your God now? We pray, Lord, that we would be very satisfied in you. We'd be very satisfied in the way that you govern us and giving us once. I pray, Lord, that we would glory in all of our needs. Because you have chosen to dispose our lives in such a way to where we have those needs. And I pray our overriding trust in you as a good father would overshadow that whole scene there. Father, we also ask for contentment amidst prosperity. With everything in our homes, all the options that we have, the dispensable income. Lord, give us contentment. Do not allow our souls to be driven by the ambition of prosperity, whether it be in career or schooling or status amongst women or men or amongst our friends. Lord, we're driven back and forth by so many different endeavors that the world raises up and says, this is the most important thing of your life Father, give us instead contentment in your kingdom. Holy Spirit, you are promised to us to teach us how to pray You teach us what we truly need, and we ask that you would show us what are our true wants. What is it that we actually need Lord, we hear the gospel message that you give us forgiveness and yet we feel no need for it. Father, give us a need for forgiveness. Father, make us content with the things that you deliver to us through Jesus Christ, the great gift. Father, allow those treasures to be our true treasure instead of the treasures that this earth has defined. Father, we think of Arch in the middle of this, of the lack or the want that you have given him Father, the most precious prayer that we could pray for him is that you would give him contentment and godliness in the midst of this. trial that it would be yet another testimony to his work within your life. Because of who he is, because of his stubbornness, you you have uh long ago grabbed him by the collar and said, You're mine, you will walk humbly with me. And you have given him many different endeavors, many different things to walk through, and you have by your spirit given him the strength to do it well. And we ask that he with great honor and dignity and truth and reliability and stability. And as a bulwark beacon of what it means to be faithful to his God, I pray that he would be that That he be a witness to his whole family on what it means to walk when you don't have, but that you want, or what it means to walk when you are prosperous. And I pray that he'd be another witness in the cloud of witnesses for the church, as he has been for over 25 years. Father, we pray for the same thing within our souls that you'd give us courage, that we'd be able to walk humbly with you. Give us the courage to have once and still be thankful. Give us the courage to be prosperous and still be thankful. Father, deliver us from the evil one, we ask. That you'd be glorified in our humble estate, that you would take those who are low and that you'd raise them up to the peaks of mountains. That you would glorify us and in doing so, that you would glorify your work among us, that you would glorify yourself. We ask these things through our mediator, Jesus Christ Amen. Our scripture text this morning is to uh chapter two of Ephesians, and it's verses eleven through twenty-two. And we are going to remain seated, but I do ask that you would with reverence lift up your hearts to God. as I read his word. This will be chapter 2 of Ephesians, and I will start in verse 11 and go all the way through 22, but the sermon will be focused on 14 through 22. Therefore, remember that you, once Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision made in the flesh by hands. That at that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace Who has made both one, and has broken down the middle wall of separation, having abolished in his flesh the enmity, that is the law of commandments contained in ordinances, so as to create in himself one new man from the two, thus making peace, and that he might right reconcile them both to God In one body through the cross, thereby putting to death the enmity. And he came and he preached peace to you who are far off. and to those of you who were near, for through him we both have access by one Spirit to the Father. Now therefore You are no longer strangers, but fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God, having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone In whom the whole building, being fitted together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit. Please pray with me. Father, we thank you for these truths that you have given to us, spelling out for us this great plan of salvation. Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for your sacrificial offering. And we thank you, Holy Spirit, for illuminating our minds to see the beauty of Christ. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. Folks now are renting out elementary school gyms or high school gyms Because their endeavors for setting up dominoes is beyond what it has ever been They'll rent out the whole gym just so they'd have enough space to put all the dominoes in a line to make these fantastic shapes and to build these towers. If you've ever seen one, it's in the gym, and so there's this acoustic to where when the dominoes begin to fall, it sounds like a rushing wind coming through. It's actually Quite amazing. I was gonna say it sound like uh galloping horses, but it would be really small horses. So that really takes away from the glory. of the of the dominoes. Uh if you if you think of that image of um of of this this energy that is created by just the tipping of one, this resultant energy that takes out an entire gym worth of of those dominoes is actually quite impressive. That's the same image that we're seeing in the series that in the tipping of the this one cause The love of God the Father. We're seeing this domino effect as His love falls into the Son. The Son then falls into us with His graces and all of His gifts. And we have really seen this is what it means to dwell with the Trinity. It means to fellowship with Him in all the ways in which He's revealed Himself to us. The Father is the great cause in his love, and in that we see him sending his son, which is the ultimate witness to his love. And the Son, amongst all of his work, is making his love known to us by giving us his Spirit. With the last two sermons, we've seen two warnings or cautions of the Spirit. To grieve the Spirit is to grieve a person, a friend who seeks your great benefit, but you keep turning your back on him. To quench the spirit is to put a wet log on a fire, and he's looking for something that roars, not something that smolders. Today is actually the end of the series, Quorum Deo. After this, we'll move into our Advent series. We'll be going through several Psalms. It's called Psalms for Advent. And then in the new year, I'll be preaching through the book. Book of Hebrews. Today is the last day of Quorum Deo, and it's the last sermon on the Spirit Now there is another caution. You have to grieve, do not grieve the spirit is one caution. Do not quench the spirit is another caution. And then in Acts it says do not resist the spirit, which is another caution. But I'm not going to do a caution this morning. There's something else that I want to end with that is more appropriate and fitting for an end. And that is the worship of the Holy Spirit It's the consummation of all his work. He's making you into a worshiper of God. Now here's the big idea, and you can see this in your bulletin. The sacrifice of Jesus, you think of a domino, the sacrifice of Jesus resulted in a new era of worship, which is by the Spirit. That's the big idea. And we'll be looking at this under a single act of Jesus, a two-fold effect, and a foremost return. Those are your three divisions, and you can take notes Right there. So the first thing we see in verse 13 is that Jesus Christ offered his body as a sacrifice. Please take a look at the text with me. You can you can make notes in the margin if you're that kind of person. But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Jesus Christ Now that's the first instance where we begin to see this kind of language. Now isn't that a little isn't that a little funny? By the blood of Jesus Christ. We're familiar with the language, but We can miss the significance of it. In verse 13, you see the blood of Christ. Now take a look at verse 16, and you see another phrase there where it says, one body through the cross. So now you can see how blood relates to a cross, and you know that there's a body on the cross, and how all of them are bound together there. And then I'd ask, even if you have to flip a page, look in this same book of Ephesians at chapter 5, verse 2. Because he gives a summary here, he gives the language that we need in order to understand what is he talking about, blood and bodies and crosses The meaning of the two verses comes out clearly in 5. 2 when he says that Jesus is an offering and a sacrifice to God. Now that's really, really important. Most of the time, the only thing we really take away from that is he did a lot for me, and that makes me feel good and bad at the same time. But there's a real distinct meaning here. He is a sacrifice. This really shouldn't surprise us with the scripture showing a huge history of sacrifice. The book of Leviticus is the book of sacrifices, really. If you get the opportunity this afternoon, it'd be good to read through the book of Leviticus. God gave the book of Leviticus as specific instructions for worship, and the most involved and celebrated portions of that book are the sacrifices. On the Day of Atonement, for instance, Yom Kippur, the high priest was to offer several bloody sacrifices to atone for the sins of Israel. Now, can you imagine this? Coming to a worship service and there'd be sacrifices, real bloody sacrifices. The priest would be in pure white. He'd dip hyssop. It's like a thick herb. In the blood. You can imagine how much blood you see on the priest. And what that would remind you of, the kind of self-examination that you would have to do. Well on Yom Kippur there is a young bull that would be sacrificed. There were two kid goats, one a kid goat for slaughter, and another as a scapegoat, where the high priest would place his hands upon the goat and transfer the sins of Israel to the goat, and they'd send the goat outside of the city, saying he's a That it's uh he doesn't belong here. He's been exiled. And then you have besides Yom Kippur the day of Passover where a lamb was sacrificed, and we're all very familiar with that. We have a whole history within the scriptures The majority of the literature are dealing with sacrifices. And so it shouldn't surprise us when we come to this passage that we see Jesus being offered as a sacrifice Jesus offers his body in the same way that they would have offered the body of a young bull. Jesus shed his blood in the same way that they would have shed the blood of the lamb. And, I don't know if you had thought about this, but Jesus also is the scapegoat, and that all of the transgressions of his people are placed upon him, and he is placed out of the city in exile at Golgotha. This is all a part of the regular narrative of the scriptures that Jesus is a sacrifice and offering unto God. Now there's a two-fold effect from Jesus' sacrifice. We're asking the question in the second point. What happens What's the domino effect of Jesus offering his body as a sacrifice? And there's two. The sacrifice of Jesus accomplishes or accomplished reconciliation with God the Father And a new era of worship, which is the main focus on this sermon. But you can't look at the passage and not talk about reconciliation because it's so clearly there. If you look at the same passage again and you ask the question, what are the effects of Jesus' sacrifice? You can see again, take a look in verse 13 again. But now in Christ Jesus, You who were once far off have been brought near, and it's by the blood of Christ. So what's the effect of the blood of Christ? You were far away, and now you're brought near. Or if you consider verse 16 again, it changes the language from a spatial metaphor now into speaking about reconciliation, which is the true nature of the case. You're no longer distant from the person in heart or mind, but you're now reconciled to the person. You see that? That's that's the reconciling effects of the sacrifice of Jesus. Or if you wanted to You could see again, if you want, turn to chapter 4, verse 32, he puts this in explicit language and he says that you have been forgiven by God. Because of what Christ has done for you. So the sacrifice brings forgiveness between us and the Father. Or if you were to just look up a little bit to chapter two, you'd see that previously They were dead and under the wrath of God. They and God were enemies, but through the body and the blood of Jesus, the church is brought near to God the Father. God the Father, this is the message of the book of Romans, without ignoring his justice, moves out in love towards the church by providing the way for his justice to be satisfied. Thus, he is the just and the justifier all through the single act or sacrifice of Jesus Christ. That's the first effect of his sacrifice, reconciliation with the Father According to in this passage. Now there's a second effect in the passage. There are many effects, but I'm just talking about the two in the passage. There's a second effect in the passage that I want to focus on And that really brings us to the spirit of worship. Secondly, the second effect is the new era of worship which is established. If you think of this passage as a play, then you will find three main characters present on the stage. Who are the characters? It's God, the Jews, and the Gentiles. The first point that I had just gone over with reconciliation shows that Jesus was the means, his sacrifice, to accomplish reconciliation between Jew and Gentile and God. The second point is that Jesus reconciles not just the deep division between different races and God, but between races themselves. And you can see this in verse 15. Take a look at the division that is happening there. There's not only enmity between God and the Jews and the Gentiles, but there is enmity between Jews and Gentiles. You know, just to mention, if you did a survey of the scriptures, you'd see that all over the place, wouldn't you? Verse 15 It says that Jesus' sacrifice, his flesh, tore or broke down the wall or the fence. that separated Jew and Gentile. And then he mentions what the wall was. The wall is the law of commandments contained in ordinances now. Have you ever said that phrase before in your life? The law of commandments contained in ordinances. That'd be a great way to confuse people at the party. Well, this evening I'll unfold it a little bit more, but given the passage and given the context, the commandments contained in ordinances Must be the segregation between Jew and Gentiles due to the ceremonial laws for worship. Due to ceremonial laws. So, in other words, they were separated because of the Jews' ceremonial laws. Now let me try to bring this into a modern-day understanding. I don't see this too much here in the north, but when you go to the South, and my only real experience with the South, at least in regard to this, is going to Park City's Dallas. If you go to Park Cities Dallas and you just drive around the neighborhood, 75% of the lawns, maybe even more, have a billboard or a little stand with a poster on it that is supporting the Scots. It's their local football team. Now you don't see that too much around here, maybe a little bit. The other thing you don't see is uh several thousand people coming out to the high school football game here Which does in fact happen down there. And their stadiums are as large as some of our college stadiums here. There is a great rival rivalry, therefore, between town and town. And they represent their rivalry by having a poster in their front yard naming the high school football team that they follow. You go to the South, you're definitely going to see that. However, the thing is, and they're very good down there in playing football, them in the Midwest, when they graduate from high school, they often flock to the same major schools. And those who used to be rivals will now put on the same jersey. And they're no longer going to be rivals because they're now under a new logo or a new sign. And that's the same thing that's going on here within this passage. In the same way, the Jews had ceremonies that divided them from the Gentiles. It was like their high school versus the Gentile high school. Circumcision is mentioned in the passage. Levitical sacrifices. Washings. These separated them. If you notice, if you just read through the book of Acts, Peter was afraid to eat with the Gentile because it was forbidden. It's those kind of things. In fact, during this time, if you were to just look in extra-biblical resources, in 1871, one of the temple pillars was found, and this is the inscription that was written on the temple pillar. No man of another race is to enter within the fence and enclosure around the temple. You can see the deep divide there between Gentile and Jew. Or consider Acts chapter twenty one, verse twenty-eight. Men of Israel, help! This is the man speaking of Paul, who teaches all men everywhere against the people, the law, and this place, and furthermore Paul also brought Greeks into the temple and has defiled this holy place. There is a deep divide. And what's going on, notice the mention of the temple there again, what's going on is the divide is between the having to do with the ceremonial laws And now what is being taught us is that through the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, the second effect It's like they are now high schoolers that have graduated to a larger University of Christ. And they're all now going to wear the same jersey and have the same logo. And the same logo or the same jersey, the unity here is worship. It's no longer a Jewish worship. It is a Christian worship The entire temple system will be collapsed in the fulfillment of Jesus Christ, and now both Jew and Gentile will be worshiping in the same way. Now you can see this in verse 21. Look at some of the language of worship in verse 21. Not only will the Gentiles be admitted into the temple, they were forbidden on the inscription, not only will they be admitted into the temple, in verse 21, with the believing Jews, they are in fact the temple. We have become the temple. Or look in verses 13 and 16 again. Christ offers his sacrifice as a high priest for Jew and Gentile, again dealing with ceremonies of worship. And then in verse 18, through this sacrifice, Gentiles gain direct access to God the Father through the Spirit. And that is a reference, the access, that word access, in this context of worship, is a reference to being able to enter into the Holy of Holies. The veil has been torn, and Jew and Gentile may, through Jesus Christ, enter into the direct presence of God and walk with him forever. Now, that's a lot, I know. In summary, Jesus collapses the old temple system of worship and he establishes another. That's all right there. That's a lot. I get it. Now, I want to move on to the next point and try to bring home some of the significance of this structure that I just pointed out to you in the passage. I want you to notice something though. I want you to notice in verse 18 that there is a summary of the entire sermon. For through him, that's Jesus, for through him, Jesus, we both, Jew and Gentile, have access by one Spirit to the Father. That's touching on all the points of the sermon. The single act of Jesus, his sacrifice, has reconciled Jew and Gentile to each other by giving them both access and worship to the Father. And he summarizes it there in that nice neat little phrase. But I've left out the part on the Spirit, and that's the last point. The point is the foremost return that the Holy Spirit will bring from this great work that Jesus has done in this new era of worship. The Holy Spirit assists the church in her worship. The Son, as our mediator, gives us access into the Holy of Holies, and we dwell with God and Christ in the heavens. Now, what takes place in heaven is brought to earth by the Spirit. Jesus sends his spirit and seeks to, in some small way, as first fruits, Bring heaven to earth. The Spirit regenerates and gives us love for God. Do you know how love is expressed? Oh, love is expressed in endearing songs. We're already beginning to talk about worship. Love is expressed by talking to a person. You know what that's called with God? It's called prayer. You see, there's this whole new worship of the heart that the Spirit is bringing, giving us direct access to the Father. The Spirit now assists us, and he inflames that love onto an acceptable worship. And 2. 18, for through him we both have access by one Spirit to the Father. Jesus takes you by the hand. Here's the picture. Jesus takes you by the hand, and he leads you into the presence of the Father, and you with trembling lips don't know what to do. But the Spirit assists you. He comes alongside of you. He indwells you, and he says, let me show you how to worship That's his role here. He's the Spirit of worship. The Spirit assists you by making you a true worshiper of the Father, avoiding all of the external jokes that used to happen amongst his people where they would be cleansed on the outside but not cleansed on the inside. The Holy Spirit works in the heart and out of the mouth and off the tongue. Without the Spirit, you don't find, number one, God worthy of worship You find him a nuisance, really. Someone who gets in your ways, but the Spirit reveals to you the loveliness of God, more lovely than any other thing, and he becomes worthy of praise. Without the Spirit, you worship God in ways that God does not love. We can come up with all kinds of inventions. On how God would think that we we should be worshiping him. And he does not love that kind of worship at all. Do you know at a point in a point in time people have sacrificed children to God thinking that he found that pleasing? That's where the human imagination goes. And whatever other kooky things are going on out there. But it's the spirit who brings His word to us to teach us how does God want to be worshipped. And he tells us that God wants us to be worshipped through prayer that is guided by the Spirit, since He's the Spirit of grace and supplication. through hymns and spiritual songs, through the sacraments and through the preached word. And if you put all of this together, what you end up having Just by the work of the Spirit amongst his churches, you have the order and the power of worship which pleases God. It pleases him because God himself chooses the worship. It pleases him because your worship is the fruit of his work in you, and ultimately what you have Is an investment that has been given to you, and now there is a foremost return back onto God that is consummating in worship. All of the work of the Trinity showing up in the worship service The Trinity, through his own grace upon you, his church, brings glory unto himself. Now tell me that that's not beautiful. Throughout all of the ages, everything is consummating in the single worship service on the Lord's Day, where God, through you, is glorifying Himself, just as He does through all of the persons, His persons in the Trinity. You are now participating in a way that is divine and causes the angels to sing. That is our worship. The worship comes from a single act. There's a twofold effect from that, the reconciliation. We focused on the new era of worship that has begun, where we don't need a bunch of pompous uh uh cathedrals. We don't need uh a bunch of large buildings. That's not our glory. The glory of New Testament worship is the foremost return that the Spirit gives. It is hearts that are truly purified by the Spirit and express true faith and true love towards the Godhead, which is a miracle. And that's the foremost return. Now, I want to give you a couple of questions to consider. You hear what's going on with the work of the Spirit in our worship. I have a couple questions. Let's go back to the other two sermons about the Spirit. Are you grieving the Spirit as a person with regards to your worship? He personally, as a good friend, is seeking to work within you that you would worship robustly. Are you grieving your friend? In the way that you choose to worship. And let's just think about in the morning here. As a person He works in you to worship God. Are you lacking in your worship? The second one is are you quenching the spirit in your worship? The spirit works in you. To lift up your heart to heaven in prayer and praise? That's what he's been seeking to do this whole morning. He probably started last night with you. His great aspirations were for you to be able to worship from your heart this morning. That's what he wanted. Did you quench it? Did you put a wet log on it today? I don't know. You have to answer these things yourselves He has these stirrings and these motions, and he's seeking to fan the flame. But are you putting a wet log on there? And let me ask you, here's what happens within the human heart. You say, well, you know, maybe I am quenching the spirit, but you know, it's not really me. It's the sanctuary that's quenching the spirit. Or, you know, what's really quenching the spirit of the songs that were chosen today. That's quenching the spirit. And I think that we have to admit that atmosphere and music, they make a difference. They aid us in our worship But I do have to ask the question, given what we see in the text, are they the substance of what the Holy Spirit is after Does he want us bickering back and forth all the time about decorations and music? Or is there something else going on that is of greater substance that allows us an anchor while we have good conversations about music and decorations? Should the differences in taste and in music and decorations, in other words, undercut the amazing identical work that the Spirit is doing in each of our hearts? Can't you be a non-Christian and have a nice sanctuary? Can't you be a non-Christian and have an amazing orchestra? Doesn't this show us that the heart of worship lies somewhere else besides those two things? They can't be the essentials What is the essential of worship through Jesus Christ to the Father? Is it not the Spirit and what He is doing in regenerating and in sanctifying our hearts? This reminds me of two woes from Jesus that I'll end on. Woe to us if we have the sanctuary in music, but inside our hearts we are dead. And woe to us if we strain out the gnat of music and decorations, but we leave out the weighty matter of the work of the Spirit in our hearts. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, it's not really either or here. But one certainly does deserve our greater emphasis. Even in the midst of difficult conversations over what will edify the congregation most in music and in decoration. Lord, please give us the foundation of what the amazing thing that you have accomplished in the Spirit so that we could see with the right perspective. And have those difficult conversations still amidst tremendous joy. Father, we ask that we would be a congregation that truly worships you. In humility of heart, in heartfeltness, in words that are really ours, that are flowing out of our hearts, and true appreciation. Lord, keep us from just having a lot of money and a great sanctuary, but no heart. Father, please gift us with this. We ask that you do so through your spirit of worship that we might honor the great sacrifice of Jesus Christ as our high priest who is running the whole worship service in heaven anyway. We ask, Lord, and we give you thanks for this great worship, this New Testament gospel, humble worship that you have given to us. In the name of Christ, amen.