Today we're in chapter three, one through eight. Titus three, one through eight Remind them to be subject to rulers and authorities, to obey, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no one, to be peaceable, gentle, showing all humility to all men. For we ourselves were also once foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving various lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful and hating one another. But when the kindness and the love of God, our Savior, toward man appeared, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us. Through the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior. That having been justified by his grace, we should become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. And this is a faithful saying. And these things I want you to affirm constantly: that those who have believed in God should be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable to men. Amen. Let's pray Lord, through this letter, we're starting to catch a vision of what you seek to accomplish through the church. And it is really capturing our hearts. What a beautiful creation or recreation you are making. We thank you, Lord, and we ask that we would take your word seriously today, and that we would receive it with gratitude. So much gratitude that we could not wait to serve you in the doing of your word and not just the hearing We pray especially, Lord, today, that these words would help us to know how to relate to our neighbors in the public sphere. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Last week we met the theological center of the letter. And that center really had two parts. The first part, which is the main theological core of the book, Is the works of God the Father through Jesus Christ the Son and His Spirit We saw not only the saving acts of God, but we also saw the result of those saving acts, and that is that He has made A people here on earth that have been recreated to be zealous for good works in his name. Those two points are the center of this letter, and it provide, or they provide, the theological basis for the chapters that came before Why what is the what is what's underneath of chapter one and chapter two, those chapters that emphasized family life and church life In both of those domains, what underlies those things is the work of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Especially in those domains, we are to be zealous for good works. This week, those same saving acts, that same same theological center will now fund and underwrite not only our work in the family or our work with the within the church, but our civic responsibilities to those who are in the public sphere, our state, our county, our state, our nation, wherever you find yourself relating. So I'd like to make a few observations just to bring that out here within this text and then have a couple applications this morning. So let's observe a few things together in the scriptures. Please have your scriptures open and let's take a look. You'll notice that all through the letter Paul has been writing to Titus and saying, you need to teach these things in these different domains with all authority. Well, notice in verse 1 that that same kind of thought continues. Paul tells him once again, you need to not just teach, but you need to remind them of a certain set of things. The Cretan churches are to be reminded basically of two main actions here: that they are to be subject and obey their government officials, and they are to be ready or actively seeking Every good work toward not only government officials, but all of the citizens around them. The idea of always seeking good works here is being busy. We could put it that way. You're always looking for a way to be profitable. Now, what are some specific ways in which this can be done, generally speaking? Well, Paul enumerates some. He says We're not to speak ill of people. You notice this in these verses. We're to be peaceable and gentle. We're to show humility towards others. And the basic idea here is to be a good neighbor. That you would you would be you're living in the suburbs next to somebody else, and when they think of you, they think of you as a good neighbor. Easy to get along with, and that you're the kind of person that will get their mail out of their mailbox when they are on vacation You avoid arrogance. You are not grumpy. You are not known in the neighborhood as someone who is prickly. And you do not gossip. Those are some of the things that Paul is pointing out In verse 8, Paul repeats this same instruction, which is why I included verse 8. In some of your translations, you're going to see a paragraph break. I think 8 goes with it, just with the way that the grammar is set up. In verse 8, Paul repeats the same instruction to Titus, and he tells him to affirm constantly that Christians should be busy doing good works which are helpful and valuable to the citizens that are around them. If someone in your community ran into a problem or they were in trouble, what should come to their mind is you, because you are the kind of person who helps people out. That's the first thing I want you to notice. That's the a very important point here. Here's a second important point that I want you to observe. There is a question that is assumed in the rest of what we see here in our passage, and it is this. Do you really expect me to do good things and to go out of my way to bless people that are disgusting? And do disgusting things. And Paul answers what Yes. Why, yes, I do. But why does he say that? Why does he say yes? Does he say that because We are supposed to be a people who do random acts of kindness, like the bumper sticker says. What underwrites Paul's yes? It's a profound foundation that he gives us here. The first thing I want you to notice in this foundation, think of it as a foundation consisting of two cinder blocks. Here's the first cinder block. We in the church, we were once wicked and disgusting people ourselves. We were, verse 3, foolish, disobedient, deceived, enslaved to wicked desires. Living in sin, envious of other people, we were hateful people, and we hated one another That's the first cinder block. Now here's the second cinder block, and this gets even more profound. Even though we were all of those things God still did good for us. He saved us, verse 5, out of his kindness and love and mercy. He justified us by his grace. He adopted us as children, heirs, verse 7. He gave us a future and eternal happiness, which we anticipate. Why? Look at verse number five. Why did he do all of these things? Well, I'll tell you one thing. It was not because we were so likable. It was not because we were so righteous. Look at what it says there. It's not from your righteousness that he does these things. Paul, in other words, what he's doing here, this is quite beautiful, and I think it's a good summary of what all the scriptures are teaching. Paul, in other words, says, yes, you are to love those people. Because you are a child of God. And you are meant to look just like your father What does your Heavenly Father look like? He looks like the one who loves unlovable people. He loves his enemies. He is known for that. And I will get by the end of the sermon, I'll show you a couple examples of where he blesses the righteous and the unrighteous. And we are to be like him. And so here is our doctrine this morning. Christians are called to imitate God their Father by doing good works, not just for their family. Not just for their church, but also for the general public. Christians are called to imitate God their Father by doing good works, not just for their family or church but also for the general public, even the general public that are considered our enemies, the ones that persecute you, if that were to happen You're still called to a life of profitability and benefaction towards them. Now that is quite the teaching So I'd like to unfold this just in two parts pastoral council and pastoral direction or motivation. Pastoral counsel and pastoral motivation. Let's try to understand this a little bit better. This verse has been often, or this section of Titus is often framed in the wrong way. And so we we've got to combat that a little bit. Let's begin with some pastoral counsel here. A while back, I gave an image of having our hands tied behind our backs. Do you remember me talking about that? when we have our hands tied behind our backs. Do you remember how we get our hands back there to where we're we're less useful than we're supposed to be? It is be it is It happens that if we try to live as a Christian in this evil age, but we do so only utilizing the New Testament and not also gaining wisdom from the Old Testament then it's like we have both of our hands tied behind our back. And that is true again this morning. If you attempt to make sense of these directions in Titus in isolation without consulting the entire canon of scripture, then you will get this wrong. Right on the surface, I want you to take a look again at examples of verses 1 and 2. Let's just take it in isolation for a moment so you can see the wrong path that we don't want to go down. If you took verses 1 and 2 in isolation, then Paul, without qualification There are no prepositional phrases here saying, but if in this situation or in that situation or only in this situation, there are no qualifications in these verses Paul without qualification tells Christians to submit to the government and to speak evil of no one Now, if you read this in isolation, then you will think that no matter what is happening in this world, no matter what people are doing, no matter what action the government takes, then your job is to be quiet Put on a smile, go with the flow, sweep it under the rug. That may be the only thing you would have to do is go to a prayer meeting. There are no other responsibilities. Now, prayer is not bad, but I'm saying the only thing you think would be an appropriate and competent action would be to attend a prayer meeting. If you read this in isolation. Yet here is the problem with reading that, even though it has no qualifications. Here's the problem with reading that in isolation. It cannot be Paul's intention. Even by the evidence of the rest of the letter. He must mean in a larger conversation to qualify what he has said. For example, let's assume that when Paul says speak evil of no one, that he means just keep quiet and sweep it under the rug. Don't ever expose anything. Don't ever speak out against evil. Let's say that's what he means. How does that fit in chap with chapter 1 where Paul says right on the pages of your scripture and just as mine, I'm appealing to scripture here. Look at verse in chapter 1. Paul calls Cretans liars How is that consistent with what he's saying? Calling out the general public and their character and who they are and encouraging Christians not to be like them. He, if you understand, speak evil of no one in the way that I have said, Paul has just spoken evil about them Or if you were to turn to Paul's missionaries, journeys, and acts How do you explain his public rebuke of Greek and Roman idolatry? And how do you explain the riots? That were created in the cities based upon what Paul was subverting with the Roman imperial cult. See, those are some problems. If you're going to take the passage that way in isolation, then you've got some major problems. If you think Paul was telling you to just be quiet and to go with the flow then Paul himself is a hypocrite because he did not do that. He was not quiet. And so, since I don't think you're willing to accept that Paul is a hypocrite, especially under guidance of the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, And neither am I, we need a different explanation, don't we? The other explanation is that Paul is giving wise pastoral counsel For the specific situation in front of him, and that his counsel is a part of an entire collection of the scriptures which gives lots of counsel for every imaginable scenario, and this is just one scenario that he is addressing He's not trying to tie your hands behind your back and say, in these situations, the only option you have is to submit and be quiet. That is not what he's doing. If you think he's doing that, it's because you're misreading this genre. He is giving pastoral account counsel for this specific situation, and it would not be applicable in other situations. So as a Christian, living by the total canon of wisdom, and Titus is just one part of that canon. As Christians living by the total canon of wisdom, sometimes we must act differently in different situations, and that is no different here in Titus. Let me give you an example. Pharaoh, the head of the Egyptian government, ordered that the midwives would kill all of the male children of the Hebrews. Just submit to them. Don't say a word. That's not what we see within the scriptures. The midwives would not kill the male children. They would not obey. Why? What is the more general principle that they were following? It says this in Exodus 1. 17. You can look this up later. But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them, but saved the male children alive. That is, by definition, not submitting. They feared God more than they feared the king And that same phrase will show up in Acts when the apostles say, You judge, is it better for us to obey man or to obey God? And to prison they went. They feared God more than they feared the king. Now let me ask you a question. Was God angry with those midwives because they did not submit to the king of Egypt? This is what it says in Exodus 1-20 through 21. Therefore, God dealt well with the midwives And the people multiplied and grew very mighty. And so it was, because the midwives feared God, that he provided households for them. You don't get more of a commendation than that in the scriptures. Now, there are other times. That was one time. So if you think that because of that midwife example, that you get to raise your hand to the government every single time that they do something Then you are the one that is failing to understand the genre and how the canon works together. The whole point is that we must act in wisdom and do the right thing at the right time in the right place with the right people It is not a pancake recipe that is applicable the same way every time, which is why over time we grow in Christian wisdom by way of the Holy Spirit. Listen to this time here. Here's another example from Acts 23, 2 through 5. This always astounds me. This is the same Paul that's writing Titus. And the high priest Ananias commanded those who stood by him to strike Paul on the mouth. Then Paul said to him, God will strike you, you whitewashed wall. For you sit to judge me according to law, and do you command me to be struck contrary to the law? And those who stood by said, Do you revile God's high priest? Then Paul said, I did not know, brethren, that he was the high priest. For it is written, You shall not speak evil of a ruler. of your people. Submission. Because he's not going to try to accomplish good things by unlawful acts. Acts 23, 2 through 5. There are different times that call for different things, and you have got to look at the total canon. The total collection. That's why these things, the books of the scriptures have been put together. They are a collection that together show us the heart and the mind and the will of God. We did not receive Titus in isolation and alone. The point is that as Christians, we must have lots of tools in our tool bags in order to live wisely in this age. I'm not done yet We have lots of tools in our tool bags in order to live wisely in this age. In this passage We are not given the only tool. We are given one more tool among many tools The tool in this passage is basically this. We must know as a wise Christian heavenly colony how not to be antisocial and destructive even when we're frustrated and angry and treated unjustly. Christians are meant to be known as valuable American citizens in our case We should be known as those who contribute to the economy in a good way. We are known as those who keep the streets safe. We are known as those that do not escalate racial wounds. We bring medicine and a bomb to these things. Now that's the first point, and that's I just want you to realize that this in Titus is pastoral council And therefore needs to be viewed relative to the specific situation that Paul is addressing and needs to be counterbalanced and understood in the total constellation of all of the scriptures. So be careful reading it with your hands tied behind your back. Now, pastoral motivation. So far, we have decided that we must live in Christian wisdom. acting in the right way at the right time. And in our passage, Paul says that sometimes, and even ordinarily, we are to submit to the governing authorities and seek the good of the people in the public square. In the public sphere. Now here is the question. As the age increases in evil, why would you show good and bring benefit to those who are your enemies? It is easier to hate them and to move away. To create Christian ghettos. And have nothing to do with them. To only relate if you had to. But here, the answer to that question is not the easy answer. The answer is profound. Paul says that we love our enemies in tangible and profitable ways because God loves his enemies in tangible ways, and we are recreated to be just like God. That's the point of the regenesis or the regenerative language within Titus is that we are to see that we are moving or being recreated in knowledge, righteousness, and holiness in the image of our Father. That is what all the theological language establishes in this passage. Paul gives the whole background of the Father sending the Son, and the Son sending the Spirit, and we the Church being recreated to show that we have been reborn. of hearts, even in our hearts, to be like God. We are his heirs or children, and therefore should have a family resemblance. And so you then have to ask the question, what does the Christian family look like to look like their father in relationship to his enemies? Well that depends on the time, doesn't it? It depends on the era, because sometimes God the Father interrupts their evil and makes them eat dust. He will not allow them to continue to just destruct and destroy. So he stops his enemies. But there are other eras where he's not interrupting and acting in that specific way or to that degree. Ordinarily, however, he shows them goodness. He benefits them. He sends them gifts. He gives them children and food. I want you to think of all of the enemies of God right now, and you know who they are Isn't it easy to see who is rebelling and raising their fists against God? Look at how many gifts He still gives to them on a daily basis. What kind of God is this? He gives them children. He gives them m more than enough food. So much food that they could be called foodies. Shelter beyond shelter. I'm talking at le you know, twenty five hundred square foot. Not a problem. Health, vacations, meaningful endeavors, and even civic wisdom. How to do a good job at running a business What kind of God is like that? Our God is, that's the news. And if you are pre-created to be like him, then guess what you are to be like towards your enemy. Jesus summarized it like this. I would encourage you to meditate on this passage, especially maybe confer on it over lunch. You have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies, bless those who curse you Do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. Why? Why would you ever do such a thing? It says here, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. Did you miss that before when Jesus spoke those words? That Jesus grounded it in the same thing that we see Paul grounding it here in Titus. Why would we ever do those things? Because we are to be sons and daughters of our Father who is in heaven. Now, what makes us think that God is like that? And that's where Jesus continues. Jesus says, well, God is like that. How do I know that? Because he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good. And he sends his reign on the just and on the unjust. Matthew 5, 43 through 45. And when he says the sun and the rain, he's not just saying, hey, look, he gave them a a beautiful, a quick little rain shower today, and maybe even a rainbow afterward, that they could misinterpret for the month of June. That's not what he's saying. All of their crops are going to grow and bloom and they're going to have an increase. Even so much that it's not just going to be hand to mouth at the table, they'll have wine flowing and different kinds of cheeses and different sorts of olive dishes and charcuterie boards This is all from the hand of God to those who are not only righteous, but those who are unrighteous, not only those who are just, but those who are unjust. And Jesus and Paul are saying, you are meant to be just like your Father. Now, if we were to go to the letter that was from Peter, Peter would raise the question, right, but what about justice? And then the answer will be: it's complicated, but one thing you need to keep in mind is that God will make sure that everyone receives their due. And he does that in different ways at different times. And at one time he will secure it in its entirety. He brings his rain on the evil and on the good, and he sends the Son on the just and the unjust. Matthew 5, 43 through 45. Now With that frame, we can understand now why we're supposed to do what we do. It's because we've been recreated. We're not even just how. But not even just why, but how we would do it, is because we are now filled with the Spirit. He has changed us to have the same desires as the Father. And now we can express those desires in tangible ways by loving our enemies because that is a desire that the Father has, which is to show grace and love to our enemies, to his enemies. Now, here's an interesting thing. When we say that, when we say that we are to love our enemies, that is a mantra that goes around in our communities pretty regularly Love your neighbor, love your enemy. That could be a very American thing to say. And so I want to make sure that we get the frame right. Here's the argument so far from Paul. You are to be this way because your father is this way. What way? He loves his enemies. So too should you. Let me ask you this. Here's a quiz. Do you remember the other characteristic of God that has been mentioned in the first chapter? This is not the only attribute that has been focused on. His kindness, his mercy, and his love are not the only things that are focused on in this letter. In chapter 1, it also mentions, it seems like it's out of nowhere, but Paul says, do you remember this? God does not lie. Now, here's the real challenge for you as an ethical being. How are you going to hold those two things together? How are you going to love your enemy and yet not lie? Do you see how difficult that will be? Well, here's the good news for you today. Thank God that Jesus Christ has sent you his Spirit. So that you can begin to walk in the spirit, which looks like holding very difficult things together. Normal human beings can't hold those things together, but by the power of Jesus Christ and His Spirit, we can love those who persecute us, and we can be truthful at the same time. We do not have to lie. The easy way to love your enemy is to lie. To pretend, oh, it's okay, it doesn't really matter. And to come up with all of these strange explanations as to why you're able to get along with them the way that you get along with them. But here, that's not being commended. There are two things coming together that only the Spirit could bring together, and that is where you are going to be a blessing and you're going to say the truth. And that is amazing. That is truly a work of God. Because God blesses his enemies, and he does not lie. And we are just like our Father. Brothers and sisters, we live in an increasingly disordered society. Speaking of prayer meetings, you should be praying all the time because of the age in which we are living. You will need lots of wisdom to know how to act the right way at the right time and to not compromise, but to also be a blessing. I encourage you in the name of Christ to not forget the tool that we should use most often, and that is goodness towards our neighbor while never lying. Why? Because we are called to be like God Himself. He blesses His enemies, and so should we. Christians are called to imitate God their Father by doing good works not just for their family or their church, but also for the general public. And I want to leave you with a final verse from Romans chapter 12, 17 through 21. Here's another one that you can think about over lunch. Romans 12, 17 through 21. Brothers and sisters, in the name of Jesus Christ and by the power of the Holy Spirit, Repay no one evil for evil. Have regard for good things in the sight of all people If it is possible, as much as it depends upon you, live peaceably with everybody. Beloved, do not avenge yourselves, but rather give place to wrath, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. Therefore Severn run. If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If your enemy is thirsty, give them a drink For in so doing, you will heap coals of fire on their head. That is to, I believe, mean to bring shame, they will feel ashamed. of the way that they have acted and thought of you and come to their senses in repentance. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. Amen. Let us pray