Alright, well welcome to the men's breakfast. I hope that uh you're getting your fill. I think there's plenty of food and coffee. Thank you all for your contributions to that, and thanks to those who've set up the the sanctuary like this. The men's breakfast, I was just speaking with Nick. We really are trying to um level up a bit. We see it as a vital ministry here at Severn Run. And if you want to think of a kind of mission statement for us, it would be something along the lines of that we are a band of Christian brothers seeking for God's kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. Now that's a that's a mighty call, and we mean it, that we want God's kingdom on earth as it is in heaven And we'll get a little bit into that this morning. This morning, I want to um did everybody get a chance to see the flyers so they know what they're in for this morning? No, am I seeing yes? You guys are gonna have to wake up a little bit. You all y'all with me? Yeah, okay. Yes so uh hopefully this won't be anticlimactic. You know I got a dragon on that thing and So we'll see how it goes. But what we're going to do is we're we're going to walk through a scriptural model that I believe will inform us in the first step of the role. or a role of men within the empire. And that scriptural model is going to come from Exodus. I think it's important for us to start reaching back and retrieving from the heritage of men that came before us. In this case, it's going to be Moses. And so I'll be reading Exodus chapter 2, 11 and 12, verses 11 and 12, and you're welcome to follow along with that. And then I'm going to read Exodus chapter 2, verse 23. Know that they're all a part of the same story structure, but those are the two emphases that I have this morning. I want to launch off of those for us. And then we'll get into some conversation. So if you want, go ahead and open your scriptures to Exodus chapter 2. Verses eleven and twelve, and then we're going to look at verse twenty-three. Now it came to pass in those days when Moses was grown. That he went out to his brethren and looked at their burdens, and he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew, one of his brethren. So he looked this way and that way, and when he saw no one, he killed the Egyptian and hid him in the sand. That's quite a passage, right? And then in Exodus chapter 2, verse 23, we're going to go a little bit further along in the story, and we're going to see that the same impulse That is in Moses is now going to start erupting in a bit of a different way among the people in an entirety. Now it happened in the process of time that the king of Egypt died Then the children of Israel groaned because of the bondage, and they cried out, and their cry came up to God because of the bondage. So let's start by just making a few observations here. I really want to start pulling some stuff out of this. I've got four observations that are really going to lay the foundation for all of the work that we're going to do throughout the next three more months of this series that I'm doing here You know, when you lay a foundation, it's not necessarily the most entertaining or fun thing. But you're an adult, so just please hang in there with me because we're going to build on this thing so it's it's necessary. So here's four observations, and you're welcome to look at your scriptures as I say this, but I'm going to start drawing out implications. And here's the very first one. And if you know me, you know that I'm passionate about this because this ends up being the doorway into reading the scriptures well again. Some approach passages like this as ancient history and no more. And that leads to a major problem because what it does is it decapitates the life of the church. The narrative of the scriptures are not less than historical, but they are in God's providence always more. They always have been. They provide case studies They provide models and they provide frameworks for actions across time and across all cultures. Some of you have become aware of the biblical foundations of our founding fathers, for example. They knew that the biblical narratives provided case studies, models, and frameworks for the actions of men governing themselves and others across times and cultures. And that needs to be retrieved and regained by the church today. And what I'm doing this morning is an act of retrieval. Because this next observation I'm going to make is. That there are models present within this Exodus account that are meant to inform us as men. So the first observation is just That these narratives are not just ancient history, they're models and frameworks and case studies that span time and culture. Number two, here's the second observation and the first model. Pharaoh has always within the history of humanity, among Christians, been a model of the evil Leviathan. Now, it's not difficult to prove this to you. If you want to turn to Psalm 74:14 or write it down on a piece of paper for you to reflect on these things. This is one of the places where we begin to see this model working itself out in its enscripturation Psalm 74, 14, the psalmist recounts the Exodus event. The whole psalm is really about the Exodus, the splitting of the waters and what the mighty warrior does. Like the Song of Moses says. But then when we look to see who the enemy is, the Pharaoh is likened to the Leviathan or the Great Sea Serpent. And I've heard others, you know, I was under a great mentor as some of you other men were, uh Arch Van Devender, and he was fond of making this point also. And he pointed out a further uh uh thing that and don't forget that the pharaoh wore a headdressing that was a snake. You know, it's it's a There's many different ways to prove this, but Psalm 74, 13, and 14. You divided the sea by your strength. You see that reference to the Red Sea there. You broke the heads of the sea serpents in the waters You broke the heads of Leviathan in pieces, referring to both the Pharaoh and his army. This same Leviathan and Pharaoh imagery is used throughout the ages to depict the reptilian kingdoms of chaos and evil. You can take example, uh Isaiah for example. When we get to Isaiah and he uses the imagery of the Leviathan. He's still carrying forward the model of the Pharaoh, but now he's going to apply it to multiple kingdoms. He says in Isaiah chapter 27, verse 1, In that day the Lord with his severe sword, great and strong, will punish Leviathan, the fleeing serpent Leviathan, that twisted serpent, and he will slay the reptile that is in the sea. Now, if we had time, what we could do is a whole biblical theology of this model to see how it has informed the actions of men throughout time. We could turn, for example, to um if you remember last Christmas, uh we went ahead through Revelation uh during Advent, and my son actually drew a great picture of uh the nativity with the dragon over top. And we asked the question, why don't we ever see dragons in nativities these days? And then I started receiving photographs from you. where you you started uh putting dragons in nativities. It was really funny. I think we maybe we should do that at the local fire departments, just as the punk them, I guess. Yeah, we'll do it at the library. That's good. I don't want to talk about the library right now. That's a good way to make me angry too quick. Yes. So um if we had time we could go ahead and turn to see how Herod at the birth of Christ is a Pharaoh, and he is painted exactly that way. And then when we look at the exact same scenes of the Nativity and Herod in Revelation, he is painted as the Leviathan or the Dragon. It's the same thing. It transcends time, it transcends cultures because it is a framework and a model that informs our actions as Christians. We could turn to Revelation to meet the great Pharaoh and Leviathan again. And when we do that, with the way that I would look at the book of Revelation, what we see is that every nation that rises in the power of their humanistic autonomy is characterized as the Great Dragon. Which then immediately informs you for today. In every age, pharaohs rise like great sea dragons. seeking to conquer the nations and submitting them not to order, but to their disorder. That's observation number two in the first model. Here's observation number three. Moses as the mediator is the model of Christ, the mediator, or savior. Who protects and defends his church in every age. Now, this can be a tough one, and we don't often see this passage as a model. We see it as an anti-model or something we should not do, but I'll have an argument against that. The reason that we struggle with this is because Moses kills. In fact, if you wanted to see the drama play out in each rising action, Moses' killing action is the apex. It is the rising anger and grief amongst God and God's people. And you know why, right? If you were to go back to the beginning of Exodus, I mean y we have someone killing someone and it's only the second chapter. We're in trouble here. It begins with the taskmasters afflicting the church with burdens, and those words do not capture their pain. It continues and heightens and escalates when the king of Egypt orders the Hebrew midwives to kill the male children And what the way that we have to view this now and start taking the model of the Leviathan over into this is we've beg we've got to begin, if we're going to understand how the story is actually being told within the scriptures Is that when we see the king of Egypt ordering the death of male children and afflicting them with burdens, this is what he's doing. He is coiling and ever constricting tighter. In order to remain in control of his world of chaos, the snake constricts and strikes with venom till all of life in one way or another is exhaled from the people who themselves are meant to bring life If you look in the beginning of Exodus, and do this on your own time, there's a couple phrases there that let you know that the Hebrew community is a kind of identic or uh a community in paradise because it says that they were being fruitful and they were multiplying. They're in God's will. They're serving Him. And then we have this snake come along. You see how the story is repeating again. And he's going to squeeze the life out of them. Yet, when we start to look at chapter 2 with Moses, we see a kind of revival. There's a deep breath that is taken, and a manly chest expands. And it expands in the face of an injustice. It expands in the face of evil. And Moses strikes the serpent. You see how I'm already starting to s this narrative is different than the way you may have read this. He killed an abusive Egyptian and he buries his body in the sand. And I believe that this is a foreshadowing of what Yahweh will do on a massive scale. Listen to this from Exodus chapter 14. So the Lord saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the seashore. Same thing. Sand. Right? So before we move on, I just want to drill this home in your chest a little bit. That really let me ask you a question. When you read the account of Moses killing the Egyptian, How do you make sense of that? Most read the narrative as if Moses did something wrong. He felt ashamed, and so he fled to Midian. That's the next thing that ends up taking place. And what he's going to do is he's going to go into some kind of remorse and rehabilitation. His um his father-in-law out there is going to feminize him. See, that's not that's not what's going to happen. He's going to take away his weapons That's how we would read the story. Though the text ends up saying, and I think the translators are being really careful here. The translators say Moses killed the Egyptian. Implicitly, based on the way we have been enculturated, we read the story to say that Moses murdered the Egyptian. But is that how you're supposed to read it? Or is this a lawful action under the Empire? Now that's an interesting question. Now what we need is an authoritative interpretation of this text, wouldn't you agree? And we the way we understand scripture is by is by scripture. So here's you're in luck today. Congratulations. Stephen the Martyr interprets this passage for you in Acts chapter 7, verse 24. I don't know if you ever noticed it before, but he brings up the text. And listen to how he recounts the same mosaic event and seeing one of them suffer wrong He defended and avenged him who was oppressed and struck down the Egyptian. I mean, come on You are a part of a heritage that is different than you thought. If you were to retrieve the manliness of men who was a part of the Christian heritage, there's going to be major reformation among you. So, what we see in Stephen's authoritative reading is that Moses is actually exemplary in the actions that he took. And he provides a framework, he ends up being a model for every man. But I want to take one more step with you so that you don't have zeal but zeal without knowledge. That's really easy to do If you study Stephen's speech carefully, you will see that Moses is only used as an incidental model leading to the real model, who is Jesus Christ. He is used as a shadow of the universal and cosmic emancipatory actions of Jesus the Savior. In other words, Moses acted as a mediator, unchaining the Israelites from slavery to Egypt, yes, or at least he was an instrument in God's hand. But Moses is but a type of Jesus Christ who liberates his people from bondage to any and all Leviathans as they manifest themselves in every age. And there will be an age when the serpent's head is finally crushed. Now I know this is a lot. I mean I'm giving you a lot is a lot of foundation here. But I hope that you're following the trail. I don't think it's that complicated. As I stated in the beginning, Exodus is a framework and a model to understand every age and every generation. I want you to start to see the heritage that you have and to begin to retrieve it as men. There is always a Pharaoh who was the Leviathan seeking to bring the earth under total abuse and chaos. If he has his way, chaos is the inevitability. You're going to have to get that into your head. It doesn't stop. Chaos is the inevitability. But there is always a mediator who ultimately is Jesus Christ crushing the head of that serpent in each and every age, and he will do so finally in the final age. That's number three. Now here's the the observation four and the one that we're gonna camp out on. The anger or grief and groaning of God's people is a model for all ages, as we read in verse 23. In every age the serpent constricts. In every age, the serpent coerces. In every age, the Leviathan enslaves and seduces. In every age, the mediator protects and defends his church. But here is the thing that we've got to especially clue in on. Before the mediator rises in action, the people of God become angry in the Old Norse sense of troubled, afflicted, grieved, or vexed. It is from the complaints of his people that the Savior will rise and take up his sword. So, for example, in verse 23, then the children of Israel groaned because of the bondage. And they cried out. And their cry came up to God because of the bondage. I want you to picture for a moment before we move on. that that was a kind of prayer meeting under the low light of oil lamps. They would have to do it secretly They probably maybe you know didn't have much time because they were constantly put to work so they wouldn't have time to do things like this. What did it sound like for them to groan? And you have to ask yourself a serious question. Have you ever groaned about anything like they did? Do you even have the heart? That they had. I think there may be a couple things in your life, but I do not want you to be, and I don't want myself to be Presumptuous. You think it might be easy to read that flyer about becoming angry again, but it might be more difficult than you think. to actually feel real affliction again, maybe more difficult than you can imagine. What did it sound like for them to groan? Here's a repetition of it as they rehearse the moment in Deuteronomy chapter 26, verse 7. Then we cried out to the Lord God of our fathers, and the Lord heard our voice and looked on our affliction and our labor and our oppression. Maybe, once we read that verse and we say, maybe what we could do is we could say, have we ever been so upset about the evil in ourselves and in our land? that we groaned like a woman in labor with no epidural. Maybe that's the way it should look And if that's the case, then uh I haven't seen many men do that. These cries and groans throughout the ages will end up being inscriptated in the Psalms, like you have in front of you. I just want to give you a couple examples so that you can hear these psalms in this new light. Give heed to the voice of my cry, my king, and my God. For to you I pray. And we're going to sing that together, and you'll see that he was under a great deal of distress. A lot of these Davidic psalms Well, let me just put it this way. Some of these Davidic Psalms are David crying out against the unrighteousness and the godlessness of the surrounding nations. Other psalms are him crying out because his own people have turned on him. You want to look, for example, at Psalm 69. you will see that his brothers and the members of his household have turned against him. And I think that we have experiences of both, do we not? And uh I want to just put that into the context of the Leviathan and how he can show up both in and out of the church. Psalm 38. 8, I am feeble and severely broken. I groan because of the turmoil of my heart. Now I read these two things to you, and if we didn't frame the situation correctly, what you would most naturally do being At least most of you, I don't know all of you, but uh I'm looking at most of you. Most of you are evangelicals. And the temptation based on the evangel evangelifish enculturation. Is that you're going to read each and every one of these Psalms as a private matter with you in your private emotional distress? And the things that you're struggling with privately and how your feelings are hurt or whatever it is. And I well, the tone of my voice totally delegitimized that And I I think that's yeah. I'm okay with delegitimizing that a little bit. I think there's an aspect to a private life that certainly is a part of us. But the way that we're framing this now is you've got to see that the problem is way bigger than a private problem. In fact, the problem is that you have been enculturated to think that as a Christian it's only meant to be private and not public. And if you try to be public, you're censored immediately. Though though um Rosemary Gladstar and all her herbal dynamism and witchcraft, she can have as much time on air as she wants. Right. Sometimes being private is appropriate, but the main thrust of the problem is the Christian community's struggle with the leviathan. As he manifests himself in every age, both inside and out of the church. So let me give you a summary of these observations. Pharaoh is Leviathan. There is always a mediator and the groans of God's people, and they are all models to frame our situation today, and it must be retrieved. So, as I indicated on the flyer, what I want to do this morning is to focus on the anger, the grief, or the groaning model. And here's my overall thesis. My overall thesis is that as the Leviathan constricts and afflicts, the people of God groan to God. God, through Christ and his Spirit, then delivers them from the evil one, bringing his kingdom on earth as he does in heaven. He does that in iterations and in small ways throughout each generation, and in the final generation, he will bring it all to an end. So let me state that for you again. The Leviathan constricts and afflicts the people of God groan to God. God through Christ and his Spirit then delivers them from the evil one, bringing his kingdom on earth as he does in heaven. Leviathan afflicts. The church becomes angry and groans to God. God brings his kingdom. That's the sequence. That's the model. Now, here is a uh uh you got it? Okay, go in peace. You got this. Here's the complication, okay? Just when you think we're gonna get to the uh You know, to the end here. Here's the complicated part of this whole thing. Let me put it in the form of a question. What if you never get angry or grieve? That's the complication right now. What if you never get angry? What if the church, largely speaking, never gets angry and never grieves? What if the Leviathan is the one working overtime to make sure you never get angry and you never grieve? Wouldn't it it would be the ultimate strategy? It would be the ultimate strategy, and it would be shown that the Leviathan knows the model better than we do. Let me give you a couple of examples. Obviously, I think that's the problem, and that's what has happened. Leviathan, with his forked tongue, casts a spell, and the church denies that there's a problem. So I'm fighting against denialism. What if the church says, well, you know what, I don't deny that there's a problem. But it's not that bad. It's going to end up inevitably in the same thing. I want you to imagine two members of the church in Egypt having a conversation as the Pharaoh does his work. Here it is. You know, the scientists tell us that those Hebrew boys, they're not really humans until the 36th week after conception. Well, anyway, it's about the mom's choice. Well, you know, I don't have any more time to talk about this. Abraham has a lacrosse tournament this weekend. And I don't know any well, what's a female Hebrew name? Habassa, she has gymnastics. I mean you get the picture of how this can end up happening. So what I've already done here is I've framed for you what the model is what your role of the men are supposed to be within the empire, but then what the empire does to you by recruiting you in to a way of life to where you can't grieve or become angry because you've been enculturated to think there's nothing wrong. Or if there is something wrong, that it's not that bad. It's explained away through science or whatever. You know, I think it's interesting that I actually have a hearing right now on this. But before COVID, there would have been no hearing to what I am saying to you right now. The empire is starting to become questioned in the same way that the gods of Pharaoh started to be seen as weak. So there's another model here that's being revealed to you right under the surface, and I'm going to call this the Peace Peace model. This is something that happens in every generation among the church, is that there are those in the church and out of the church that stand up and they say, peace, peace. There's nothing wrong. It's not that bad. This is what Jeremiah was fighting against. Not Jeremiah Horner, but in the Bible, though you might be fighting against that, brother. Peace, peace. And of course we know the rest of that saying from Jeremiah, peace, peace when there is no peace. Maybe we need to do something in the future, but we are fine right now. Now that is one way for somebody to paint the picture. But when they start to do that little piece-piece mantra, and however they do it, and it's tricky to catch on to it sometimes, I just want to alert you to the fact that that is one way to look at the matter. What about another narrative? This is one that I would suggest to you from Proverbs 24, verses 30 through 34. I believe that this is the more accurate narrative that should be applied to American men within the church. I went by the field of the lazy man, and by the vineyard of the man devoid of understanding, and there it was, all overgrown with thorns Its surface was covered with nettles. Its stone wall was broken down. When I saw it I considered it well. I looked on it and received instruction. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest, so shall your poverty come like a prowler, and your need like an armed man Is it too bold for me to ask the question, is the church has the church found herself in poverty and robbed? I want to be fair because I do believe that you and other Christian American men are not lazy in many areas of their life. I know that you work hard for what you do. And what you have. I know that you work hard for your house, just like I've worked hard for my house. I know, and I'm not being condescending with this next example. I know that you have worked hard for the things that bring some enjoyment to your life like ATVs or televisions or stereo stereos or vacations. I don't really have a problem with those things. I think God intends for us to enjoy those kind of things. I think He intends for us to enjoy the decent cars that we've worked hard for. I actually warmed my heart to see so many trucks in the parking lot today. I thought, man, this is a men's breakfast Tell you what, this is a men's breakfast. If you pulled up in a Prius, I'm so sorry today. I know you feel intimidated. Randy, you rode a horse, didn't you? Or a bear or something. Yeah. So we work hard for those things, but we know because uh the the the good ones in here anyway are Calvinists And uh we know that our hearts can be idle factories and turn all those things into something that destroys. We take the goodness of God and we abuse it. And here is what I think has happened amongst us: there's all these things that we've worked really hard for. But the Leviathan has used them to assuage and to calm us. He runs his fingers through our hair, and we fall asleep. And while we have been asleep, the walls have come tumbling down. And things have overgrown, the things that we really care about and that really matter. They have overgrown with thorns and they have become covered with nettles. I think a question we've got to ask is has the stone wall of family tumbled? Or is it at least missing some of the blocks? Has the stone wall of church, is it in a kind of ruin? And I hate to bring up our civic community. What has taken place To wear such thorns and nettles, such as a transvestite, at storytime in our local libraries. What has happened While you were working so hard. When did it happen? Where were you? This is my concern. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest. One of the things I love about this proverb is that it connects the dots for us. The proverbist himself is prophetic. Not in the sense of telling the future from a vision or a dream, but he is prophetic in the sense of connecting the dots in the sense that every action or inaction has a moral consequence. Those moral consequences build a nexus or society that results in either the crumbling of the walls and thorns. The decreation of God's creation or in the building of the kingdom. Those are the two options. That's it. I love how responsible he holds us. I love that he mentions our hands. One of the frustrations of being in the pastorate is that I've lost my calluses. I wonder if in a way we have all lost the calluses on our hands compared to the men that came before us. So if this has happened, I'm painting a picture for you, that's a different narrative than peace peace, isn't it? We're really not let off the hook by the pro by the proverbist. If that has happened, and I believe that it has, then those models from our ancient heritage, we've got to reach way back. We've got to reach back before the 60s We've gotta reach way back behind the eighteenth century even. We gotta get back into what we see here in Moses, and we have a call before us to wake up and to become angry again. When the Leviathan afflicted and brought his culture of death, the cloud of witnesses, as manifested in Moses The cloud of witnesses, as manifested in the men in that prayer meeting in verse 23, they were angry. In the Old Norse sense of that word, they groaned like a woman in labor. They grieved for God to bring his kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. And that is my argument to you. My argument is that the first role of men in the empire of the Leviathan is to become angry again in the way that we see within the scriptures. That is no easy task. Now there are two possibilities here that I somewhat anticipated, and I don't know if this is true or not. It's just a possibility. You've heard the message that I have this morning, but you may find that you are disappointed with what I'm saying. The flyer has a dragon, it has the word anger. And there is the possibility that you thought this morning Severn Run was going to hand out crossbows and concealed carry permits. And we're still doing that. It's just after the breakfast now. I have a crossbow, or at least my son does. I don't have a concealed carry permit. My I'm always carrying in the open in a deer stand. But if it is disappointing to you, because what I said the very first role the very first role of men is to get angry And what I meant by that is that you would groan to God in prayer. If that is disappointing to you, then I think it it is at least in part because you Have been enculturated by the Leviathan. You have started to look like his offspring Death to the culture of death will never come from human technology or autonomous human will. That is the problem, not the solution. God goes out of his way in the model to show that he is the one that does this. Autonomous humanism and the power of the human race is a lie. The poem Invictus is a lie. What we need is God to rise first, and then we will get our hands dirty God must rise first as the commander, and then we will follow him into battle, and we will wear in this age his armor of truth. His armor of righteousness, his armor of faith, his armor of salvation, the armor of the Word of God, the armor of prayer, the armor of watchfulness, and the armor of perseverance. Because our enemy is not only flesh and blood. And I would say you don't understand The militar the military language that is within prayer. You don't understand how manly prayer is. But our forefathers did in the Westminster Confession. Let me read this to you. What do we do for prayer in the second petition? In the second petition, which is Thy kingdom come, we pray that Satan's kingdom may be destroyed. And that the kingdom of grace may be advanced, ourselves and others brought into it and kept in it, and that the kingdom of glory may be hastened. Now that is a manly prayer, and I encourage you to treat it as such. Here's the second possibility. I'm expecting some of you to say these models are nice, but what can we practically do? Do you have a call to action? That's what I'm really here for. I'm anxious, I need a call to action. And my answer to that is that we will build on this talk over the next three months with more and more practical outworking. Remember, we are a band of brothers seeking for God's kingdom to come on earth as it is in heaven. And we should use this band to start a movement and to accomplish good things for him. In the meantime, this is what your job is. This is where we have to start, because I know where you are. Your job is to start at the beginning and to remember the model. You are to work with each other on one main thing insofar as you can You need to find out what God hates. You need to find out what grieves God. You need to find out what angers God. And you, through the Spirit, need to seek to hate and to grieve and to become angry about those exact same things. The same kind of anger that you would see in the woman giving birth without the upper girl. And let's just say it's a big baby. And she's got small hips. You hear what I'm saying? That's the kind of grief Now, I don't want you to be tricked. I'm not asking you to be concerned about the evil in the church or in the world. I'm not asking you to dislike it or to feel sad. I'm talking about being vexed. And part of the problem is that we need the Spirit of God to actually build it back into us as men. I'm not even sure that we have the experience. I'm not even sure we saw it within our fathers. But it is my prayer that our children would see it in us. And that they would grow into things that we would never be able to accomplish. It is my prayer that not only you, but that our sons would become angry again So I leave you with this. Be wise in what is good. Be simple concerning evil And the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. Amen.