Matthew five, thirty-one through thirty-two Furthermore, it has been said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery. And whoever marries a woman who is divorced Commits adultery. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would bring your wisdom here to this congregation by way of the preached word. Lord, what can the words of a man do? Nothing if you're not behind them. I pray therefore, Lord, that this would be your word that goes forth by the power of your Spirit In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. You may be seated. When I had the opportunity to talk to you as congregants I noticed that you tend to be the kind of people that do your own home improvements. Do you think that's pretty true about yourselves? I mean you do hire somebody for some things, but you tend to do a lot yourselves. And I wonder if you've done any plumbing or if you've done any carpentry work. You'll know if you have in either one of those trades that there's two different ways to put something together. If you're well I don't know why you're chuckling, but Uh let me keep going here. Okay. There's two different ways to put something together. It would be if you're working with plumbing pipe They'll say that after you cut all of the pipe that you're supposed to be fitting in for your plumbing, before we apply the glue or anything else, we want to do what is called a dry fit. That's the way for us to check to make sure that you got everything right. And then if you did, we can take it back out, put the glue on so that it's permanent. It's the same thing with carpentry. There may be some things that you only want, certain pieces of wood that you only want to temporarily hang together in order to make sure that it's the right fit before the final what they call a glue-up. Now, let me just ask you, and you think about the way that things can stay together, whether it's a dry fit or a glue-up, what do you think God intends for marriage? What kind of a fit? Is marriage to be treated like a dry fit that could easily be taken apart if necessary? Or is it the kind of thing that is a glue up that is meant to be permanent? I want you to keep that in mind, and I want you to keep it in mind not just as a theory, but I would like you to take a look at the actions of your life. And the attitudes of your life, and just ask yourself, how have you viewed marriage by way of this analogy? Has it been more of like a dry fit or is it a glue-up? We're going to consider that here in just a moment, but don't forget the total context that we're dealing with here in the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus has been taking us through the Beatitudes in order to help us to understand what it looks like to be his disciples. If we were speaking in the terms of Philippians, it's what does it look like to be citizens of the kingdom of heaven? And boy, has he been covering a lot of vital topics. Last week we began focusing on the seventh commandment. The week before that, we focused on the sixth commandment, and Jesus is taking the opportunity to make sure we really understand what he's always intended by these laws. Last week with the seventh commandment, we learned it's not just the physical act of adultery that God is concerned about. He is concerned about that. He's also concerned about all of the things that would lead up to it, all of the heart attitudes, all of the inordinate desires. And Jesus gave us a really practical way to start addressing that. Of course, it always needs to be addressed by the work of the Holy Spirit. There's no change without Him. But even under the superintendence of the Spirit, he tells us really practical things. He says, if you're lusting, then pluck out the eye. If you're lusting, cut off the arm. And we know that he's speaking there with a figure of speech. Now what he's saying is do what is lawfully necessary in order to cut off the thing that's bringing in or fueling the lust to begin with. So you could think about that if you'd like in terms of the Apostle Paul. We want to take certain things off. But you if you are going to look at that like the Apostle Paul, then we could also say, in order for There to be a healthy life under the seventh commandment, we want to put certain things on. So instead of committing adultery, let's have practices and attitudes that encourage faithfulness. You see, there's always that positive contrary aspect to a negative commandment. So I just gave you a really, not exactly a silly example, but man, it was a simple one, where we would just begin, I was speaking to the men. I I encourage you to open up the car door for your for your wife. Now I did that uh last Sunday. And Noah and Ronnie were waiting in the parking lot and they watched me open the door for her and they they jumped up and cheered with barbaric yelps for me. I felt like we were really gelling as a Christian community, encouraging one another in the in the ways of the Lord. So I hope that you are encouraging each other in those ways. And that's all with the seventh commandment. Now you'll notice as we move into the passage here this morning, we haven't left the seventh commandment. I'll get to this in just a moment, but you can see right away in 31, the first word is furthermore. So there's some more things to say. We want to keep dwelling on the topic of the seventh commandment. What the Holy Spirit is teaching us here this morning is that although some do treat marriage lightly, God intends for us to hold marriage highly. Although some treat marriage lightly, God intends for us to hold it highly. And just as you would expect, because I've already shared with you how Jesus is doing this, we're going to first look at the false teaching of the Pharisees and then the true teaching of God. The false teaching of the Pharisees and the true teaching of God. The false teaching goes with treating marriage lightly, and the teaching of God goes with teaching marriage highly. And that's what we're going to cover this morning. So let's begin together with just verse number 31 with the false teaching of the Pharisees. Make an observation there that this is the continuation, as I pointed out already, as a discussion on the seventh command, because he does Say furthermore. Furthermore, it has been said. So he has more to say about this. He is going to go ahead and Jesus has already addressed one way in which those in that culture were twisting what he intends by his law, what he's what he's seeking to accomplish with human society. And now, since this is furthermore, he's going to show you another way in which people twist the law. And the law is meant to build up human society, and the way that they twist it actually ends up tearing it down. Let's not forget that the seventh commandment reaches beyond the physical acts into the understanding, the will, the affections. and all other powers of the soul, as well as words, works, and gestures. And we'll look at that at the end of the sermon even. But that's that first observation is that we're continuing with the seventh commandment. This is a further topic of false teaching. Now, the false teaching itself, that starts to come out here in the passage where he says in quotes, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. Now the first thing to note about that is that this is an although this will be taught falsely, it is actually a quotation from Scripture. I wonder if you have a little number or letter in your Bible showing you that this refers back to Deuteronomy chapter 24, verse 1. You can get a an expanded A vision of this conversation, by the way, if you were to go to Matthew 19, you could do that on your own. But in Deuteronomy 24, verse 1, it says this, and this is what Jesus is quoting. When a man takes a wife and marries her, and it happens that she finds no favor in his eyes, because he has found some uncleanness in her, and he writes her a certificate of divorce. puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house. So this would have been a piece of mosaic legislation, let's put it. That they would quote in order to justify or to give a foundation for particular divorce practices within their culture. Now, the question you have to ask yourself is: well, how What were the practices of divorce based off of this particular passage? And were those practices in line with God's intention? We already know no, they weren't in line with God's intention. But specifically, what were some of those practices? Well, if you research this a little bit, you can see where they would lay down different laws. And this is obviously Jesus' concern. Jesus says that there's one exception for divorce, and there's a way to talk about that as two. But there's one exception, but when you look at the total, even the historical context of what was going on here with Pharisaical schools of thought, then you can see that they had many exceptions for divorce. For example, one historian says the prevailing opinion among those who held this ph this position That of the school of Hillel interpreted the phrase broadly to mean, if you find anything displeasing in your wife, you may write her a certificate of divorce. Thus women could be divorced for failing to and these were specific examples that are given in this in the in the literature uh among this school of rabbis. Women could be divorced for failing to measure up to the beauty of another woman. Like you ended up getting the short end of the stick. You didn't know it. There's someone more beautiful, so we can move on. They also listed that if she demonstrates failures in the kitchen. Now ladies, sit down. Don't come after me. I'm just reading what they said. If there are failures in the kitchen or for any reason whatsoever, I found it interesting also that I was able to find this historically documented within the life of Josephus. I wonder if many of you know about him. But he writes a little bit about, uh gives himself like a little autobiography and he talks about divorcing one wife to move on to another. And he says that at this time I sent away my wife, being displeased with her behavior. See how that's tying back into Deuteronomy 24. This was a real deal within the society. And then I took as wife a woman from Crete. In commenting on Moses' legislation in Deuteronomy 24, 1 through 4, Josephus added uh an aside saying the man who wishes to be divorced from his wife for whatever cause and among people may uh many such may arise, they just need to make sure they certify it in writing. So if you're displeased with your wife, call the notary and just end it. uh Syriac from 25-26, if she does not accept your control, divorce her and send her away. So these traditions were a part of Jesus' culture. And when Jesus took a look at these interpretations of Deuteronomy 24, he took issue with them. He would he and that is really where we're going in this sermon, is that Jesus took issues with what they took in Deuteronomy 24 and they twisted it in order to serve Really what had just they had come up with as an a tradition. Now I put it that way because as you th you you think about this first point in the observations we just made, Jesus is taking issue with these particular interpretations that they have. This is a part of a larger problem that you can discover in any of the gospels where Jesus takes issue with people that displace his will for their traditions. That they twist what he has said to where it is unrecognizable with his intents and instead just serves their traditions. Another example of this is when the Pharisees would begin going after people because they did not tithe the correct amount of dill or mint or whatever it is, but they would overlook the weightier matters of the law, not standing up for the justice of widows, but instead exploiting them This is a way in which they even developed traditions to exploit widows. It got that bad. And it's a warning for us to be very careful that we would, as a community, Take great care in making sure that we understand the intent that God has for his word. Let me just quiz you for a moment. Do you know which commandment is primarily violated if you misuse his word? It's the third commandment. It's using his name in vain. It's taking his authority and his name. and sticking it behind traditions that you innovated and made up in order to give them authority and then pushing them on people. That is a very serious act. We must be very careful and work carefully together as a community to make sure that we don't have traditions that are subverting the intent and goals of God's law in place of God's law. I wonder if there are some ways in which you need to take that seriously. Are there some ways in which you're not really sure what God intends with this? You know, um one way to look at this, this isn't always the case, but one way to check to see if you're working in accordance with God's law is when you bring God's law for bear in a situation. Do you see life flourishing or people dying? That's a now you have to take it on a case-by-case basis, but that's one way to check to see if you're in line with God, because God intends for his law to bring life to society. So if every time you enter the room, there's just bodies on the floor Then depending on the situation, it may mean that you really miss his intent and you're using his law as a way for people to just become servants of your desires Now, all of us are guilty of that. And I'd encourage you to just check into your hearts there. And let's let's know the Father's, let's know God's heart for his law, and let us be in alignment with him. Now that's the false teaching, and we want to be careful that we don't drop into the same kinds of things. But there is the true teaching, and I mentioned to you that with this second main point that is here within this passage is that the first thing I wanted you to observe is that this is the true teaching of God. Now, the reason why I say that is actually outside of the context of these particular set of verses with 31 and 32. I'm asking you to go back to the beginning of Jesus unfolding these laws where he specifically says in verse number 17, do not think that I came To destroy the law or the prophets, I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. And the emphasis I keep placing here is that he came. And I keep asking you, where did he come from? Now you could say he came from Galilee. But I think there's a bigger picture going on here that we're we're really, if we wanted to get back to first principles Jesus is speaking, perhaps in just a whisper at this point, but he's still speaking to the fact that he is God, who has come and taken upon himself human nature. And that as God, as the God man, he now, with authority, which you'll see if you keep going in the Sermon on the Mount With authority, he makes his intents known that he has always had for his law. And so we may take great comfort in that Knowing that God Himself has come to make things clear. And his name is Jesus. Now, the heart of his teaching here is in verse number 32. So let's take a look at that together. We have God who is teaching, and then the heart of the teaching is in 32, this heart of the true teaching. But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality Causes her, and then he continues. But the heart here that I want you to see, and that's why I stopped mid-verse, the heart is that phrase for any reason except sexual immorality Do you see how he immediately takes a clash where the Pharisees took a position? The Pharisees in the Hillel school were saying, you could have a divorce for any reason. Just make sure that you have a certificate based on Deuteronomy 24. And Jesus says, oh no, no, no. There's only one reason. is what he's saying here. And I'll expand that a little bit. But there's only one reason. So he's going head to head with them, showing them that that is a wrong understanding. Of what he has always intended with marriage, that this was a glue-up and not a dry fit, if you wanted to speak in plumbing and carpentry terms. The Pharisees, there's any reason, no exceptions. Jesus says there's one exception, and that is sexual immorality. Now what do you think of when you think of the word sexual immorality? What is that? Well, obviously it should be connected with the seventh commandment, which is adultery. We talked about what that is. And there is um, however, there is a greater contextual explanation of this. where we see that sexual emor immorality is a Greek term. I wonder if you've heard it. It's uh pornea. Pornea. It's where we get our word from. But it's a Greek term pornea and it refers to a host of different sexual sins. For example, fornication. prostitution, incest, homosexuality, bestiality, as well as adultery. If you were to look and you were to go through the different scriptures and you You looked at Pornea, these are the things that you would find that specifically relate to what Jesus is teaching. And what's interesting is that when you do find those terms, there's something that always accompanies them. And this gets to the heart too of what Jesus is after. If those sins have been committed, what accompanies them is the death penalty. If we look throughout the Old Testament, what accompanies them is the death penalty. All of those sins received the death penalty in the Mosaic law. And so people whose spouses were guilty of such such sin would have been in effect uh divorced by death anyway. And I think that's a part of what's What Jesus is getting at here is that we all know that if a husband or a wife dies, that the marriage is no longer present. So it's easy for us to see Jesus' logic when he ties sins that are connected to the death penalty, and that these are the kinds of things that are the only exceptions that I grant. in the dissolution of a marriage. Now we can't get into all divorce theory. We can't get into everything that the scriptures say about marriage. I'm really just trying to stick with the immediate points that he's making here, and that's the immediate point. He c he um causes her to commit adultery if it's for any other exception. And that really brings some light to the teaching, doesn't it? When we look at this total teaching that is given to us, we have the true teaching of God. The heart of it has to do with what are the grounds or the exceptions. And that really brings some light to this teaching also. He says, continuing in the verse, causes her to commit adultery, and whoever marries a woman who is divorced commits adultery. That ties us right back up into the seventh command. where we can see that this is still discussion discussing adultery. And the reason why, if it happens this way that it is adultery, is because God has not actually granted. That divorce to take place. So it's as if you're going off and now you're committing adultery and The one who is with you now themselves are committing adultery. I think one of the most insightful points that Jesus points out here is he says that he causes her to commit adultery, which is the general word makes He makes her to commit adultery. It brings up the image, which is the reason why we have the the introduction that I gave, it brings up the image of building and it causes us to ask the question What were these groups of men who were divorcing for just any old reason, what were they trying to build? What were they trying to make Jesus is pointing out to them whatever they're trying to make, which is what the law is all about, the law is all about making a beautiful society serving the Lord. Here, what they're trying to make is just a convenient kingdom for their own selfish desires. As opposed to building for the Lord. That really ends up getting at the heart of what Jesus is after is what are they trying to build? And it brings up for us, what are we trying to build? What are you trying to build specifically with your marriage? Are you seeking to build a society that brings the kingdom on earth as it is in heaven? Or do you have other intents for your marriage? I mean you can ask yourself that personally. You could ask, what is the purpose of my spouse in my life? Are they there to help me just build up my own kingdom? Or are we there together so that we can build up the kingdom of Jesus Christ? Depending on how you answer that question, I think will determine the way that you end up viewing divorce, marriage, remarriage. all of these issues that are going on here. And it all ties back to the seventh commandment. But that's a major question that we need to ask Is are we seeking to build the same thing the Lord is, or are we trying to make, are the things that we're making really just leading people into sin, leading people into misery? You have the false teaching of the Pharisees. You can see the way that they had twisted God's intent of his law in order to build something different than what God Himself was building. And you know they wouldn't quit, which is why Jesus just had to replace them. But we see the true teaching of God in the flesh, who is Jesus from Nazareth, and he has told us. That his understanding of marriage is that it is a glue up. It's not a dry fit. That he encourages us and really commands us as his disciples, and really the whole world, not to take marriage lightly, but to view it highly. Now what we heard from Jesus last week with regard to the seventh commandment, how do you think that relates to his teaching here this morning? He said, if there are things that are causing you to sin, pluck them out and cut them off. I think there's immediate application for us to be able to to take that into today's preaching. Let me start more broadly in taking that kind of thing into today's teaching. Let's just begin with Are there things in your marriage that are not contributing to your marriage to build it up? In service of the Lord, but are there things that are actually tearing it down? You could start with, are there some character things about you? that don't make the marriage flourish and healthy, they actually threaten the marriage to collapse Or maybe collapse is too strong of a word. Do they peck away and slowly erode the marriage to where there's hardly anything left? Is there something about you that Christ wants you to focus on this morning? To say, hey, listen, I've told you for a long time that this thing that's going on inside of you is very serious, and I've called you to repentance for years about it. But here I'm going to let you know just another layer that if it stays in you, it's just going to keep eroding away the relationship. It's not serious. It's not serious, which is at contrary purposes for what I have for this particular relationship. Is there something in you That is taking away from the marriage as opposed to building it up. I wonder if the Spirit is even bringing that to your mind right now You could look at it from the other side. Are there practices that you could begin to bring in to the marriage that would help to build it up? So that there's never a thought about writing anybody a certificate about anything. That we never have to start asking questions like Well, what are all of the grounds of divorce again? And and he said there's only one, but is that a general category that really stands for 57 different reasons? We don't want to approach that kind of reasoning and the way to stay away from that kind of reasoning is what are the practices? What are the prayers? To what community do you belong to where we can stay as far away from that possibility as possible, making sure that the relationship stays tight? What are some of the practices that you're going to have? I've heard different Men say different things to me. I've heard different women say different things to me. They they share with me the importance of having a date night, for example. Maybe that's a dumb idea to you. I don't know. It seems to do well for my marriage. What are some of the things that you would like to to practice or continue to practice that will keep building up the relationship to where we don't become another statistic that Brad had brought up that Christians and their the statistical average for divorce is close, just a couple percentage points actually down from those who are not Christian. What is it that we can begin to do? And let me add to that too. Not just what is it that you can begin to do as a husband or a wife? What could you begin to do for other husbands and wives? Now you could take that in a couple different ways. Number one Those who are growing up in the church, who are young, they're not really thinking about marriage, what are some of the things that you could do in working with them? to make sure that when they enter in as a husband or they enter in as a wife, they do so with a tremendous amount of resources in order for that relationship to stand the tests that the Lord will bring. Number two, is there a way that you could have the courage that if you see something in another person's marriage that you would talk to them about it rather than allowing them to continue to dwindle and die in their relationship. I don't remember if I told you this story or not, but when, if I did, I'm sorry. Here it is again When Holly and I were young in our marriage, things had gotten pretty difficult. I was too stubborn and Andry to make any of the changes, despite hearing sermons like this one today. And you know what it took? Is it took a very close friend of ours to come over to our house and apply the sermon to our hearts. I think I told you this before. He took me on a walk and he said, Brother, here are the concrete examples of the way in which you are not doing marriage well. And these things need to change by the grace of Jesus Christ, and I will help you with that. But this can't continue. And then that conversation continued at the kitchen table. Where they sat the wife and the husband sat Holly and I both down. And I think I have mentioned this to you before. It transformed everything. Jesus Christ worked through that. And I'm just asking you to consider. in order to keep people not only away from the violation of the seventh commandment, but the contrary positive, the flourishing of these relationships Do you see something in other people's relationships where you know you've got to go talk to them? You've got to say something. And I'd encourage you to do that privately. Whatever it is that we do, Jesus Christ is showing us here that He's given us the seventh commandment, not so that we can twist it in order to build our kingdoms. He's given us the seventh commandment in order to be able to build up his kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. And he's saying to you here this morning, one of the ways to do that is in your marriage. Sometimes I talk really big up here about ways to change the whole world. It looks to me like we're still having that conversation, but it begins with something small. like the relationship between a husband and a wife. Let us take marriage highly and not lightly as Christ calls. Let us pray.