I ask that you turn to Ephesians chapter 4. We'll be looking at verses 25 through 32. You can see your sermon notes there. And I'll ask that you'd stand for the reading of God's Word. If you remember, there was already a sermon on verses 23 and 24. We'll be tying into that a little bit. But I begin at twenty-five. Therefore, putting away lying, let each of you speak truth with his neighbor, for we are members of one another. Be angry and do not sin, do not let the sun go down on your wrath, nor give place to the devil. Let him who stole feal no longer, but rather let him labor, working with his hands what is good, that he may have something to give who has need. Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth, but what is good for necessary edification, that it may impart grace to the hearers. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice, and be kind to one another, tender hearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ forgave you. Please pray with me. Holy Spirit, we ask that you would breathe life into us, that you would seal these words to our heart. And that we would take our holiness seriously as we return your love to you. In the name of Christ, amen. Please be seated. Christmas is approaching. I hope you're ready It is a time for gift giving. That's the spirit of the season, is to give to others In remembrance of the great gift that was given to the world. If you recall the entire series and you think of it in terms like that, of gift giving, that's really what the whole series has been. We've been hearing about gifts the entire time. Maybe that hasn't been the center of your attention, but that's in fact what's been going on. We are living before the face of God, Corumdeo. We're walking with Him, we're fellowshipping with Him, we're communing with Him. If you think of it so far, each of the sermons that have been given in the series We're just listening to one enumeration after another of God giving. The Father gives his love. The Son gives his grace. Because of the sun, the gates of heaven are set wide open, and the treasure houses and the granaries of our heavenly Joseph are free to all Israel, as the way s perhaps uh that this is the way that Spurgeon would put it And then here lately we've been seeing that the Holy Spirit gives consolation and he gives strength, another gift. Gift after gift after gift after gift. Maybe we should change the name of the series to the gifts. This last point here with the Holy Spirit giving us consolation and strength. That was the last sermon. We heard that the Holy Spirit is strengthening his church. It's the consolation. It's the original meaning of those terms, consolation or comfort. Comforte or strength, the comfort of the Holy Spirit, the strength of the Holy Spirit. And we have seen that the Holy Spirit is strengthening his church, you, by helping you With uh so many different things. In fact, it circled right back, and he helps you to always know the love of the Father and to always appreciate the grace of the Son. Whether it be in your trials, your sins, or your prosperities. And it continues this morning That the Holy Spirit continues strengthening us by helping us with our motivations. Something that we don't always think of, but Jesus is not just after your outward actions, he's after your heart. After your motivations, and the Holy Spirit is giving you strength for that also. Now here's the big idea, and you can see it in your bulletin. The Holy Spirit reveals his personal interests in your holiness. In order to give you gospel motivations. I'm not going to repeat it because it's right there in your bulletin. You can read it over and over again. And you can see the three main parts of the sermon are the person, the cause, and the motivation. The main emphasis, though, is the motivation. How would we receive the right motivations? Be strengthened in the right motivations as we serve our God. Do you see the flip now in the series that's happening? For the first part of the series, we've been focusing on him as the giver. And now you are going to be strengthened to give back. You see that. And you'll see this within the next two sermons also, that the strength of the Spirit will continue in us, in us being able to give back. From all the gifts that God has given to us. And then we have this giving and this returning of this perfect communion with God, living before his face, dwelling with him. And the Holy Spirit here is strengthening us with the motivation part. Well, the first thing we see is his person, this personal aspect that is brought out here in this passage concerning the Holy Spirit. And you can see this. Please consider verse 30. That's where you can see the whole idea stated. And this is most interesting. It says in verse 30, and do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Oftentimes when I hear people speaking about the Holy Spirit, this is what I hear. It helps me pray. It does good to us. That's a really bad sentence, sorry. That person was drinking when they told me that. But we know that he is a person. And that really makes all of the difference. This is not just some unnecessary discussion that you would see within a theology book. Have you ever searched the scriptures to see the proof for him being a person? You know, for instance, if you were to turn to 1 Corinthians, you don't need to do this now, but 1 Corinthians 2, verse 10, this is what it says. But God has revealed them to us, revealed his thoughts to us through his spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, all the thoughts of God. The Spirit knows all the thoughts of God. Yes, the deep things of God. You see, what's being attributed to the Spirit there is something that only a person can have An intelligence and an understanding. It's also in 1 Corinthians 12, verse 11, but one in the same spirit works all these things, speaking of spiritual gifts. distributing to each one individually as he desires or wills, something that only a person can do. And here you see a third thing in this passage in verse 30, another personal attribute, is that the Holy Spirit grieves. Now, you you do have to understand that that's not entirely proper. That's not what is intended here. It's not a proper description of him, but a metaphorical description, because grieving implies an emotional alteration, a disappointment, a weakness. And the Holy Spirit is God, and God is immutable, and therefore this can't be properly said about Him. But God is not seeking to be literal. He's seeking to divinely accommodate his language to our experience, which is true. It's true of what's going on within the Trinity. But he's using metaphorical language to connect with us because he loves us and he's saying that the Holy Spirit personally grieves The Holy Spirit personally grieves. What a revelation that the Holy Spirit grieves. Grief here is the sadness that one feels towards someone that they love. Have you ever had grief? over someone. Then you can connect with the Holy Spirit in a very personal way then, can't you? Because he grieves You both have grief together. We see in John 16, 20 a passage saturated with the Holy Spirit. Most assuredly I say to you that you will weep and lament. Speaking about when Jesus must leave. But the world will rejoice, and you will be grieved, but your grief will be turned into joy. Jesus is speaking of his crucifixion and perhaps also his ascension in this passage The disciples will be grieved at the pain of their friend Jesus. They'll be pained at what they see Jesus go through. They'll be pained at the absence of Jesus they will have grief concerning their friend. And likewise the Holy Spirit will be pained at the plight of his friends. It really turns this whole passage on its head That the Holy Spirit, in other words, is personally interested in his people. That's what's being communicated here. He not only has a personal interest in people in general, though, he has a personal interest in youth specifically as a person. And this brings us to our second point. It's the cause of him expressing his personal interest in you. He's revealing something about himself, which is very unusual for the Holy Spirit. He doesn't talk about himself. He talks about Christ and he talks about the Father. So when he speaks about himself, you better pay attention. The Holy Spirit Is grieved because he has a great interest in your holiness. His personal interest is focused, red-hot focused, on your holiness Do you care about your holiness? Because the Holy Spirit does. You can see this in verses twenty-five through twenty-nine and thirty-one and thirty-two and all I'll start to unfold this, but first let's just start in 30 again and keep unpacking this. You can see the personal interest of the Holy Spirit in your holiness first from verse 30. Where he says, again, you grieve the Holy Spirit. And then he mentions that you are the ones who are sealed for the day of redemption. Now what does he mean by a sealing there? What does he mean by seal? We don't use that word often. You think of it with diplomas. If you were to watch something on the History Channel, you might see a king seal something, and that's really where the terminology is coming from. A seal was used to mark a document as official. It consisted of a dollop of wax. Can you see the the the little wax cylinder that's then pressed down upon the paper to leave the little wax area. And then what is it that the person does who's the official They impress the wax with the insignia of them, or of the state, or of the kingdom, or whatever it is. It leaves an impress. Within the wax. And that's what's going on here in this passage. If you consider verse 24 Look, this is all part of the same context, and that you put on the new man which was created or impressed. Or embossed according to God in true righteousness and holiness. We were like wax, and the Holy Spirit came and he formed God's image on us in our minds and in our hearts and in our wills. You can see that this is definitely what's going on if you continue looking at chapter 5, verse 1. That because we've been impressed with this particular image, it makes sense then to say in 5 verse 1 that we should be imitators or impressions of God Himself, because like Father, like Son, we are His dear children. You see that theme that's going on here? That's what's going on. The impression upon the wax of our souls The Holy Spirit has impressed us with the image of God. And then the rest of the passage is an enumeration of the impression that has been made. Consider, for instance, in verse 25. Therefore, do not bear false witness. Let each of you speak with truth with his neighbor. Or in verse 26 and 29, do not murder in your heart Or with your mouth. Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth, but what is good and necessary edification that it may impart grace to the hearers. You see the enumeration You can even see it in verse 28 also, let him who stole steal no longer. Therefore, do not steal. Instead, he says, Be like God your father In verse 32, be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ forgave you. In other words, do not neglect the new identity with which you were sealed. Why should you not neglect the impressions the sealing of the Holy Spirit, the the identity, the new identity that has been given to you. Why should you not do it? Because it grieves the spirit is the answer. And that takes us to our third point And that has to deal with the motivation. The Spirit is a person, and he takes a personal interest in our holiness. He is the one tasked with embossing the righteousness and image of God upon our soul. And when we neglect this impression, he is grieved. And to then ask why is he grieved immediately moves into this idea. of why we should be motivated or have the correct motivation. The Holy Spirit reveals his personal interests of being grieved in order for us to be gospally motivated, if you want to turn gospel into an adverb. And you see this in 30, and of course in 32 also. But I want to give you the big picture again. As you saw in John 3:16, a while back. The Father is motivated by love and he chooses to reconcile the world to himself. To accomplish this, the Son voluntarily agreed to take upon himself human nature and who can be conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary. The Father anoints the Son with the Spirit above measure, so that the Son is furnished perfectly to perform all of his offices After the son finishes his work of humiliation, this is last week's sermon, he ascends an exaltation to intercede as the great champion and the high priest of his people. And his first act as the king is to overcome his and our enemies by destroying the reigning tyranny of sin. And he does this by giving his people his spirit. The Spirit regenerates, impressing upon the mind, the will, and the affections, the righteousness and the holiness of God. And now, through the Son, we walk with each person of the Trinity. We are united to the Son, which gives us access to the love of the Father, and we are now being conformed more and more to God by the Spirit. Why is it that the Spirit grieves? The Spirit grieves because he longs to walk with us. He longs to fellowship with us. He longs to commune with us. And if there's something between us, namely a lack of holiness, then the communion is hindered. And so he grieves. This is something that I think we really misunderstand and we really need to hear it, which is why the Holy Spirit has revealed to us how he feels about something. He wants you to realize in this one moment that he is not your enemy I want you to read the list again in a way that most Christians read the list. I want you to put glasses on where you see God as an enemy. Do you remember when you were younger and your father told you to do something and you hated him for it? He just was somebody that got in your way, who told you a bunch of arbitrary and unnecessary things to do. And you just did them because you didn't want to be spanked, or you didn't want to fall under the the glare of his disappointment. Do you remember all those motivations for serving your father? I hope you had a better relationship than that. Put on the glasses where you see God that way and reread the list You good for nothing, ungrateful little brat, would you speak the truth with your neighbor? You know the neighbor came over here the other day and told me what you had said. When are you ever gonna learn? You're just like your mother. You're just like your father. You're gonna grow up and you're gonna be just like your uncle. You'll probably be in jail too. You know what your problem is, is you let the sun go down on your wrath You shouldn't have been angry to begin with. What does your anger really show about you? What kind of person are you? This is why we can't trust you. It's why you get no privileges. And now I'm hearing that you steal. I've told you you're not supposed to steal. You're a good for nothing. Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth. Would you finally say something that's useful to somebody? And why don't you try to be kind like me? Why can't you be more like me? Can't you have a tender heart like me? That's what it would be like to read it through those glasses. And I think the human race struggles in seeing God that way. And I think it's appropriate in some sense for there to be a great dreadful fear and terror to be over the human race if they are not in Jesus Christ. But if you are in Jesus Christ, there's no way that you can read that. And the Holy Spirit is trying to bring that to your attention by letting you know how he feels. He's saying, I am grieved over this because we are friends. Don't you know that I love you? Don't read this list with disdain. I don't hate you. We're not enemies. Listen, I don't want you to call me enemy. I want you to call me father. And I want you to think of me like your husband that loves you and gives up his life for you. That's the second person. And then the Holy Spirit has published himself as the helper, as the counselor, as the consolation, as the comforter. There's no enmity in the words. It's always a connotation of warmth and of friendship. Here the Holy Spirit, as a friend, with tender loving concern, is expressing his grief over the corruption of someone that he loves. You're not taking this seriously, and it's hurting you, and it's killing me to see you go through this. Now, once upon a time, when a preacher says that by the way, it means this true, this is not a true story. Once upon a time, but based on true events, I saw an argument between a couple, a married couple. The couple had a nice dinner party and uh wine was included. Once a great deal of thought. Many courses. The idea was to be formal and to have a nice time. Let me let you in on a little bit of the backstory, though. The wife had a history of drinking too much. And on this night her history would be continued. By the time the dinner had started, she had drank all of the wine in the house. So that others could not enjoy it. And she was not going to be able to fellowship with others because she's slurring her speech. And now people are embarrassed for her You know, the husband was grieved over her decisions. She wanted the guests and her to be able to really have a good time together. You imagine the good time they would have had. They dressed up for the occasion. They were free from the children. So he con he confronted her privately and and asked her, Did you drink all the wine? And she replies, yes. What is your problem? What are you, my father now And the husband calmly takes her hand, and he says to her, like a wise husband, if by that do you mean, am I trying to hurt you, then no, I'm not your father. I am your husband, and I love you. I am simply grieved that you cannot have all that I wanted for you tonight That is what's being communicated in the passage. The grief of the Holy Spirit. Not the disdain. He's not seeking to discourage you. He just told you to not let anything come out of your mouth that's not edifying. Why would he do what he just said? He's seeking to edify you. This is the true picture of the passage. The Holy Spirit reveals his personal grief. So that you can have and see the love of the Trinity. Do you obey God Out of fear and disappointment? Or do you obey him because you love him, because of the love that he has given to you That's the difference. Do you see how lovable that husband is? Do you see how she'll move out of the defensive posture and she'll repent? And how they're going to work through it together as a couple That's how our God is with us. Unhealthy enemy fear. That's not what we have. Unhealthy enemy shame. Our God does not shame us. No. It is love for a son, it is love for a daughter, it is love for a friend, it is love for a bride. And if he loves us like that, then can't we love him? Can't we love him with the enumeration that has been given here within this passage? If we've been stealing, can we stop stealing now Out of love, because it grieves someone that loves us. Can we start saying things that are edifying? Because he has loved us. You see the difference in the gospel motivation instead of a legal Covenant of works fear. The verse 32 is given as a final reminder to us. That we're to be kind to one another. We're to be tender-hearted, forgiving one another. And look at the emotions again, all of this tied together, and who's the example? It's God. He is the one that started all of this love and is not speaking to us as enemies because he has forgiven us in Jesus Christ. I'd ask that you please pray with me now, and then we'll consider this more fully as we go to the supper. Please pray Holy Spirit, you have in fact revealed your personal interests in our holiness in order to give us correct gospel motivations. We think such wicked thoughts about you. We are so used to other human beings confronting us. Just for their own good in order to have control over us or for some selfish desire, but that's not who you are. That's not how you relate to us. And I pray, Lord, that as you reveal The Holy Spirit's feelings on this, his thoughts, that we would take heed and that we would take caution and that we would not grieve him. And Lord, I pray that it would be from a motivation of love, that like would meet like, that love would meet love here in this instance. And we pray these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.