Instead of moving right into the scripture, I'm going to ask for you to go back into a moment of silent prayer. I'm going to give you about one moment. And what I'm going to ask you to do in the silence of your own heart is to pray for the Lord to enable you to receive his word. I'm going to ask that you pray that the Holy Spirit will work work on you in and through his word as it comes to you both in this passage and in the sermon. So for one moment here, I would ask that we begin to pray. Pray for God's power. Amen. Matthew thirteen, beginning at verse twenty-four, reading through verse forty-three Another parable he put forth to them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his field. But while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat and went his way. But when the grain had sprouted and produced a crop, then the tares also appeared. So the servants of the owner came and said to him, Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have tares? He said to them, An enemy has done this. The servant said to him, Do you want us then to go and gather them up? But he said, No, lest while you gather up the tares you also uproot them And at the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers, First gather together the tares and bind them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn Another parable he put forth to them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his field, which indeed is the least of all the seeds But when it grows it is greater than the herbs and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and nest in its branches. Another parable he spoke to them The kingdom of heaven is like leaven, which All these things Jesus spoke to the multitudes in parables, and without a parable he did not speak to them. it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophets, saying, I will open my mouth in parables. I will utter things kept secret from the foundation of the world. Then Jesus sent the multitude away and went into the house, and his disciples came to him, saying, Explain to us the parable of the tares of the field. He answered and said to them, He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man. The field is the world. The good seeds are the sons of the kingdom, but the tares are the sons of the wicked one. one. The enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are the angels. Therefore, as the tares are gathered and burned in the fire, so it will be at the end of the age of this age. The Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and those who practice lawlessness, and will cast them into the furnace of fire There will be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Then the righteous will shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. The problem with parables that immediately confronts us is that when we look at them, we can pretty much ex uh understand what they're saying. The problem comes, how do we apply them Here we have three parables. The wheat and the tares, the bustard seed, and the leaven in the field. They are well known. And therein also lies a problem. We've heard these for Since we were kids. And as a result of it, sometimes it is difficult for us to play close attention to them. Our mind just begins to wander and as a result of that Yeah, yeah, yeah, I've heard that all before. But Jesus thinks that these parables are important, or he would not have said them. And he wants us to embrace them. But To what end do we embrace them? Paul teaches us that all scripture is God-breathed and useful for teaching, reproof, correction, and training in righteousness. Righteousness. Therefore, these parables are intended to address our lives, yours and mine together. To see that, we need to get into a frame of mind to understand how they do, we need to get into a frame of mind that these parables are designed to address. They are directed into the human condition, into a specific way of addressing a human condition. And for us to begin to approach that, let's stop for a moment and think about this world in which we live If we really do that, if we really open our minds and our hearts to this world that we live in, then I think that it is very easy to become discouraged. Just this week, terrible news has come forth in our land of a young man, 17 years old, and his younger brother, who understands took to kill their parents and their siblings with knives and a hatchet. That's horrible. It's just one more t thing, though, in a string of such news that has come to us throughout our land. Along with those kind of news stories, we have coming at us. News of political corruption. We have scandals all about us. The world seems to be exploding with wars. Hardly a day goes by without some sense of immediate effect on us here. There's a difference in the world about us. And when we see things going on in the world, then we know that it doesn't mean that we are just can watch it as as detached observers. So this, as we go by, with that kind of news coming at us left and right, it is easy to get discouraged. But then we turn our minds and our eyes to God's Word. We see there that the Word that God gives us us is filled with great and wonderful promises. We we see, particularly in the Old Testament, but also repeated in the New, that when the Messiah comes, great and wonderful things are going to happen. happen. God's going to do things through this promised Messiah who we know is Jesus Christ and the result is going to be beautiful. Now I could go through and we could spend the rest of the day looking at all of the passages that would do that. Let's just choose one, Isaiah verses 1 through 10. If you wanted to glance at it, you would see that this is a marvelously beautiful picture of what the Messiah is going to do. Here he comes, the rod of Jesse. And when he arrives, then it's going to be attended with great and wonderful things happening. The Gentiles are going to flock to him. Peace is going to break out over the earth. And a very well known image, the wolf is going to lie down with the lamb. There's not going to be any longer any hurting or destroying in all of God's holy mountain. The earth will be filled with the knowledge of God. The waters cover the sea. Paul tells us clearly in Romans 15, 12 that Jesus fulfills Isaiah's power. Prophecy. But we ask, Jesus fulfills that. Where is it? Where is this kingdom of peace and joy? Where is this land wherein suffering has been abolished? When will we see the Gentiles flocking to Christ so that the healing can occur that will take away the hatred that is in their heart and the diseases that are in their flesh? Peter addresses this himself in a passage in his first epistle. He says that in the latter days people will ask Ask where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation, and certainly today, if we look at the world about us, we could very well be asking that. same question. We look at the world or we listen to it coming into our lives, we cannot escape it. And as we hear it about things Or see things, Satan is right there whispering in our ear. Since Adam fell in the garden, it's been just This way. Wars and rumors of wars, people hating each other, brother rising up against brother and killing him, people abusing each other other people deceiving each other, death everywhere, cancer seemingly all over the place, murders, childhood diseases, old age, all of those things This is the way it's always been. He whispers with that snake-like voice. This is the way it will always be. God has loved Jesus did not bring in a kingdom of love and peace and joy. He was just a man like any other man, and all that you have believed in is a lie concocted by a church of Christians through the ages who have held people in bondage by this false idea. Brothers and sisters, that sounds so horrid when we think of it that way, but I doubt there's a mature mind in this room that has not been at some time afflicted, sometimes tempted, sometimes oppressed by just such a thought. If you're a Christian Your heart has been made tender, and when you see the world around you, the tenderness of your heart grieves over that, and you wonder where is Christ's kingdom? Jesus said, I have come to do the Father's will to bring about the kingdom on earth. All things that are written are about me and for me. I am the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Satan whispers in her eyes. ears. Oh yeah, show me. And it is just this kind of spiritual attack that these parables are addressed to answer. And it is with that in mind that I think we should seek to apply them here today. That which all three of these parables together, that Which ties all three of these parables together is this, that the kingdom of Christ comes in hidness. It comes to us in an apparent insignificance, and yet in that hiddenness and Insignificance, God's kingdom is fully manifest. The kingdom is here, but it's like a field covered with weeds The kingdom is here, but it is like leaven working secretly inside a lump of dough. The kingdom is here, but it's like an extremely small mustard seed. One that you can barely hold between your fingers. They're so small. But one day we'll give shade to the whole world. Jesus teaches us that what we see about us is not all there is, and we must trust in that. Think about about the parable of the wheat and tares. Put yourself in a mental image of Jesus surrounded by hundreds, perhaps thousands, of people Closest to him envision his disciples. And right there among his disciples is Judas. And then as you branch away from them, beyond the twelve, there are other people of various stages of intimacy with Jesus, people who traveled with him. And next to them, imagine just mingled in and through them, scribes and Pharisees. Then you see the main congregation out there. As we discussed last week in the sermon about the four seeds, many of them came just to have a kind of a holiday, perhaps to see a miracle, something they could tell about all the Some are elect. Some would be flocking to Peter that day when he starts preaching and and they come to him and thousands were saved. But many among them, perhaps the majority, of those who were there that day, would one day be soon be saying, crucify him. We have no king but Caesar. Now think about that image. in terms of this parable. Jesus said the kingdom of God is like a man who sowed good seed. Now notice what What he did there. He bought the very best seed. Well, what is good seed? Well, good seed is seed that is not mixed with seeds of leaves It's pure seeds. It's wheat seed and nothing else. Sorry. Okay. It's been carefully sifted. There's nothing Mixed in with the seed. The sower takes and pays extra to make sure he gets good seed, and he goes out and he sows it. Judy and I have finally been able to afford to have some work done on our front yard. We are no longer, I am happy to admit, we are no longer looking at bare dirt under a bunch of trees. Part of that work was to have that front yard tilled and sowed with grass seed. And we actually have grass there now. It's a great thing. joy. But not just grass. Immediately when that grass started coming up, these little leafy things started coming up. Coming up also. Some of it's those wounded squirrels, but uh planting s seeds out there, but that plague will never go away in my house. Uh but others are just trees dropping So as a result of it, where it started out in the first couple of weeks a nice fluffy grass, but now we've got all of these broadleaf uh weeds growing up. This fall I hope to use weed and feed on it, depending. But right now, if I were to try to separate out those weeds, every bit of that grass would be dead. You can't do it. And that's how Jesus paints a picture of the kingdom of God. It's here, but it's up field that is covered with weeds. Not just the weed here or there. But weeds that look a lot like the wheat. The word that is used here for the particular type of tear is what is called false wheat. It actually starts forming in the earth. And so you look out there, you don't know what's a good wheat and what's not. So Jesus makes no bones about it in this parable. There is false wheat, fake wheat, wheat that does not mature, wheat that does not produce a head of grain growing in the field of God's kingdom. And he the seed is there not because, well, I don't know, maybe squirrels could be thought of as Satan, but you know They're they're there because an enemy has planted them. This is a dastardly deed. This guy, Satan is Come out, planted these seeds out there, and what is this intent? To ruin the harvest. The seed, the tares grow up, maybe it chokes out the wheat, or maybe in the process of cleaning out the tar Satan planted those seeds because he wants to choke out the good wheat. He wants to ruin the Lord's crop. And that's what Jesus is seeing when he looks about him at all of those people. And brothers and sisters, as we look out at the world right now That is what we see also. The world is God's field. It is his creation. It is the work of his hands. It was made for his glory. He has made it He has cultivated it and he has prepared it for the crop that he intends to bring from it. But there's an enemy at work in this field. And this enemy And what that enemy is designed is intending to do is to deny the Lord his harvest. And so in the midst of God's kingdom Satan has planted many bad seeds. It may look like good wheat. Externally, you may not be able to tell one from the other. It is only when, when it comes time to bear fruit, that you can really tell the difference. And that's true for the world, it's true for the church. It is true for our families. Wherever you think about the world, wherever you apply, where is God's field, and look for the kingdom within that field. This parable holds true. We must not think that Satan here has the power to create. That's one of the bad things about this particular metaphor that can lead people astray. Satan can't create anything. He can't Make somebody a bad seed. There are those in the field, however, that Satan can find fertile ground for the seed that he does plant. All of us are born into this world as sinners. All of us are born with a nature that is in bondage to Satan. That's why from external appearances sometimes we We can't tell the difference between good wheat and bad wheat. We can't tell the difference externally from the wheat and the tares. Until it's time for the fruit to be grown. harvested. There are those who, though, are prepared to receive God's word. There are those who love Satan's lies. And they're both growing up in God's field. What is the outcome? This passage is very clear The outcome is, first of all, there's going to be a harvest. Never doubt it. And in this harvest, there will come a time when all of those Those who are growing in God's field will hear the sound of God's voice. And some, the good wheat he will hear, they will hear, come into my kingdom. Come into the reward that I have prepared for you. And to others he will say, Depart from me, for I never knew you. And there will be wailing. These are the words of our Lord Himself, saying, This is how we should view the world about us. This is how we should view our church. Is how we should view our families. What is true for the immediate life is true for all of history. This parable not only addresses each individual as they live now and In the day of Christ, it gives a picture of all time, when the world is subjected to God's harvest, when the end comes, and the good is separated from the bad. And from that point on, the fullness of the harvest will be completed. But this parable applies now in this. This is God's field, and when we look at it we must expect to see both wheat and tares, and we must both we must expect to see that That which is consistent with God's kingdom will be evident if we look for it, and that which is consistent with Satan's kingdom is probably what we see most of the apparently. We see the same basic story in the parable of the mustard seed in the leaven. The mustard seed is so small you can barely see it. When you drop it into the soil it basically disappears. Have you ever planted a really small seed? I don't know if anybody's ever planted okra. It's a very small seed, just like this. Put it down in the dirt and as soon as it drops it. But it's there. It's growing. And though the mustard plant is an herb like other herbs, yet given the right conditions, it can grow to be somewhat large Jesus is making a point here. Given the right conditions, this thing which started so small, started so invisibly, becomes large enough to give shade and a place for the resting of birds. Now that's the kingdom of God. It starts small. Eleven original disciples and And Paul later on. But through that small, seemingly insignificant seed planted in God's big field, it will grow, and brothers and sisters, it is growing And one beautiful sunlit day, at some point in our future, we will see it covering the whole earth. We will see its branches filled with the brightly colored wings of thousands of birds. I've seen photographs of trees in the Amazon rainforest. They are so filled with birds, parrots, cockatoos, whatever it goes down there. I don't know, asked Stephen Okay, all these exotic birds. That when you look at it, it's similar to seeing a picture of a Christmas tree just filled with ornaments And so will the earth be one of these days, brothers and sisters. So will God's church be one day, when all we see is from the nations of the earth the brightly colored plumage of each individual race, each individual. Nation bringing their glories into God's kingdom. Decorating God's tree. His kingdom. It starts small, but it's growing. It's already beautiful. And one day it will fill the earth. The same point is now Made with the leaven. Leaven is invisible when it starts working in a lump of dough. All you see looking at the outside is the dough. But then in the warm sun, it begins to expand. And the lump begins to rise, and the leaven hidden in the lump is working sweetness and delight. It brings about change. It's making the world different. It's bringing about good things. We hear the news, we look about us in the world, we may not see the good things. Why? Good news doesn't sell newspapers We don't see hour-long specials about Christian ministry in Africa to AIDS victims. But we have a church in this presbytery who sends a force of missionaries over there, Christian missionaries over there every summer. Doctors From Johns Hopkins, pastors, lay people, and they work with AIDS patients in one of the most AIDS-infested countries in the world. world. Not much is heard in the news about the way lives are being touched in one in our neighborhoods. Think of just how our deacons working in the local neighborhoods here. Bring the word of God and comfort and help to others. You don't hear much about encouragement that about the encouragement that Christians give But brothers and sisters, if you love history like I love it, find the most Fascinating facts of history is how you can overlay Christianity and the rise of such things as hospitals When you map out freedom as we understand it, health care for the poor, equal rights for men, women of all races, education for the masses. Representative government, advancement through merit rather than through birthright. All of those things are almost a one-for-one parallel with the spread of Christianity. Why? Because Because Christianity teaches love for our brethren, whether they be Christian or not, and to do good works in the world, and that is still going on Many horrible things have been done in the names of Christ. And whenever you say something like that, immediately some of those wheat, some of those tears rise up and say, Yeah, but what about the crucifix? I'm not going to go into that, but what about the crusades? You do have to answer for things that people have done falsely. The Inquisition comes to mind. In the name of Christ. But brothers and sisters, that's the wheat and tares at work. The leaven is there also. And the kingdom of Christ is there Is still working in the world. Good things are coming out of it. What God wants for us today is this: He wants us not to be deceived by The appearances of things. This is God's world. This is God's field. This is God's lump of dough. And he has not abandoned it. God's Holy Spirit is still at work now, as he was at work in the days of Christ Jesus. God did If God did not abandon this world when God when this world killed his son, he his own Is not abandoning it now. Rather, God overcame the world. And many of those scribes and Pharisees that stood around Jesus that day First hearing this parable, later found themselves falling at the feet of the apostles and crying out to them and saying, Brothers, what can we do to be saved? Many of the hardened hearts that we see about us and the world around us now will in time discover that they have been horribly wrong. They have been horribly mistaken. Just as the man Saul of Tarsus discovered it on the road to Damascus. What I'm calling on you to do today is do not be deceived. Do not be Let Satan ruin your day or ruin your witness. We are in God's field, which He has planted, and like the wheat, we are to grow and to bring about. fruit in our lives. Fruit that cannot be denied but will be a war uh rewarded. And all of the tares that are about us Who do not bring fruit as a minister as a evidence of their life will one day be weeded out. But we will remain This kingdom will grow like a mustard seed. It may appear small, but one day it'll fill the whole earth. And lastly, we must never forget That we're like leaven. We are the kingdom of God now in this time and space. And we are to work in this time and space to bring about good in our lives. In the world about us, and particularly within our church. We can act like leaven in a loaf and bring delightful change wherever it is that we are placed. And I believe these are the things that these parables are given out to us to teach us. Let's pray.