Let's open the scriptures to Philippians chapter one. Our reading this morning is fifteen through eighteen. Fifteen through eighteen, chapter one. Some indeed preach Christ even from envy and strife, and some also from goodwill. The former preach Christ from selfish ambition, not sincerely. Supposing to add affliction to my chains, but the latter out of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the gospel. What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached. And in this I rejoice, yes, and will rejoice. Let us pray. Oh Father, we ask that you would glorify your Son, and Son, that you would glorify the Father. Now we ask that you would do so through your Spirit. We ask, Lord Christ, that you'd send your Spirit to us, bringing conviction that you would sanctify us by your truth. Your truth by the preached word. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I'm not sure if you expected what has been happening here in our sermon series in the book of Philippians. But it's been quite interesting that as we unfold the details of this particular letter, that we could, with a clear conscience, say that Paul, in many ways, is teaching the Philippians what it means to be human. And the Spirit, continuing to minister throughout the ages, is there teaching you what it means to be human. And perhaps some of the features of humanity being restored by Christ Himself are surprising to you. Abounding in love, the kind of wisdom that we are to, the heights of wisdom that we are to obtain. And then last week, what was introduced was That we, as a new creation, are to be marked by joy That Christians are to be marked by joy, and we, well actually I, I raise the question. I raised the question for you and asked, have the circumstances of your life stolen your joy? That's an important question for you to consider day in and day out because you have so many circumstances. Have the circumstances of your life stolen your joy? As Christians, we answer no. Are we to be maturing to that point? And as Christians. We answer that within a particular framework. As Christians, we're not stoics to our circumstances. We take our circumstances seriously. We're not unemotional about our circumstances. We grieve, but we don't grieve without hope. We, in fact, even in the midst of the grief, can have a kind of joy that runs real deep. And you know why? It's because, as Paul taught us, that our great God is a great alchemist. That he's able to take that which is base like lead and turn it into gold. And he can take your base circumstances and turn it into gold. That each of you here, if you were to map your narrative for your life, What is the story of your life? Each of you here that are in Christ, your story is the story of Joseph. That though these circumstances were intended toward evil, God worked it all out for good. And that is what produces joy. What really embraced and understood. Now I have A new question for you here this morning, because it's not just circumstances and joy that we're concerned about. There's another consideration that we have here by the Holy Spirit, and is this. Have you permitted criticism to feel your joy? Not just circumstances. Criticism. Have you allowed criticism to steal your joy? Now here is a little secret when we start to think about people who are critical, and I don't mean constructively so. They're not interested in building you up. They really are trying to destroy you at some level. Maybe not annihilation, though that can happen, but they definitely want to kick you while you're down. Does that take away your joy when there are critical people around you? This is an important thing to know. It's an important thing to think about. I remember, for example, when I had my tonsils and my adenoids removed. Anybody else have that experience? Is that like an old surgery they don't do anymore? Am I yeah, I don't know. Do people have tonsils still? They do. Yeah. I don't either. There we go. Well it required surgery and I remember being there the little old Jesse having getting ready to have his tonsils removed and in the Pre-operation area, the doctor came up and was very friendly and was making jokes, and he was telling me what to expect. He was saying, Now when you wake up Well first, I'm going to put this on your face, this mask, and then you're going to start counting the ten, and before you get to three, you're going to Not remember anything. And then when you wake up, you're going to say silly things, so be careful. And then when you wake up, your throat is going to feel like someone is stabbing you with needles. And the only thing you're gonna be able to eat is uh ice cream. They save that for the end, after the needle part. They save that for the end. And that's important. It was important for him in the pre-operative stage for me to know what the expectations should be after the surgery is done. And it's the same thing that the Holy Spirit is doing here Christ is the great surgeon. And he has done a great operation upon you, Christian. And here you can see the Spirit is saying, listen. If you're a new creation in Christ, there's something that you need to expect after you have that surgery. After you become the kind of person whose heart has been purified by faith. And he has turned you from this way and set you towards the great celestial city. There's something that's going to happen while you are making your pilgrimage throughout this world. And you know what it is? Criticism. And it's not constructive. People will want to kick you when you're down. And the great lesson here from the Apostle Paul is that despite that I will rejoice. I will have joy even in the midst of such criticism. And that's the teaching this mor this morning, is that Christ is teaching you here and motivating you here, Christian, from this scripture, that even in the face of criticism, you are to have joy, and you will have joy under his leadership. under his shepherding. That's our main lesson this morning that Christ is teaching you in the negative, do not let criticism steal your joy. And we'll look at how that's done here by the Apostle Paul. So I want to do two main things. I want to start by establishing the situation. I've said some cute things so far about concept. But I want to establish this viewpoint and this truth from the scriptures themselves. That's very important. So we're going to look at the situation that Paul is in. And then we're going to go on and we're going to ask, well, what does this teach us about how to make sure our joy is not stolen and how to face criticism? So let's take a look first together at the situation. Go ahead and glance down at your scriptures. Our paragraph this morning is verses 15 through 18, but we're going to start just a little bit higher than that, because that's the flow of thought. Last week, we observed that God brought two main benefits from Paul's imprisonment, which is part of the reason why he's able to have joy in such circumstances. Do you remember the first reason? The first reason is that the Roman Imperial Guard heard about the Lord of Lord and the King of Kings because they were constantly with Paul. Now they had heard another kind of gospel, a kind of Roman gospel, about what Caesar Augustus will bring to this world and his the peace that uh and civilization that the Roman Empire will bring to barbarian states But here Paul is able to teach them that there is not just a king, not just a lord, but there is a king of kings and a lord of lords, and it's Jesus of Nazareth. God's only begotten Son, the eternal Christ. And He's able to teach them that and spread the gospel in that way. And that was the first benefit. That was the gold that God brought out of the lead in Paul's imprisonment. Then there was a second that brought him joy. Other Christians saw that even in the imprisonment, God worked in spite of it. And so they became emboldened to say, Well, even if I face difficult circumstances, God will work nevertheless So they were able to gain some holy boldness, like we see in Acts chapter 4, and as you would see in the other apostles and the disciples, where they're able to go out From Jerusalem, Judea, and to the surrounding nations with a kind of boldness to also talk about the real King, King Jesus. That was the second benefit that is received. Now when we get to verse 15, we're still talking about Those Christians who became bold to speak. If you take a look there, you see in verse 15, he's still Look at verse fourteen, and most of the brethren in the Lord, having become confident by my chains, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Verse fifteen We now talk in in terms of a specific kind of speaking of the word, which is some indeed preach. So we're talking about the Christian community and an inner conflict and criticism that is happening amongst the body of Christ And when we start to look now at our paragraph, you will see that Paul divides these groups of people into two parts. The first group is a group that is motivated by envy. That's why we rehearsed the commandment this morning. And there's the word envy is in there if you look back at the larger catechisms exposition. Some of them are motivated by envy. You can see that there in verse number 15. Some indeed preach Christ. even from envy and strife, wanting to cause a kind of division. But there are is another group too. There's not just on the one hand, this is the way this verse is structured, by the way, on the one hand And then on the other hand. So you can think of these two hands. On the one hand we have those who are envious of Paul's ministry and the desire to cause more problems, but then on the other hand, there are those who from goodwill and love, respecting Paul and acknowledging that he has been appointed as the great defender of the gospel. That's the kind of language that's used here in verse number sixteen. Then they're preaching in a different way with different motive or they're preaching with different Motivations. And that's the basic situation. That's the situation that Paul finds himself in. Now, inevitably, what people want are the details. What were they saying about Paul? Well, go ahead and ask that question of the text. Pretend that this paragraph is a person and say, hey, paragraph, person, what were the details? Silence. We just don't know exactly the way in which they were displaying their envy and tearing down Paul. But we could use our imagination and we could speculate based on just experiences in the scriptures and in our own life. But I just want to I I want you to know that I'm at this point just speculating Because you see I don't have the details, and neither do you. We know that number one if we want to start to fill out the contours a little bit about well how was this envy displaying itself and the strife that was created These motivations that Paul was picking up on, this criticism under which he fell. We know that whoever was criticizing Paul, number one, right here, number one, whoever was criticizing Paul, they were not heretics. Whoever was criticizing Paul, they were not heretics, he emphasizes in verse 16 and in verse 18 that they were still preaching Christ. Now, if you were to flip at another time to the book of Galatians, you could see that Paul has no problem talking to those who are not preaching Christ. And he says, let them be anathema if they give any other gospel. He's willing to admonish or confront. But here he does not draw them out that way. So the first observation is that they're still preaching Christ. These are not heretics. It is not the exact same case or situation that we find within Galatians where another gospel is being given. That's important for you to know. Why is that important for you to know? Because I don't want you to think that Paul waters anything down. He's not willing to put up with someone who preaches with another gospel. And just excuse it. That's not what's going on here. They're not heretics. That's not happening here. They in fact are preaching Christ. Now Here's the second observation is that despite the orthodoxy of their preaching, they are preaching out of envy, and what they're doing is they're elevating themselves to the disparagement and lowering of Paul. The way that the language, you can pick up on a couple things here with the vocabulary in the passage, the language that's used is uh is someone who's going to advance their cause at the expense of another person's. Climbing the corporate ladder while kicking the head of anyone else down and breaking the rung so no one else could climb. That's the idea that's going on here, I think. So, whenever they're preaching, perhaps not during the exact same sermon, but in their life they're disparaging Paul. Now what would there be some of the kinds of the things that they would say? Well it'd be the same kind of things you hear today. And if any of you are a pastor, you've been disparaged like this, and if any of you are in seminary, just buckle up Uh because it's gonna happen. It's yeah, I told you about the Tonsil story. You can expect it. Now they might say, for example, now why is Paul in prison? Don't we read that God chastises those who are sinful? What's really going on here is that Paul's got some sin in his life. He needs some time to deal with it. His head got too big, too many revelations. And God is disciplining him. And you know what for now? You need to give him a sabbatical. That's what God is forcing on him, because he's a workaholic. And you need to keep your distance and instead you need to accept our leadership. We're going to go ahead and chair the session meetings from now on. And also you should probably just come over to our church. In fact, we're establishing one in the center city. That could be one thought that you would hear, or Paul is in prison because his faith has weakened. And we know this because if he had real faith, he would just name deliberance and then claim it. He would claim power over his adversaries, and the fact that he can't claim power over his adversaries shows that he doesn't have the kind of faith that he's supposed to. He started well, but he didn't finish. He needs to attend miracle and healing school. Or perhaps you'd hear something like, Paul's in prison because he's old-fashioned. I mean, God's making a way for something new and fresh. Forget pulpits. You know? I mean, Paul, he's still wearing suits and stuff. He doesn't have a single pair of skinny jeans in his closet. He doesn't ha own Jordans. Out with the old and in with the new. Those are some of the things that maybe he would be saying. Those some of the actual things that are heard today as one church disparages the other. in order to elevate their ministry and to tear down other ministries as they're seeking to do so. Now maybe your criticism ends up looking different than that. But I just wonder what are the specific ways over the last month that you know that people have disparaged you, that have scandalized your name, and you know that it was all false? That's not really who you are. That wasn't your intention. It was not your motivations. Nobody gave you the benefit of the doubt. They just sought to kick you while you were down. They drew conclusions about your specific situation that just aren't true. They said you're like this because you're a sinner. You're like this For whatever the reason might be. What are the criticisms that you have undergone from your fellow Christians? And then the main question that comes up out of that as we move away from the situation in our first point and start to look at the response to these kind of situations. Did it steal your joy when you came under the unjust gossip and criticism? Because what we end up seeing here with the Apostle Paul is that at the end in verse 18, if you glance down, is he says, his final words are, I will rejoice. I rejoice and I will rejoice. Now how do you get from that point here with a criticism all the way to that point? That's the thing left to note. That's our next point here. That is how is it that we can make sure our joy is not stolen? We have to look to Paul and the disparagement and the slander that he underwent and the fact that it didn't steal his joy. And that's why he's saying this to the Philippians to begin with, is because they're hearing things. And so he's clarifying for them, listen, don't let what you're hearing about me steal your joy. It hasn't stolen mine. Now how is it that he could get to that point? Here's the answer. Paul, they did not rob Paul of his joy because Paul found his joy in the exaltation of Jesus Christ. And not in his own exaltation. That's the heart of it. And that is a very difficult it is an advanced place to get. That can take years of discipline under the Lord's hand for you to get to that place. Paul found his joy in the exaltation of Christ and not in his own exaltation, and therefore Paul was willing to suffer the greatest hostility in order to see the exaltation of Christ come to pass. That was the main point. In many ways, Paul is saying in a paraphrase, those things don't matter as long as Christ is exalted. And that isn't a very adult thing to say. A very mature thing to say. Now One commentator goes on to point out, as we've already pointed out, as a kind of review, that Paul is writing to the church at Philippi. He expressed his delight over the way the gospel was advancing through his imprisonment. God raised up many men who were boldly preaching Christ, and the gospel was going forth mightily. Some of the preachers, however, had bad intentions toward Paul in their preaching, seeking to exalt themselves and publicly shame the apostle. Verse 16 We don't know the exact nature of what was happening here, but it's clear that Paul rejoiced even in these ill-willed preachers. Why? Because Christ was being proclaimed. Verse 18. Philippians 1. 18, what then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached. And in this I rejoice, yes, and I will rejoice Another commentator goes on to explain: as long as Christ is preached, Paul is unconcerned about his own position or fame in comparison to that of other preachers. So those who intended to cause Paul harm by exalting themselves above him as preachers of Christ actually caused him to rejoice because Christ was preached. And that's the main message for you here is that the advancement of the message, not the advancement of you, is the source of joy. The advancement of the kingdom, and not your personal advancement, is the source of joy Now, that contains a lot of wisdom. I mean we're benefiting from how many different situations did Paul have to go through to finally really grasp this lesson to then share it with the Philippians. Wow, that's a lot of wisdom for us to be able to take on this morning. Let's try to bottle the wisdom a little bit in a couple questions. Are you up for that? Let me ask you first and foremost, there's a couple things that we've got to get straight now that we have everything out on the table. What have you made your chief end? What have you made the target at which you aim for your life? What we end up having here in this passage is called a heuristic. It's a discovery device. It's a way by which we would discover certain things, kind of like a metal detector. Well we can use the metal detector here to find out what have we actually what have we f in in true functioning What we have we set as the chief aim of our lives. And the way that you can do that is you can ask the question, what devastates you? What steals or takes away your joy? What certain things are you not able to handle? You're not just grieved over it, and then you move on, which would be a mature response. You're devastated. When people talk about you in an unjust way, people try to reason with you When you hear that they've been slandering your name or they've said unjust things about you, they try to reason with you, but the only thing that can happen is like a four-alarm fire in your mind and in your heart. But they said, but they said And you can't get past that. You can't get past your own reputation Which in part is reasonable and understandable because reputation, as highlighted in the scriptures, particularly the Ninth Commandment, is extremely important. But the main question that you're going to have to consider, which is this question, is is it your chief aim? Is it your glory that is the end of the matter? That's what every human being coming under the shepherding and the kingship of Christ has to start to consider. Things get rearranged. They get turned upside down when he's in charge. And though most of the human race outside of Christ seeks their own glory and therefore must protect it, you are not that way. There is something that is above you that's grander than you. You live for something larger. And therefore, you're able to undergo a level of criticism that others are not. You won't have your joy stolen because you make your chief end the glory of God. But I'm asking you now, what is your chief end? Our chief aim ought to be the glory of Christ. As humans, we sometimes adopt our chief aim unintentionally. You ever notice that? Have you ever gone through life and you find that you're getting really upset or you're really obsessed with something? And things aren't going well, and it's causing a bunch of uh relational wreckage, and then you get a moment of clarity, and you think, why am I even chasing after these things? When did I become so concerned about that kind of stuff? When did I begin to take Showing so seriously. Or whatever it is. It's so funny. We chuckle, but it's so funny what human beings can adopt as their chief aim. Dog training style Breed of dog. Food. Where you get the food. And you could make this your sole cause for life. And get everybody on board, and you would become upset at any kind of criticism with that. It is so amazing how many different places our hearts can begin to worship There's a funny little saying that I heard from a fellow pastor where uh he gave a story uh in in terms of just ha ha ha how often we unintentionally choose our chief aim, and it's good to have moments of clarity to figure out what should be our ultimate aim in life, the exaltation of Christ. being it. But it gives this little story of a an airline pilot who cu who uh comes up on the the speaker system. Let's say it's Southwest. Okay, because I'm sponsored by them. Just kidding. Let let's say it's Southwest, it's an airline pilot, and then he says, Well um I just want to uh tell you some uh bad news here. The GPS isn't working, but the good news is is we're got a tailwind and we're making great time. It can end up being the same thing with our life is that we're getting there in a hurry but we have no idea where. We didn't choose it intentionally. And it's uh times like this when we're together as a community, under the ministry of Christ and his spirit, where you can start to gain some clarity. You can begin to look out on the horizon and ask, well, what are my aims supposed to be? To be. What is my purpose? And Paul is saying here, for very practical reasons with regard to your joy, is that your ultimate purpose is the exaltation of Jesus Christ and his kingdom. And that feels weird to us. Because as human beings, what feels natural is that if we exalt ourselves and we reach the zenith and the pinnacle, That is what is going to bring our happiness. But there's this there's a strange thing in the universe where God has set it up to where it's not until you become lower than Christ that you find your happiness. You'll actually find your glory in glorifying him. That's what all this is about, and Paul has got that nailed down. And the Spirit is inviting you into this kind of life. So where are you headed? What does your life aim for, and why do you do what you do? The lesson here is that we keep our joy by resolving that Christ's kingdom and his glory is our chief good. Therefore, when we are slandered, when we undergo injustice, when we are criticized, and that does not hinder the gospel, then your joy remains because your treasure was never touched. They shot and they missed, even if they hit you. That's Paul's main point, and it's the lessons of the Spirit this morning. Now, what if it does hinder the gospel? Well, we'll return to the first lesson. And realize actually there's nothing ultimately that can hinder the gospel because our God is the great alchemist. And he will take that which is meant to be hindrance and turn it into progress. This is another way of saying that you are conquerors in Jesus Christ. There is nothing That can stop it. Either way, you can say in verse number 18, I rejoice and I will rejoice. Wow. Human life is really turning into something magnificent under Christ. I think this is the perfect opportunity for me to talk from the movie The Patriot again. There's a scene in the Patriot where Mel Gibson, let's call him the Patriot, he sought the release of his militia. They had finally captured them. And they brought them back to the main headquarters and so he had come up with a plan for the release of his men He entered their headquarters under the official rules of war and he negotiated a release. He had uh the main whatever whoever he was, he's in charge. He had a the telescope and he looked out over on the hill and they were holding what looked like officers. Really they were straw men dressed in officers' uniforms. And he said, I have your officers, I'm willing to release them if you release my men. And they negotiated the release. Now, as he's walking out, the release has been given. They're going to go, they're going to take their men and they're going to leave. But right at that moment That he's going to leave that headquarters, the main bad guy shows up on his horse, that main officer. It's the main officer that had been hunting the Patriot the whole time. It's the main officer That shot the Patriots' little boy. Killed him right in front of his father. Sought to hang the older boy also. He shows up and he goes over to one of the attendants and he says, What is going on here? Why are these offic why are these men being released? And the answer to him is that the Patriot rode in under the official rules and he's shown no aggression aggression. And that's his cue. Because now, let's say he's a general of some sort, he's on cavalry. He thinks in his mind, you can see it on his face, what I need to do is I need to get the patriot to show aggression, and then his cause will be lost. So he marches over to the patriot. And he mutters under his breath, he hasn't shown aggression, has he? He marches over to the to the patriot. Determined to provoke him into hostility, and the officer says, are you the father of that stupid little boy that I killed? You know, war is filled with a bunch of horrific moments, but every once in a while there's a real delight. And he's talking about killing the little boy. The Patriot turns, quickly advances towards the officer, and puts his face about three inches in front of that officer's face. He's breathing heavily, his eyes are flaring. And he says, I'm gonna kill you before this war is over. And then that general still seeking for Mel Gibson the Patriot to lose the cause, he says Why don't you do it now? And the Patriot replies, Soon. He turns back, he heads to his men, he gathers his prisoners, and he returns to his plans for the sake of the cause of liberty and his homeland That's why he's called the Patriot. He's called the Patriot because that's his chief aim. He's not antagonized for lesser causes at the wrong time, such as vindication or vengeance. The ultimate cause for him is his country and his homeland and the families that live there And he demonstrates it in that moment that he's able to take, in his maturity, he's able to take a lesser thing and set it aside temporarily in order for the cause to continue And though it's not the same kind of thing, though it's not the same thing, this is the same kind of thing that the Apostle Paul is talking about here. For you here this morning. The Patriot kept his main goal and his chief aim even under pressure. If he lost his discipline and sought vindication at that moment, he would lose the battle and the joy of a restored homeland. And the same is true of you. It is the same calling that is being spoken to you this morning from the Holy Spirit as to how you are to conduct yourself as mature human beings. You must by the power of the Holy Spirit and even his fruit of self-discipline Keep the main goal before your face. The chief aim is Christ and His kingdom. Not your own advancement or fame or reputation. It does take a secondary seat when it comes to him. Your chief aim is the glory of Christ. That's our message this morning. It's this. It's the advancement of the kingdom and not your own advancement. And when you can begin to live in that place and situate yourself quite comfortably there by the ministry of the Spirit, that you, my friends, even in the face of tremendous criticism You will maintain your joy. Amen. Let us pray.