Now in those days when the number of the disciples was multiplying, There arose a complaint against the Hebrews by the Hellenists, because their widows were neglected in the daily distribution. Then the twelve summoned the multitude of the disciples and said, It is not desirable that we should leave the Word of God and serve tables. Therefore, brethren, seek out from among you seven men of good reputation, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business But we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. And the saying pleased the whole multitude. And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit, and Philip and Fercorus, and Niconor and Timon and Parmonas, and Nicholas. a proselyte from Antioch, whom they set before the apostles, and when they had prayed, they laid hands on them. Then the word of God spread, and the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem And a many and a great many of the priests were obedient to the faith. Let us pray. Christ, we thank you for your word. We pray that we would not only be hearers, but that we would be doers. That we would hear your word and embrace what you have to say about yourself and about us. We pray, Lord, that we would embrace your glory and our own. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Well, we obviously return now back to our Acts series, where if you wanted to put a theme on the whole thing, it's really just understanding what it means to be the bride of Christ. Here we see no difference in our passage, but before we head into that, let's just do a brief review. We have in Acts been watching Christ re-establish his unrepentant people, the church. He led his people away from their sins. And he led them into a mode of existence, which we've been calling a churchly existence, that he has always intended. The summary that we saw in Acts chapter 2 when we were there was this. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, in the breaking of bread, and in the prayers. And we see that also on the front of our bulletin. Really, what we are acknowledging is that Christ is accomplishing the same thing that He has always set out to accomplish. You should be aware of this because the sermon series prior to Acts was Deuteronomy. What Christ is doing here, what he has always sought to do from the beginning, the eternal Christ, is for his bride to love him with all their hearts. With all their soul, with all their mind, and their neighbor as themselves. We've phrased it at other times, saying that we are to be Torah people correctly understood. If you were to think of Acts chapter 2 in that same way and through the same lens, then we would acknowledge that their steadfast devotion to prayer and our steadfast devotion not only to prayer but to worship and apostolic teaching It shows at least our love for God. And then theirs and our steadfast devotion to distributing our finances to those who are needy is at least one example of showing our love for our neighbor. But the point is Christ, because it is Christ who is accomplishing all of this. A question arose for us as we were going through our earlier chapters of Acts. And that was, would the disciples continue to love God and neighbor under the pressure of the political leaders? So, for example, if you remember, I hope this sparks some of the memory of our series. Remember when Peter and John were arrested? Do you remember when they were beaten by religious leaders? The question we asked is, would their devotion stop? And the answer was no. The external pressure only encouraged the church. We asked also, how is it that they were so bold? And the answer we observed, again, was Christ. Christ gave them repentance, therefore. Christ gave them the spirit to love God and to love neighbor. And Christ gave them the eternal spirit of boldness. He even did so at the request of congregational prayers from Acts 4, verse 29. Now, Lord, look on their threats and grant to your servants that with all boldness that we may speak your word And we saw it roll out and play out just as they had prayed. Now, what that does is it orients us to our passage this morning. We know from a summary of the series that Christ gives relief from outward attack, but does Christ give help from inward conflict? That's the question we're supposed to ask, at least one of the questions this morning. Because when you look at your passage in verse 6. 1, that's really the problem or question that arises. Now, in those days when the number of the disciples was multiplying, there arose a complaint against the Hebrews by the Hellenists Because their widows were neglected in the daily distribution. A complaint arose, and it causes us to ask: will Christ save us from ourselves, just as he has saved us from others? Now, what we end up seeing is that this is a bit of a problem because there are ethnicities involved, there are the vulnerable involved And there's nothing really set up just yet to overcome this problem. If you'll recall from Acts 4, verse 35, it was the apostles who did the gathering and the distributing. They had the responsibility of the daily distribution amongst the needy, Acts 4. 35. But this time you can see them Uh acknowledging that with all of the events and all of the people that Christ has been gathering to himself and all of the people that Christ is still gathering, it's just too much. If they gave themselves to the financial or the food needs of the congregation, it would mean, as you can see in the passage, a ca there would be a cost. And the cost would be the neglect of prayer and the neglect of the preaching of the word, which they were not willing to do. They were just beaten for it. And therefore, what we witness in this account, again, is Christ. We witness Christ stepping in through his apostles and his congregation. They're called the whole multitude. The congregation and developing, as Christ does, he develops a prudent plan. And what ends up being put in place are servants, when the Greek word for that is deacons. And they are tending or are to tend to the physical needs among the congregation. Now, what I want you to see as you we just run through a kind of narrative of what's going on here, pulling out little pieces so that we would understand the reality of what is here that Luke has recorded But what I want you to see, and what the Spirit wants you to see, is the continuation, really, in this passage, of something that Christ has done from the beginning, and that is that he has shepherded his church. He shepherds his church in the face of outward attack. We established that in the summary. He shepherds his church from inward confusion. He shepherds his church from inward neglect. He shepherds his church from inward distress. And even in the in the form of physical needs is what we see here. And really what we should recognize, because we not only have the New Testament witness, but the Old Testament witness, which is witnessing to the exact same things. Is that Christ has done this for a very long time? Christ, the eternal Christ, has been shepherding his church from the beginning. I want you to take for example, and you can look up other examples on your own. There were other ones I originally included but then clipped out for the sake of time. But just consider the eternal Christ's work in Numbers 11. It is analogous to the work that we see here in Acts 6. Then I will come down and talk with you there. I will take of the spirit that is upon you, he's speaking to Moses, and will put the same upon them. It's the same kind of wisdom, and we've seen Christ's wisdom displayed in this way. You can look at 1 Kings 4, for example, and the wisdom that is given to Solomon is Christ's wisdom and now how he organizes large groups of people and how things can get done. Our passage this morning, therefore, I hope you're hearing me, Christian, and where this is leading. Our passage this morning is simply a recognition that Christ has done it again. You should, those who belong to the shepherd, they recognize his work. That's another way of saying that. And when you're reading this in chapter 6, you should recognize him As the one from the beginning, still applying his prudent wisdom to his people to take care of them. Christ, in his wisdom, through the congregation, elected seven men full of the Spirit. Who was it that gave them that spirit But Christ. Who is it that gives them wisdom? But wisdom himself. Those same men then were ordained through the laying on of hands and of prayer, and you can see that in verse 6. It is the exact same thing that you see here present in our congregation when there is an ordination or an election or a nomination. And so we could say that each year Christ does it again. He displays his wisdom over and over again, but it is not a wisdom that is detached from his compassion and his sympathy and his love for his people. It is a means to accomplishing those things. And so what you have before here, before you here, and I hope you're observing with me, is an article of faith. Faith is very important, brothers and sisters. Christ takes care of his bride from outward attacks. It's an article of faith. Christ takes care of his bride from inward trouble. It's your confession. And then in this example, you can become even more particular about your confession. Christ takes care of his bride from inward trouble through ordained servants, that is to say, deacons. Now we have that established. As we can see what the Spirit is calling us to embrace with our minds. I want us to continue, and our hearts of course, I want us to continue with some observations so that we can lead into some of the deep realities of what's going on here. Now that we are clear on the main thrust of the Spirit's teaching, I want to notice a few more things. And the very first thing I want to notice, or take receive a notification from me. How about that? The first notification you receive is what wisdom is and what wisdom is not. I want you to notice that these are elected sinful men compared to Christ. These elected men are not perfect in their wisdom. These elected men are, in addition, Besides that, they are not wise in the kind of wisdom that we might think of in our culture, although I still think we retain this notion. It's not saying here that they are wise in the violin It's not saying that they're wise in physics. It's not saying that they are wise in the sense of a trained specialist from a university or for fine arts. Though that could be true of them. I don't know if Philip played the violin or not. But instead, what we see played out here is Philip and Procorus and the rest being filled with the Spirit. And that spirit so far has always brought with him a certain character where he is shaping human beings to be of a certain kind. That is to say. He has made them honest. He has made them sympathetic And we know that if he did not, then really this whole account here in one through seven would not be a solution, it would just be a further problem. You already have a moment of possible injustice, and then to add unjust Unjust men to the situation would not be a solution, but an increase of the problem. And so what is needed here are honest men And those, in addition, who not only have that character trait of honesty and sympathy to actually care for the widows. But there has to be another kind of wisdom here that we need to start grabbing a hold of more, and that is prudence. For example, another set of these men, Stephen and Nicholas, which I pointed out, I had noticed it just a couple days ago, that those are the same names of our deacons, and they're in here also. But uh when I'm saying Stephen and Nicholas, I don't mean them here, I mean in the passage. In order for them to pull this off, let's say that those two guys were in charge. They are not going to be able to pull this off, and the apostles should not entrust this to them if they do not have prudence. You know what prudence is. Prudence is being able to put a plan together to be able to consider all of the details. or the ones that are most relevant, to know how to weigh all of the circumstances, to have a strategic mind and to have the best strategies, in order that God would be glorified through the care taken for the widows. There is a kind of imprudence that is already present among the people. And it's probably due to overwork, not to lay blame at anyone's feet. And so now we have these men rising in, and Christ has given them wisdom, the same kind of wisdom that Christ would have used in the ordering. of the heavens and the earth, the same kind of prudence that Christ would use in the consideration of every circumstance in his decrees. That's the first part, what wisdom is, what it's not, how it works out, particularly in prudence. And I want you to notice, second, that those that as those prudent men order community life That the apostles are off doing something else. They are now relieved, and what you have a picture of here is the expansion of Christ's kingdom through his preached word. And that is a really big deal. You may not reread that sentence in verse 7 with the expansion of his kingdom and the preaching of the word as a bunch of people learned how to read books. Or a bunch of people were now they attend prayer service, although that would be true. You must see that Christ is taking over the world inch by inch. Because there will be a resurrection and revolution of everyone into whom that word goes. They will be reborn as signs of the rebirth of the whole creation. So these two observations are quite a big deal as to what Christ again the whole point is Christ. The point is always Christ. As to what Christ is doing. And those are the first two observations I wanted you to see. And the reason I want you to see those two realities is because they aid our perspective as a church. Any church. We need perspective these days, and just acknowledging these realities in Acts 6, 1 through 7, they help us with our perspective. In order to get at this, I want to ask you a question, and it builds on Bill Dorfel's Pastor Bill Dorfel's sermon last week. I hope you remember it. What are we to do here on earth as we wait for Christ's return? Everyone should be asking that question. I think that that question is more alive. I see that question is more alive than I have ever seen it. I think a lot of people are asking that. My concern is that answers are being given that scare me They scare me because I'm starting to I'm not really accusing anyone here, and I don't have a specific person in mind. It's more of like a pastoral intuition that I'm afraid that people are starting to take the mindset that Christians should really start making doomsday bunkers and hide until Christ knocks on the lid and says, it's time to come up now That is one way to approach life. I believe, if I'm not mistaken, there's books on everything, but I think there's books on this. Don't look them up Sometimes I get the impression that the church is moving into a mode of existence where she thinks that Christ is honored when we sit around and cry on each other all day long. And we take and we find our glory in being sad. We think that there is wisdom in constantly being disheartened. And that really what we're supposed to do, the picture of what the church is supposed to be doing right now has already been captured on that motivational poster with the cat holding on and just saying, Just hang in there That life is just a kind of desperation waiting for you to fall. I have real concerns that that is what is being adopted. And I'm going to take one step forward because if that's adopted, the dangerous thing about us as human beings is once you adopt one thing, we like to be consistent with what we adopt. So, what that will mean is that you will start to use that lens of sadness, loss of courage, loss of heart Doomsday bunker mentality. You will take that and you will go in and you'll read 6. 1 through 7 and you will see the deacons a very particular way for you They will be there to support you in your sadness in the way that you have worked this out. They do support people in their sadness, but not in the way that you're talking about. So what they end up becoming then What we would end up confessing is we would say, okay, if that's really who we are supposed to be as the church, and now these deacons are given to us, well then I think it's best to use a metaphor and to say they're like full-time therapists That run their fingers through our hair while we cry on the floor. It would be something like that at its worst We would get lost in self-pity, and that's what we are to do until he returns, when he wipes away every tear from our eye. You see how we could start to unfold this and create a whole narrative out of it But I want to ask you, and I really want to challenge you, I hope you hear my voice, but I don't want you to adopt that. I want to challenge you as to what is going on here in Acts chapter 6, 1 through 7. Is that the picture that is in place? I think an easy answer is seen in verse 7. Then the word of God spread, and the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests were obedient to the faith. The very first sign that we see that that answer, the whole mentality is wrong, is that Christ has come in through the simplicity and plainness of preaching from fishermen, and he has conquered the very councils that crucified him. When it says the priests here, we're talking about the same men that would have had some kind of power that God had given to them over Christ in the crucifixion. And now he has come back and he has conquered each and every one of their hearts. Those who had given themselves to the service of the temple shall now give themselves to the service of Christ and his temple. Now that is quite the accomplishment, but it is only a sign that Christ is up to different things than instructing us to build doomsday bunkers. That is not what he's doing. Let me put it this way. When we look at this passage, there is a lot that we can we can see here But I really want to point out to you that our passage this morning is a picture of Christ. It is a part of a vision that He has for the glory of His church. Do not read this passage as just that. Okay, I can check off that we're supposed to have deacons, and I kind of have an idea of what they're supposed to do, and now I know what elders are supposed to do. These are the small beginnings of what Christ is doing throughout the entire world with his kingdom. These are not, this is not the beginning and the end. This is just the beginning. You know this. Christ has sent his spirit So that men will become prudent, really whole congregations under the example of prudent men would become prudent, and the men would learn from the women, and we would all become sympathetic, and we would begin re relieving the poor and distressed people from the curse. And while we are doing that, Christ will send others continually expanding his kingdom, bringing his salvation to every tribe and tongue and nation. It will not remain here amongst this group of people, but will spread throughout the whole world. Is it not true that the vision that we see here is the seed that is planted And the plant will come up and it will look like it's going to be the smallest in the garden, but Christ warns you, it will take over the entire garden. That's really what we see here. What we are what's really going on here? If we can look at this in light of the scriptures and in history, What we have to realize here is that these are the grumblings and the start, these are the birth pangs of just how glorious our future is. And I believe that that is a truth that needs to be re-embraced by the church I'm afraid that our heads have hung low for too long. Here before you in Acts, you see the beginning stages of what would become. And tell me this isn't true. You can read it in a history book Here before you in Acts, you see the beginning stages of what will become the greatest people in all of the world. You will you see here the seeds. Of the people that will accomplish the greatest things in all of the world. I'm going to say something bold. If there is anything that has ever happened that is good, It is from Christ and his church. Here, what we see is Christ giving his spirit to seven men to have prudence for the needy. But I want you to think about how the plant grew. Because this is your inheritance. Within a thousand years, the same spirit working in the same way amongst the churches. He will not only be working within seven men feeding two groups of people in a in a a local distribution He will be responsible with his spirit and his church for creating almost every major charitable organization and almost every major hospital around the world. Did you not know that Christians are responsible for such things? That is our history, that is still our inheritance, and it is still our future. The story always has been that Christ's bride will be beautiful in her glory as she reigns on the earth with him. I fear that we have forgotten that. Although I don't again have anybody specifically in mind except maybe myself. Let me just ask you another question to try to drive this home. Do you realize what Christ has accomplished through his bride on earth? If you were to think of all of the examples just in Western civilization, what has Christ accomplished through the church, through his, through his bride? One of the things that is going on right now is that we are feeling a kind of ruination, or we are feeling ruined because of the degradation of the American Republic. Wherever you fall on those issues, I think everyone feels degraded. But nevertheless It shouldn't cause us to forget, but rather to remember that Christ and his bride have outlasted every single empire and republic that has ever existed. I'll just bring a couple to your mind so that you can start to gain this perspective again of what Christ is doing with you. Do you remember that there was an empire so grand in its buildings called pyramids? And where is Egypt and the Pharaoh now? You know, Nebuchadnezzar was talked about as a tree that grew up out of the earth due to God's sovereign control, where the boughs of the tree covered the whole earth and said, Every living thing. And that when he wanted to kill someone, he could kill someone, or if he wanted them to live, he could live. But let me ask you, where is Nebuchadnezzar in Babylon now? This mighty nation? Where is Persia? Where is Greece? Our law courts and the ideas of them are developed from the thoughts of Greece, then developed into Roman law. But where's Rome? And then that's just the Western civilization. If you were to go over into the Eastern Civilization, where are all of the Chinese dynasties that promised to always be here? The answer for all of those great empires is that the only place you can find them are in museums with museum pieces. And that they are no longer owned by kings but by historical preservation societies. And then there is another fact that we can recognize historically and scripturally And that is that throughout all of that, the heavenly kingdom of Christ still stands and has not once at any time in history ever become a relic or an artifact. She still lives and she thrives. Now that is some perspective that is quite different than the doomsday bunker If anything, those who are not Christ should dig a bunker. But that won't help. Let me give you another image. We need the all the images we can get. I want to share a secret with you. Is everyone here familiar with the second part of Proverbs 31? I I think every woman will be. Every time I bring it up, you've grown. It's a good thing. It's scripture. It's good. I want to share a secret with you. Proverbs 31 woman, you know who she is? She is the church. If she could be embodied in all her beauty and stand here, you know what she would say to you? I have done a lot of work under the power of Jesus Christ, and I'm not done. I still have a lot of energy. I'm ready to go. That's what she would say. She would tell you just stand up, strengthen your knees. Strengthen your hands. Let's get to work. That's what she would say to you. And you would tell her she's not sympathetic, or whatever you would say to her, but she would be right. And that is a beautiful image for us. And that really is you. You are the Proverbs 31 woman taken together. And we are led to this as we see her played out in the different parts of the body, such as the strong rods and pillars of the community like the deacons. Brethren, these words from Acts this morning, they are not understood in their totality if all you see is a small group of men showing prudence and care for some widows in the past. What we have here is but a sign of the beginning of Christ's taking over the world and the tenor and nature of his kingdom. Our deacons here and our elders are but a token of a power that cannot be contained locally, even if we tried. The kingdom of Christ can remain no small thing. Because Christ Himself has his eye on heaven and earth, and under the earth The church once knew that. And I'm afraid that people have been lying to you and telling you that you're not worth anything and you don't have much of a future and it's You might as well just dig a bunker. But I'm telling you that every one of those statements is a lie. Your future is glorious And it does not have to wait until Christ returns. It can begin today. Just as we see on the pages of this scripture, before the return of Christ, Christ giving his church power. So too will he give us power to accomplish his will today, to bring sympathy and love and understanding and wisdom and prudence to all of the nations. We need to regain this ancient vision and make it a present vision. I think we've been throwing off balance because of what has taken place over the last year. And just in meditating on this, it has brought me to the words of Winston Churchill. He recounts that to destroy it can be the thoughtless act of a single day, isn't that true? But he says that when we build, it will be slow, it will be laborious, and it will take years. But that is what is before us. Things have been destroyed in single days of actless thoughts or thoughtless acts. It is time for us to get to work, because the years are many, before we perhaps start to see fruit upon fruit for the harvest. We will do so knowing that our victory is certain in Christ, and we will work under His prudence to prudentially move forward. I want to say one more thing from Winston Churchill that is modified for our context. And if you want it for your refrigerator, then I'll give it to you later or you can just look it up. He says something like this. If you are going through hell, brethren, I encourage you to just keep on going. Hell is not a place for you. And nor is this earth which will one day be heaven. Let's pray