We're going to be looking at Colossians chapter 3, as you can see from your bulletin. And I'll be reading 1 through 5, and then I'll be reading 15. I would encourage you to read that whole section. which can be divided into taking things off and putting things on. And and uh I encourage you to meditate upon that today and you can use this sermon to help you to do that. But this is verses one through five and verse fifteen, and I ask that you'd stand uh in honor of God's word and for the reading of it. If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things above, not on things on the earth. For you died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Therefore, put to death your members which are on the earth, fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. And now fifty And let the peace of God, we're going to do 15 and 16, and let the peace of God rule in your hearts to which you also were called in one body, and be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your heart to the Lord. Please pray with me. Father, we in ourselves still wrestle with the old man, and so our minds become darkened. And so therefore we ask for you to illuminate our minds as we meditate upon the very thoughts of your heart. We ask that you would drive these deep within us and that we would become a greater and greater witness to eternal life arriving here on earth, the heaven and earth coming together by the power of your Spirit, and in the name of Jesus Christ and for your glory, Amen. When I first began doing construction work, I ran into a friend, uh his name, I called him Nico. He was from Chile, Chile, Chile is how he pronounced it. He's from Chile, and one of his favorite poets was Pablo Naruta. Does anybody know of Pablo Naruta? Okay. Uh well he's he's interesting, I'll say that. And uh and Nico could read it in the Spanish, which made it even sound better. And then he would translate it to me And then I would become all poetic and uh want to write poetry. And I wasn't married yet, and so uh I was still in that mode of pursuing my wife like a crazy person. And uh I I phrased it like that on purpose. Uh and I would write her these weird poems, which I I still think she has, which I will not allow her to get out, because they're weird. Don't ask her to read them to you It's odd. And I think I had mentioned this to you before. What's interesting is that when I came here as a start my internship, the very first thing that Arch had me do was write my wife a poem And I think it's because you understood something about young men like myself. And I think that all especially you men will relate to me in this Before you're married and you're pursuing that woman who hasn't agreed to being with you yet, you really pursue her to the point of writing her poetry. But then once the honeymoon is over, there is no more poetry written. I think that ends up being a universal experience of men. And it's not good, which is what Arch saw, and so he immediately had me write another poem. But I think it's also true for us as human beings in general, even Jesus Christ's church. that we can lose that drive and that love that we have. And I'm thinking of our love for Jesus Christ. It's one of the reasons why we put in a new reading in our bulletin is renewing our love. Because we know that when Christ is pursuing us and we're initially receiving his the excellence of his glory and he's turning our world upside down or he's showing us our sin that we might run to him. We feel like writing poetry to him. But then when we've existed for a long time together, we stop writing poetry to Jesus. We in fact have very little song or poetry left in our heart for him. And that is a real shame, but it is a shame that the scriptures recognize and that the Lord Jesus Christ through his Spirit wants to help us with. And that is what we see here in Colossians this morning. Help for us as Christians to continually renew our love for the excellence and majesty of Jesus Christ and God the Father and the Holy Spirit. That's what we're going to look at here in Colossians. And for us to be able to get a handle on it, we're going to go through a little process, which are the three M's that you can see in your bulletin there so that you can That's just a pedagogical device for you to be able to remember this and confer over lunch on the sermon, which is God's Word to you. We're going to look at mortification, we're going to look at mediation, and then we're going to look at meditation. And that's a process that's going to move backward in the verses. We're actually going to start at verse 5 and work up. But then at the end of the sermon, I'll tie it together in its natural order here in the text, and we'll end with verse 16, actually. And so first, as we seek to renew our love for Jesus Christ and His excellence, we have got to put this in context and understand what is really happening within us. It's not that we're ceasing to love poetry as a kind of coincidence. There's actually an active principle within us that the Lord Jesus Christ uh convinces his apostles up here and the apostles write to us and it's enscripturated for all generations to be able to enjoy and that is there is a principle actively working against us loving Jesus Christ within us and we see this in verse five and we are to mortify it. Now that's a crunchy word, mortify. It's actually kind of an unattractive word. I don't even like the way it sounds, particularly with a New York accent. But mortify it has so much history with us as the people of God that I want to use that to uh describe what's happening here. Therefore, put to death Putting to death is mortification, and bringing to life is vivification. These are the two parts of sanctification in the Christian life. And we as Christians, I'm speaking to Christians solely at this point, those of you who have embraced Jesus Christ as Savior to reunite you with the Father and you're no longer in enmity with him, I'm speaking to you. This is what he's speaking to you. If you ask, who does he say mortify the flesh to, he says, you Christians, you who have been raised with Christ. is the audience. If you have not been raised with Christ, please speak with me afterward and I can talk to you about the kind of initial mortification that must happen with you. But he says in verse 5, therefore put to death your members which are on the earth. Fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. And so we see this principle at work. Which is constantly waging war within our members, as the Apostle Paul says. And you really could think of two opposing armies on a battlefield. That meet an old battlefield that meet in the center and are fighting against one another. And if one becomes lax or lazy or decides to sit down for a sandwich, then this one will prevail. There's no such thing as neutrality, which is why our Puritan forefather John Owen says, you must be killing sin, or sin will be killing you. And sin will be killing you, this principle that is still at work within your members that you are called to mortify, in an incremental advance. That is the kind of warfare that the old man wages. A glance. Unchecked, will, if left up to the nature of sin, will turn into adultery every time Covetous desire for another person's possessions, if left unchecked by the mercy of Jesus Christ, will turn into you oppressing entire nations and taking everything they have. Every thought of unbelief that you have of the Father, if of the Son, or of the Holy Spirit, if left unchecked, will turn into an unbridled atheism if sin had its way. Because sin by its very nature longs to give birth to death within you. That is what the scriptures say. And so there must be this constant warring, you must be killing sin, or sin will be killing you. That is why Paul says this in verse 5 that we are to be putting to death the members, because we are called, and it is our duty, because of who we are by nature. In the church the age of the church in which we are presently in, that we must mortify and put to death the old principle, the old life that still has those cravings and those desires, and we must not let them give birth on to death. But here is the difficulty with us as a church, is that you thought I was going to give you a comforting message. And now I'm telling you to mortify, which sounds like one more thing that you have to put on your Google Calendar. To figure out how you're going to do this now? I thought there was freedom and liberty in Jesus Christ. There is so much dread when it comes to this, and I think there's so much dread when it comes to mortification. of sin and not a real active uh pursuit of that within the church. Have any of you sat around at lunch and talked about how you're mortifying your sin? Have you heard other people in conversation talk to you about mortifying sin? Even if you don't use that language, it seems to be almost entirely absent from the church And yet it's a duty here. It is a command. It is our very life and breath if it's given to us from the Father of all good gifts. And so what is going on? Why is it that we have fallen away from this when the age and the age is past the church has dedicated to this? There's volumes and volumes on the mortification of the There's different things that have happened in the church today. One is we try to get ourselves off of the hook. I'm not going to deal with this one, but we do try to get ourselves off of the hook in saying that the Holy Spirit does everything, and I'm just supposed to wait for him to move. And therefore he's not moving, so I don't move, and I just remain the same. And that's a total misunderstanding of the scriptures in sanctification or mortification of the flesh. He is both using your efforts, and of course it is done by the power of the Holy Spirit. How those two things get together is beyond my mind, but God knows and I believe him And so it's both. And do your job and just believe God that we are to be mortifying the flesh. But there's also something else going on here that you can begin to even taste If you were to sincerely say to yourself right now, I'm going to set resolutions, and part of my resolutions have to do with mortifying the flesh, and I'm going to mortify the flesh, by the time you got into your car after the service and started driving home. You don't know what I'm going to say yet, hold on. By the time that you do start to drive home, you will begin to come up with reasons why you don't think it's a good idea. You don't think that it's good, and it will become so bad to you that you won't even think it's true anymore. You'll start to figure out a way to doubt the very command that's within this passage. I've given you this analogy before, and I want to move quickly past it, but it's as human beings, we're faced with something all the time. Whenever we're seeking to be persuaded or give ourselves over to something, it's this If someone were to come to you and seek to persuade you to do something, you must believe that it's both good and that it's true. And so if I come to you and I say, I want you to go in the back lot with me, and I there is so much dirt back there I want you to dig it up with me and you can take all of the dirt you want home. Promise. You would say to me, I believe you, it is true that there is dirt back there. But me taking it home doesn't sound good at all. And so you won't move. But if I said there's a bunch of gold on the back lot, and you can have as much as you want. And if you really believe me that there was gold, because I was holding it for you, then you would say, Yes, and I'm gonna bring not only my car but my neighbors to fill it up. And that's how much I help you. And we wrestle we wrestle with that with mortification. We can see that it's true here, but in our hearts we don't believe that it's good to do. It sounds like somebody's handing us a pile of dirt. And that is the difficulty that we run into primarily as the church, is that we must work to be again rediscover the goodness of what Jesus Christ is offering to us. He gives good gifts. That is an assumption that we have to believe. We have to take that for granted. And so if he is giving us this Holy Spirit to work within us to mortify the flesh, isn't it also a good gift? And renewing us in his image, that is a good gift. Now the question becomes then, how in the world can I, as this human being where I am right now, start to see this as a good thing? And that's where we have to move up the passage to where you can see this as a sweetness, not as northern iced tea, but southern iced tea Made by truly southern people with a little bit of lemon. Excellent experience that I had while away. And the way toward this, to move toward mortification, which is in verse 5, let's jump up and let's start focusing on the second M, which is the mediation. of Jesus Christ. All of the treasures and all of the universe are present right here in the mediation of Jesus Christ. And this is what we see as we start at the top here in verse 1, 3, and then 4. If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is sitting. Where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. And then three, for you died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. And four, when Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. This is going to take a little bit of work, so hang in there with me. This is a fixed section of the sermon. The best way I think right now that I can go about explaining how this is talking about mediation is to give you the analogy of Jesus Christ as the great high priest. It's actually not an analogy. But if you think of the Old Testament with the Great High Priest, I told you last week about the Garden of Eden being on the top of a mountain. And how when Adam was excommunicated, he was excommunicated westward down the mountain. And then the tabernacle and the temple were set up in such a way where through sacrifice, through atoning sacrifice and blood One could move from the excommunication spot through the flaming sword of the angel, past the tree of the knowledge of good and evil in life, and back into the Holy of Holies, which is the presence of God Himself. Now the entire nation of Israel, when we see this typical monument called a tabernacle or a temple, the entire nation of Israel would not enter into the temple and find them way their way as a pilgrim into the Holy of Holies. It was forbidden by God Himself. Instead, they would have a representative who God selected who would be their great high priest and who would offer blood in their stead, that they would be cleansed, and the feast afterwards was called the peace offering, where they've celebrated their restoration and fellowship. with God. And that is what this passage is really talking about with Jesus Christ, because Jesus Christ is our great high priest or our mediator. And we are so intimately tied to him in the same way that all the nation of Israel was tied to their great high priest, so too we, the new Israel, are tied to our great high priest, who is Jesus Christ. And the union is so intimate that the Apostle Paul sought different analogies to try to communicate this to us. Can you think of some of them? He would say, you are like a temple where the presence of God's God dwells. You're like a block. You're like one of those cinder blocks in the temple And you're all made up and together corporately we're the temple. That's how intimately tied to his presence you are. You are the very temple itself Because the Holy Spirit dwells within you, or he says, you're like a body, you're like an arm, and you're like a leg, and you're like a foot, and you're like an eye, and Jesus Christ is the head. That's how intimately tied you how intimately tied are you to your literal head? He is trying to communicate the exact same thing to you within the scriptures or marriage. This most intimate union. Of those creatures which perfectly by design complement each other in all ways are united in one flesh. He uses that as a way for us to understand the intimacy which we have with our great high priest, the mediator, Jesus Christ. He is our mediator between God and man that God has sent. We are so intimately tied with him. And that is why this passage uses the kind of language that it does. We are so tied to him and in union with him that whatever our great high priest has done is said of us. And so we see without the scriptures that we are crucified with him, that we are dead with him, that we are buried with him, that we are quickened together with him, that we are risen with him. Verse 1. That he has made us quickened us or made us alive together with Christ, and he has raised us up together, and he has made us sit together in the heavenly places in Jesus Christ. And whatever Jesus Christ has earned is said to be yours. That's how intimate of a tie you have with him. Whatever he has purchased becomes yours. And so that's what we see here throughout this passage is we see underneath of it all, the thing that makes the most sense out of all of this is the mediation of Jesus Christ. If then you were raised with Christ. If then you and your if you have died and your life is hidden with Christ, and when Christ who is our life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. There are different ways to talk about this because there's different perspectives that God gives us. He says, He talks about this kind of thing, this kind of union with our mediator from an eternal perspective. And so we were with Christ before time began. And we were with Christ in the past when he was actually performing his mediatorial duties. And we are raised with Christ now in an applicatory way and that he has begun eternal life in each one of you by raising you anew and changing your nature. The very principles of life within you by his Holy Spirit has already begun his resurrection life within you. And one day you will all of this will be seen. Right now it is hidden, all of the things that have been accomplished for you within the mediator, but one day it will be seen. Our mediator has interceded for us and he asked for the Spirit. The Spirit has been sent and the good work has already begun. To see the outworkings of our union with Him. Listen to what this one author said. I thought he tied all of the pieces together nicely. He says, our heavenly identity is real and secure, yet it is hidden. An identity that will be gloriously manifested in the future. We can only hear about our union with Jesus Christ and some things that haven't taken place. And so they remain hidden to us in being able to see them presently and manifested. And yet in the future, this verse 4 says that when Jesus Christ returns, you will be seen in all of your glory as he is revealed in his glory. That's what makes sense of these verses. It's the mediation of Jesus Christ and our intimacy with him, that whatever happened to him or whatever he earned has become ours. And that is why Jesus Christ is our all and our all. And here we have to begin to make a transition. We have to ask the question, how does understanding the mediation of Jesus Christ, all of the things that He has accomplished on our behalf, and all of the things that He has purchased for us and be has begun dispensing through the church, how can that help us to begin to mortify the flesh? with sweetness. And the real trick here is no longer believing your eyes when they contradict your faith. Because what is being communicated to you in this passage is that you must understand yourself and your identity as you are in the mediator, Jesus Christ. Some of you say to yourselves, God does not love me. And if you are the son or the daughter of God, Then how could you ever say that? It is because you are believing your eyes, you're believing the illusions of your mind, as opposed to believing by faith what God has said here in His Word. Because if you are united to Jesus Christ, then you are accepted in Jesus Christ in God. This is the beginning of us being able to move toward mortification of the flesh, is to be able to see our hidden selves. This eternal perspective. You have been raised to a new life. You must no longer consider or see through the eyes of the old life. You must see through the new life. Now I I meant to bring something because if I Ask you to use your imagination. I'm actually going to commit the very sin that I'm going to get you to commit. So let me let me just try it anyway as a test. For you to begin considering your hidden life, for you to understand yourself and identify yourself according to the scriptures as opposed to what this world says about you and your own eyes. I hold in my hand, just pretend there's an egg here. What is this? It's not an egg. That's the whole point is it wouldn't be an egg. It would be an unhatched bird. All of the life that is with inside of the shell is really what they're asking for you to focus on here One day, you, like a bird in a shell, will crack this shell of a world open and you will fly off into eternity. And what is happening with you right now inside of this shell is you are in an incubation period where you are growing more and more into an eternal being. And that is the identity that you must believe But you don't really believe it because you're not working it into your heart. And so trying to become that, that is to say, killing the old person and taking on the new, is pure drudgery to you But what if you began to be excited about everything that the mediator has accomplished for you and has purchased for you? What if you became like a bee that moved from flower to flower, sucking up all the sweetness What if that's what it was like to consider yourself and Jesus Christ? To consider his mediation is to do that very thing. It is to suck up all of the sweetness of your eternal life. To where now you will long to kill the old and to love the new. Once again we find ourselves at the point where it's the expulsive power of the new affection that I talk about so often. And so if you long to mortify, but you do not find it good, then you begin to consider the mediation of Jesus Christ. Which will lead you back to mortification. And that's really our third M. You have mortification, but it's difficult, it's a drudgery. So we see here that he's asking us to consider our new identities. or to recognize that Jesus Christ is our mediator, and to not only see it in this passage, but the next M is to meditate upon his mediation. Meditate upon who he is and his excellence, and meditate upon what he has purchased for us. You can see this, it turns into a command. Seek those things which are above. Set your mind on things above, not on things of the earth. And in this context, he is not degrading what God has created. God has created all things and they are good. We are the ones that warp them That's not what he's talking about here. In the context that I showed you, where he's speaking about the mediation of Jesus Christ, all that Jesus Christ has accomplished for you, and all that he has purchased for you You must set your mind and seek those things. See yourself as the unhatched bird, or even the bird, and not just the egg. That's what he's asking us to do, and that is what we're the worst at. We have redefined what our duties are in relationship to the Word of God to be comprehended under the obnoxious term study. I go to a Bible study. I don't think that's the greatest way for us to talk about it. In the past, people talked about it as meditation. And that has been robbed from us. Someone came into our home who belongs to a new age cult and they stole meditation from us, and now they're using it unlawfully, and you must take it back. And it doesn't really look anything like what they've done with it. So you must rediscover what meditation is as you seek to meditate upon the mediation of Jesus Christ and all that He has purchased you. for you because it will become so thrilling by the effectual working of the Holy Spirit that you will long to kill the old person. You will be so thrilled with the beauty that is offered to you today. That is the way to move forward. There are three basic doors that you must go through in your meditation. upon the mediation for mortification. The first door is the door of the understanding. That is the usually the only door that we go through. The second door is the affections, and the third door is life, and I'm going to move through this pretty quickly. For the sake of your understanding, you must go to the scriptures. They are sufficient for us, brothers and sisters, and I say this with such emphasis because I don't think we're working hard enough to justify systematic theology in our midst. God did not say, and I know that you're not all guilty of this, but God did not say systematic theology is sufficient for all of life and godliness He said that my word is. Theology is a good thing to help the church, to glorify God. I don't degrade it, but it is never to be in place of the scriptures. And we are to seek those scriptures night and day in our understanding, pouring over the words, knowing our scriptures more than we would ever know any Christian philosophy or theology. That we would know these by heart. And that we would use primarily the analogy of Scripture, using other scriptures to understand what the scripture before you says. And I'll move on past that. But there is also the affections. You may not stop in understanding the grammatical sense of the words that are placed before you. That is only the first door. You must move into a love or a hate of what is being placed before you within his word. And I understand that this takes time. You know what this is like when you first begin meditation. It's like trying to start a fire with wet firewood. You need a little bit of time for the wood to dry out, and eventually any Boy Scout will tell you it'll ignite if it's not too wet. The analogy breaks down. But you see what I'm saying? So s so stick with that where you dwell or meditate upon the words that are within the scriptures And if it's speaking of sin, something that you should hate, something that is against the Father, the Son, or the Holy Spirit, work it out in your heart to where you hate it with an extreme hate yourself. And then those things which are most excellent and majestic and praiseworthy, that you would dwell upon them, that you would come up with analogies and pictures until you love them too, till they are the sweetness of your life. That is what is true meditation, and then lastly, there's life. You have the third door You must, with complete abandon, abandon yourself to the faithfulness of God, and you must walk off into the abyss of the mystery of God, and you must live your life in accordance with the sweetness that you have read within the word You may not hold back. You may not become paralyzed by all of the theological options that have arrived at your doorstep today But the Baptists say this, and the Methodists say this, and they say this, and they say this, and then there's modern theologians. We don't even know what they're saying, but they're saying something. We can become parallel and I don't I don't mean to become um derogatory here, but I think it's a uh an example because I really do think of all the options as a kind of uh in the toilet in some sense. We become paralyzed by all the options and never live our life for God. It is a uh a malady across society right now. I am trying or I try to redo my back bathroom. And part of redoing the back bathroom is to get rid of the oak toilet seat and give it a more modern look with a white toilet seat And so I thought this would be very simple when I go to Home Depot, and there are 57 different kinds of toilet seats that a person could get. You could get ones that close softly, one that has lights on it, ones that has padding, one made out of acrylic, one made enamel over the wood. You know the parallel you know being you can be paralyzed by these choices And the exact same thing can happen within your Christianity where everybody's saying, God says this and God says that and you never really land on anything and that is not appropriate In meditation, you may trust the analogy of Scripture and you may trust the analogy of faith, which is that your church and its teaching, and you may land upon something and you must walk through the door of life You must live what is being said. And so if you say to yourself, and you are a child of God, that God does not love you, He does not care for me, Then you must push it aside. You must walk to the door of life and just say, I don't care what you are saying inside of my head. He loves me. He loves me with all of his heart. He loves me and he's taking care of me. And it is with each of these tr these uh things that we wrestle with in our lives that we can then begin to focus upon. We can select subjects that are most applicable in our meditation upon our present circumstances. This is something that I read that I thought was very helpful. For example, if you are spiritually dejected, you should meditate upon Christ's willingness to receive poor sinners and to pardon all who come to Him. Picture him kneeling down and receiving the little children. And meditate on that until it warms your heart as he receives you. If you're feeling spiritually dejected. If your conscience troubles you, meditate on the promises of God's grace to those who ask for forgiveness Look at all of the instances of Jesus Christ forgiving people that in your heart would have never forgiven. And yet He does. And meditate on it until your own heart is warmed by the forgiveness that He offers to you. And go out into your life, walk through the th third door. Or if you are financially afflicted, meditate on all of God's wonderful providences to those who are in need. But I believe my eyes, I look and I see all the drought that's happening throughout the world. Stop looking at your eyes, meditate upon the providences of God, and believe them. He always provides in the perfect way. Push everything else aside. And walk through the door of life in great joy and liberty, knowing that He is preparing every good work for you in Christ Jesus. There is so much freedom and joy and liberty in the Christian faith when we begin to see that our all-in-all, Jesus Christ, our great high priest and mediator, has accomplished all of this acceptance for us before God for us to be forgiven. And He has purchased everything for our own benefits within the covenant of grace. We can can begin to meditate upon those things, be excited about being the unhatched bird, and start to try to spread our wings now, because we're so excited about our eternal glory. And then, in the midst of your loving, you have actually killed the old person without even thinking about murder or killing. Just in the act of love, you kill the opposite. And just in the act of hate, you kill those things that you used to love, that you shouldn't love any longer. Study, regular old Bible study, is like a winter sun that has little warmth and influence Meditation melts the heart when it is frozen and makes it drop into tears of love. That is what we're talking about. And so if we were to start at the top, we would see that we are to meditate on the mediation of Jesus Christ. to set our minds and to seek our eternal identities in Jesus Christ and all of those things that He has procured for us. And that this will lead us to a liberty. Of mortifying and no longer wanting to be that old person. I'm actually not going to close in prayer because I want this to be seen as a continuation of the sermon. And we're not going anywhere just yet. Hold on. I want you to look in the bulletin and the sermon notes really quickly. We're going to begin our meditation now. And Arch will be leading us in this. The Westminster Larger Catechism says, what are the outward means whereby Christ communicates to us the benefits of his mediation? The outward and ordinary means whereby Christ communicates to his church the benefits of his mediation are all his ordinances, especially the word which you have just heard preached. the sacraments which we are getting ready to celebrate, and prayer, all which are made effectual to the elect for their salvation, and that is by the Holy Spirit. And so let us go before him in preparing our hearts. We're going to sing this invitational song as the elders prepare the Lord's table.