All right. Good to see you. Okay, let's go ahead and start with prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day that you've given to us, and I pray that you truly would bless your congregation. Pray that you would bless us with the knowledge of your will and especially your glory as it is seen in your goodness. I ask these things in your name. Amen. Alrighty, while we are going through this book by Joseph Pipa on the Lord's Day and What I'd like to do today is I want to go through a review of what we did last week. That'll be pretty quick. And then I'd like to finish out chapter one, and those are my total aspirations. I do know that you were supposed to read chapter two this past week, but I'm not going to get to it. I'm going to slow down a little bit because these are the foundation stones, this first and second chapter. We can catch back up and I'll change the syllabus digitally or I'll get Nick to change it, either one. And when we move on in the book a little bit, it'll be more of, okay, well how can we spend the day? And we won't have to go through so many detailed arguments In these first two chapters, it's pretty detailed. Like we need to look at the words that are being used and understand the definitions. If you did read chapter two, you saw that he was seeking to establish that the fourth commandment is actually a moral or moral law or creation ordinance. Well I mean that's going to take a little while for us to talk about and to work out all those details. So once we get the foundation stones laid, we can catch back up and we'll still keep this as a 13 week course. So um what we'll do is the second half of chapter one here this morning. Maybe we'll get surprised and we can dip into chapter two, but I don't think so There's just uh there's a lot of stuff to go through. Okay. So that being said, let's go ahead and just look at what we uh the do a quick review from last week And if you have your book, you're welcome to follow along. I'm pretty much lecturing from his outline. Basically what we were doing is we should all have our scriptures open to Isaiah chapter 58. The book in the first chapter at least, and you'll notice in each one of his chapters, Dr. Pipa is staying true to his main calling, which is as a pastor, and he's really just expositing the scripture. He's really just trying to un unfold what the scriptures say. And the main passage that we're using to understand the Lord's days so far, next uh in chapter two, it'll be in Genesis 2. But right now it's Isaiah 58. And beginning, the first passage that we wanted to look at was the promise, which is found beginning in verse number 13 and goes through 14. And that's what we covered last week. Isaiah 58, 13, and 14. So I'll put that up here nice and big. Isaiah 58 Thirteen and fourteen. And what we ended up seeing was that this is giving to us a promise. But within the promise that is given to us in those two verses, we find the purpose That God intends for the Lord's day. So then there are three main purposes. Within this promise, number one, the first is uh captured in the words, you will take delight in the Lord. And so the idea is that God designed the Sabbath as a means of our enjoying Him. So the first purpose is that he gives us the time and he promises to bless. Thanks. Sure. Uh this day to where we can delight in him. That's number one. Number two The second purpose is that from the words again from Isaiah 13, and I will make you ride on the heights of the earth. Here he's borrowing the language of victory. We went through those arguments. God promises this victory to those who keep his day holy. Sabbath keeping is a means of grace that will help you to die to sin and grow in holiness. So here it's victory. Over sin. That's the second purpose. Does anybody remember the Latin words that we use for the two parts of our growth in holiness or victory over sin. Anybody remember the two? We asked Matt, the coffee mug that Mandy has as one of the words. To grow in life is vivification, or to vivify and to kill Mortify. Mortify, yeah. Right. So Jonathan Ad Jonathan Owen John Owens has a famous work called The Mortification of Sin. That's what he's after. Okay, and then number three is on page thirteen of Pipa, but it also continues the um The passage from Isaiah 58, 13, and 14. In addition to the promises of pleasure in the Lord and victory over our enemies, he promises a practical enjoyment of the benefits of our salvation with the words I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father. To feed on an inheritance is to enjoy its benefits. God promises Israel that they will enjoy again the inheritance promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob The possession of the land was a symbol of the inheritance of God's covenant people. Not only will he restore their land, but also he will give a prosperity in which they will fully enjoy all the benefits of their possession. So we're we're benefiting from the possession. And that has to do with your adoption your justification, your sanctification, joy in the Holy Spirit, all of those things He especially is working on that day according to that promise. Now So this is the review. Within the promise, we find these three purposes for the Lord's day. The main question that he ends up raising within the chapter, which we ended on last week, is Does this apply To you. And what he's asking is, is this passage only applicable to the Hebrew people? uh who lived in a land far away in a time long ago. And This is a question that you need to take very seriously. I want you to think just for a second. Does anybody here have a boat or grow up with boats? Can you just raise your hand if you Joe? Yeah, yeah. And if you if you if you had a boat and you also weren't w wealthy, but even if you were wealthy, you kind of noticed that boats like to leak Um f for example, no matter how hard I try with the little John boat that I have at my dad's house, I always end up with a little pinhole in the aluminum. and uh in the aluminum John boat and there there's all I always end up having a leak. Yeah, if you were to think of um your beliefs in the Lord's day There are many different things out there that will cause you to spring a leak to and it will start to fill up your boat with doubt as to whether or not this has anything to do with you or how you should spend the day And one of the leaks that you could get is you could say, I see everything that you're talking about within that passage, but it has nothing to do with me. It only has to do with people that existed back then. And so that is why Dr. Pipa is bringing it up. So what I would encourage you to do, since this is a basic class, is to keep the discussion going on that question. I'm telling you, you really need to think through it. One of the glorious things about the Protestant faith is that I here am not coercing you to believe. I'm not just saying, just believe me because I said so. The Protestant faith has always been set up to where you look to God's word and you make up your mind as to what it says. That's what you have to do. So you need to take some time with us. I'm telling you, it's not easy. So take some time and start to work through those questions and make sure you know that it is applicable to you or it's not. Now what are some of the things that PIPA offered to us? to help us to keep from springing a leak. Now that obviously is um the way of telling that story is from his point of view and mine also. But how could we keep from springing a leak? Well number one he brought up Are there any promises given to us in the Elder Testament that are still applicable to people after the arrival of Jesus Christ in the flesh? Are there any? Let's just start there. Are there any promises that are still applicable today? Well what we did is we went through some. We went through the Abrahamic promise. We looked at Genesis chapter 3 verse 15, the proto-evangelium, and there are many, many others where we see, yeah, actually there's like a lot of continuity between the Elder Testament and the New Testament. Now you can start to ask the question, well, is this one of those that is continuous? And his argument was, if you look at the context, This has everything to do with not just Jews from the past, but also Gentiles. He made the argument by pointing us, remember we're in Isaiah 58 He pointed us back to the passages that we read in Isaiah 53, Isaiah 54, and Isaiah 55 that all of us apply to ourselves with regard to the suffering servant and what he brings to us, namely Jesus Christ. On Good Friday we read all of those passages up here, and sometimes we preach on them. And they are repeated in the New Testament also. In addition, he points out that there is a further passage within Isaiah that talks about the eunuch. and being allowed to worship his worship God and not restricted to the outer courts, that that also has to do with and be being fulfilled in the new covenant? And does anybody remember in Acts where we saw th uh the the dawn of that age. Or can you at least tell the story if you don't know the verses and the chapter? Yeah, the Ethiopian eunuch and from what was he reading? Isaiah. Exactly. So these things aren't coincidental And so Pipe was trying to point out that when you get up to chapter 58 of Isaiah, you need to keep that same spirit that we're seeing all the way back from 53. that this has to do with everybody that is united to Jesus Christ. Alright, so that's his main argument. And of course, being a human being, you could argue the contrary. But that's what his argument is. Okay. So I think that that is a pretty good does the promise still apply? That catches us up pretty good. Okay, now Today, so this is the review, and today hey the the main topic is Conditions. What are the conditions for receiving the promise? Or the conditions of the promise. And for this, we're going to look at verse number 13. Alright, so the main study is going to be the conditions found in verse 13. So let's just go ahead through them. If you take a look, let me just read verse 13 to you, and then I'll tell you the main divisions that we're going to use here. Starting in verse 13. Sorry. I just looked down at my Bible and the words were blurry. And then I moved my head back and they were clear. So thank you so much, Michelle. Yeah. I know. It's the isn't it great for you you all get to watch me age and just like and I just say it out loud, my experiences. No, that's not the alternative, okay. If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath from doing your ple this is the ESV. If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath from doing your pleasure on my holy day And call the Sabbath a delight, and the holy day of the Lord honorable. If you honor it, not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly. Now we've already looked at verse number fourteen, haven't we? And you see do you see the relationship between verse 13 and 14, by the way? What what is it? It's a conditional. Now what does Natalie mean by that? She's bringing her training as a lawyer into this. Math? She's bringing her training as a lawyer who knows math into this. Yes, Tate. If then. If then. Yeah. So you can see why the chapter of this section is the condition of the promise, is that it's right there within the grammar In verse number 13, it starts off with if. Verse number 14, then. This is an if-then statement. In logic, it is also called a conditional statement. Okay. Same with the grammar. Okay, so we're just looking at verse number 13. Now he divides verse number 13 up into three main parts. So just as if I were preaching a sermon to you now, I'd say, and we'll look at this in three main ways. He's doing the same thing. He's going to point out first the that the that um the Lord approaches this states the condition negatively And that's in, if because of the Sabbath you turn your foot from doing your own pleasure and my holy day, that's the negative. Then we're going to look at the positive statement of it, which is, and call the Sabbath a delight and the holy day of the Lord honorable. And then the third part of this passage, according to Dr. Pipa, is, okay, well, how do we do that? And the how is if you honor it, not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly. So there's those three main categories that he gives for for keeping the day. Okay. So we're going to begin with the negative. The negative is the first part of verse number 13. If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath and uh from doing your pleasure on my holy day. Now the first thing that he ends up doing is defining the terms. And I'll tell you, it's not even just the first thing, it's the last thing. The difficulty with this part of the passage is that people argue over what do the words mean. And what I what I mean by that is to what do the words refer? Do these words refer to just Do they refer narrowly to just like a couple different things or one thing, or do they or do they refer to a lot of different things? And that's a decision that you have to make through study and prayer. So when we look at the word holy, Dr. Pipa says that here, anticipating the language of the New Testament, Isaiah refers to the Sabbath as God's holy day and the holy day of the Lord The Sabbath is considered a holy day because God Himself sanctified it. And we'll look at that in chapter two, which you already read. Chapter uh where where you looked at what it means for God to sanctify a day. Now the definition What does it mean that God makes a day holy? It means that he is sanctifying it or setting it aside from everyday common use. Now, do you can you think of any ways in which that word holy is used through the Bible to set something aside? What are some of the things that are set aside or made holy? Any have anybody have any ideas? The showbread. Okay, the showbread. Very good. And could you just tell us a little bit, those of us who aren't familiar with the tabernacle system, can you help us understand what that is? It's bread. Okay, that's the data ball. Go ahead. You said it's bread. Right. And it has to do with the tabernacle. Right. And there was a story that David is involved in with regard to the bread and a priest. Okay. Does anybody else have anything else to say about show bread? S-H-E-W. Okay, well that was definitely set aside. Is there any other things that were set aside or made holy in the scriptures? It just says I'd make these things holy. Yeah. Um the burning bush is most Okay. Yeah, that's definitely sanctified. This is holy ground, the ground is set aside. Uh huh. The tabernacle itself. Very good. And we could go through all of the instruments of the tabernacle. In our today to like today, we would say these things have been consecrated. Or they are devoted to the Lord. We don't use them for common use. Right? So if you were to go into the tabernacle and there happened to be a candle. That candle is not for you to use just for any old reason. That candle is set aside for use for the Lord. Yes? You couldn't even make up the incense that they were compounding. Yeah, so they would even have a special kind of uh the word special is appropriate here. That kind of a special kind of incense was set aside. studying all of this. One of the first things I saw when we go into the church was that we used to be addressed, these four I think that's one that you can And part of that has to do with this place where we're gathering to worship is set aside. Okay. That's not unusual at all. Yes, I'll do the last one. Yeah, so then we as a group of people are set aside. Alright, very good. So um so the whole an entire group uh an entire nation can be holy. That's what Peter says. So that's right. So the and that's what Dr. Pipa points out, that he's that the Lord has sanctified places, garments, altars And they are dedicated to his worship. So that when he makes the day holy, he separates it from its normal everyday use for the exclusive purposes of worship is the argument. So we're looking at a day that has been set aside for a specific use. Now can you think of any other days in your life that have been set aside for a specific use? I don't care who set it aside. It could have been George Washington. I just want to know, can you think of any any other days that are set aside for a specific use? Okay, any holy day. Right? Or holiday. The argument is not are there holy days. The argument is which days are holy. And who gives the authority to make a day holy. These are all different arguments that people have to work through. Even with this one. Okay, very good. And um we could have uh religious versions of that. And we could have secular version or non-religious versions of that. What would be a version of a non-religious holy day set aside for that purpose? Okay, Fourth of July would be one. Valentine's perhaps Valentine's Day. Any of the holidays that Hallmark has come up with, probably. Black Friday, Prime Day. Uh what's that? Leg day. Yeah, that's all the Hallmark ones. President's Day. President's Day, yeah. Uh some of those national ones get really close to a little bit of a different flavor, but Okay, yeah. Your wedding day, yeah. Okay, and then some people would argue Christmas or Easter or any of those days shouldn't be holy days. Only Holy Day is the Lord's Day. That's going to be an argument in the actually within the your communities close to you, just so you know, we don't make that same argument. Um not in that same way. Okay, so I think we get the picture of what he means by holy. So in verse number thirteen, the first definit term that we're dealing with is holy. And it means to be set apart for specific purposes And of course Dr. Pipa is saying that he he believes that it's w when we talk about being set apart here, that it's set apart for worship. Can everybody still read that? Yeah? Okay. So it's it's set up it's set apart for worship is going to be his main argument. Okay. So that's the first one. When he sets aside the Sabbath day for worship, even those things legitimately done on other days of the week are prohibited Because he has designated that day for worship. That's the argument. Okay. Now the second term is pleasure. And that's all really what we're going to do today is just look at terms. The second word is pleasure, and you can see that right there in verse number 13. The second part, remember we're on negative. If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath from doing your pleasure, and we've already looked at holy day, a day that's set aside, and now we're going to look at pleasure. How does one profane the Sabbath by doing his own pleasure on it? The word pleasure is used throughout the Old Testament to describe those things in which one delights And in the book he gives one, two, three, four, five, six different references to the word pleasure being used, as generally speaking of anything in which you delight. In our modern idiom, we could rephrase it doing your own thing. Doing your pleasure refers to those things you enjoy doing or must do the other six days. Business, work. play or whatever. When you do these things on God's holy day, you desecrate it. You trample it underfoot like children who run over flower beds in the park. If you want to enjoy the promise of God, you must not profane the day by doing your own pleasure. So business, work, play, or whatever is what he's going to include in this word. Business Work, play, and then he includes whatever, which is a pretty big category. I think it has to go along with that same spirit. This right here is if um I'm just uh letting you know I'm around people that argue about this stuff all the time. And when I first became a Christian, the community I was a part of didn't believe didn't believe that the promise applied. And then I changed communities and became convinced that it does. And then I moved into a different community that said that this is restricted, that this doesn't refer to business, work, play, or whatever. It just has to do with um uh really this word the day is kept holy if you make the morning service Mm-hmm. That's how they would define that, and everything else is up for grabs. You can still play whatever you want that day, do what business you want or work you want, just as long as you make the morning service. I would say probably like seventy percent of the year. If you could do that, we're we're good to go. Okay. Um and I'm not trying to uh I'm not trying to down uh what's it called? I'm not trying to degrade anybody or speak badly about somebody. I'm just I'm saying that's true. That was my experience. Okay, so but here you see he's saying that from the text The word pleasure, he's saying it refers, it's meant to tell us that all of these things are in the category negatively of what that they should not be involved with. So I'm going to double underline this just because that's something that you'll need to work out to figure out the extent of that word. Yeah, that really makes a difference in your day and and what you think is legit and what's not legit. Okay That is where the arguments take place. So if somebody is willing to watch the Super Bowl or not watch the Super Bowl, there, that argument. It's going to be these two words together. And it's every in everything else too. If you're going to find them at Panera Bread after the service, that these are the this is where they're going to this is where all the argument's located. Yeah. The problem with pleasure is we we automatically define it as some kind of feeling, some kind of enjoyment. But I was saying to Jen, you know, like that Chick-fil-A when you go through they say my pleasure. And it's in a s in a sense of which it means s it doesn't just mean a feeling, it means uh the the idea of what you are what is your what is something that you do for the sake of I guess your normal your normal events, your normal coach of activity from So it has we have to go beyond dealing with that meaning of that word or else we'll we'll go, Oh, then I can't brush my whatever it is you can't. You know, I can't I don't know. Yeah. I can't take a nice shower in the morning. Right. Yeah, so if I were you, what I would do is just take a look at all of the look up all the scripture references in the book that he gave to you. And if you have a concordance, just look up what the word is and just start going through and looking at what are all of the references to this word pleasure. Is it as limited as A an emotion. Well no, it's way bigger than that. So what all does it include? And then you can ask Does that include all those things inside of this passage? And and why would I think so? It'll take a little while for you to do that, but that's what you gotta do. Okay, so I'll just say this one sentence more and then we'll move on to the positive. God does not forbid our work or pleasure on the Sabbath because he is opposed to pleasure Rather, he is calling us to turn aside from lesser pleasures in order to seek the greater pleasures he has in store for us in the day. Okay, so what you'll you'll see here is that the forbidding of business, work, play, or whatever is these are all good things. He wants you to work. His main argument is that, well, but there's a day set aside where we're not going to engage in those same things that you're permitted to engage on on the other six days. So wrap up the work so that you can have this day set aside for this. That's the whole idea. Alright, very good. So then let's now move on to the second part of the passage. We've looked at the positive, which is in verse number 13 of the conditional statement if. Now we're moving into the positive. And this is where we're going to have to encounter a different word. I'll read it for you. And call the Sabbath a delight. We'll have to deal with that word delight. So this is the negative part of it. Now we're moving into the positive. And the first word is delight. Jesse, can I back up just a half a second? Back up to the word whatever. Yeah. scripture and I just want to preface this because I believe that you know the service uh uh observance is something we should do uh pleasure business work and prayer I understand whatever whatever's an awful big word. And it's hard enough to observe what scripture says Yeah, I think if we were to obey the law of charity, making sure we're reading him in accordance with the spirit we know that he's coming from. And then if you look at the total context of the chapter, um I think he is Um going to the word whatever here he means you can go through those at least those main categories and start looking at all of the details. and it it's gonna run into whatever, but yeah to add that word it just became hard. Yeah for me. I'm a scripture proof guy. That's why I like the Westman's confession of faith because I give it for Well what do you think he means by the word whatever? I j it it just it's I think it's being I don't want to be harsh on Dr. Pike, because I respect him, so I don't I'm just gonna hold there. Seems to add to you to worry about. Well, I'll let 'em know you said that. Yeah, I definitely don't think he would do that. I do think if I'm gonna I guess we could talk about should he is sh would it been better for him not to put the word in there. He might enter he might say, yeah, maybe I shouldn't have put the word whatever in there But I think he's just going with the other things that would belong in the list of pleasures. So that's what liquid is hard enough anyhow. I I wrote down my notes instead of whatever, you put whatever on the board. I put own things. Because I saw those as parallel expressions and I thought he was using it to cover those things that are not I mean this true it's not exactly those words in the scripture even thing you encompasses there are things in my own thing That I understand I should not do on the Sabbath, but they don't fall into any of those three kind of books. Yeah, I think you could have you could have two charitable translations of what he's saying. Yes. And if he were here, I think he'd have a justification where why he said it. And he'd probably have a a a three hundred page dissertation on the word whatever. But one, this could be a translation of what he's saying. And it could also be swallowed that when you it could also be whatever else is doing your own thing. At all. Or any of those kind of things. So I think that maybe helps get at uh the spirit of what he's saying. I think what he's trying not to do is to list out every single thing that could be a pleasure. Like you really could get into like and then you could go even more specific than that, right. It kinds of like no dipping, no chicken necking. Well you shouldn't do that anyway. No trout lining. No Yeah, see what I'm saying? So I anyway, I think that's what he's doing. Whatever else Or the or the ellipsis. Thanks for bringing that up, because I don't want people getting hung up. That's good. Thanks, Dwayne. All right. I'm gonna say something to him though. Just tell him it was Alex's dad. This guy at this address. I will. I'll tell him it's Alex's dad. That's good. That's perfect. That's great. Okay. Um Okay, so now we're in the positive with delight. Okay. So the word delight is a form of the word used in verse number 14. That's really important And so we're also seeing this in verse number 14. And so let's go ahead and read that. Then you shall take delight in the Lord It's mentioned there. And continuing, it's to delight in God. As we noted above, the word means to take exquisite pleasure As we delight in beloved people or beautiful things, so we are to delight in the spiritual exercises of the day. We are to take great pleasure in worship, fellowship, Christian service. Furthermore, we delight in the day as we honor it. Since God has set it aside, we are to honor the day as special, the holy day. of the Lord. So let me just list a couple of the things here that our delight is in worship, fellowship, and Christian service. This is argument, worship. Fellowship, and then Christian service. Um This one here I've heard someone summarize and I thought it was really helpful. Is that God sets aside the day so that we can be neighborly again? We're always so busy, we never get a chance to help anybody who's even next door. And now there's a day set aside where we get to to uh show mercy. And also if there's something necessary that someone needs help with, then you get to help them. And you have the time to do so. You don't drive by them when their tire is flat, you get to stop. Or whatever it is. Okay. The second uh part besides um Uh how do I want to do this? Uh let's see. The second one is Wait, where am I in this argument? Okay, now. So that's the next the next one here, and that's the beginning of the that's the positive. that he gave. Okay, so this is what we positively are to do. And we've started to list it out with worship, fellowship, Christian service. That is to say being neighborly. Then the final one that's going to show up is, okay, well how is this supposed to be done? And that's laid out in the rest of this where it says If you honor it, this is 13C, I guess, if you honor it, not going your own ways or seeking your own pleasure or talking idly. So now we need to take a look at a different set of words for the how section. And the first word is ways. All right, this is what he says about it. He says that The word translated ways is a general term that applies to any number of activities. Some suggest that this word does not refer to business and work, but rather the way of sin. So if that's the case, if the word ways refers to sin, it means on this day that I have set aside, you should not be sinning. But the other six we can't. Well I don't I don't know. So then um so some will say this refers to now the reason that they say this And I'll show you that in just a second. Some suggest that this word does not refer to business and work, but rather the way of sin. And now it's the way of sin. So it's like on this day you should cease from a particular kind of path that you have been on, which is a way of sin. They point out that Isaiah uses the term in reference to the way of sin in Isaiah 53, verse 6. So let's just take a look at that. And you're all familiar with this one. 53 verse 6. All we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned everyone to his own way. So they're looking back, they're making an argument from context, they're trying to understand what this word means, and they're saying, well, this word did mean a way of or a path or a a lifestyle of sin that we should turn from that on this day. And that's all that it means. That's a very important point to make is they're not saying and it also means more. They're saying only means that. Okay, so you may want to make a note and just you need to figure out, is that the only thing that this word refers to? Or does it or does what is ways referring to more than that? Now he continues and he says, although the phrase your ways may at times refer to sinful acts, in other places it refers broadly to the activities of life. Proverbs chapter 3, verse 6, in all your ways, acknowledge him, and he will make your path straight. In the immediate context, Isaiah uses the phrase, my ways to refer to God's will, Isaiah 58, 2. Yet they seek me daily and delight to know my ways. So there it is being used also. So you see here if you had like a little scale or a seesaw going on, somebody's going to say it only refers to a sinful way of life. We should cease and desist on the Lord's Day, especially that day. So then and then there in order for you to believe that, to put a little weight on their argument, they say see. It's used that way in Isaiah 53. Woo. Okay, there goes the argument. They have more weight on uh more weight than than Pipa at this point. Then Pipa points out, and he says, actually if we look out through the rest of scriptures, like in Proverbs, the word ways is used for more general activities and not just sin. Starts to come up a little bit. I'm not going to make it equal yet because we're now over in the book of Proverbs and we're not in Isaiah. Although you could argue with me on that. Then Pipa quotes Isaiah 58 and says it also has to do with God's ways. So now we're really, I don't know if we're even or if we're more. in saying it's not just referring to sinful ways. That the word ways is referring to a lot more than that. Or a can is probably the argument at this point. So then he continues on. The phrase, therefore, is neutral I really like that he did that by the way. I like that he admitted, yeah it can mean that and it can mean this, and now we've got a problem. We've got to figure out what it means. And that's what he says. The phrase therefore is neutral. One must determine from the context whether it is an evil way, the way of God, or the ways of our regular business, duty, and pleasure. And now here is his reasoning. Since Isaiah 58. 13 is the condition of the special promise in verse 14 and includes the command to honor the Sabbath The context suggests the interpretation, the activities of our business and our pleasure. It is a given that one may not do sinful things on the Sabbath. But God is saying here that those activities that are permissible the other six days become sinful when done on the Sabbath. In other words, Dr. Pipa believes that the prophet is applying the prohibition of the fourth commandment that we are not to work, nor are we to work others. So what he thinks uh what Piper th thinks is going on here Is that the prophet Isaiah is actually applying what is listed in the fourth commandment. And that's why he thinks it has to do with ways is really referring back to well what kind of ways are in the fourth commandment. So let's take a look at that. I think that's that's what ends up being a fair way to represent Dr. Pipa. So let's take a look at uh let's do um Deuteronomy And we'll do Deuteronomy 5 instead of Exodus 20. And that's going to be Deuteronomy chapter 5, verse number Where am I? That's murder. Okay, it's gonna be verse number twelve, five twelve. So again, his argument is the immediate context, even in the verses in Isaiah 58, 13, and 14, is he's talking about the Sabbath. So then what when he brings up ways, he's referring to he's referring back to the fourth commandment, helping his people or reminding his people of what are the ways that we shouldn't be participating in You've always known this for the longest time. And here it goes. Observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy, as the Lord your God commanded you. Six days you shall labor and do all your work. But the seventh seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son, or your daughter, or your male servant, or your female servant or your ox or your donkey or any of your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates, that your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. Therefore, the Lord your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day. So you can see there that that's an including at least work, and not only for you, but for everyone that you have any kind of influence over. Okay, so that's the words that's the word ways. Is there anything else that uh you wanted to say on there? Yes, so he says the prophet is applying the the prohibition of the fourth commandment that we are not to work, nor are we to work others. Did you see that in the fourth command? You shouldn't work, don't work others, not even your animals God has given us six days to do our business. The seventh belongs to Him. Thus, besides works of necessity, we are not to pursue business on the Lord's Day. Okay, the second one, so that's the first one, ways. And the second one is pleasure. Isn't that right? Yeah, pleasure. Okay, so uh again this is uh like I'm just trying to point out to you where the vital parts are. If you were to spring a leak here The way in which you'd spring a leak according to the position that Dr. Pipa is taking is if you limit this too narrowly. I would say the other ditch that you could fall in is if you make it too broad. to where you're not allowed to do anything. Alright, so you you need to spend some time figuring out to what does this refer. And Dr. Pipe is saying, well, he thinks what Isaiah is doing based on the context is he's really just reminding everybody about what the fourth command says in Exodus 20 and Deuteronomy 5. Okay, so then the next one is pleasure. By the way, this is the gonna be the place where if you hear of people that are unwilling to go shopping or they'll even state it more generally or broadly as any commercial activity, it's going to be at least partly it's it's coming from here. This is the origin. And so when you if it if ways refers back to the fourth commandment, and the fourth commandment includes not making other people work then you wouldn't participate in that by going someplace where they have to wait on you or whatever it is unless it's of necessity. For example, you need to get medicine. Okay. All right. Necessity and mercy. Alrighty, so then pleasure. Second, you are not to use Sunday for play or amusement, seeking your own pleasure. I'd encourage you when you do look at your book on your own time that you would look at footnote number nine. And you can go through everything that he says there, as well as his reference to the shorter catechism. I'm just going to stay in the main text. The word pleasure is the same word used in the first clause of the verse when God says, Turn your foot from doing your own pleasure on my holy day. Note the relation between this stipulation and the promise. If you delight in the spiritual exercises of the day and do not seek your own pleasure, you will take great pleasure in God. Rather, you are to discover the peculiar treasure of the Sabbath, to take exquisite delight in what it offers. And thus he concludes, we profane the day by watching television, going to movies or ball games, or using the day for sports. God is not opposed to fun properly used. Moderate recreation on the other six days is in fact a gift of God. The Sabbath, though, is devoted to the peculiar spiritual pleasures of worship and service, and it's a spiritual vacation. Now he does have two um so let's just look here real quick, he says, uh seeking your own pleasure. Yeah. So then he does uh give two qualifications that sometimes people are surprised by. This should not be interpreted that we should not engage in any physical activity. He says your children need some physical activity. And he'll give, and then also adults as well might need some type of physical activity in order to be alert for evening service. Number two, God is not opposed to rest. Many wrongly interpret the requirement of the shorter catechism. I know we don't have the shorter catechism in front of us. But if you were to look at it, Dr. Pipa is going to say that rest is under the category of uh sometimes of things that are necessary. If you're gonna be wiped out and not have energy to worship in the evening, for example, you should take a nap. Okay. Alrighty, so then this is going to be the way the uh how So you're going to dis cease and desist from your ways and pick up his ways and not in your pleasure but in um delighting in the Lord's day Okay, and then the last thing that it mentions you'll notice in the passage is or talking idly. Okay. So we'll just say convo. Or conversation. He says we ought to avoid unnecessary conversation about work and recreation. Cease speaking your own word. We are not, and that's his translation of that. We are not to converse about work, pleasures, and hobbies, but rather we are to set our minds on the things of the Lord This does not rule out conversation with Christian friends about work or family affairs. In order to have true fellowship, we do need to know what is going on in each other's lives. But God wants us to avoid needless conversation. about recreation and work. So the summary that is given to us in the shorter catechism is the fourth commandment forbids the omission or careless performance of the duties required. and the profaning the day by idleness or doing that which is in itself sinful or by unnecessary thoughts, words, or works about our worldly employments or recreations. And you can take a look at that in the shorter catechism under the fourth commandment Okay, so that takes us through the three different parts. And so he's just saying that we shouldn't be involved in, let me do uh, let me just put the word up there. We'll just say unnecessary talk. All right. And then he tried to define that a little bit for you. Okay, I'll I'll uh I'll just say two more things. Uh Um which is some remarks in his book that I thought were helpful. And then I probably have like two minutes for questions. Okay, so he He does raise the question, why does God want you to cease from doing your own business? Why does God tell you to stop pursuing your own pleasures and speaking your own words? And the answer is, so that you may pursue his business. That you may seek the pleasures of His Word and work, and that you may delight in His worship and word. And the way the shorter catechism puts that is you're to spend the whole time in the public and private exercises of God's worship. And then he goes through what some of that could look like. And I'll just mention that to you briefly. All true Sabbath keeping begins by our actively resting in God alone for our salvation. So from my perspective, when I look out at when I look at inside of myself or I look at you, the congregation, I see myself and you forgetting your salvation and taking on Ways of thought and mindsets that have been given to you all week long within the world. I consider it very gracious of God that He's given you a whole day to remember who he is and who you are in him. And I honestly think that it is naive to think that you need less than that. Less than a day. So I still view it as very gracious that he has given us that time to remember things like what is salvation even? Why do I need salvation? Who is God? And I don't mean that in abstract ways. I think during the week evil thoughts of God accumulate on us. And if we don't have a kind of like a a washing by the water of the Word on the Lord's Day especially It accumulates to the point where you uh you don't care about God, you don't love him, he's more trouble than he's worth, but you're still gonna hang in there because you're a part of a community where it would be embarrassing to admit that. Something along those lines. So I think it's gracious that he has given us the day. Piper also says, moreover, as we turn aside from our work and pleasure, we are free to worship him corporately with his people. Privately in our homes. We have time to serve him by speaking his word, by going to the nursing home, by visiting the sick and the shut-in, by witnessing and passing out tracts. by teaching and preaching his word. We have the luxury of having people into our homes that we may enjoy their fellowship and minister to them. So that is the whole idea. It's just saying God knows what is needed, what you need, and He's set aside a whole day. In addition to what you need on the other six days, He's made a special day for you, for those other things. Now, one other thing that I'll add, and then I'll take a question or two for the last two minutes, is please don't forget that if we were to I think we'll get into this later in the book, but don't forget that the fourth commandment is given within the context First of the Exodus. So if they heard the word rest from God's lips, so to speak, what would be the immediate significance of that in that context? Okay, stop wandering around would be one. But even before that, they were just released from slavery So you gotta remember that is that Pharaoh, when he was able to exercise his influence, especially there toward the end He didn't give them enough material to fit the job, and he didn't give them break morning, moon, or night or any day. It was just 724. So one of the things that I think is insightful when I look at different people who have observed these passages, one thing, one insightful observation I've heard is, you know, there's still plenty of pharaohs in the world. In fact, you could think of the world as a world system that is pharaonic. Doesn't want you to think about God Doesn't want you to turn to him for salvation. Just wants you to work and work and work and then you die. And that's it. And no one remembers your name. So the bigger picture here, some would argue, is that what God is doing is not is that Pharaoh is a type. That type continues within our world, and God is knows how difficult it is to get this time set aside, to have real freedom. And so he authorizes this one day to where we can escape from that world system, even within ourselves. Sorry, that uh today we could call the world system consumerism. There's a lot of different things that would just keep you going and never thinking about God. Which is a kind of slavery. Remember, it says in Exodus that you will let my people go to worship me. Right? That's the whole idea. Okay. So then when you look at those commands, it's directly relevant to what they had just been through. They're under a new king now. They're no longer under the old Pharaoh. And this is what it looks like to live under him. He's not going to be like that. Okay. So maybe that is helpful to you as well. Alright, so even though the bell is getting ready to ring, is there a maybe just one question that you might want to ask at this point before we get into Going on to chapter two next week. A lot of work you still need to do. Yes? Could you explain how the word rest is associated with this community? Uh the question is, how is the word rest associated with this commandment? The word Sabbath is the word rest. Okay, thank you for that. Yeah, it means the word uh Depending on if it's the Hebrew or the Greek, they both mean to cease from doing or to rest. Yeah. That's what it means. That's what the word literary it looks like a big fancy word, Sabbath or Sabbatharian or whatever. It just means rest or cease. Yeah. I think I could probably take two more because some someone hasn't rung the bell yet. Zach. So I think uh Thus far in the world. One of the one of the things I'm particularly interested in learning about in high school and in this book is arguments for and against certain components of the Sabbath. Yeah. And there are certain passages in scripture that I know are com commonly used to argue against a sort of Sabbath keeping that remarkable And I don't really see much of uh address of them. I don't think that they will contest uh contest, I don't know if there will be. So I'm wondering if at some point we can like discuss some of those passages like the one in Hebrews that says like one you know one Christmas ease a day and the other people like other people Yep. And in that list there's Sabbath days. Yep. And so like what are we kids and white? I was like I feel like I said a lot questions about and think I understand them well. Yeah. And it seems like Python's kind of just assuming the point here and not really dealing with those things. Well, one I would say he's not assuming it. Otherwise he wouldn't give you any evidence for his belief An assumption would be just this is what it says, and I don't have any evidence for it. He's trying to offer you evidence from Isaiah 58, so it's not an assumption, it's an argument. Number two, he does go into those different passages throughout, though he won't go through every single argument that someone has made against the Sabbath because it's like it could fill the world. But he does pick up the major ones. He picks up the ones where that you just mentioned, um, Hebrews chapter 4. He'll also talk about I forget the passage, but Paul talks about new moons and sabbaths. Where's that again? Colossians 2. Yeah, Colossians 2. He'll address that. He has addressed some of the arguments that have come up. For example, some say that this promise doesn't apply to us. So he did try to address that contextually. But he will start to look at those. I think right now all he's really trying to do is to get the foundation foundation stones in place so you can see what he thinks. I think what we could do too if you wanted to is you could bring other attacks if you'd like to do that. Uh if he doesn't bring them up. You'll know a week ahead of time. But I know that he's gonna hit those major passages that you're mentioning. Yeah. He'll look at the language of sabbatan, which is the plural and all that. Yeah. Yes. All the references that it uses in the book. Okay. Okay, so if you look in the back of the book when you get a chance, there is an index, Jeff is saying. Um with all of the scripture references or the scripture index. And then you can look and see what scriptures he's using where. Alright. Alright, very good. Yeah, we'll get into that, Zach. It'll be good. And then let me know if there's one that we didn't cover, because I do think it's important to look at each assault. Yeah. Yes. I just have a comment. Yes, quick yep, go for it. Um I really appreciate the way you're kind you're conducting this class and teaching it. And uh it's very helpful in understanding and um yeah I just like the way you're conducting this dungeon so far. Well th thank you. Well I am trying to conduct it where we there's there's a nothing hidden behind the curtain. I don't think that that in the long term does any good. You could present this in such a way, I'll say this and then I'll shut up that you you could present this in such a way to where rhetorically you become kind of like, um, oh, that's interesting And boy, does that seem right. But then, I'm telling you right now, there's so much pressure on this, your boat's gonna leak. And you're not gonna continue believing this. So it's very important that you look at what the case actually is. So that you can decide, is this true or is it not true? We live in a world today where everybody says the Bible says everything I mean the LGBTQ community, I don't want to keep picking on them because we all have our own problems. But they use the Bible to support their case. All right, so we do have to be good Bereans and look at, well, what have what are some other things that people have said? Do we have it right? What we're going to do a little bit later is if we do have it right and somebody else has it wrong or sort of wrong, how do we relate to them? We need to ask that question too, which is really important. I'll I'll say that Within the PCA, some people accept this. I'm talking about ministers now, and some people don't. Some people will look at this differently. So it is em now it doesn't mean that there's no such thing as truth and that everything is relative and there's no way of finding things out. Um but you do need to look at it and and see what does the evidence bear. And is the evidence clear enough for you to really put your foot down strongly or should you be a little bit cautious because actually it's not there's actually not that much evidence. Although there is a little bit. Those are decisions that we all have to end up making. I think if we do it that way, we'll get along better too with other denominations and our brothers and sisters in Christ. Which is also, like I mentioned, uh wanted to teach this cat this class Catholically or with Catholicity, taking into consideration the church is a really big place. Yes, I have people waiting for us. That's a really important thing to remember that God didn't have to give us the Sabbath. He could have let us get caught up into thinking we have to constantly be doing that work. But God wanted us to rest from our work. And to glorify and honor him. Yeah, very good. Yeah, that's right. Thank you. That's right. Um please be reading your books Please be working through the arguments in the book. Alright? Test them. Test the arguments. If you build your house on sand, it will fall. You've got to make sure that these this is a true foundation. Alrighty? Only thing I've really done, as Zach has pointed out, is I've shown you what Dr. Piper thinks. I have not subjected this to assault Maybe just like a little bit. We had a little bit of fire going on, but no M16s. Okay, let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you that you have given us your word, and I pray that you would help us to understand what your word is. and that your Holy Spirit would be our great helper in that, and that we would be convicted of what your word really says. And especially here with regard to your fourth commandment. I thank you, Lord, that you have given us this day set aside and that we are now getting ready to move into the purposes of it or continue in the purposes of it where we get to worship you. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen