Start our time with prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day that you have set aside for us to fellowship with each other. in a sacred fellowship. We thank you that we have worship here and we pray that you would be with us to all of the your intended ends for these things. Pray that you'd be with us in the congregational meeting also as we celebrate your faithfulness and look to what you're going to accomplish through us in the future. I ask, Lord, that you would give us wisdom here, that you would help us to know what pleases you, and that you would give us a heart that that in Christ does long to please you out of especially the thanksgiving for the grace that you have given to us in the name of Christ. Amen Okay, well it's been a couple weeks and so I'm going to do a quick review today with the book and then we're going to go ahead into I believe it's chapter number seven. It has to do with Colossians. Is that chapter number seven? Yeah, chapter number seven is what we'll cover today. I'm s I still need to add a couple chapters together, but I'm not going to do it with this one or the next one because those are the main questions that people tend to have. So we have seven this week and eight next week. And then we'll be able to start bringing some chapters together to catch back up with the syllabus. Okay, so what we the last time we met, we had um There's a couple we're gonna review part of this again today, but I would say if you had to boil everything down to so far on what we've covered the book in the book is that we have sought to establish or to chain down the belief that the uh Sabbath Is correctly understood, is connect is the fourth command, and that this is moral. When we d when we use the word moral, what we mean is that it is perpetual, meaning It is applicable to humanity or to whatever group it's applicable to. From the beginning of time until the end of the age. And so we have a uh a moral law, but it also means that it is applicable to all of humanity. That's what we mean by the term moral in this discussion. We mean that it is applicable to all humans at all times. That's what we mean by the moral law. That's the distinction that they're trying to make. There are other kinds of laws that are only applicable to some humans. some of the time. But moral laws, it's all humans all of the time. Christian, non-Christian, doesn't matter. It's still applicable. Another example of a moral law, for example, that everyone seems to accept in the world, except I'll imagine there's some people that question it out there, they'd be you do not murder, or you shall not murder. And that, I think we all grant, that applies to all human beings all the time. And we're saying the same thing about the fourth command We've worked hard in the book to establish that it is moral, but that there are some aspects that are ceremonial, and we're going to get into that today. The second thing we have been working on is the what is the obligation of the command? And we had three basic things. We had to delight in God Necessity and mercy I'm sorry, is everyone able to see these words? Well then let me write them bigger. Can you see delight in God? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, okay. Oh my god, so How's that? The last time we were together, we focused on these two things as an excellent day in which we're still accomplishing the necessities of our lives and he he gave the book gave a couple different examples uh such as farming and the example of Other institutions that are required in order for the necessities of life to keep running. And there was an example taken from the shipping industry. And then the mercy, where we're working out in areas of compassion, especially on that day. And sometimes around here we have called that neighborliness. And we want to encourage, we ended on saying we want to encourage these three things in the observation of the day. And really what we're doing at this point is we're just unfolding, well, if the if the fourth commandment is still a moral law, From the Ten Commandments, what does he require of us in it, and what is forbidden? And we've been trying to map that out, and we've placed it under those three things. Today, well, before I move on to today, the last thing that I'll remind you of is that we spent a great deal of time in Matthew chapter 12. And this began to anticipate the the argument that some will say that Jesus himself has taken away the Sabbath. And this is one of the passages that they'll use in order to try to prove that. What we have done, I hope, successfully in your mind, is shown you that within Matthew 12, Jesus is not seeking to take away the fourth command as a moral command. But rather, as the Lord of the Sabbath, he's showing what the yoke of the command has was always intended to be. It was always meant to be for man and to bless them and not to devolve in the way that the Pharisees and the Sadducees had put it together. I think that's pretty obvious when I read it. So I hope you find it obvious as well. Today, now, this is the review. Today we're continuing with other arguments that people will use. In order to say no, this Sabbath is no longer relevant to us And you'll note if you've read chapter 7, you know that the main arguments are all coming from the Apostle Paul, which we need to take a look at. So really the main point today is, okay, well we've looked at the gospel writer Matthew and what he has recorded about Jesus and how people have used that teaching. Now let's take a look at the Apostle Paul And how did people use his teaching? And let's better try to understand that to see what's going on with the Sabbath. You'll notice in the chapter, so this is a review. It'll stop there. You'll notice in the chapter that right in the beginning Dr. Pipa lays out a principle that is really, really important, and we have given you the principle here at this church. for a very long time. And it's a principle for uh that we we seek to put into place so that we would avoid the mistake that a gentleman named Marcion had made. Does anybody remember from reading chapter 7, what was the mistake of the Mar the Marcionites? In the way that they approach the Bible. We immediately have a seminarian's hand up back there in the right. You want to take it? You should I give it to him? Okay. Everybody's saying yes. Let me wake up for five more minutes. I'm not ready to talk about Marcion. Okay, go for it. The God of the Old Testament is completely different than who we see Jesus to be separating the two completely and he created his own edition of the Bible which only included parts of the gospel of Luke and I think maybe ten of falls the visible. And hey yeah. Okay. Yeah, thank you. Did everybody hear that? Okay, so so h Stephen dropped a word that we hear a lot. I think it's important, especially in our culture, to start re-looking at all of the words that Christians use. A lot of the times we don't know what they mean anymore. So what does what does Stephen mean or what do we mean by the word heretic? I mean it's something if you're called a heretic, s you know, it's not a good feeling. That's not what we want to be called today. But what does it mean? Anyone have any ideas on what that means? Yes. It means somebody who is actually preaching Contrary to the Word of God. Okay. So Natalie says it's someone who is preaching contrary to the Word of God. Chase. Or would you distinguish Uh there are certain errors that don't strike at the fundamentals of the faith. You would say the Baptist position is in error, but it's not heresy. Heresy would be teaching something that um is damnable. It would uh endanger Okay, so um Chase has made a distinction in saying, well, there's a distinction between error and heresy. And heresy would be a damnable belief that one takes up or teaches, whereas error is not against the fundamentals or the vitals of our religion. So just as a follow-up very quickly, if you're going to make that distinction, where do you place the word apostasy? So you could have I'm a her you're a heretic, I could say Chase? No, I could say Chase. Yeah. Chase uh uh let's just do somebody else then. Uh Johnny, as in like J John Doe. John Doe, you're an error. John Doe, you're a heretic. John Doe, you're an apostate. Or is there any distinction for you, Chase, between those last two? The last two? Yeah. I would think of a a heretic as an apostate, they've fallen away from Okay. Yeah, okay. So you'll have to take a look and see how you want to work out those different distinctions. One added element that usually is included in this is that within the heresy word is usually included not just that they're holding it privately But that they are causing schism or division within the body of Christ also. And the reason why I put put it that way is because if you look up the word, especially within the New Testament, And you look at what the people are doing with the beliefs that are contrary to the apostolic authoritative teaching, they're also drawing others away from the apostles. I notice that when the apostles bring up different names, that'll be an aspect of what's happening also, not just that a person is holding error. privately or something like that. So it's it's it's a it's an escal it's an escalation. Would you agree with that part? Yes, Brian? I think that bringing up like Marcion and heresy in this chapter that Piper is suggesting that this issue is of that nature I don't know. I don't know the answer to that. I would say Yeah, I'm not sure. His focus seems to be elsewhere. His focus seems to be pointing out that One of the reasons why people disagree with the Sabbath is because sometimes they approach the scriptures similarly to how Marcion approached them in saying that the New Testament is or um the Old Testament is abrogated unless it's reaffirmed in the New. And he wants to establish, no, actually the principle is Everything is true in the canon or in the Old Testament unless it's repealed or abrogated in the New as a different principle. I don't see him commenting on the place of people or whether they're apostates or heret heretics at the level of Marcy and if they hold this to what Sabbath position do they hold? In fact I would have to say that he probably there's a high probability that he does not hold that because he's still a part of the PCA. And the PCA has uh people that are taking a different exceptions to the Sabbath all the time. So he remains a part of that and um And maybe he's just hanging in there and he thinks all of them are heretics. I don't know. Uh but uh he's alive, we could ask him. Yeah, I'm not I'm not sure. It's uh good question though. Yeah, where does it fall in h where does it fall in his mind Okay, so I wanted to just go he so he so Marcion was the heretic, and the reason why uh Pipa brings that up is because he's trying to point out that Marcion held a different principle on how you're supposed to read the scriptures which he does consider to be deadly. So it just what and what I mean by deadly is it leads you to a lot of wrong conclusions. It cuts it can cut off or tie your hands behind your back. or your your right hand behind your back. The principle that Pipo wants to get across is unless it has been abrogated in the new, then it still continues from the old. Now what do I mean by that? Could somebody put that in different words? What we're working on right now is just the main principle, a main principle. for reading your Bible and understanding God's will. How else would you put that? Would you put it differently? Yes, Darren? I don't know if there's a better word where you will clarify more, but the the idea of continuity, that there is continuity across the Old Testament into the New, and that that that's it's because God's plan As it unfolds, is one continuous plan of redemption of man. And therefore, apart from the New Testament saying, this is no longer the way to think about it, like when Peter receives the the the vision of the meat that he can eat. Apart from that, there's no reason to to for us to even think that somehow something are good. And Jesus himself said, I did not come to Bolas the law but to Fulfill it. And so there's this this this idea of continuity that we should consider every time we think about what's going on. Yeah, okay. So another vocabulary word we will want to add to this discussion is that The basic principle that Dr. Pipa is putting forward is a principle of continuity. It's really we should as we're we're with the way that we read the scriptures, there's an assumption that there is a basic continuity unless that's interrupted. And that would and so an example of that would be there is a basic continuity in all of the scriptures with regard to the ceremonial law. What we find in the New Testament, however, is that the continuity is interrupted, and it has done is done so in very clear terms. There's an entire letter called the Letter of the Hebrews that is clarifying all of those different things. And Jesus spends an enormous amount of his time on that, and so do the other apostles. So uh at any rate, what I wanted to get across is that's a main interpretive principle in understanding the entire canon of Scripture. Around here, we've tried to get that across by saying maybe it would befit us to say instead of Old Testament, which has the sense of we could go ahead and discard this because it's old. Maybe we should start calling it the Elder Testament in the sense of like it has a lot more experience and we're and we want to keep the experience around or something along those lines. So that's the the first thing I wanted to point out from the chapter is that there is a main principle that we're operating with here, and that is the continuity. That it is continuous unless interrupted by the teaching. Now, you can see how we rely upon that also for our baptism argument. It's another way of talking about covenant theology. One of the dis the distinctions is going to be some will assume discontinuity. And uh we're assuming continuity. Okay. The second thing, are there any questions on the main principle? This is just still from chapter 7. That's the first two pages. Is there any questions on that main interpretive principle on how we approach the scriptures? That there is continuity unless otherwise stated. Yes. Is that statement um explicit or implicit? Is the continuity No no no not continuity Meaning is the interrup does the interruption have to be an explicit statement? Yeah, I think it could be I hope that it could be both It could be by good and necessary consequence, meaning I could like reason to that conclusion that this has been interrupted, or it could be explicitly stated. Yeah, like in Hebrews. Yep. Yep. Yes. Yes. when we uh talk about when you guys have that meeting and and things change in the Book of Church Order, it's also what happens in just the man made statutes. You either have a statute that is repealed Right? And so it says repealed. Or you have a statute that you're just changing for uh the where you cross so that people can see what happened. You cross out what you're t changing and then you put in what you're adding. Oh yeah, right. I mean that's kind of the most natural way to do it. And so it would seem to me now God can do what he wants, but it would seem to me if that if that is what he wanted to do he would say he would write repeals across the whole Old Testament. Yeah. And he hasn't. Yeah. Yeah, that's our argument also. And uh did someone here give an example of Peter before? Darren, you did? Yeah. And that example was the with the the sheet coming down with the heavenly vision. So there's like an explicit, well, using Natalie's language, repeal of that idea on the dietary laws But it was also a repeal on how to relate to Gentiles in general. So a lot a lot had changed in that vision. And um okay, so that's the main principle. Now the second thing within the chapter is that Not everyone holds to the principle that there is a continuity like that. They would say that They would say the primary focus actually is that the New Testament is discontinuous with the Old And that if there's any continuation, you have to prove that. And it has to be an explicit statement. That would be one of the arguments. Can't be implication. Has to be an explicit statement. And I'm assuming that it's discontinuous with the old. And that's why I think the main reason why he brings up Marcion. One of the places where this is brought up is in the teachings of Paul. And there are three main passages that are used whether you think it's continuous or discontinuous. There are three main passages that people struggle with, and they usually use these to show that the Sabbath does not continue. And by the Sabbath I mean the f the fourth commandment. Does anybody remember the first passage that is used in the writings of Paul? Or the the first passage is fine. Anybody remember that from chapter seven? Yeah, who said that? Who said the Romans one? Yeah, Romans what? Yeah, Romans 14, 5 and 6. We'll read that in a second. This is one that is used. And then the second one that is used. Colossians two, what verses? Sixteen, seventeen. Everybody see this writing? Yeah. And then the third? Going to four, ten, and eleven. Four, ten, and eleven? Yes, yeah. Thanks. Okay, Galatians four, ten, and eleven, and they're all very similar passages So let's go ahead and read each one of these, and then we're going to camp out on the Colossians one because that's where the book camps out. He uses this as a case study that informs the other two. So let's start by reading Romans 14, 5 through 6 together. And I'll go ahead and do that. Romans 14 So if you can turn there with me Romans 14, 5 and 6. One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats, eats in honor of the Lord. since he gives thanks to God, while the one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God All right. And has anyone heard this verse used to as against the argument for the continued observance of the Sabbath? Has anyone seen this passage before used in that way? If you have, the argument usually goes that It is a matter of what some would call adiaphora or adiaphora. Does anybody know what that means? Chase, can you inform us? Yeah. No, it's something that is indifferent. So if you want to observe or celebrate those kinds of holidays, then do so. But if you don't want to, then don't do so. And we all need to figure out a way to get along. with where our different consciences go. Alright, so that would be a basic argument. So the the interesting thing, let me just ask you, are there things that are indifferent? Could you name one? This chair. Okay, that chair. Alright, Brian. Booths or something. Feast of booths. So if Brian wanted to continue celebrating the Feast of Booths, then we should let him. Is that the idea? We should let if he says, Rachel, get your booth. I don't even know what you do on that piece, but it sounds involved. It's not gonna work, buddy. As much as you try. But if Brian was a messianic Jew and he wanted to continue to celebrate the Passover with the fulfillment of Christ, perhaps that's indifferent Uh some people would argue against that too, but okay, but we get the idea there hopefully with maybe some of the indifference. Okay. And then the second passage there, and so there would say that the Sabbath belongs within that category. So let me just put that up there So some people would hold that there is this bubble called things that we all get to decide on and disagree about, and those are called the in in indifferent And the it comes from a Greek word adiaphora or adiaphora, I've heard it pronounced both ways. And then they stick inside this bubble the Sabbath. So that's how they view the classification. Alright, and then the second passage is Colossians two. I'll save that one for last. So let's take a look at Galatians 4. 10 through 11. Oh, and by the way, for Romans, why is it that they would put uh the s Sabbath in there? And the answer is because it says one day. One day as better than another. So they look at the well the Sabbath is about days and so we really there are no more days. Each of us get to observe our days how how we might want to observe them. Okay. Uh maybe this would also follow in like Christmas. Or Easter, or Good Friday, Monday, Thursday. Those kind of feast days that you see within the church. And then they would put Sabbath in including with those. Okay, and then we have Galatians chapter 4. You'll notice that the rest of these are going to say similar things. And that's ten through uh ten through eleven. Okay. You observe days and months and seasons and years I am afraid I may have labored over you in vain. And that's that. So again, the same topic is coming up with the days and the months and the seasons and the years. And there definitely was debate during that time as to what are we supposed to be doing with all of these various festivals. Now you're going to see that, and we mentioned a couple festivals here. We mentioned the festival of booths, for example. If you didn't know, then the Hebrew people did have a calendar that they followed all year long. And they were observed days in my opinion. They were uh days uh observed where they would remember the redemption of God Which, as we find out, once we are enlightened by the Holy Spirit, we find out that all of those feasts are found fulfilled in Christ. They're all pointing to him. Okay. And then the final one which he spends the most time on, which is Colossians. And that's Colossians 2, 16 through 17. This one is the one most used. Therefore, let no one pass judgment on you in questions of food and drink. Do you see that indifference there? That idea, the indifference? Let no one pass judgment on you on questions of food and drink, or with regard to a festival, or a new moon, or a Sabbath. These are a shadow of the things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ. And it ends there. Okay, so what the book wants to do, which is what we're going to do, is we want to go through by we want to look at each of these teachings of Paul by way of looking at this teaching in Colossians. You'll notice that it's dealing with the same topics of seasons and years and months and festivals and all that kind of stuff. And so book wants to handle it by way of looking specifically at the Colossians passage. Now the way that the the way that Dr. Pipa begins this is he looks first at the context of the Colossians passage. So keep Colossians in front of you and we'll go ahead and go through this together He says, and this is not going to be found within your Bible, this is more of like looking at your this context and then understanding what was going on within history. Dr. Pipa says, a quick glance at the context will aid us in rightly understanding Paul's prohibition. In the book of Colossians, Paul is counter-attacking a hybrid heresy. that combined the Judaizer's doctrine of salvation by works, which included observance of the ceremonial law, with the ascetic philosophy of Gnosticism, which taught Christ was an emanation from God through a series of lesser divine beings the worship of angels, and abstinence from certain foods and material and physical pleasures. Now that was a mouthful. So why don't we step through that a little bit and let's look at the passage to see do we see those kinds of elements? Now, number one, does anybody uh remember from elsewhere within Paul's teachings about Judaizers and what they taught with regard to a salvation by works combined or uh sync synchronized With some teachings about Jesus Christ. Does anybody remember any teachings from the Judaizers from the Bible? Could we flesh that out a little bit? Yes. Well, particularly big controversy was that they wanted to become circumcised when they came to the church as a sign of being under Yeah, so one of the Judaizers' teachings where they believed that if the Gentiles were to enter into the people of God, then they must be physically circumcised. Now where does Christina get that teaching? Did she just make that up? Stephen. Galatians chapter two. Okay, Galatians chapter Galatians chapter 2, right, that's definitely dealing with Judy Gizers. Uh before that even in terms of the books of the Bible. Acts chapter fifteen. Right. Uh there is a great deal of controversy going on in Acts chapter fifteen over how are ha these different administrations supposed to be fitting together. So let's look at that let's just look at that together very quickly so that you can start to fill out a and color in a picture of what's going on in the early church. This is typically called the Council of Jerusalem. This is the first Presbytery meeting. Okay. So you can see here in in ver in chapter fifteen, the Jerusalem Council But some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brothers, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. You see that? That's what Christina is referring to. If you go all the way down into verse number 15, they ended the meeting saying We really don't need to be placing these burdens on the backs of Gentiles. This is a different administration. And they end up writing a letter to all of the churches. And the letter says that um uh the letter I'm sorry I gave you the wrong passage, but it's the letter says it's in Uh say that again. Twenty-eight and twenty-nine? Yeah, twenty-eight and twenty-nine. Thank you. Jeff, together we can have victory. For it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit. So let me start in 27. We therefore we have therefore sent Judas and Silas who themselves will tell you the same things by word of mouth. For it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay on you no greater burden than these requirements, that you abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, from blood. And from blood, and from what has been strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you keep yourselves from these, you do well. Farewell. And then it goes on, for when they were sent off, they went down to Antioch, and having gathered the congregation together, they delivered the letter, and when they had read it, they rejoiced because of its encouragement. So they're trying to straighten all of these different things out with what is going on with the transfer and moving away from the ceremonial aspects of the Old Testament. onto where Christ has fulfilled these things, what does it look like to move forward under the ascended Christ and to exist together? as a body of believers that consists of Jew and Gentile, that was not an easy thing to do. That was not an easy thing to do. As you see within Galatians, Peter himself separated and would not eat with Gentiles, and Paul had to rebuke him in public. So that's what's going on here with this overarching context in terms of the Judaizers being present. But Dr. Pippel also mentions that there was Gnosticism that was going on and that they were encouraging ascetic practices Now what is an aesthetic practice? Yes. d denying yourself of things. Yeah, practice where you're denying yourself of things. If you go back to the Colossians passage, you can see that Paul is confronting that In the Colossians 2 passage, you see that he goes on to talk about In verse number 18, let no one disqualify you insisting on asceticism and worship of angels Going on in detail about visions, puffed up without reason by his sensuous mind and not holding fast to the head And then he goes on to talk about this, look at verse number 21. Do not handle, do not taste, do not touch according to human precepts and teachings. They have an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made religion and asceticism And severity to the body, but they are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. So the overarching context is that you have some different teachings that are hitting this congregation that are confusing them as to what pleases God as they are to the disciples of Jesus Christ. And here Paul is directing his words in order to help them in the midst of that problem. You can see Paul doing this kind of thing in 1 Corinthians. If you are supposed to understand for if you want to understand 1 Corinthians, you've got to understand that it's Paul addressing Different problems that have arisen in the congregation, one problem after another. I know you've studied first Corinthians and so I don't need to say any more about that. Okay, so that is the overarching context. The book continues on page number 96. And he says, in Colossians 2, Paul establishes the supreme authority of the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior and lawgiver. He teaches that we do not serve Christ through obedience to man-made laws, traditions, and ceremonies. Furthermore, we do not come to know God through the philosophy of the world, but rather through the revelation of God in the Scriptures. In light of these things, he says, Therefore let no one act as your judge in regard to food or drink, or in respect to a festival or a new moon, or a Sabbath day In the first half of the verse, he deals with the claim that because certain foods are unclean, the truly holy will abstain from eating them. Later, Paul alludes to the ascetic doctrines he opposes, and we've already read that. So then in the second half of this, in the second half of verse 16, Paul takes up the matter of days. Therefore, let no one act as your judge in respect to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath day. And the main question that this chapter considers is Is Paul repealing, that's Natalie's word. Good job, Natalie. Is Paul repealing Sabbath observance as such? or the observance of the seventh-day Sabbath along with the other ceremonial days. I'll repeat that. Is Paul revealing Sabbath observance as such or the observance of the seventh-day Sabbath along with the other ceremonial days? We find the answer to this question as we examine the three terms Paul uses, festival or a new moon, or a Sabbath day. So I want to take a look at that. I wonder if that was some new information for you all when you were reading the this chapter, that there are these three terms which are important to consider. Festival, New Moon, and Sabbath day. Festival New moon and Sabbath day. It's really days. Sabbath days. If you look at the it's a plural. Okay, so why are these three terms enlightening to us as we seek to understand this particular issue? Does anybody remember? Why are those three t terms helpful? Anyone? Mueller? Bueller. They are categories of things, so that's helpful. The reason why these three things are helpful is because these three terms show up just the same in other places of Scripture together, particularly in the Greek Old Testament, which is called the Septuagint. And so if we look at those other places, we can gain some help in what is Paul talking about here. Oftentimes if we want to understand, I would maybe even argue all the time, when we want to understand Scripture, we interpret scripture by scripture. So when we look at a lot of the times when we when you're listening to sermons here, whether myself or from someone else, We understand a passage by way of looking at how the other scriptures comment on it. And the scripture interprets the scripture. So what's nice about this here with the Apostle Paul is that the Holy Spirit has given us these three terms which show up together and in other places of Scripture. And so let's take a look at those other places quickly. The first place is in 2 Chronicles 31, and that's in verse number 3. You're welcome to just follow along in these passages within the book. I'm on page number 97. Dr. Pipa says these three terms are often used together in the Old Testament to describe the various ceremonial days that God's people were required to observe. For example, 2 Chronicles 31, 3 describing Hezekiah's reforms, says, he also appointed The king's portion of his goods for the burnt offerings, namely for the morning and evening burnt offerings, and the burnt offerings for the Sabbaths and for the new moons, and for the fixed festivals, as it is written in the law of the Lord. So the argument here is that we're beginning to see what unfolds in Scripture is that there are the ceremonial festivals are detailed elsewhere. This continues in Nehemiah chapter 10, verse 32 and 33, saying We also placed ourselves under obligation to contribute yearly one-third of a shekel for the service of the house of our God. for the showbread, for the continual grain offering, for the continual burnt offering, the Sabbaths, the new moon, for the appointed times. The Greek translation of these passages, called the Septuagint, uses the exact three terms that Paul uses in Colossians 2, 16. Leviticus 23 gives a detailed commentary on these terms. In this chapter, Moses sets out the entire liturgical calendar of the Old Testament Church, verses 1 through 3, deal with the weekly Sabbath Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, the Lord's appointed times which you shall proclaim as holy convocations. My appointed times are these. For six days work may be done, but on the seventh day there is a Sabbath of complete rest, a holy convocation. You shall not do any work. It is a Sabbath to the Lord in all your dwellings. The conclusion that he draws is, in light of this, we see that Paul uses the term Sabbath days to include the seventh-day Sabbath. In verses 4 through 44, in that same passage in Leviticus, Moses explains the great festivals of the Old Testament church The Passover, coupled with the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the Feast of Pentecost, and the Feast of Booths, and Paul refers to these by the term feasts. Furthermore, in Leviticus 23, 24, and 25, Moses legislates special observances to be performed on the first of the month. Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, In the seventh month of the first month, first of the month you shall have a rest, a reminder by blowing of trumpets. A holy convocation, you shall not do any laborious work, but you shall present an offering by fire to the Lord. Paul has this observance in mind when he uses the phrase new moons Thus, by these three phrases, Paul is describing the Old Testament ceremonial days and Sabbaths and says that the Christian is under no obligation to observe these days. So does everybody see what he what the argument is here? So when we look at these three terms, that was a lot of information, so let's just step through it. When we see these three different terms, I'm sorry, this is supposed to be coming from here. When we see these three different terms used in Colossians, We notice, if we were to read the whole canon of Scripture, that these three different terms, these three terms, are repeated elsewhere. And I just mentioned Chronicles, Leviticus, and Nehemiah And when they are mentioned in those contexts, they are referring to ceremonial laws. Or the ceremonial it's like uh the ceremonial days and seasons and that kind of stuff. And that the apostle p what the apostle Paul is seeking to do by this argument and referring back or alluding or echoing back to these other passages is to let the Christian know that they're not under Jewish ceremonial law. The important point of this argument is this: Paul is not taking away the moral law Of the fourth command. That's the main argument. That's the rebuttal, really. What Dr. Pipa is trying to show is that even in any of those passages, whether it be Romans or Colossians or it be Galatians, Paul is addressing a very specific situation. He's letting the Gentiles know just like they did in the Jerusalem Council in Acts chapter 15. that they are not required to continue to observe the ceremonial Jewish days, but don't be confused Paul is not wiping away the fourth commandment out of the Ten Commands. There is still a Sabbath principle to be followed. Or a Sabbath law. But the seventh day, remember that's the argument from the beginning of the book, the seventh day, on which specific day it is, that is a ceremonial aspect of the law. Does everybody see how he's doing this? So I think what you have to do is you have to figure out, again, you have to go back to what we've been looking at in the book from the beginning You really do need to ask yourself two main questions. Is the Sabbath properly understood a moral command? Or is it only ceremonial? Or is it both moral and ceremonial? Those are, I think, your three options. So let's put those down. Number one, is the Sabbath a moral law? Is it ceremonial? Or is it both in the way that it's written? You have to figure out where you put your your foot down on that. Well a person has to reason through it. Okay. You know? Person has to reason through that. And then I think that really determines what's going on from there. And the position that Dr. Pipa is taking is he's saying that Paul is focused on the ceremonial aspect of the fourth command. He's pointing out that the seventh day is no longer obligatory. That's what he's saying. Yes. And just to clarify that saying the seventh day is no longer longer locatory this would be you might have Judaizers who are insisting on Saturday. Yes. Sabbath. Yeah and there are people today who would still insist on Saturday which would be a seventh day Adventist For example, we uh I think you've seen those churches around. That's what their position is. So that's what's going on here So that's something to think through. Um you know I've had to think about this for a really long time. I think that the Westminster Confession of Faith lays it out um scripturally very, very well. I don't see any problems with it at all. Um so okay. So I guess maybe an important part of this argument is the claim that you would never recall anything other than the Saturday, Sabbath day, a Sabbath. Say that say that again? Like an important part Part of this whole argument seems to be the assumption that he would never be referring to anything except the seventh-day Sabbath in this. There's no precedent in scripture to say to refer to Sabbath days that are anything except for the one commanded in the fourth command. I'm sure whatever you're saying is great. Okay. uh referring to Sabbath days where we're not speaking exclusively about Saturdays in Sabbath Saturday service in Israel's history. Do we are you asking me, do we have a question? Yeah, do we have an e example of Sabbath days referring to more than Saturday? Yeah. Yeah, I think it refers to ceremonial days. So I I guess That's what he's trying to do, is he's trying to say what we look at in these if we look at these Old Testament passages, what we end up finding is that this is a list of ceremonial days And that seventh day is one of the ceremonial days. But the but the fourth but the principle that we find within the fourth commandment is not that we are to um have it on the seventh day, but that there is to be one day in seven set aside for God. I realize that's the argument. Yeah. Okay, can you speak up and say this twenty-three was the whole chapter was talking about status. Showing that it is a term that is used for ceremonial days. Yeah. Does that does that help? Why it's been a requirement that when Paul is listing out these out and mentions Sabbath days, that he he therefore can has to be referring to the Sabbath Saturday observance of the s Sabbath. But he can't because he especially because he's using this plural Sabbath days concept seems to be a much broader term than The particular um attribute of fourth commandment of observance, which is the set of date. Explicitly. That just seems like a very I don't know, it feels like a stretch. Do you I guess uh I'm still struggling to understand exactly what you're saying, but I think I'm starting to catch it. Um I do understand that you think it's a stretch. Number two, what else do I hear you saying? Number two is that Could you yeah, I'm I'm sorry. I'm s I'm struggling with exactly what you're saying. You're asking that just seventh-day Sabbaths? Or there'd be other Sabbaths as well that are included in Leviticus 23 like Chuck was mentioning? Are there multiple Sabbaths and literally it's twenty three dimension? It does say Sabbath press the law and AJ V. Yep. Which are not Sabbath days. So definitely referring to multiple Sabbaths in the sense of like the festivals, right? That's the whole argument is that this is referring to ceremonial law and not moral. Yeah. So that's that's why I it was hard for me to read that and then see type of then say, and this refers specifically Yeah. Right. Exactly. I feel like there's some logical steps missing between So would you say that Paul I think you know uh this is a difficult verse. Someone should be pondering it longer than we have in Sunday school. I think important questions that I've had to ask myself, I think this is the best that I can do, is is Paul here taking away the fourth command in terms of it being a moral law? Yeah, and I think I do think there's plenty of establishment that no. Okay, not. All right. I guess I'm just going to do that. And then when I look at the second thing I do is I look at the context and who is he dealing with? And if I'm right in saying he's dealing with Judaizers who are trying to put the ceremonial law, which we've seen established in Galatians and in Acts chapter 15. If I think that's what they're doing, I'm starting to put this puzzle and this picture together to say That's what Paul is addressing here. He's addressing making sure they know that they're no longer under ceremonial law. Well, is there something about the Sabbath that has a ceremonial aspect? Well, I've worked harder earlier to try to establish, well yeah, the day on which it is being held. Does that I'm not asking you to be convinced, I'm just saying are those the logical the the kind of logical steps that you're looking for? Yeah, I I think um I think another part of it is it's like well what what other examples like within the Ten Commandments for example do we have where something that's merely ceremonial? colonial actually stated in the one of the Ten Commandments explicit specifically. Yeah. Um and maybe there are, but uh Yeah, we in the beginning of the book he went over a couple changes that were made in terms of um like the fifth commandment comes along with the giving of the land and then it's changed to the earth. For example, I'm not so sure that that's ceremonial, but you see changes like that, that there was uh I think you could instead of saying the word ceremonial, you could use the word I don't want to get too much more technical than this for this class, but I think we would start talking about positive laws. So laws that are given that are temporary. And you could talk about ceremonial as a kind of positive law. That's one of the ways in which this is reasoned through. So we do make the observation that laws were given that were temporary, and that sometimes those temporary laws were attached to moral laws which are not temporary. And that you could think of the ceremonial as a kind of positive law. That might even be the correct way to classify that. I just uh haven't thought through that classification like just like that. Does that help at all in terms of just seeing the pieces at least and why he's putting them together this way? Uh a little bit. Okay. All right, very good. Okay, yes. I'm probably just not thinking as deeply as the rest of you. Um but when you ask the question for the one, two, three Yeah. Um the fourth commandment when it was given, at least in Exodus, harks back to creation for its justified So it's and and so the seventh day part of it I in my in my as you were saying that I was thinking well the ceremonial part was Moses through Moses, the application of it to the people of Israel, we're gonna we're gonna keep that commandment in this ceremonial way. Yeah. And that Therefore when the command was given, it was not given as a ceremonial commandment. It was given as a moral commandment and then The ceremonial part that came later fleshed it out for that particular mission. Yes. Yeah, and then what we'll see in the next chapter is that it's now being worked out on a on a different day. which is the resurrection of Christ. The day on the r we observe it for the day of the resurrection of Christ. I thought that was well said what you just said. I had to say when I read the book that Brian was expressing like, wow, there's a leap in logic here that I'm not I'm not finding like because he would say like what's the collage pass passage clearly applicable. Yeah. Yeah. I would say the more Rachel? As I'm listening, I'm thinking also what is also a little confusing is that when it is given as a creation mandate, it is specific the seventh day, right? God worked six days and then he rested on the seventh day. Um and while that is also fleshed out like um Marilyn said later, that The argument is that it's not laid out that way. The argument is that it's laid out one in seven. Okay. So that would be you just have the fact check. But it does say six days and then the seven. If you were to take a look at the book, you'll see that's not what that's not that's he's gonna say that's not what it says. It says one and seven. Except as you said That's the moral law. Except you the Lord left this day and we have always What were you gonna say? And blessed Yeah. Alright, so if I were you, it sounds like you still have some questions with regard to the The Galatians, the Colossians, and the Romans, and the Romans passage probably. I'm not surprised by that because these are the main passages that people use to say I disagree with Dr. Pipa. I do think it's important for you to take a look at those passages. I can let you know that over time, as I've looked at each one of these passages, I have found Dr. Pipa to be correct. So I don't I don't think he's wrong. I th I'm confident that if you were to keep meditating on it, you'll find him to be correct also. So um next week is the Hebrews passage. If I have time, maybe we can take some more questions with the Colossians. I don't know. The questions that you're asking are established earlier in the book. So he's basically laying foundation blocks. If you don't have those foundation blocks tied down, then you will ask questions or you'll you'll still be floundering in some of the foundations and that's where you're going to run into trouble. So I really would if I were you um when I came to this church, I was not a Sabbatarian And it's and the considerations, I'm telling you, you have to decide, is the fourth command moral? You have to decide, does the fourth command also have ceremonial aspects? You do have to decide that. If you can start deciding those two things, then you'll have all the equipment that you need to start making sense of these particular passages, in my opinion. That's what I would say. So all right. We're already five minutes over, so we'll stop from there. Let's pray. Oh. Yeah. Heavenly Father, I thank you for uh our discussion here, and I do pray that you would help your congregation to understand your word. And Uh Lord, I pray that you would also prepare our hearts to be able to worship you here on this day. Lord, I pray that you would also be with us during the congregational meeting, that Lord, it would be done well, that we would focus on your faithfulness. And I ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.