You can begin opening your scriptures to Isaiah chapter six. Let me why don't we stand and I'll read it and then I'll give you a little introduction as to what we're doing. We're going to read one through thirteen. It's chapter six of Isaiah. Give you a second there. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting on a throne. High and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. Above it stood Seraphim. Each one had six wings, with two he covered his face, with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew And one cried to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The earth is full of his glory And the posts of the doors door were shaken by the voice of him who cried out, and the house was filled with smoke. So I said, Woe is me, for I am undone Because I am a man of unclean lips and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a live coal which he had taken with the tongs from the altar, and he touched my mouth with it, and he said, Behold, this has touched your lips, your iniquity is taken away, your sin is purged Also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send and who will go for us? Then I said, Here I am, send me. And he said, Go and tell this people. Keep on hearing, but do not understand. Keep on seeing, but do not perceive. Make the heart of this people dull and their ears heavy and their and shut their eyes lest they see what they Then I said, Lord, how long? And he answered, Until the cities are laid waste and without inhabitant. The houses are without a man, the land is utterly desolate. The Lord has removed men far away, and the forsaken places are many in the midst of the land. But yet a tenth will be in it, and will return and be for consuming. As a terebith tree or as an oak, whose stump remains when it is cut down, so the holy seed. shall be its stump. Heavenly Father, Lord Jesus Christ, we ask that you, Holy Spirit, would seal these truths to our heart that we might know you better. It's so important to us to know you, to commune with you. We ask that you will give us our desire. In the name of Christ, amen. Please be seated. We have finished the Philippian series, obviously. And we are now moving in to a new series that will take us all the way to Advent. Now it's a bit of a hodgepodge in a sense, in that we're not going to be going through Isaiah or a single book. There are a number of passages that we'll be looking at in the Gospel of John. It just happens to be that way. What we're going to be looking at, if you wanted to give a title to the series, would be Quorum Deo, Before the Face of God. It's living in His presence. is what we'll be focusing on. And these are really going to be the foundations that we will continually turn to in all of our years to know who we are or remind us as who we are as Christians. And particularly as Severn Run within our particular historical context. Let me put it this way. If you look at the Bible bookends, you have Genesis and you have Revelation. What we find as soon as Genesis chapter 3 is that we are removed from the face of God. We are removed from communion with Him, and it is the cause of all of the ills of the human race, both sin and misery. But we see on the other bookend, Revelation, particularly the latter chapters, is that there is a restoration of his people into his garden. There's literally a picture of the garden with a reunion and communion of his people with him. And here what we find is that we have been given that in part. That heaven has come down and glory has filled our souls, so to speak. And that is that the Spirit has been given to us, and the Spirit brings heaven. And so we have this heavenly way of life that has already begun. And some of you can see that very clearly, a difference between your earthly life and your heavenly life. Some of you have always known your heavenly life, and lucky you, or blessed are you. And that's really what I'm talking about, is that this will be focusing on quorum deo, living in the presence of God. We've been readmitted The angel is no longer flashing his sword and keeping us from the garden. We are now allowed back into communion with God. What does it mean to live with him? It's different than living with another human being, I'll tell you that. What does it mean to live with him? And here's the second part that you're going to notice in every one of the sermons. All of them will be focused on how do we live with God? Really, how does God want us to live with him? But the second part is that we are not at the point in our in the the the eon or the age or the way in which God is unfolding the kingdom where we still don't have uh snakes in the garden. So we commune with God, but we still have snakes that whisper things to us about God. And they say, did God really say There'll be a time when that's no longer present. And so within each of the sermons, we'll not only be living learning to live before the face of God and and allowing him to reveal himself through his word. But we're going to consider what does the world say to us about God? And how is it that we have given in to what the world says about God? Because here's the thing. Living with God is supposed to be glorious. It's supposed to change and shape your very self and create and it serves the primary cause of changing you into this beautiful creature, just beholding Him. Changes you from glory to glory, the scriptures say in multiple places. And so what Satan ends up doing is he ends up telling us lies about God and then we believe the lies, and when we believe the g the lies we no longer want to commune with God. We want to move away from him because he's embarrassing. That's really what we're looking at. So for example, let me give you an example. If you were to look around at the human race, all of the misery and all of the suffering I just had one woman say this to me. Why isn't God doing anything about it? And this is how she had made sense of the situation of the world. She said, he must be on vacation somewhere. Now that's how she made sense of it. That's what she believes about God. Now if you believe that God is aloof, while you're going through troubles, he's just going to take a vacation. Then would you want to commune with him? Is that the kind of person that you would want to be around? So you can see why people would move away from God if that were truly his character, but it's a lie. And at every single point in how God has revealed Himself to us, there comes the devil whispering in our ears, is God really like that? Well, how do you explain all this? And we come up with an alternative hypothesis, and then we pull our souls and ourselves away from him, and we no longer have communion. And so what we need to do, and basically what I'm telling you is you are trying to exist in this world but not be of it. And this world is full of cynicism and skepticism about God. And it can permeate your own soul. So we're going to start putting up guards against that as a congregation. That's the cultural situation in which we live. So, do you want to fellowship and commune with God? Is that a desire that you have? Don't you long for intimacy with Him? Does the world have you confused about God and about Christianity in general? Hasn't Christianity become in reform circles a kind of never-ending intellectual maze? That's not really what it's like. And so we're going to be working on those on answering those two questions and solving them. And we're going to begin with a premier passage in Isaiah, and we're going to be considering God's holiness. A primary attribute of God that pervades all the other attributes that we've got to get straight and not be ashamed of. Quorum Deo, living before the face of God. is the name of the series. And if you wanted, you could turn to Romans to give kind of like a tagline for the series, we are not ashamed of the gospel. That's what we're doing. Quorum Deo, and we are not ashamed of the gospel. So let's take a look at holiness together. We're going to, this is just beautiful to me. God is revealing Himself to you. A lot of people think God is silent. He doesn't reveal himself. But here he is. And he's going to show you who he is, and he's beautiful. I can't wait for you to see him this morning. So let's consider our holy God. I want to look at the otherness of holiness, the moral purity of holiness, and the judgment of holiness, and then we're going to take all of this holiness right into the Lord's Supper. What a great privilege. So we start with the otherness of holiness. Now, otherness is a strange concept. Now I don't know that you're going to relate to me on this, so I probably shouldn't have chosen it. But I think there's other human beings out there like this. When I say otherness, I mean otherness like spiders I mean, when I am dealing with my human relationships and when you're dealing with your human relationships, we all are on a spectrum of ability, of being able to read other people and know what's going on within them them and whether we should back up or we should get close. But with spiders, I can't read them. I can't anticipate what they're going to do. I don't know what they're thinking. They are completely other from me as a human being. Now, I don't know if I can get at it for you, but that's the kind of otherness that we're beginning to touch on here within this text. Or if you want uh paranormal experiences, sacred experiences, walking into uh a sanctuary by yourself? Uh I don't know if you have those. I remember uh actually uh Jeannie telling us a story, I think I forget which uh anniversary it was, but of the holiness of and the sacredness of the most of being under the branches of a pine tree that were covered with snow in the Pennsylvania mountains, the silence that was present there. There's a kind of otherness that doesn't mark all of human existence, a kind of otherness between myself as a creature and the spider as a creature. And what we end up seeing here is first the otherness. Take a look. There's first in in verse one there's a contrast between King Uzziah and then the Lord sitting on his throne. Here you have kings that people rely upon in order for nations to be successful. But here you see the Lord not just having a robe that that is beautiful and flows out, but fills the entire temple. Someone who is so far above the normal political endeavors and manipulation. Someone who is so far above all kings that he's moved into an otherness And his political ideals or his understanding. And this is emphasized even further when he does not have human beings around him supporting him as human attendants, but rather angels. Those who are the heavenly hosts. He is the king of hosts. That is to say, the king of those in heaven. And this is the otherness of him. And this is emphasized by holy, holy, holy He doesn't just say holy. He doesn't just say holy, holy. He says holy, holy, holy. And in the Hebrew language, this is used for emphasis. The repetition of it is meant to say he's not just more holy. He's not just more holy than the holiest. And we just keep going so you can't go any further. And this three is a kind of perfection. It's the Trisagion. I believe is how you pronounce it, which is from the Greek actually, but holy, holy, holy is used for emphasis. It is showing that he is far above, that that that what has shown up here in a vision to Isaiah is nothing that he ha Is ever familiar with you can't be familiar with this. It's unfamiliar by definition. And there is this there is this, therefore, this this otherness. You move quickly into the moral purity of holiness, and these things are going to attached to each other, which is why I can move from the first point to the second point very quickly. You have this otherness, and if you were to meditate on this, I think you, by God's spirit, can begin to feel the otherness of the Lord. And to know it. But it moves very quickly into the moral purity. It does so first through the context. of just this book, Isaiah. Are we pretty familiar with Isaiah? I know it's actually not a book that a lot of people will spend time reading. It's one of those books that people love would love to read one day. But we don't we tend not to get around to it. What you have here is you really have, I hope you understand that this is a continuous narrative. of God unfolding history. If you're in school, sometimes you'll hear that it's history is his story. And that's right. That's exactly what we're dealing with here. This is a continuation of the story. What the nation was supposed to do, as God had finally formed a nation and delivered them after bondage in Egypt. He formed that nation and they were to be a representation of his holy character to all of the nations. But we know how the story goes. And he gives them chance after chance after chance after chance, and they eventually end up into end up declining. Uh after David dies and after Solomon dies, the decline i is is disastrous. It's it's tragic. things that you end up seeing there. And God has enough. And the narrative ends. The narrative ends there with the prophets. And when you get into these latter-day prophets or in the wisdom literature, you can think of them as a commentary. On what God thinks and feels about what took place within his people. And then it's going to pick up again once we get to Daniel. The narrative will pick up again. Once we get to Daniel. But here we can see this commentary that's going on about the story of idolatry and madness. You have Jeremiah and Ezekiel and Isaiah are the latter prophets. And so here in Isaiah, we're beginning to see a commentary of how the Lord feels and thinks about Israel and what they have been doing, as well as the future that He has prepared for them. Isaiah 5. 20, in fact, says, Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light and light for darkness, who put bitter for sweet, and light And sweet for bitter. And that's a really great summary of how this book fits into that whole narrative and how he's commenting. In other words, if this is a commentary on everything that has taken place before. And we find that the emphasis in this commentary is on moral purity, then what we end up finding is that this holiness that we see here presented by God is primarily about moral purity. That's just the context. The context is God showing himself to be holy in terms of moral purity. But let me show you something that's specifically in the text. There's the coal which is purifying. The emphasis here is not just a general majesty. There's something else going on here where sin is present and there needs to be a purification that happens. From the coals from the altar. There is a moral purity here that Isaiah feels. Can you see him feeling it? Right there in the passage? There's a moral purity amongst God, and therefore is a moral holiness. Moral purity is a quality really of all of his attributes. So I want you to think about this. He is holy in the sense of being morally pure, and he's holy in the sense of being other. Take, for example, the ability to plan. Does anybody here know anyone that can plan really well? event planning. They could plan out for years to come and it would come to fruition exactly like they said. There are people amongst us that are like that. They do a very good job. Planning in general is just planning. If you were to mix with the planning evil, then you'd call planning conniving or scheming. And we have people that are con artists that can plan out for years to come and they will thieve at the end of all the years just as they planned, and they'll get what they So you can be evil and plan in that way if it is mixed. But here what we see is that the attribute of God being able to plan before the foundation of the earth, all Here it is mixed with a moral purity. His holiness, in other words, enters into his planning, and it's not conniving, it's not scheming. The scriptures call it wisdom. But there's not just moral purity that we're learning about here. He's also other. So his moral purity and his otherness enter into, for example, his planning. You can see that it would be wisdom and not conniving or scheming, but what happens when you enter in his otherness in his planning? He ends up having a plan that no one would ever foresee or be able to understand that that was exactly what was happening. Tell me you have not experienced that. Tell me that you don't have personal experience of God's holiness and his moral purity, his wisdom and his otherness in the way that he is choosing to govern your life. Are things unfolding exactly as you would have done it? Really? Of course not. Paul ends up saying in Romans 11, 33. Oh, the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. There are a lot of people today asking, why in the world? Is this happening to me? And what we begin to do is we come up with another hypothesis. Our hearts cry out during difficult and even tragic moments. And we end up saying things like this. I would not govern things like God governs them. He is incompetent. Now you may not say those words, but we can feel it when we're in the middle of a tragedy because we want the pain to go away. But here, when we begin to consider who God has revealed of Himself, instead of doubting Him, you will actually find greater comfort in asserting who he truly is. If you were to assert in the midst of tragedy that he is incompetent, then you are the worst of all. But if you were to assert that, no, he's wise, he's morally pure, that is to say, he is holy. And he is other, then things begin to make sense. Instead of doubting him, you would assert him. He is morally pure, but he's other. Until you embrace the fact that the universe is run in all her intricate detail by a God who is other, who will not do things in the way that you do them, you will be subject to futility and anxiety and you will worry yourself sick. Because he is not going to run things the way that you want them to be run. Because his ways are above your ways. And you say, well, if they're not the way that I could foresee them, then they can't be right. Well, Well, that's a denial of his goodness. You'd have to deny his goodness. You'd have to deny his ability to plan out things and to see that they're good. Does he plan out things, but he's really a schemer Is he really cruel, seeking your destruction? That's not who he has revealed himself to be. And yet when we're in the middle of a tragedy, those are the hypotheses that we come up with. with to explain who God is. But here in Isaiah, when God reveals himself, he reveals himself as other than you, and therefore he has the right to his own way. And he reveals himself as morally pure. There is no stain upon him. He always does the good thing. And if you were to truly believe both of those things in the midst of tragedy and assert them instead of doubting them, Then what comfort would rush into your soul? How many hypotheses and lies would fall to the ground about what God is really doing in your life? So many. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are my ways your ways, says the Lord, for as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. That brings all of it together. Seeing all of those attributes pervaded by holiness. Everything that he is is mixed with goodness, is mixed with moral purity. God is holy as in otherness, and he is holy in moral purity. And I've given you the example of his wisdom and how holiness enters into wisdom, and therefore it's good planning. You see his otherness and moral purity at work. And yet that's not getting specific enough with this passage. There are those general implications that are here about his holiness that he's other and that he's morally pure. But when you really get down to the details of the passage, what we find out is that his holiness really has to do with his judgment here. Has to do with his judgment. Judgment basically has two related meanings. It is one, a sentence and its execution and punishment. If you think of someone laying down a judgment. You shall go to the Iron Maiden, or whatever it is. Alright? A sentence and its execution and punishment, but it's also this: it's a moral conclusion based upon evidence So we have the examples within scriptures that are very much like what we deal with today. Lawyers or those representing the different parties come before the judge. The judge listens to the facts and then he renders a decision. And that is his judgment on the case. And then there will be sentencing that follows. And that's exactly what we have going on here. If you spend a little bit of time digging into this passage and seeing what our good Reform scholars have found is that this is a picture of God in judgment. God is in judgment here. He is drawing a moral conclusion based upon the facts. It begins with Isaiah 1. And it goes all the way through where God has collected all the facts, and here he's going to render his judgment and his sentence. And he's going to do so as a holy God. He will be morally pure. And he will render his judgments in in uh in otherness. These are the people of God here. This is the church. Isaiah 1, 21 through 23, real short passage. It starts off a little strong, does it not? How the faithful city has become a harlot. It was full of justice. Righteousness lodged in it, but now murderers. Your silver has become dross, your wine mixed with water. Your princes are rebellious and companions to thieves. Everyone loves bribes and follows after rewards. They do not defend the fatherless, nor does the cause of the widow come before them There is complete injustice being present. That's the context of what's going on, and it will reiterate itself in cycles going all the way up to six and beyond. And it is the reason why they will be sent into exile. You know, first as the Babylonians, then the Assyrians. God enters his throne of judgment here. That's what's going on with the call of Isaiah. His heavenly court surrounds him. See, he doesn't just have heavenly attendance. That's what's going on. He has a court surrounding him. And Isaiah is completely aware of this. This verifies the interpretation of what's going on here. All of what these symbols mean is that Isaiah doesn't apologize for being human. He doesn't just kneel before his majesty in general. All of that's a part of the picture. But he kneels before him as a sinner He focuses on how he is unjust. Take a look. He says in 6. 5, I am unclean. And to make no mistake that this is not some kind of philosophical, ontological uncleanness. He says, and my people are unclean. referring to what was going on in the chapters that we had just read, particularly in one. My people are unclean. We oppress the widow. We take bribes. We are a city of harlots. We have no righteousness in us. Not even the wine is pure. We have weighed the scales. We've done everything that we could to become an unjust people. And then judgment is envisioned in 611. Notice that God is sending Isaiah not just to a a regular prophetic task. But Isaiah says, Then I said, Lord, how long? And he answered, Until the cities are laid waste and without inhabitant. Now why would they be laid waste? It's judgment. It's the sentence being brought on them for the the judgment that was rendered by God in his judgment seat The whole the whole picture here, and actually when you look through the scriptures, the predominant way in which God reveals himself is the Holy One of Israel. And when you look up those words in your concordances and you see the word holy one, it will be within the context predominantly of justice. of him rendering holy, morally pure, other than the human race, right judgments. He will always stand for what is right, he will always execute. He will always bring justice and peace to be eventually in his timing. That will always be the case. That is who God has revealed himself to be. It's mixed with otherness. This is his moral purity. So he is able to take in the facts, and he's able to render a judgment. And since he's holy, the judgment is always good. I think we get the picture. Fear, ambition, love of money money enter in for human beings. When you judge situations, do you judge them justly? Have you ever skewed the judgment in order for the person that you really want to like you for them to like you? Have you just said just a little bit off? Have you skewed the judgment? Have you been unjust in your evaluation of yourself? Your wife or your cousin, whoever brings something up about you, it's character flaw and you know it's true, but you deny it till you go to sleep. But the Lord's not like that. He's never done that, ever. It's not even within him to be And now here's the question that we have that I told you that we were going to ask. You see who the Lord is, and we have some meditating that we need to do On who he is as a holy God, particularly as a just God. The ultimate question for you is: are you embarrassed of his justice? Is his justice embarrassing to you? Maybe it wouldn't be amongst these folks. But what about the folks at work, if you were to explain what God has done in the Old Testament? His sense of justice. Would they start to look at you cross-eyed and say, how could you worship a God like that? He's embarrassing? Yes, they would. Would you start to feel a little ashamed? You may The temptation is to feel ashamed. Atheist Richard Dawkins in The God Delusion. Anybody read that? The God Delusion wrote, The God of the Old Testament is arguably the most unpleasant character in all fiction. Now I read this guy not to sound smart. I read this guy because he is a voice for the culture. He's a representative of what people think. The God of the Old Testament is arguably the most unpleasant character in all fiction. Jealous and proud of it? A petty, unjust, unforgivable control freak? A vindictive, bloodthirsty, ethnic cleanser? A misogynist, homophobic, racist, infocidal, genocidal, philosopidal, pestilential, megalomania, lactical, sadomachistic, capriciously malevolent bully. Now he has a biblical he has a biblical example in mind for every one of the characteristics of God. So he's seeing the exact same event. But he's he's interpreting the invent to be of a different meaning than what God is revealing himself to us this morning. And that is what you get all week long. That's what you get. That's the kind of pressure that you are under to receive this kind of cynicism cynicism. People are are are looking really what's going on. You you see this within Richard Dawkins, and then you you see this This other side where it's not so intellectual, people are looking for a God that cares, and then they read about God who is just and holds them accountable, and they don't believe the two things can go together, so they begin to hate God. Or, so they don't have to deal with him, they say he does not exist. Or they become agnostic and they say, I don't know. Maybe, maybe not. Becky um Pipert, has anyone here read Out of the Salt Shaker and Into the World? Really famous book on evangelism. Well she wrote another book. It's called Hope Has Its Reasons. And um I just thought this was she did a great job of of of standing up and not being ashamed of God's justice in this. This book. Hope has its reasons. She says, in thinking about being ashamed, like Richard Dawkins is ashamed of God, obviously, she says, in thinking about God's love and his justice. Think how we feel when someone we loved. Think how we feel when we see someone we love ravaged by unwise actions or relationships. You ever seen someone in your life ravaged Ravaged by unwise actions and relationships? Do we respond with benign tolerance as we might towards strangers? She continues, far from it. Anger isn't the opposite of love or justice or wrath Hate is. And the final form of hate is indifference. God's wrath is not a cranky explosion, but God's wrath is not a cranky explosion, but his settled opposition to the cancer, which is eating out the insides of the human race he loves with his whole being. Now Richard Dawkins doesn't understand a God like that. I haven't talked about love yet. We'll get to the Father's love on the third sermon. But this is just to give you a taste because God has all these attributes and they all come together. And this is his justice. What I want to do is I want to go ahead now and do the Lord with the invitational song. I want to continue our discussion of the Lord