Mark chapter four, starting in verse twenty one through twenty-five. Also he said to them, Is a lamp brought to be put under a basket or under a bed? Is it not to be set on a lampstand? For there is nothing hidden which will not be revealed, nor has anything been kept secret, but that it should come to light, if anyone has ears to hear. Let him hear. Then he said to them, Take heed what you hear, but the same measure you use, it will be measured to you, and to you who hear, more will be given For whoever has, to him more will be given, but whoever does not have, even what he has, will be taken away from him. God's holy word for God's holy people. Let us pray. Awesome God, we need you. We need you to reveal to our souls this evening the truth of your word. Please, Lord God. Till the soil of our hearts. Make it ready for your seed, that it would spring up and bear fruit unto your glory. And I pray, Lord, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. It is in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Please be seated. Kids, you probably don't remember when you were two years old, do you? You definitely don't. But I promise you your parents do. They remember that there was a time when certain things were pointless. When you were two years old, it was pointless to try to lecture you because you couldn't even understand the words that we were trying to say And it may be humorous for you to be reminded that there was a time when your parents felt that giving gifts to you was pointless. Do you know why that was? Because there was a time in your life when your parents would give you a present and you would ignore the present completely. And you were just enamored with the box that the present came in. You had more fun with the wrapping paper than the gift itself. You totally did not get the purpose of why your parents were giving you that gift. It was cute when you were a toddler. But as you got older, it's not quite so cute, is it? W wouldn't be that cute if you gave uh your twenty-five-year-old child a present and and they ignored it and just played with the box. Gifts are given for a reason. They're given for a purpose. We give it because we think there's something that you would enjoy, or perhaps it's something that we think you need. It gives us joy. To give gifts to you. How do you think it would feel? Just imagine yourself if, say, you saved up all of your money, so you could buy your brother or your sister or your best friend a gift And you saved it up, you wrapped it, you put a lot of thought into it, and when you gave it to them, they said, Oh, thank you so very much. And then they turned right around and threw it into the garbage can. How'd that make you feel? Would it make you think that they've missed the whole purpose of why you were giving them a gift? Well, Mark has been showing us the great gift of God, who is the Lord Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son. He has come in the flesh for a purpose. to save all of God's people from their sins. He's proven himself to be the Son of God in all the many things that he's done. He's done what only God can do. He has healed miraculously. He has forgiven the sins. He has cast out unclean spirits. He's been teaching in a way that no one has ever heard before, with power and great authority. He's been changing how people have understood their own lives or or the lives of their families. He's been turning the world upside down. Or as I like to think of it, he's been turning it right side up. Last week, he began teaching in parables And I just want to remind you, parables are these stories that have an earthly component and a heavenly component. They are stories of earthly content, things that all of us by common sense can understand But they have a significance, a heavenly significance, that only God's people will have will receive. He reveals truth by using common illustrations for everyone But there is a more important meaning behind those illustrations, which is not for everyone. Only Christ's family. Only those who do the will of God, His Father, who are following closely by Him, who are seeking to learn and to be To be changed by him, only those who are saved by Christ, those who have ears to hear, those who have been blessed to be good soil. Only they will have that heavenly meaning and receive that deeper significance. Well, in our passage tonight, Jesus continues to teach in parables. And by this parable before us tonight, we learn that Christ saves sinners, so that by them the world might know Him. Brothers and sisters, Christ saves you, so that by you the world might know him. And we're going to look at this under two divisions. We'll look at first at verses 21 through 23, in which we see that sinners are saved for a purpose. And then we'll look at verses 24 to 25, and we'll see that purpose that the world might know him. So let's look now at this first section, verses 21 through 23. in which we see that Christ saves sinners for a purpose. Let's look together at verse 21 and we'll see the parable itself, the earthly example. He says Is a lamp brought to be put under a basket or under a bed? Is it not to be set on a lampstand? I think we can understand this as Jesus is expanding on the immediate previous verse, verse 20. Why does God bless some of us to be good soil? It's so that we would grow up to be plants that will bear fruit, lots of fruit, 30, 60, 100fold. And what do those fruits produce? What do those plants produce? They produce more seed. More seed which would be sown. The common sense example of what Jesus is saying here in this parable is clear. Those saved by Christ have been made into a lamp. You are lit by Christ. He, while he walked in this world, was the light of the world, but you now have his light shining through you. And the purpose for this is not that it would be hidden, right? He says it right there, but put it under a basket Or under a bed. Uh the first century idea of a bed is not quite what we have. It wasn't, you know, a box spring and a bed frame. Basically it was just a mattress. So you could see how silly that would be, wouldn't it, if you put a lamp underneath of a mattress. No light would come out. And kids, in case you don't get it, it's not a lamp like uh an electric light with a a pull cord and chukunk chunk and it turns on and off. This was a lamp more like if you've seen the movie Aladdin, it's more like that kind of lamp. Usually uh in a poor household like this in the first century it would have been made of clay, and it would have just been filled with a little bit of oil, and it would have been set commonly on a little shelf that was built out from the wall, and it would have been high up so that this little tiny lamp with this little bit of oil, once it was lit, it would shine light in the entire room. The whole room would be lit by this one little lamp. But it would do no one any good if you took that lamp and put it under a basket. I think that's self-evident for us. There is a purpose for lighting the lamp. And there is a purpose that God has turned you into a lamp and given his light and put it in you. And so we have to look now at verses 22 and 23 and wonder what is Jesus saying here? He says, For there is nothing hidden which will not be revealed. Nor has anything been kept secret, but that it should come to light. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. Is Jesus contradicting himself? I mean I I just said that he's teaching him parables Parables which reveal certain things to certain people, but conceal that same message from others. Is he saying something contradictory here? No. Jesus is in this verse teaching that what he is keeping hidden will only be hidden for a time. While he's walking here on this earth, he could not openly reveal who he is, because that would have ended his ministry. Pastor Jesse reminded us of this this morning. As soon as his true identity becomes clear to everyone, do you remember what happens? He's arrested. He's beaten. He's crucified. Only those with ears to hear will receive the significance of the message then. But it would not stay hidden forever. They have been given those ears to hear for a purpose. And in our time now, the glory of Christ is not hidden. The truth of who Jesus is is not hidden. We have the Bible. More than that, we have all of human history from the time that Jesus rose from the dead. We can look back and we can see God working miracles. And he was working miracles through the ministry of Jesus for thousands of years after he left this world and ascended up into heaven. While he was physically here, John chapter 1 teaches us that Jesus is the light of the world. He is the light that shines in the darkness, though the darkness did not comprehend it. He came to his own And what did his own people do? They rejected him. How then did the world get transformed by Jesus Christ? It is through those that he has saved. Those in whom he has put his light. Jesus has saved sinners For a purpose, and that's the second part of this passage that we're going to examine now. That purpose is so that the world might know him. And for this to happen For the world to be introduced to Jesus through you, what's the first thing that must be there? You must know Jesus You must know him. So look at what he says in verse 24. Then he said to them, Take heed what you hear. With the same measure you use, it will be measured to you. And to you who hear, more will be given. Think about that. What is it that you are hearing? What are you believing? If you were to turn and To the parallel passage in Luke. It's in Luke chapter 8, verse 18. You don't have to do that now, but it's it provides some helpful insight for us because he says things in just a slightly different way. He says, take heed how you hear. If we are going to be used by God to shine the light of Christ to the world, we must be those who have ears to hear. We must be those who have been blessed to be the good soil, to accept the Word of God. So I asked you: do you have ears to hear? Well, let me ask you first, do you have ears at all? God's given human beings ears. Why why did he give us ears? Does anybody know why God gave us ears? I think it's so that we could hear. Yeah, the Doug says so that our glasses don't fall down. He gave us ears so we would hear things. Did he give you ears so you would hear I don't know. Who's uh Justin Bieber? Did I just date myself? I don't know. Did he give you ears so that you would hear Who's m I don't know who's a modern musician? Kay Taylor Swift? Somebody said no That is not why God gave you ears. He didn't give you ears, and I know some of us we need to hear this. He didn't give us ears so we would hear presidential campaign speeches. He didn't give us ears so we could hear the news What is the most important thing that you have ears for? It is so you can hear the gospel. The most important thing your ears will ever hear is the good news of Jesus Christ, that He freely and completely and everlastingly saves sinners by His own blood. That is the most important reason God has given you ears. And so if you want others to hear that message from you, to accept it, to receive it. Then you must first be sure that you have the ears yourself, the ears to hear. Do you want them to hear your words? Then take heed how you hear. Because with the same measure you use, it will be measured to you. How can you expect someone else to receive the gospel truth from you if you are not willing to receive it from someone else? Do you want them to take the gospel seriously? Then you have to. Do you want them to believe the good news? Then you must believe it. Well, Jesus also says, to you who hear, more will be given. The one with ears to hear will receive so much more than they could ever have imagined, so much more than just understanding They will receive the Holy Spirit. Those who hear and believe the good news of salvation will be blessed with the helper who grows them in knowledge and in faith. Who allows them, enables them more and more to die unto sin and to live unto righteousness. They will be blessed to watch Christ work through them. Christian, you will be blessed to watch Christ work through you. You will be blessed to watch his light shine through you and thus bring light to everyone around you. And this is so very important for us to understand and to believe because it is what the world needs most. This is the most important thing that will ever happen in a person's life. Look at verse 25. For whoever has, to him more will be given. But whoever does not have, even what he has, will be taken away from him. The one who has is the one with ears to hear. This is the one who believes and accepts the word. This is the one who is growing from the seed planted. That itself is a tremendous blessing, isn't it? But Jesus says that there will be even more blessings. They will be given even more than that. Yes, they will receive eternal life, everlasting joy with Christ and with all of his family, with everyone who has been doing the will of the Father since the beginning of time. You will have an inheritance. You will have a place. A place in the kingdom of our King Jesus Christ. It's amazing. But it's not the only thing he says there, is it? Whoever does not have. Who is that? Those are the unbelievers. It's those who seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, hearing they don't understand, seeing they don't perceive And this is the sad condition of all the unsaved human beings on planet Earth. Again, Luke's account helps us because he says: even what he seems to have will be taken from him. This isn't Jesus being mean. He's not trying to hurt somebody's feelings. He's simply telling the truth. He's being completely honest with the crowd that's around him. He is actually shining his light into the darkness. None of us will take anything with us when we die. Now matter how much someone has in this world, in this life, family, friends. Money, companies, homes, no matter what they have, they will take none of it with them Nothing else matters. Nothing else has eternal significance. Later in Mark chapter 8, verses 35 to 36, we'll hear Jesus say, For whoever desires to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his soul? Brothers and sisters, this is why Christ saves you. Christ saves you so that by you the world might have an encounter with Him. They might know Him. In Matthew's parallel account of this, it happens in Matthew 5, verse 16, he says, Let your lights so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Do you realize, Christians, that you are the advertisements for Jesus? You're the advertisement for Christ to this world. God has written on the heart of every man the truth that He is, and that He exists. You can look at Romans chapter 1 and chapter 2, you'd see it there clearly. And when the world comes into contact with Christians who are shining as lamps lit by the light of Jesus Christ, it will stir up something fundamental inside them. They will see that person and they'll say, who who is this guy? What what's so different about him? He he speaks so differently, he acts so differently. She's so kind. She's so caring. She cares about other people. I've never seen anything like this before. And yet, it's strangely familiar. When the world looks at Christians, what should they see? They should see people living and thriving because they have something. Something that these people didn't even realize they wanted. They should look at Christians and see someone who's at peace with God. Someone who's been reconciled to God, whose sins have been forgiven by God. They see someone at peace with God because they watch them being peacemakers here on this earth. They see someone who has been forgiven by God. How do they see that? Because that person has been enabled to forgive. That's a very different kind of person to most of the world, isn't it? It's so different. It's like the difference between, I don't know, day and night. The difference between light and dark. And that's why God saves you. That's why He gives you His light. That's why He sets you as a lamp on a lampstand. He does this so that you can be an ambassador for him, of him, to the world. You can shine his light, the light that he's put in you, on everyone that he puts into your life. By your light, they see that forgiveness is real, that it is possible By your light, by your life, they see that God really does change people. He really does. He really does make people capable of telling the truth. He really does make people capable of sacrificing for others, of giving generously to others. He really does make people capable of saying no to sin. Are you one of those people? Has God made you capable of saying no to yourself Are you willing to do that in front of the world? Jesus does not save you. So you can be the lamp under the basket. You aren't made more and more like Christ, so that you're just doing better in your own time. So that in your private time by yourself you're having better thoughts. That's not why you've been saved. He intends for you to live that same life, that cleansed life openly before the whole world. So I'd ask you, it's very important, especially you older kids, you teenagers. Are you shining your light before the younger kids here in this congregation? Or perhaps at school? Are you shining the light of Christ for your younger siblings? Are you showing them what it's like to follow Jesus? If one of the younger kids here at church came to an elder and they said, I don't know what it means to be a Christian. Could we say, I know what you need. You need to hang out with Jack. You need to spend time with Jack. Can we say, you need to follow Andrew around for a day so that you would know what it looks like to be a Christian? If they want to know what it's like to be a Christian to somebody who's being mean to them, can we send them to you and they can watch you? Deal with the difficulties of life as a Christian good? Parents, grown-ups, you're not free from this just because I'm talking to teens. Does verse 24 convict you as it has me this week? It's the same measure you use, the one that you want used to you. Are we holding others to a standard that we ourselves can't live up to? Perhaps the worst thing we can do for an infant Christian, for a young Christian who's just growing in the faith. I think the worst thing we can do is to give them the impression that being a good Christian, the measure that we use is absolute, complete, and never failing perfection. And I think sometimes that's the problem we have. But we don't want that. We don't want our children to think that being Christian means that you can never make a mistake. Because that's not what God tells us. If that were true, there's only one Christian, and that's Jesus. The Bible is clear in 1 John 1. It says that if we claim to be without sin, then we're deceiving ourselves. And the truth of Christ is not in us. So I'd ask you, what what's the lamp? What's the light that's shining out of you? Are you shining the light of forgiveness? Are you shining the light, demonstrating that love covers a multitude of wrongs? Or are you more concerned with showing them that Christ saves sinners? Then that you ensure they follow every single rule that's set before them? Is that the light that's shining out of you? That Christ saves sinners, that Christ helps those who fail I've heard it put it this way, I can't remember where I heard it. It might have been in Spurgeon's letters to my students or I I'm pretty sure it was in one of those tomes, a Puritan writing to young pastoral students, but he says it In a way that I just couldn't find a better way to put this. He says, shine your light before all men. But don't dash it in their eyes. Don't shine it directly in their face. Have you ever had somebody shine a flashlight directly in your face? I have. It's not pleasant. It can be painful. We must dine our light, the light of Christ in us, so that we can dispel the darkness But we must be wise and caring and loving as we do this. We must be more concerned that they see the source of that light in us, and that they see everything else clearly by that light than that they are impressed with the brightness of our light. Don't shine it directly in their eyes. Oh, that God would make us shine with his light. It's so very important, isn't it? It is the only thing that matters. Only in Christ can anyone escape the pains of death and hell Only in Christ can anyone be forgiven and made new. And this is what every human being needs. This is what you need and what I need. You must believe the gospel of Jesus Christ if you want to escape the everlasting punishment which sin deserves. And this is why He has saved you. So that you can shine that light and share that truth with the world. Romans 10 teaches us that whoever believes on God will not be put to shame Whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Faith comes by hearing, hearing by the Word of God, and he says, How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard, and how shall they hear? Without a preacher. Oh, brothers and sisters, may our prayer be that our awesome God would give us ears to hear. Minds to believe, hearts to love, His truth. That his light would shine through us, that our lives Every aspect of our lives, our thoughts, our words, our deeds, would preach Jesus Christ to everyone we come in contact with May he remind us every day that he has saved us for a purpose that by us the world may come in contact with him. Please pray with me.