Verse twenty two this morning and read to thirty one. This is the word of the Lord. But Saul increased all the more in strength and confounded the Jews who dwelt in Damascus, proving that this Jesus is the Christ. Now after many days were passed, the Jews plotted to kill him, but their plot became known to Saul, and they watched the gates day and night to kill him. Then the disciples took him by night and let him down through the wall in a large basket. And when Saul had come to Jerusalem, he tried to join the disciples, but they were all afraid of him and did not believe that he was a disciple. But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles, and he declared to them how he had seen the Lord on the road, and that he had spoken to him, and how he had preached boldly at Damascus in the name of Jesus So he was with them at Jerusalem, coming in and going out. And he spoke boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus and disputed against the Hellenists, but they attempted to kill him. When the brethren found out, they brought him down to Caesarea, sent him out to Tarsus. Then the churches throughout all Judea, Galilee, and Samaria had peace and were edified. And walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, they were multiplied. Let us pray. Lord, we do pray that you would help us to discern the body That we would know that we are members of one another, and may we not neglect our responsibilities. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Well, last week we confessed a vital reality. We must turn from a consumer and we must turn from an American idol lifestyle. And the reason why is because Jesus owns us. He chooses us to live for his namesake. In our everyday, ordinary callings as families or plumbers or software engineers, and the list goes on. And in each one of those callings, we are to order our whole existence to his glory. That was our vital reality last week. Now, this morning, don't miss this main point because it's coming here real quick. This morning, we are building on last week We are acknowledging, just as we did last week, that we live for Christ. But we are taking a step forward this morning. We not only live for Christ, but we live for Christ only when we receive help from each other. That is the way that it will work out practically. You will not be able to live for Christ if you do not have each other. And so that is our main point. We live for Christ, but we will only do so with the help of each other. Now, the reason why I'm saying that is divided up into two proofs. I just want to take a minute and show you why I'm saying this at this point in this particular passage, where I'm focusing on us helping each other. Now, the first proof is I just want you to take a look at verse 31. I think that it is, on the face of it, obvious that verse 31 is a summary Of all that has come since Pentecost, really, our temptation is to think that Luke's emphasis has been on mega superstar preachers like Philip and Paul. But when we get to verse 31, we get to have a reality check as to what the emphasis has been all along. The emphasis, you'll recognize, is on the total health of the total communities that each person has been to in their preaching. This is signaled to us by a key word in 31, and it is edified. Now that is a construction term. It's a term that carpenters and architects would use. It means that the Spirit has been working through all of the saints in each of those local locations And including the apostles and the deacons, also that there was a building up, a construction of the saints into hell, despite the pressure they were receiving from the enemy. The summary, therefore, paints a picture of a community empowered by the Spirit, building itself up in love by the power of the Spirit. And that is really, I'm starting to repeat Ephesians chapter 4, if you recognize that. You're seeing it play out here, and you're seeing it in Luke's summary. So this is the first proof on why I think that this section we really need to focus on that we need to help each other Last week we focused on how Christ chooses us and that we are to live for Him. This week you can see this first proof that we can't do that unless we help each other. That is how it plays out in history, and you can see it right here in this passage Now, here's proof two. When we start to look at the details besides the summary, the second reason that I believe that we're called to help each other from this passage is the repetition of the helping saints. Christ does not act immediately on Saul the whole time. Notice how in our passage from last week he sent Ananias, for example. Did he really need to do that? Well, in the way that he does things, yes, he does. Because he works by way of Christians helping each other. And then notice verse 25 in the passage. It is the disciples that helped Saul escape by the basket. If you were to slide down a little bit, you'll see that Barnabas, another helper, helps Saul to be restored to the congregation. To help them to see that he no longer has murderous intent. Those same hesitant saints in verse 29 will help Stahl to escape from the Hellenists. The Hellenists are the same ones that had just killed Stephen back in earlier chapters. They were Paul's people, really. And here you see the disciples helping Paul along his way there. And so you can see how there is a picture when we see the manifestation of the kingdom and how things actually work out in history. It's not about superstar preachers, though I do believe they have a kind of excellence among us. It is not about superstar preachers, but about a whole community continuing to minister to itself under the leadership of apostles and prophets. With Christ as the cornerstone. Sall and all the saints in the local church, verse 31. Notice how each location is pointed out, that it's just not an undefined mass of Christians It's not a Christian blob. It is the Christians at Judea and at Galilee and at Samaria, local churches, and they are all walking in the fear of the Lord, which is another way of talking about ordering your life to God. They are ordering their lives onto God, but they are not doing that alone. That is not the picture that you get from the scriptures. There is no individualism among them They live for Christ only with the help of each other. That even included the Apostle Paul. How much more is that true for us? In our rather simple situations as opposed to Paul. Now, since this is true, those are two proofs as to why I believe the focus here is the only way for you to live for God is by the help of each other. Since that is true, as modern Christians, we have a few lessons that we need to adopt this morning because community does not come natural to us any longer. In other words, we can only really start to live this out, to continue to be the church in community, if we start to acknowledge at least two things. Now there's probably a thousand things we need to acknowledge. acknowledge. But I'm going to bring two up this morning on how we can start to really help each other. And that first one, I lately people have been telling me it's helpful to give the same letter for each of the points. So here it is again. Two P's. Providence of particular place is the first point. I know those are all peas, but you get the point. Providence of particular place for the first point, and then Pietism. Provence of particular place, and then the second is Pietism We need to pay attention to these two things. We need to start thinking through them if we're ever going to be able to help each other live for Christ. Now let's start with providence of particular place. If we are going to help each other live for Christ, then we have to adopt this. By providence of a particular place, I mean something that we have forgotten in our culture. We have forgotten that God has chosen everything for you. God has chosen to put you in the place where you are and to maintain it in all of your circumstances, your relationships, your locales. You are not timeless, you are not across all places, you are right where you are embodied. He decided that you should be born, a male or a female. That was his decision. He decided that you would live at 101 Such and Such Street, whatever, Maryland. He decided that you would be a member at this particular church. And I bring this up because in our culture there is a lack of providence of particular place. And let me give you an example of something that I heard that I think is a real clear instance of this mentality. I just heard, for example, that the millennial generation and those who are graduating college now, that statistically speaking They will own less homes than all generations prior to them in America. The reason being is because they don't want to own a home, they just want to rent Now, it's not exactly because they're great with their finances that they want to do that There is a mentality underneath of it, this is an overgeneral this is a generalization, I'm sure there's exceptions, but the reason why they want to not own homes But to rent is because an ultimate value for this generation is mobility. It goes along with their sense of not being restricted to any time or to any place. They have taken a global society far too literally. They think they are just minds and they ignore their bias. And they do this because they don't have a real sense of God's particular provenance, that He has worked out everything in its specific details. They view the whole world, all times and all places, as an infinite variety of relationships at their fingertips that they are allowed to engage in whenever they want to, whenever the desire arises I'm not being unkind. I think this is an accurate description, I'm sorry. They rent, therefore, so that they can move to Italy for a month, working on their laptop at a cafe until they want to go to Tibet. And do it there. They have no pressure to stop anywhere And this, unfortunately, is a mentality that can creep and has started to creep into the church. We think that all Christians are our brothers and sisters, and that is true, but we take this idea of the universal and global church and think that we have an equal choice and responsibility to all of them across the globe whenever we desire, having no sense that God has placed us at a particular place, in a particular time, in a particular gender, for his purposes. That our desires are not to organize our life but his. What this works out to be is this works out in the present life of Christians. Going to a local church on Sunday, but then spreading their lives out among several Christian organizations. So that they have no real devotion to any particular place or any particular people. It is a major problem. There is no way that you can live your life like that and actually help each other. You would never know anybody well enough to get past the surface. And so I'm just I'm not trying to rattle your cages, I'm just going to give some examples. And remember, this is the ordinary way in which we are to operate. I do understand that there are extraordinary situations in every person's life. And so we go to battalion at one church, we go to Youth for Christ at another church, we attend Bible studies and enter into mentorships at our Christian schools. We study the Bible with BSF and we learn from pastors on YouTube. And all this does is it spreads us out in the same way that that generation spreads out where you have stopped nowhere. Now, with that as our present culture, I want you to do an imagination experiment with me. Just think about this kind of situation that we're in right now. If that's how the church decides to act, I want you now to imagine, like we talked about last week, that Christ calls someone to himself. And this person is so excited to move out of darkness and into light. So they read the word Because they now have a calling and they want to work it out specifically, and they read in the word that they need to be a part of a local body of believers in order to be edified or built up. They go to that local body. They yearn for help and mentorship, but everybody there is too busy doing something else elsewhere What are they supposed to do but to figure out a way to be just like them and to join a hundred other organizations since the church isn't doing her job? That's the situation that we have in our modern world. The church has become, in the words, I'm on a hobbit roll, I don't know why J. R. Tolkien is on my mind all the time. What's that? It could be worse, you're right. The church has become like not enough butter over too much toast. We must return to a commitment to the providence of a particular place. We have got, brothers and sisters, to stop somewhere. We have got to stop somewhere. You know, as I think about these this sense of place that is lost on our modern culture The contrary to that, a person who has a real sense of place is always the farmer, or the one who has bought a farm, who is now officially my dad. He bought a farm in Easton, and I love watching him each day get to know his place. Each day at his place, watching through the sliding glass doors in his living room and looking out. He watches the geese pitch in to Glebe Creek. They waddle up the bank and into the bean field, the ones that are left over. And you know, he's named them all. And he knows them all by name. I don't remember all their names because it's not my place, but one of them is called Gertrude. I don't know why. I bring that up because in a deep sense what I'm saying to you this morning is that we need to learn each other's names again. I mean that in the deepest sense. If we are going to help each other to live for Christ, then we must take, as my father is doing with his geese, we must take the providence of our particular place far more seriously. But that is not all. If we are going to help each other to live for Christ, then we must not only Take our particular place seriously and stop somewhere. We must also avoid pietism and we must embrace piety. I bring these things up not in random, but because I see these as major obstacles to church life now. I try to choose the things that will have the greatest impact on your life. If you were to make these strategic changes and pay attention to them, you'll see the the most fruit. And so that first one, I think you'd see a lot of fruit if you stopped somewhere, like your local church, and gave it priority. And it's the same thing with pietism and piety. Not pietism, but piety. Now what is pietism? Anything with an ism on the end tends to be confusing and abstract. Pietism is usually, let's just talk about it practically, it is usually someone's answer to spiritual problems in the church. Someone sees that the church has lost its light, that the church has become consumeristic, that the church has backslidden to look like the world. And so, with good intentions, they encourage the church to get back to the basics. They say things, the pietist person says things like, You need to read your Bible. You need to pray, you need to have devotions, you need to have quiet times, you need to have fasting, you need to have vulnerable community. and you need to engage in meaningful Christian rituals, and they will usually give you a book called Spiritual Disciplines And they think that they are helping you to live for Christ by engaging in a more holy religious practice and ritual, and it really does look like that because all of those things are a part of the Christian life. And you could have Sunday school classes on prayer and all of these things, and it looks like you are doing what God is talking about, but that is not what Christ wants for you. That is called pietism. It is a particular movement in the church that we tend toward, and it has happened throughout history. What Christ really wants us to do is to be pious and to have piety Which means that you are not off reading your Bible by yourself. You're only reading because you want to help yourself and other people. It is a means to grace in you and grace for you to give other people. That is what piety is. Piety is when you do all of those things, read the Bible, pray, have devotions, quiet time. fasting, vulnerable community, engaging meaningful Christian uh rituals. Piety is when you do all of those same religion act those religious actions, but in the context of your vocations. Everything is for the sake of work. And you can look at Genesis to see that fact. Right in the beginning. Now, I think that this is news for us, and because I see a pattern within us as a church of moving towards pietism instead of piety, I bring this up today. I keep having, it seems like, a uh the same conversation over and over again. It will usually be in age ranges from age 11 to age 45. That's a pretty big age range. And maybe if you fall outside of that age range, this is still the kind of conversation that you would have with me, but I keep hearing the same thing over and over again. Someone will come into my office or I will speak to them in the parking lot and they'll say, I'm really having a tough time consistently reading my Bible and praying Maybe you feel that way. Maybe you have said that to me. And then I usually say something like, Well, why are you trying to read your Bible? And why are you trying to pray? And I like putting it that way because I'm the pastor and that freaks them out that I just said that and it gets their attention So they look at me like I'm crazy, and once they see that I really am asking the question and I really do want the answer, they say, because you're supposed to read your Bible and you're supposed to pray And then I say to just cement my craziness, but why? Why do we want to do those things? And then they stand there and I can see they have no idea. And the reason that they have no idea, and I have been in this, I slide into it myself, I see it in myself, the reason why we slide over into this circumstance is because we are trained to be pietistic and not truly pious, to have true piety. You think a good Christian life is listening to emotional worship music while having a devotion when the real Christian life is helping the people around you that have splinters And to know how to do that, you would need to be a constant prayer and to know God's word. That is real piety. And so, as I see the person in this imaginary tale standing before me, not knowing why they read their Bible or pray, I try to throw them a bone and I ask this question. God has chosen you to serve him, right? Right. Okay What are the specific civic, family, and church responsibilities which God has given to you right now? The the what responsibilities Is the next question. The civics, the family, and the church responsibilities, which God has given to you right now What does that really have to do with me? I've never thought about my life as having civic, church, or family responsibilities. Well, you are a son or a daughter, right? Well you are a mother or a father, right? Well you work as a plumber or an architect, right? These are all responsibilities and callings that have been given to us by God And it is from that understanding that is the foundation that everyone has to start with. It's that instantiation or The way that God has put us into life, as male or female, in our particular callings that He has given to us, it's right there that you figure out why you're going to read your Bible or pray. And then the lights go on, and then I get to say, you know what? It sounds like you're really struggling with your family responsibilities your civic responsibilities and your church responsibilities. You know what we could do right now. My vocation as pastor and I could pray for you that you would be a better son and that you would honor your father and your mother. In the specific way that you are revealing to me. Now you see prayer as in context. Then I say, and let me share this scripture with you that would help you to understand your calling in life. As a daughter, for example, or as a grandmother, in these very trying times, as you try to be able to have a decent conversation with your children that think so differently from you We can pray together, and I can share God's word with you and help you in all of those specific areas. But I am not, and neither should we, help each other to just be Pietistic. All of those spiritual disciplines are for the sake of the good works that Christ has planned for us before the foundations of the earth That's the right way. I wonder if you see the difference. I wonder if you see the difference in the Christian life there, and how you could start to help another person By looking at the spiritual disciplines placed on top of the proper foundation of good works and helping each other to accomplish our vocations. There would be no one out there just praying or learning how to pray as an abstract mental entity. You would pray as a father who is specifically struggling with things. And I could come alongside of you and hear your splinters and seek through Christ's grace to help you through it. I could pray with you And now there's fire in my soul, because we're not doing something abstract. It's a life that is before us. Lives that are trying to live for Jesus Christ. Not an abstraction. We do not need pietism around here. We need real women. And we need real men in the places that God has called them to show true, courageous piety, helping each other. This morning, we build on last week, acknowledging that we not only live for Christ. But we live for Christ only with the help of each other. And I have tried to surface two main ways that would be very helpful for us to pay attention to right now. The first is that in order for us to be really helpful, we need devotion to the providence of a particular place, namely the local congregation. We should be able to count on each other. And then number two, to be really helpful to each other as we work for Christ, we need real piety, not pietism. I think of second 2 Thessalonians 2, 16 through 17 in closing. Now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and our God and Father, who has loved us and given us everlasting consolation and good hope by grace, may He comfort your hearts. And establish you in every good work, in every good word, in every good work. Amen