Matthew 6, 19. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. And then I'm preaching on this portion here. The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is good, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness? Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we pray that you would permit us to see. Lord, the human will must be overcome, and it can only be overcome by you. I pray that you would overcome us today, even through your preached word. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Children, I've done this experiment before, uh but there I wanted you to hey children, if you're a child. Hey, look over here. Me. Hey everybody. Lift up from the piece of paper or whatever you got in front of you, goldfish, whatever it is. And uh I just want to do an experiment with you real quick. I want you to take your finger and put it out in front of your face Alright, and then I want you to stare at the finger. When you're looking at the finger, do you notice how everything else is blurry except for the finger? What this ends up showing us even by just the way that alright you can stop. I don't want you to get a headache. Some of some of them had crossed eyes like A little too close. The uh the uh it ends up giving a good illustration, which I've given you before, of how our focus in life really matters. Depending on what your focus is, it will determine what you see clearly and then what's fuzzy. And we could go a little bit further if you actually read the studies on this. You have a focal point, it starts to become blurry here, and at a certain point it turns black and white, and then it's blind. You can't see what is there And they have a ton of studies to back this kind of thing up. And it's just it's just re more reinforcement and a grace of God that He can just show us by way of a physical illustration that what we focus on, what we pay attention to as human beings Boy, does that really matter? It actually what you pay attention to will really, another way of saying this, is it will determine what you're blind to And that's what Jesus is focused on here today, with this analogy that he gives us with the eye, and it being good or it being bad. He's really talking about our focus, where we give our attention. And it's it's supremely connected to what we looked at last week, which had to do with the treasure. These this whole pair, these sets of sayings that we're in right now are all really going after the same kind of thing. Next week, Lord willing, we'll look at you can only have one master. And it's going to be the same kind of lesson. It's just approaching it from different angles. Last week the angel the angle was Where what do you treasure? That makes a really big difference. Where's your heart? What have you given your heart to? That makes a really big difference. And Jesus is bringing these things up because he sees an entire generation of people before him who have given their hearts to the wrong things. He says that they're hypocritical. And now he's pointing out, which we're going to look at here this morning, you have focused on the wrong things. Your priorities are off. And I'll show you a couple of examples of that within characters of the scriptures as we go through the sermon. But you see what the main topic is as we approach here in 22 and 23, it is our Focus and our priorities by way of this wisdom saying about the I being a lamp I want to look at this passage with you under two main points, and you can just write these down to keep track of where we are in the sermon. And you could do that too, children. You can write down these two points and then if your parents ask you on the way home what the sermon was about, you can at least say these two points. And that'll and there'll be lots of singing and jubilation at how much you pay attention. So the first is that we're going to look at this great wisdom that Jesus Christ gives to us, this wisdom saying. So it's great wisdom, and then there is a great darkness, which is actually the main emphasis of the passage. A great wisdom and a great darkness. So let's just begin with the great wisdom. And I chose that title because it's important for us when we're reading the scriptures. If you want to understand them accurately, you need to know what kind of writing is being written. It determines how you would read it. You don't read a poem in the same way that you read history. And so it's it's nice to acknowledge right away here that this is a wisdom saying. Jesus is trying to give you a point by way of a metaphor. He's really not trying to be intensely accurate in terms of medical advice. And you'll see that as we start to step through this. He's not trying to give you an anatomy lesson on how the eye actually works. He's trying to make a different point, really, about how we see spiritually, actually. And so with this wisdom saying, I think it would be helpful to just go ahead and step through the parts together. It can be a little bit confusing because we don't think of the eye this way We think about, we look out, but Jesus is putting it here as things are coming in. So let's take a look at that together, this great wisdom. In verse number 22 is where he talks about it positively. He gives us this metaphor Or this simile where he says, the lamp of the body is the eye. And if therefore your eye is good, your whole body will be full of light. And that's the surprising part, because when we think of a lamp, we think of it shining out. But here we see what Jesus is doing is he's really giving you a picture, and maybe we would want to put it this way. If you were sitting there with him and he and he was teaching you, you could raise your hand and you could say, Jesus, I'm from a different century. And would it be okay for me to say that that the eye is like a window and it lets light in? And he would say, yes That's right. And that's the point that he's getting across here is that like the eye is like a lamp shining, but it's not shining outward. That's not his focus. His focus instead is that when the window or when the when the the lamp is good that it's like a window that lets light in That's the main point. But he goes on here, and he says that if your eye is bad, then that is not going to be the case. So if the window is bad, then things are darkened The eye and the lamp are a window that can be good or can be bad. You can have light coming in, or you could just be in total darkness. And how great that darkness is if your eyes are dark. I mean and think about that really If there's anything that, if it's dark, that creates the greatest darkness, it would be the eyes. Because if the eyes are dark, or if that window is covered over, then everything is dark, not just some things If the one window that lets the light in is dark, then there's no light being let in. So this is another way you could go at this is that it's very important for you to protect your eyes. And that's what Jesus is after also. It's very important for you to protect this window that lets the light in, because if this window becomes darkened, oh how great that darkness will be. Is what he's getting at. It will be dark to the left if the window is darkened. It will be dark to the right if the window is darkened. It would be dark up, it would be dark down, it would be dar Factor. Straight ahead It would be dark in the back, in the front, dark everywhere. Oh, how great the darkness if these particular, if these particular things become dark. Now That's what he's going after here is you can think of as like the eye is is like a window letting in light, and if it becomes darkened, then you won't be able to see anything. Now, there's an illustration that I heard from a pastor that I thought that actually was very helpful in this regard in understanding this. And he said in his sermon, he said that we are he asked us to imagine a living room where we are sitting with our friends. Can you all picture that? And in the living room where we're all sitting together, there's a giant bay window And that bay window, it has to be, the architecture has been set up just right to where there's a lot of light streaming into that window all day long. And so we're able to sit there if we want to, and we could read even the finest print because the light is so good. We can see our friends. And we can enjoy them. We can see the food that is set out in front of us, and we can feast and enjoy that. If there's a mirror there, there's enough light I could look in the mirror and I could even see myself. Now, the picture that Jesus is giving here is what happens and how great of a darkness is it if you were to paint those windows black? and then put blackout blinds in front of them, and there is no other source of light for the house. Do you see what happens there? Let me just ask you, this is how great the darkness is. Are you able to know your friends? You cannot see them. Have any of you been in those caverns where there is no light and you literally could have your hand right here and you just can't see your your hand? That's the kind of picture that I would like you to have with the living room. And if you have friends in the living room, you can't see them, you can't know them. If you had literature to read, you can't read it. You can't know that either. If there's a mirror, you can't even know yourself. That's how dark it is. That's why you would see that's why Jesus is saying, how great is that darkness. If we have the wrong focus or we have the wrong attention is his main point, if we are blinded to the right things, oh how great is that darkness. Oh, how great is that darkness. Now that's just understanding the wisdom saying, and I imagine since it's a wisdom saying, you will need to keep meditating on it. I have read the book of Proverbs, I cannot tell you how many times And I have preached through a large number of them and I still find I need to just keep meditating on them because the wisdom literature demands it. I imagine that that is the case with this one also, so keep working on it, but that's the basic picture, and that's the understanding that he wants us to have, is that we have a major problem if our focus is wrong, because everything can become darkened. We can become blind to all of the important things. We cannot know the people around us or ourselves if we don't let the light in. And that can happen by having the wrong attention or the wrong focus. Now, that's the great wisdom saying that is given to us here within this passage. Which leads to the second main point, which is the emphasis of the passage in verse number 23, which is, oh, how great is that darkness. So we now move into great darkness. It says, if therefore the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness? Now this is darkness because of a bad eye. That's the idea. When you take your eye off of the proper focus or priority, one commentator wrote, then you begin to lose sight and your whole life can be filled with darkness. I'll say that again. When you take your eye off the proper focus or priority, then you begin to lose sight, and your whole life can be filled with darkness with darkness. Now take a look at the bulletin just for a second and see how that is even used in the scriptures. that have been given to us. You see here, one of the reasons that we chose this specific reason reading from Deuteronomy 15, 7 through 11, is because it specifically mentions an evil eye. Or a bad eye. It's mentioned here. And if you look, it's not that the person has a physical bad eye. If they went to the doctor, they would pass the vision test. The bad eye is that they are focusing or giving attention to the wrong things. If you were to review the Deuteronomy passage, what would be the wrong thing? The wrong thing is that they're supposed to be ha they're supposed to be focused and giving attention to helping their brother who is in need But instead, they're trying to figure out how to exploit their brother or sister in need in order to make a further profit And when that happens, the poor cry out to God, and God acts on their behalf. You can read about that in James 2. The rich are condemned there because of their improper attention or focus. on the wealth that they have accumulated. And that's what's going on here first. That's your first example of an evil eye here is the wrong set of priorities. You should have been trying to help your brother, but you were trying to make an extra buck when you didn't need it. That's Deuteronomy 15. Well, we could look at another example that's right here within our passage. Jesus has not left his concern about the Pharisees and the Sadducees and their hypocrisy. Take a look just as an example. There's so many examples. I'll just give you one though so that maybe this can flesh out a bit for you. In chapter 6 of Matthew, verse 1. So I only had to flip one page back. I figured that's close enough So we do Matthew chapter 6 verse 1. Listen to what Jesus says. He says, take heed that you do not do your charitable deeds before men to be seen by them. Otherwise, you have no reward from your Father in heaven. You see, the point there in bringing up even the verb that has to do with the eye is that they're focused or giving their attention to the wrong things. They're not focused on giving to help other people, and they're not focused on giving in order to love God. So they're not focused on loving God or a loving neighbor. Instead, they're only focused on increasing their fame or status somehow. It's a completely selfish act, although, and this is the real danger, although on the outside it looks like a charitable act. And that's what makes it hypocrisy. That's Jesus' concern, is people giving themselves to the wrong things. Now we could go through that and we could look at chapter 6, verse number number 5, couldn't we? And when you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men. It's the same thing, wrong priority. You're giving your attention to the wrong thing. It is the wrong focus, and I'm calling you back from that. Earlier in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and the Pharisees, you have no place in my kingdom. And this is, he's now fleshing that out. You can't have the off attention and the off-priorities that they have, especially in that unrepentant fashion. Now, if you have the courage to turn the pages of your Bible several chapters Into chapter 23 of Matthew, you'll see that Jesus focuses on this same thing again This is a famous passage because it consists of the woes of Jesus. And we've looked at these all the way through the Sermon on the Mount. He says, there are many woes here. I'll just point one out to you. In chapter 23, 23 and 34 Verses 23 and 30 and 24, he says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. See how it's the same topic as the Sermon on the Mount. He then goes on and he says, For you pay tithe of Mint and Anis and Kumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy and faith. Do you see how they have focused on the wrong things? And then he goes on, and Jesus says just about that. He says, These you ought to have done without leaving the others undone. Blind guides. Blind guides who strain out a gnat and swallow a camel. Now I would encourage you, even this afternoon, to read the U chapter 23 and count how many times Jesus calls them blind. I will give you a hint, it is more than once. And it is more than twice. So go ahead and look at all of the different ways in which he calls them blind. They are not able to see correctly. They have the wrong priorities. They give attention to the wrong things. They have the wrong focus. It's the same thing. They have an evil eye. And oh, how dark it has become for them. to where they are not even able to acknowledge that he is the Christ. That's how dark it has become. No light is able to come in. No light. And so therefore in 70 AD he would remove them with judgment. That's how serious this is, and Jesus and his grace is warning us about that. Now there are those are a few examples that I've given to you. You could go to Matthew chapter 15, too, and he says, leave them alone, the blind lead there the blind leading the blind into a ditch And there it is again with the focus on the bad eye of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. I wanted to give you one other example also that leads us into the heart of the greatest kind of blindness that you could have. Now if I had to ask you, what's the greatest blindness you could have? The greatest blindness that you can have is that you do not know that Jesus is the Christ. That's the greatest blindness. And one of the things that supports me in saying that is that when we turn to the Gospel of Mark, if we were to go to the center of the book of Mark, you will find that that is exactly Jesus' point. That's exactly Jesus' point in Mark. Now I'll just read it to you briefly so I don't ask you to flip to another place. But in Mark chapter 8, verse 25. It says this. Then Jesus put his hands on his eyes again and made him look up. This is a blind man. And he was restored and saw everyone clearly. So there is the healing of a blind man here. Just before this paragraph, there was another paragraph where Jesus calls all of his disciples blind. Then, as a living parable, a real blind man shows up and Jesus heals him of his blindness. First he sees people and they look like trees. So basically he had his vision restored to some of the prescription that you all have. Right? Then he gives him full vision, and he is able to see clearly. And then directly after that, Jesus proves that he's using it as a living parable. And the whole thing he wanted to talk about the whole time is not being blind to who he is. So he goes on in Mark chapter 8, 27 through 29, and he says, now Jesus and his disciples went out To the towns of Caesarea Philippi, and on the road he asked his disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am? So they answered, John the Baptist, but some say Elijah, and others one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said to him, You are the Christ. You are the Christ. And that was the clearest vision that could possibly be given is to know who Jesus really is. Who Jesus really is. And that brings out to us this point that Jesus is making is that, oh my gracious. If the eye or the window is darkened to where one is not able to even see that Jesus is the Christ, we could say it along with Jesus, couldn't we? Oh, how great is that darkness. That is his whole point that he's bringing to us here today is we really need to be careful with our eyes, with our focus, with our attention. Because if the wrong things are blurry, or if the wrong things have become just black or white instead of vivicolor, or if the the wrong things were just totally blind to them, oh how great that darkness is And that's seen to us in this great wisdom saying that Jesus gives to us as another example of treasure and masters. And it is also seen in the warning that he gives to us in this great darkness that we have to be careful with. Now when I say all of these things that Jesus brings up One of the first questions that we have to deal with now, which is the most important one, and that is, do you know, are you able to see that Jesus is the Christ? Sitting here today, are you able to acknowledge that Jesus is the Christ of God? Now you might know what you might not know what that means, which means you're in a kind of state of ignorance. I'm not saying that to be rude. I'm using that word technically. Or you may have heard that for a long time and you keep coming up with different ways to blind yourself from that reality. And I'm telling you right now, you do not want to be blind. Oh, how great is that darkness. I remembered for years and years there was presented to me as I look back different opportunities for me to be able to acknowledge that Jesus was the Christ. But I was not interested in acknowledging that Jesus was the Christ, because if Jesus Christ was Lord, then I was not. If Jesus Christ was Lord, that meant I couldn't do whatever I wanted in terms of the kind of lifestyle that I wanted to live. Jesus Christ, therefore, decided to discipline me for my good and have brought me as low as I thought I could have gotten And I finally got to the point by his grace where I literally cried out to him, would you please help me? Would you please help me? And he allowed me to see. He allowed me to see who he was and that I and that it was dumb for me to be running from him the whole time. Me even being as I look back even crying out to help he allowed me to do that. That was a gift, because I never would have done that on my own. But I tell you the if you're sitting here today and you haven't acknowledged that Jesus is the Christ, and I wonder if he's been working in your life to where you're starting to consider that now, I really would encourage you to cry out to him. And would you say, Jesus, I know that I'm blind. Would you please let me see clearly? Let me see you for who you really are. I encourage you to do that. Now there are some of you sitting here where you have been crying out to Jesus for a long time. And boy, do you know him. You're what I would call like a veteran. You know, you've been around, you've been a follower of Jesus for a while. This teaching that he gives is still applicable to you. Do you know how easy it is for you to lose your focus? You know how easy it is for you to give your attention to the wrong things as a follower of Jesus Christ? Let me just ask you, how many seconds does it take? How many seconds does it take before you lose the the focus that he f he worked months with you for you to finally He grabbed your face and he said, This is what we're supposed to be focused on, my kingdom on earth as it is in heaven, as I just taught you to pray. And then he lets his hands go for a second. Hey, I'm focused on this now. And that is the state of humanity. There are these uh in the classical literature you'll see people talking about this as we struggle with inordinate desires. Does anybody know what an inordinate desire is? Oh. Spoken with voices of experience. An inordinate desire, if you don't know, is when we're desiring and longing and chasing and endeavoring after things in a way that's out of order. So God has given us all of creation for specific purposes, but the problem is we can arrange our lives in a way where it's really out of whack. We can put we put things in the wrong place, if you will. And that's the out-of-order desires. So for example, there's nothing wrong with money. This section is really focused on wealth and what can happen. But there's nothing wrong with money, but what happens in us as human beings is we put it in the wrong spot and it becomes an idol or idolatrous is the way that we would end up talking about that. And it's inordinate. Our priorities end up getting off. And as you saw in Deuteronomy 15, if that ends up being your focus Then there are all this all this darkness starts entering into your life. And we have famous stories about this, like uh what's the guy with the Christmas thing and the He is greedy and then he learns by ghosts visiting him. Scrooge, yes, thank you. There's movies, there's stories that are exemplifying this within human life. It could be wealth, that's a big one. It could be fame, status, any of those kinds of things. Really, my point in saying this to you is that it's good to see the grace of Jesus Christ here in warning us because we can take anything and put it in the wrong place and can become darkened. Now I want to give you an example of that that I've that I found. And I hate to give you this example because it strikes at my own idols. But I want to give you an example. This is a a local person who wrote this. It's a local guide for fishing. I sent out a couple pick I don't know if any of you know, but the rockfish are on their way in and it's almost time to start fishing. I'm sure all of you have been following the fishing reports. But I sent a picture out uh yesterday to a uh a group chat and uh the guy was holding a 46-inch rockfish. So that's like that. And then I there was another picture, I don't know if I shared it with them. Well he had caught a 50, which is a which is ultim like if you're a rock fisherman, that's ultimately what you're after. You're trying to get fifty or above, and then you can be laid to rest. Basically. Alright. So he has a picture of himself, and if you ever want to see the picture, please let me know. Just don't become idolatrous about it. But he but he has a 50 inch rockfish on his lap and he's catching everything that he's catching on a kayak. He's not on a boat. He's just out there on a kayak and this is what he does. He has a 50-inch fish And uh and and this is what he said in his post. It was so interesting to me. There's a pit that picture, and this is what he wrote. He said, so this happened. This is a true unicorn on the tape at over fifty inches, but it came at a cost. Read on if you like, he says. After nearly two decades chasing a fish of this caliber, I had the perfect pattern lined up. I mean everything was right. I got the kids in bed and I started getting my gear together, but I could tell that my wife really preferred that I not go. After all, it's been a long season of leaving at odd hours with no explanation of when I would be home. Well, I left anyway, driving through the night like an obsessed madman. I can explain in no different terms than that. There was not even a doubt in my mind this would happen. I was just so sure. I will spare some details and cut straight to it. The planets aligned, and I got the fish I was after for so long. Here's the problem. As I held the fish, I realized in that moment everything I had regularly sacrificed and made the loved ones around me sacrifice so I can do this. And it felt like I lost this special moment as a result. There were no shouts of joy. It was just a quick release. And then I was alone. as I always am, followed by a lonely ride home in the early hours of the morning. I have no balance Which in some ways I am both proud to push through to do this, but also embarrassed to do all this for just a fish. Now I don't know if the guy's a Christian or not or whatever it is, but there is a lot of insight there in terms of the human condition. And my point in bringing that up, I mean I don't care if you well I can't say I don't care if you don't like fishing. I mean it definitely affects my opinion of you. My point in bringing this up though is to just show you it can happen with anything. Anything could take our priority or our focus, and if the wrong thing takes it, if anything but God is our treasure. His kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. Oh, would he deliver us from temptation if anything but him takes that spot? Oh how day how dark the g the uh how dark things can be. How great the darkness. We must therefore keep a good eye by his grace. Now, let me just ask you, what are some of the ways that you keep a good eye? One of the ways that you here are some just practical ways to keep a good eye. Sometimes you wonder, why is it that I read my Bible and why do I sit under preaching? One of the answers is to keep a good eye. Good preaching, good Bible reading helps you to know what your priorities ought to be. The second would be prayer. Besides the reading of your word and the sitting under of preaching, it would be prayer. And you'll notice that Jesus taught us to pray with these kinds of things in mind. Your kingdom come and your will be my priority or be done And he and then in the second part, deliver us from the temptation where we're going to make anything but your will our priority. That's the way that you could understand that now. Also, worship. Worship is all about God. And so that reprioritizes our lives. And it becomes not about us, it becomes about Him and doing His will. That's what all the songs are about when they're good songs. And then lastly, I'll just mention how important it is for us to have a community of people to let us know that we are becoming blind. That we are becoming darkened. That our focuses and our priorities are off. Now I would encourage you to be a community like that. There is a warning and a promise for us in Proverbs 27, 5 through 6. Now listen to this carefully. This describes an actually good community A good community does not sound like this. Oh, their priorities are totally off. It's okay. Everything is fine. It doesn't matter. And you do that in the name of kindness, but it's not actually kind. A true community sounds like this. Open rebuke is better than love carefully concealed. A true community sounds like this. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. A true community is able with gentleness and love within their hearts to tell people the truth and to actually correct them. And you have to do that with gentleness. We don't do that out of anger. We do it with gentleness. And I'd encourage you, if you want to see a model of how we talk to people when their priorities are out of whack and their and things are out of order. 2 Timothy chapter 2, 24 through 26. We don't quarrel. We are gentle. But we don't just lay back and conceal our love. It says in that passage that you do correct. So you have to correct people. And that can be really hard, especially for those of you who are conflict averse. I basically just revealed to you your worst nightmare. But this is what Jesus calls us to do. To be a true community. Some of us have to stand up and we have to gently correct. The last thing I'll say here is just, would you please remember the grace of Jesus Christ? I can promise you. That before I get home I will have the wrong focus. It might only last for five minutes. I don't know. I never know where things are gonna go with me. I'm just so twisted I just want you to remember though that Jesus Christ, He sees all. He's never, He never has the wrong focus. And he has told us that what he has started within us, he's going to see it all the way to the end. He is working on your sight. Now that's right there in Mark. He heals the blind. And he heals those who used to be blind but just see everything and it kind of looks like trees. He brings everything to perfect clarity eventually. Oh, and brothers and sisters, that's what he's doing in you. So would you please, I know you can get frustrated with yourself. Would you please remember that Jesus Christ has not given up on you? He doesn't despise you. He doesn't hate you. He doesn't find you annoying. Oh, I've got to get up and do this again. That's not who he is. He knew what he was getting into. He knew what he was signing up for. And he will go all the way to the end for you. You know, you hope you remember that one of our favorite songs is Amazing Grace. And that lyric in the beginning, we gotta remember it goes through our whole life, not just a one-time event. It says, Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now I'm found, was blind, but now I see Now that's true when he first opens our eyes to him, but he will keep making you able to see throughout the rest of your life until when he returns, you will see him as he is. You'll see with perfect clarity there will be a beatific vision. So let's remember this last point especially about how good Jesus Christ is in walking with you. He knows how to heal the lame and the blind. He knows how to work with you. Let us pray