This again this evening is on 20 through 23, just a portion of that really, and I'll read just those verses this evening. Verses 20 through 23. But you, beloved, building yourselves up on your most holy faith. Praying in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life, and on some have compassion, making a distinction. But others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garment defiled by the flesh. Let us pray Lord, in each lesson we have taken from your spirits and your word, it has led us into a wisdom that preserves us. It is your secondary means of doing so. We pray that that would continue tonight. We pray that any knowledge that we would receive would uh not only be heard, but that we would do, that we would be preserved unto the end, and that we would help to preserve each other. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated Now, two weeks ago, we acknowledged the following doctrine. In light of mockers being present in these last times, Christians should build each other up in belief and love. And this was another way of saying what we read explicitly within Jude, which is that we should endeavor to build each other up in the faith. The faith consists of two parts, what we believe and the love God requires of us toward Him and our neighbor. This is not a command for focusing on just yourself, but it is your privilege to the community. We all build each other up upon the same foundation and upon the same mind. This week we look at the rest of verse 20 and 21 that we just read there. And the teaching from these verses is so explicit. that our observations this evening are really just a repetition of what he has written, of what Jude has written. Notice with me in the verses in 20 and 21 Building yourselves up on your most holy faith. We covered that two weeks ago. Praying in the Holy Spirit. Keeping ourselves or yourselves in the love of God and looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ onto eternal life. And so that is what we will look at this evening, just those three explicit statements that he makes. And so let's begin with praying in the Holy Spirit. This phrase is repeated in John chapter 4, 1 Corinthians 14, and in Ephesians 6. It is not a call to unconscious, charismatic, religious ecstasy, which only happens among some of the charismatics. I want to make sure I'm clear on that. They're not all down with that It means, that's what it does not mean, but what it does mean is it means to pray in line with the intent and the shape of the Spirit's ministry. You can see this clearly when you look at other phrases that involve in the Spirit. So take for example that elsewhere in Scripture we are commanded to walk in the Spirit. This means to walk in a way that is consistent with the Spirit's goals for our lives. And the same may be said of praying in the Spirit, that we would pray in accordance with what the Spirit's intent is and carrying out the will of the Son for the glory of the Father. Now we have some sacred examples of praying in the Spirit One of my favorite examples of praying in the Spirit are the early saints in Psalm 2. They're praying Psalm 2 in Acts chapter 4. I've quoted that a few times. I'm sure you're familiar with it But they're working through God as Yahweh Elohim, him being the creator of heaven and earth, but also the one who has placed Christ Jesus in the position of the ascended Lord. And you can see them working through that psalm and praying it in application to their specific situation. That is a great example of what it looks like to pray in the Spirit. And you can see other scriptures being prayed that are also praying in the spirit, praying in accordance with the will of God. One way to pray in the spirit is often overlooked. And I wonder if you can think of uh this is a way that's often overlooked. And that is praying, praying in the Spirit as seen in Ephesians 5, 19 through 20. It says this, speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Giving thanks always for all things to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. I remember when this connection was made in seminary by Dr. Joseph Pipe Pipa for myself and for the class. When he pointed out that the practice of singing is the practice of prayer. A prayer of praise, for example. a prayer of thanksgiving, a prayer of petition and request from our God, like we see in Acts chapter 4. And perhaps When those early saints were praying Psalm 2 in Acts chapter 4, I wonder if there was a kind of melody to it, since those psalms were set to liturgical melodies. We often forget that our songs are often our prayers. I was thinking actually this morning, if you look through this morning's bulletin, one was explicitly a prayer. excellent. I was enjoying praying with all of you with the same words and the same heart and the same spirit. I wonder if you have forgotten that when you approach the music of the church. When you think of songs as prayers, I wonder if that helps you to see the place of musical instruments in relationship to how perhaps how other churches view musical instruments. as a kind of um uh rock concert, if you will, or just a concert. I wonder if you were to begin thinking of songs as prayers, you would better place the role of emotion within a worship service. I wonder if you'd be able to better have a place for your mind and that we should know what we're saying if you were to start categorizing prayer as a kind of song. Whether to melody or not, what Jude tells us here, if we are to be preserved and to preserve one another, is that we must pray in the Spirit. Well that's the first application that he gives to us as we seek to obey the apostles and their appeal in the earlier verses. The second one is that we would keep ourselves or keep yourselves in the love of God. Whenever you see a command like this, you end up having a decision to make. And I don't want to get into the technical grammar. We can do that over spaghetti if you want. But the decision comes down to this. Do we keep ourselves in the love of God for us? Or do we keep ourselves in our love for God? Both should always be true, practically speaking But we oftentimes have to make a decision to see exactly what the author was trying to communicate. And I believe that here, however, the focus is on our love for God. And that because the reason why I say that is because that has been the main focus of the letter from Jude from the beginning. The false teachers have set aside God's law and order. The name that we have rightfully given to them is that they are antinomian. They set aside law and order. Setting aside God's law and order is to set aside their love for Him 4, John 15, 9-10 says, As the Father loved me, I also have loved you. Abide in my love If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. Therefore, Jude is encouraging us to remain diligent, in reference back to our the opening of the sermon, to practical doctrine, that is to say, love of God and love of neighbor, what God requires of us. Sinclair Ferguson has such a lovely quote when it comes to these kinds of things. I can't help but to read it for you. Yes, people will tell us that they believe in a God of love. But they are self-deceived, and their lives reveal it. They neither love him with heart, soul, mind, and strength in return, nor do they worship him with zeal and energy. The truth is that their mantra, my God is a god of love, is a smokescreen, a phantasm of their imagination Underneath it all is a deep mistrust of God. Otherwise, why not yield the whole of life in joyful abandon to whatever he says or asks? What does God ask of you? As you look at this letter, you can see that there were certain expectations for the congregation at that time. What about for you? What has God called you to do? Wherein are you to be loving Him in your life? Are you developing in your training as a Christian to know what God's will is so that you can love Him? Now that's the second command or participle that he gives to us here, this phrase. And we now come to the third, which is look for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now this is a reference to two main truths. First, and this is really helpful to hear, the first main truth is that the church is fundamentally a waiting people. In our heart of hearts, there always remains a single cry until Christ's return, and it is this. How long, O Lord. That's the first main truth that is a part of this look for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ. And the second is this. That all of creation is dependent upon the return of the Son of God for salvation. When it says mercy here, it's talking about his return and his mercy that he will pour down on us. In other words, Jude is encouraging all Christians to keep hope in the coming salvation of our Lord. The Lord has not abandoned his creation to corruption, but shall return to perfect all things. I was reminded of this truth when I was on a construction site and the weather had gotten cold enough to where the ground was hard. But nevertheless, the work needed to be done, and on this day, the work that needed to be done were digging sixteen by sixteen by three foot deep footers in the earth for the sake of a deck that won't fall down. We were doing our work by hand, and that wasn't really going very far, just kind of tipping away. And that got much better when the rental company arrived with a gas powered auger Just think of uh those of you who don't know construction, just think of a giant drill that's the size of the hole that we need, and you turn it on and you drill down into the ground and it pulls all the dirt out and there's your hole for pouring concrete. It's it's a it's In and of itself lets you know there is a God. We labored and we labored, accomplishing very little before that because the ground was hard, but once the gas-powered auger arrived we drill down into the earth with immediacy. And so too will it be when Christ returns. Our labor is not in vain, but I will just tell you something that everybody here knows the ground is hard. When Christ returns, he shall make all the world fruitful soil to his glory. I wonder, as a Christian bombarded by so many things in this world, When you hear this from Jude and you do a little introspection yourself, do you find that you are the kind of person that lives with an eye on the horizon? Waiting for Jesus Christ to make all things perfect? Are you the kind of person that daydreams about what you and this world will one day be? Are there certain poems that you love because they help you to do that? Let us keep hope alive, this kind of hope and the awaiting of the mercy of Jesus Christ. By keeping faith alive in each of us, in what God has promised to accomplish in the future through His Son. There's a really sweet little metaphor or saying that I noticed in a Puritan named John Flavil. He likens uh he has this picture of uh us all being in a nest, and there's a mother bird who's going to feed all of us, but in this case, what is fed to us is faith. He says, all other graces, like birds in the nest, depend upon what faith brings into them. If you take away faith, and in our case, faith that God in fact will restore us and his creation, if you take away faith And all the graces languish and die. Joy, peace, hope, patience. All of them depend upon faith. It's a nice little image for what Jude is getting at here, too, in his letter, when he talks about the mercy of Jesus Christ. There are three main things that we are looking at in conclusion, and it is this. We are, in fact, as a congregation, called to pray in the Holy Spirit. And we see a little bit of what that means. It is my hope that you'll begin to look at the songs differently and realize that you're in fact praying when you're singing some of these songs. We are called to keep ourselves in the love of God. And especially in this letter, with the setting being those of antinomians, we are called to know what God's will is. And in the spirit to endeavor to do it. And then lastly, we are to look for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ onto eternal life. And that can be difficult. Having that kind of hope when all the world says that that's silly can be difficult. So it's important that we be to each other like a bird that would feed each other faith in order to keep hope alive. Please pray with me