But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and clay, some for honor and some for dishonor. Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from the latter, he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified and useful for the Master, prepared for every good work. Flee also youthful lusts, but pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace with those who call on the name of the Lord out of a pure heart. Amen. Please pray with me. Oh Christ, I pray that you would teach your congregation. I pray that you would enliven their hearts and their minds as to Being members of your covenant, members of your household, they would know the worthiness of the calling, that they would be inspired to endeavor to seek your kingdom first. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I imagine that everyone here, including the children, I can just ask you directly, really, children, are you familiar with the Great Commission? Have you heard that that those that language before, the Great Commission, you can find in Matthew 28, I've been given all authority in heaven and earth. And Christ sends his disciples to disciple the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Children, have you heard that before? Can I see your eyes just for a second? Yeah. Give me a little nod if you've seen it. Yeah, you've heard that before? Well children, one of the questions that we're asking, children and adults really, one of the questions that we're asking is what will it be like to carry out the Great Commission? What will it be like to carry out that great commission? And what the Apostle Paul has been doing is giving us an answer with these different visuals. uh over the last uh few paragraphs and we've been calling them metaphors or models. Carrying out the Great Commission will mean that we have to endure hardship Like a soldier, I'm I know you've heard this a million times now, like a Schultz soldier, like an athlete, like a farmer. See if you can keep guessing them with me. Like Jesus Christ like the Apostle Paul, and like a trained workman who can handle the word of truth well, not like Korah and the rebellion. Korah and rebellion was the story that we heard last week. As we had yet another image placed before us With the specific point last week that the church must build on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, and that we are to not rebel therefore against God's authorized servants, or we will be judged. Well we have another image in front of us today. I wonder if you've caught it in the reading of the scriptures where Paul places these Vessels, utensils in verse 20 of chapter 2. So what I'd like to do is just make a few observations here of what's going on in the passage, and then we can see what difference this makes. So take a look down at the scriptures, uh either on your phone or with the Bible on your lap, and you can see that Paul begins by helping us one more time understand what does it look like to work through this great commission, to be members of the church, to be in the world and not of the world. He's giving us yet another story here in verse number 20. He's telling us, if you were to uh read just a few sentences later, he talks about the master of the house and being useful to the master. And then if you go back to verse 20 here, you can see he's talking about the house and the kinds of things that are in the house. And so we have a story on our hands here that Paul is talking about. There is a wealthy individual who owns a large estate. And if you want to, you could picture a castle, and within this castle and within this estate, I'm embellishing, of course. It doesn't say all this. I'm just filling out with some color. But there is a master of the house, and in this house there are different kinds of vessels or utensils or items. And Paul wants to use this imagery to help Timothy and us, the church, to know what it means to be a part of the church and what we should expect and being in this world, but not of this world. He says in verse 20, But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and clay And that would have a picture in that castle. You have dishes that come out when the senator visits, or when the president visits, or the czar of something visits You bring out your best China. You have uh I don't know, I I can't I've never been anywhere and and drank out of a golden goblet. I've just I don't have friends that high up. But you see the picture there, but then he says there are other items in the house that are made of wood and made of clay and they're used for different purposes. And you can see what Paul wants to do here by the next line. See look at the line after the illustration He says that some of those are made for honor and some for dishonor. Some are made for honor and some are for dishonor. Now what he has in mind here is he still has Hymenaeus and Philetus in mind And he's trying to give you a picture of in the household of God, there are different utensils, and some are for honorable purposes, and some end up being for dishonorable purposes, just like within somebody's home. Now, if we were to modernize this. I would say if you came over to my house and we were having a special dinner for you, we do have a set of dishes that we don't normally have out so that they're not destroyed by the children. And if and if it was a special enough occasion, we would bring them out and we would share that with you and it would be a part of you knowing th this is an honorable occasion and these dishes are used for honorable things. Now we have some things at my house that are for dishonorable purposes. Like I have a flat shovel that cleans up after the dog in the backyard. And that's the kind of thing that's going on here, where Paul is seeing within the community of God himself that some are setting themselves for honorable purposes, and there are some, because of their choices, and trying to undo the apostle have become a flat shovel full of dog waste. That's pretty much the picture that he's painting here for us, but using different imagery. So that's the first thing that I want you to notice is this distinction that Paul is seeking to make in order for Timothy to be attracted to the one. And to be repulsed by the other. Nobody here wants to be the flat shovel. Is that right? Okay, very good. So then we're on the same page with Paul. Yeah, he's made his point But there is a second observation that I want you to see here so that we can start drawing this back down away from the analogy and away from the story back just into normal life. And that's take a look at verse 19. Where it says, Nevertheless, the solid foundation of God stands having this seal. The Lord knows those who are his. And then the last thing that Paul had said to us last week is this: let everyone who names the name of Christ depart from iniquity. So you would depart from iniquity by becoming a golden cup instead of a flat shovel. That's his point. But then if you look at verse 22, it's the other side of the sandwich here. Where he goes back and he says, And flee youthful lusts, but pursue these things. You see what he's doing there is he's using the story of the cups and the person who owns the castle or the The large house, the master of the house. He's using that to get back to the specific circumstances with which Timothy is dealing In verse 19, benefiting from the story of Korah's rebellion, Paul is commanding Timothy to depart from iniquity, wickedness, or righteousness. Those are very important words, which I'll talk about in a second. The other side of the sandwich is verse twenty two, and Paul commands Timothy to flee youthful lust youthful youthful lusts, and instead pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, just like all the saints of God who call upon him with a pure heart. You're supposed to be asking is who is the golden cup and who is the clay cup? Who is for honorable purposes and who is for dishonorable purposes? Well, it would be all those who are establishing righteousness and faith. And peace and love, and who have hearts that are purified among all of the saints are the golden cups of the saints of history. And then we have the clay cups, and who would you name as clay cups? Who are doing dishonorable things among the community of God. Imeneus and Philetus, right? Or at least two. A little bit later will be introduced to a coppersmith, Alexander the Coppersmith. And there's other ones that are scattered through these different these uh different letters. Those who are wicked are the wooden cups. Those who pursue righteousness in verse 22 are the golden cups. And he's seeking to inspire Timothy here. To be a golden cup and to inspire you to be a golden cup. Verse 19, Wickedness And verse 22, righteousness, in your Bible, in verse 19, it probably says iniquity, or it might say wickedness. And then verse 22 where it says righteousness, these two terms that Paul is using here to get across these two cups And these two ways of life and these two effects on community, they are continually contrasted throughout the scriptures. In the book of Proverbs, wickedness and righteousness is contrasted at least eighty times. It is a typical division. The difference between them is primarily social, which is also a part of the story that we've been hearing from Paul is that there are people that have entered into the society of Christians at Ephesus, and they are causing destruction. Those are the wooden cups. They are wicked. They are guilty. If you are work it wicked, you work against God's social order that He has established through Jesus Christ and His Spirit and the preaching of the gospel If you are righteous, you work to uphold and maintain God's social order that is growing up on the earth as the word is preached and goes out from land to land and from nation to nation. And if you were to do that, you're a golden cup. That's his point. The two end up having quite different purposes in the household of God. Take a look at the scriptures again where he talks about the master in verse 21. He really draws it home here. Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from the latter, he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, and then here we really get our feet down on the ground. You are someone who is useful for the master. And you are prepared to do every good work for him. That's the difference. And Timothy is being encouraged to be the golden cup. He's being encouraged to be the one who stands with the rest of the saints in purity of heart. He's being encouraged to build up the community and not tear it down. It's the difference between Korah that we saw last week in Moses. It's the difference between Hymenaeus and Philetus versus the Apostle Paul and Christ and Timothy. and all of those who are actually standing for the kingdom of God. And the big question that really ends up rising out of this for Timothy, let's just start with him. We'll start with that historical context. It's Timothy which cup do you want to be? Timothy, which group or to which community do you want to belong? And then that qu those questions end up parading themselves down through the ages, and the same questions are asked of every single generation until we reach the generation that we're in right now And they and all the same questions are coming out to you. Which cup do you want to be in the master's house? Do you want to be the flat shovel? Or would you like to be useful to the Master in accomplishing many good works for his kingdom, the Golden Cup? Do you want to be with Hymenaeus and Philetus and Korah, or do you want to be with Jesus and Paul and Christ and Timothy? And Ruth and all of the other saints that you can think of? That's a question that you have to take very seriously sitting here, right now. It's which path, which community, which cup do you want to strive to be I think that's the overarching question of this passage, but we could go ahead and state it just in terms of a doctrine that God, through Christ, has made you golden cups in the household of faith. And therefore we ought to flee from wickedness and pursue righteousness. It's a good summary of the passage. And I'll state it again. God, through Christ, has made you golden cups in the household of faith. Therefore, flee from wickedness and pursue righteousness. We can divide this up, children, if you're taking sermon notes into golden cups, flee, and pursue. Golden cups, flee and pursue. Let's begin with the Golden Cups. It's interesting we had in our bulletin Of the conversion of Saul to Paul. Everyone remember reading this today? It's been only a couple minutes. And it's interesting to see his story as an example of becoming a golden cup. Just to see the story that's behind this whole thing. So you can see all the colors and the contours. If you remember, we first meet Paul within the scriptures as someone who was not pursuing righteousness, same word, but he was pursuing the destruction of what he called the way And what we would refer to as our Christian faith and Christianity. He was seeking to destroy the followers of Jesus Christ. I wonder if you can think of some specific scriptures that come to mind when you think of Saul pursuing to destroy the church. One of the things that he did was he gained arrest warrants so that he could break into homes. And he could arrest those who were seeking to promulgate this tragedy in his mind, this corruption of the faith of Israel. The apex for Paul in his mind is when Paul went so far to destroy this Christian faith that he ended up having one of the Christians killed. And stones. His name was Stephen. Paul brings this up several times in his own biography as we're looking through the scriptures. He says that he's one that's untimely born. That he is a murderer, that he was set against Christians more than all, that he's a sinner above all. And yet we see then this change on the road to Damascus, where Jesus Christ Himself confronts him. And if you look back in your bulletin, or if you were to flip in your scriptures to Acts, you can look at this later on in the afternoon too. In Acts chapter 9. 15, it's very interesting. to see what Jesus Christ's intentions are for Saul and for Paul. And it is captured very well in Acts 9. 15. Listen to this, because it goes right along with what we're talking about here. In 2 Timothy. But the Lord said to Paul or Saul, or I'm sorry, to Ananias, Go, for he is a chosen vessel. Of mine to bear my name before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel. There is a very clear Example for you of watching a person and their biography get to the point where Christ calls them and they become a very specific item and utensil within the master's house. That Paul had been set aside by Christ himself to be a it's the same word, vessel. He's been set aside to be a golden cup for the purposes of the upbuilding of the kingdom of God. That's got to be in some way on Paul's mind. Those words of Christ to him and to Ananias have got to be on his mind as he's thinking about establishing Timothy in a very similar ministry. Now, Timothy's story and biography is quite different than Saul. Timothy wasn't gaining warrants for people's arrests. He just had the normal covenant child existence. He was raised up in the Christian faith by his mother and by his grandmother. You can tell that he was a part of a Christian community. But you see here that there's a there's a transition that's being made where Timothy, though Just uh he was uh a member of the church. He's being set aside specifically uh as a a golden cup or vessel in a specific way as being another teacher and preacher like Paul within the church And Timothy himself would need to decide what side am I on? Who am I going to stand up for? What do I actually believe? What am I building and what am I tearing down? Timothy, as a young man, would have to make those kinds of decisions, which is a very difficult thing to do. I don't know if you remember when you were young. Or if you're young right now, but one of the most difficult things that you have going on with you is that you're not exactly sure what side you take. It's why Proverbs was written. Proverbs was written to youth because youth are struggling to finally stop straddling the fence. And Timothy is in that situation. And so here we see, through these, again another picture, we've had the soldier and the farmer and the athlete and Christ and Paul. And the story of Korah's Rebellion. And now we have another illustration. It almost could be just a children's book, which is how simple this message is It's another illustration of Paul showing Timothy what he is being called into and to what he is to be resolved toward and endeavored toward, and that is to be a golden cup. A vessel chosen by Jesus Christ, by Paul and the Spirit, to build up the church and not tear it down. Now, I've given you two different biographies. I gave you the biography of Saul, and I gave you the biography of Timothy, and we fleshed it out a little bit to see that maturation and development over into them having a realization that they're a golden cup. But we could do the same thing with you. You yourself have a biography. And part of your biography is your relationship with Jesus Christ, who is the Lord of heaven and earth. And if you're sitting here now as a Christian He has been taking you through your life that you might know and have the realization that, well, wait a second, I am like a cup, or like an item, or utensil In the household of my master, and I am meant to be used by him for the good purposes of his kingdom. I wonder if you think about yourself that way. Has anybody noticed that today we're having an identity crisis? People don't know who they are. They don't know what they're to make of themselves. They don't know what their purpose is. They don't know what their meaning is. I remember growing up and I did not have the same identity issues that I'm seeing today. I had an identity issue of like, well, am I a football player first or a lacrosse player first? These are minor problems. Come to find out I'm neither. These are minor problems. Or you could say, um, well what you you get the picture. Today the identity crisis is much deeper than that. People are wondering, are they a man, are they a woman? That's a real struggle. I'm not making fun of anybody there. I'm not saying there anything but that it's an identity crisis. That's a real struggle that people are having. And then it would go on from there. So here what you have within the scriptures at the very least for for why this One of the reasons why this could be so significant to you, seeing your biography alongside the biography of Timothy and Paul, is that you at least have some boundaries that can be created to know why you are alive. And what you're supposed to be doing on God's green earth. If you have been called by Jesus Christ, then you are one of His instruments and His utensils. in his house to be useful for his purposes and for those endeavors, for all of those good works Now it's going to be different than Timothy. But I just wonder how is that playing out for you? Is that an identity? I don't love using this language, but I'll use it for now. Is that an identity that you have embraced? Have you primarily thought of yourself as an athlete or as an executive? Is it time for you to start thinking of yourself instead as a golden cup, as a primary marker of the meaning and the purpose of your very existence? It's a good question for you to ask. It was a question that Timothy had to ask as Paul sought to stir Timothy up and the faith and the graces and the gifts that had been given to him so that Timothy could embrace his calling. Have you embraced your calling? That's the first thing that I want us to see here is uh the the the um the endeavor that Paul gives to Timothy to be a golden cup. Now, here's the next set of questions. What is it that Paul specifically says that you're supposed to do If you are to aspire, if Christ has set you aside and you want to stir up and become more and more excellent in this calling that you have been given, what are the two things that He says that you are to do in the passage? The first thing is that you are to flee, and the second thing is that you are to pursue. This is the old division that Paul has given where we are to take off certain things and we are to put other things on. It's the same thing that you see when we talk about the law, you are to uh you're prohibited from this and you're to be pursuing this particular social vision. And so let's take a look at the, let's think about the first one where he says that you are to flee youthful lusts. He says that you're to flee youthful lusts. Now, if you were to look around this passage and you could see some of the terms and you could say, Oh, well that's a youthful lust. Take with me, or take a look with me down here at the at the passage again We're going to look at this next week, but it says, flee also youthful lusts, and then it talks about pursuit, and then look at verse number 23, but avoid foolish and ignorant disputes. That would be one. When you're young, you tend to get involved in things because you still don't have control over your impulses, and you don't have control over your anger, and you get involved in stuff that is none of your business or you get involved in such a way where you're just making it worse. That's a kind of youthful lust. But I think that the larger connection that Paul is drawing here is that there is a youthful lust in Hymenaeus and Philetus. There is a youthful lust that is a part of the mindset of Korah in his rebellion. I mean, what was Korah thinking? Did he really think that it was going to go well? What did he think that it was going to do to the entire nation? If he subverted Moses, what was actually going to happen to all the people? It would be young of him to not have thought that all the way through. But he's operating off of different different principles. He's operating, if you were to turn to James, I know there's some students here that are memorizing James, is that right? Yeah, I know at least one. You've memorized all of James now, or you've already memorized it. Do you remember those sections, children, in James, where it talks about the wisdom that is from below versus the wisdom that is from above? The wisdom that is from below causes the Christian community to be torn apart and destroyed, and it is full of youthful lusts. The wisdom that is from above establishes the community in righteousness and peace and love, like we see in that what we're supposed to pursue. So the larger picture of fleeing youthful lusts is a fleeing of wickedness, as seen in Hymenaeus and Philetus, in Korah and his rebellion. And you have ought to ask the question: where do these lusts come from? What is it that they're beginning to follow within their minds? Where do they get these ideas? If you were to look at the rest of Paul's letters, you would find that these ideas and how they're seeking to pr to set up the Christian community, which really is tearing it down, they're gaining their ideas from the culture that is from around them. And it has become a major problem. Paul talks about the importance of setting aside the Gentile culture and instead joining Christ, whereas Hymenaeus and Philetus And Korah are seeking to bring in Gentile culture into the church. And it's the same thing that is happening today. It's something that we have to watch out for. Let me ask you, what are the main ways in which Christians who are set aside as golden cups are influenced to bring youthful and destructive lusts within the church? I want you to picture for a moment a monster like you would see in Revelation. A monster that you would see in Revelation, and this monster has two arms on both sides of its body, and it has a giant horn coming out of its head. Though it has these uh these features, which we would consider unattractive, the monster still comes off as extremely attractive, whether you're a man or a woman That's part of its magic. And we could label these different arms. On the one side, the arm has become the university. And then another arm, the public school. And then another arm, the false church. Another arm, the media. And the giant horn coming out from the top of their head would be a completely and totally secularized government. It is a picture of what you are facing here today as Christians. The university, school for the public, church, media, government are not bad in and of themselves But where you are sitting today in your particular culture, they have become the arms and the horn of a monster seeking to influence and destroy the church. And those very same things are influential to you as golden cups Seeking to make you a wooden vessel. So his message here would be that you would flee any of that wickedness that you see. In any of those arms and in the horn, that you would not make that kingdom of man a part of the kingdom and the city of God. That would be the largest scope in which you could place this command to Timothy to flee youthful lusts, connecting him to Korah, Hymenaeus, and Philetus. The heart and the mind and the will of that monster is set on hatred of God and his ways. The monster has the beauty to seduce. The arms and the horn can, with sheer power and coercion, accomplish its will And your job as a golden cup in the kingdom of God is to flee from all of that. Then the question becomes how? This is a question I have to ask daily, and you should be asking in the culture in which you live, you should be asking this yourself. And I chose a monster like that and the to connect you with the book of Revelation to let you know that Christians have faced monsters before. And the church is still alive. So how is it that we can continue as the saints of old, like we see within this this passage, those with pure hearts. The first thing I would say to you is how can we continue as golden cups in fleeing? Is first, do not deny that there is a problem. For some reason, I still see the look on Christians' faces as if there's no problem. That there's no problem going on with the government, the public schools, the universities, or the media. That there's no problem with the false church. There's a problem. And it's important for you not to be in denial. I haven't told you what we should do about the problem or how should we respond. I just want to start with saying there's a problem. That would be the beginning point is to get out of denial. Number two There are many ways in which we could become re uh want to flee as opposed to being attracted to the city of man. And I think one that is often overlooked is the practical Results of just looking at the results of that city. If you want to be a person who flees from wickedness, look at the results of wickedness. It should create something even bodily inside of you that makes you want to run away from it. But I'm telling you right now, here's the trick. You will not flee from those two arms and that horn and what they're doing right now at this time in our lives if you only see them through the media. And the reason is because the media is one of their arms. So they distort everything to where it actually looks like they're living the best life possible and we are fools as Christians not to join them. But I'm telling you right now, I have been more and more going out to the community, finding folks who are following exactly what these arms and the horns say, and when I talk to them about their lives, they are not happy. I imagine there's some happy soul out there, but it's not true happiness. Most of the people are miserable So we have to start asking ourselves questions like, what is the university, public school, false church, media, and current government seeking to accomplish? If we said, okay, have everything that you want, what would the end result be? What is the end of it? What is their vision for society and for human beings? And in places where that vision is being realized, what does it actually look like when they unfold the whole thing and they show it to you? This is what we think is good. This is the way the world should be. What we end up finding is grotesque and monstrous You can see the actual results in the actual lives of people, not digital life and not digital people. Let me just ask a couple questions. And I would encourage you to find this out in your own experience. And I know that these are generalizations and that there's going to be exceptions to the rule. But I think this is a good this is just a very practical way for you to begin to flee wickedness is to see its results. I'd encourage you, if with without um being inappropriate, is to find out from women who have had abortions if they're actually happy that they did it. Are they happy? Are they glad that they did that? When I meet with women, whether in the church or out of the church, who, for whatever reason, decided to abort their child, they're not happy. It is a trauma for them. And yet those arms and that horn says this is the picture of what it looks like to be free. And I'm telling you right now, flee from that wickedness and do not bring it into the church. Or you could ask the question: are parents happy that they let their child have their sexual organs changed by surgery? Are the children going to be happier later? Because we get to do with whatever we want. There's no form. It's all freedom. What kind of people is this society developing? When you meet them, you know there's lots of different people in university, lots of different people all over the place. But if you were to f look at the ones that are strictly following the social agenda and ideologies, what kind of person ends up being the product? Let me ask a couple questions. Are they fragile or are they resilient? Which is better as a human being? Do they work hard or are they lazy and entitled? What does freedom look like in this particular society? according to university curriculum is to have the freedom even to enter into prostitution because we get to do what we want I think you begin to get the idea. I'm painting a picture of the city of man. And even Pilgrim in Pilgrim's Progress was told, you better flee. Because there's nothing good here. And we need to flee from wickedness likewise I am at the age where my friends are beginning to take leadership positions within larger society. I'm forty-seven now, I cannot believe it I know that I'm 47 because just the other day I was looking at a can of soda and I wanted to read the nutrition facts and I I said, I need I need Barbara's readers. I'm seriously thinking about getting a pair of readers. But I'm at the age where my friends are leaders now in society. They are the business owners. They hold political offices. And when I speak with them They are reporting to me that the human beings coming out of our humanistic, if you want a name for all of this, the monster is humanism. The human beings coming out of our humanistic society are some of the worst humans they have ever seen. And it is a major crisis. And remembering this, remembering what that city is doing and what it is building, not through the lens of the media, but in actual life, is I what I find a very On the face and practical way for you to realize I need to flee from that wickedness. And it brings us to our next point. I not only need to flee, I need to do something about it, and I need to pursue Because we don't just have prohibitions, we have a specific societal vision in seeking to establish the kingdom of God on earth as it is in heaven. And that brings us to the last point: pursue. I've mentioned to you already, this is a verb that Paul has been used of Paul as he pursued warrants for the Christian's arrest. This is a passionate pursual of the kingdom of God. Paul in our passage says specifically to pursue righteousness, faithfulness, or faith, peace, and love And Paul lists these same things a little bit later in this chapter, Colossians chapter 3, verse 5. There are different places where he has lists like this. And his specific point is for Timothy, that Timothy would build up the kingdom of God on earth as it is in heaven. Do you see that there in the passage? Flee youthful lust, but pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart. Now there's two observations I want to make here. Faith, love, peace, and righteousness are not just virtues. When I look at Paul in multiple passages, I do not see him saying, the only thing I require for you to do is to get the own the to get the living room of your soul in good order, and that's all that matters. We have already had that within our history as a church. It's called pietism. And it's different than piety. Piety is just godliness. Pietism is to take something that's good and to misplace it and misemphasize it, to where the only thing that matters to you is the kingdom of God reigning in your heart. Who cares what's happening down the street? And Paul's not saying that. Of course, Timothy needs to have r a building up and standing the flame of righteousness or peace within himself or love within himself. But these are marks that are supposed to be present within the community That Timothy would do such a work that we could say this community is established in righteousness and peace and love and faith. These are the marks of the community And Timothy is to be striving for those things, not the destruction of youthful lust. Those are the markers. And we, though not Timothy, have the same endeavor for the whole church. You and I are each in our own way to pursue the establishment of righteousness and faithfulness and peace and love embodied as God. God's kingdom in ourselves and in our families, in our church, and in our society. Now I think you've heard that from me a thousand times. But here may be one Sunday morning sermon where there's a little bit of a difference. Think about what I just said to you. Of what it means to be a golden cuff in pursuing these things. Think about the context now that you have. You have a city of man over here. What I just described to you of what is happening over there with those people, the worst human beings some of my friends have seen. It my first emotion towards that is not anger. My first, I've gotten to the point now where my first emotion towards that is I feel sorry for them. When I watch them do certain things, there is definitely anger within my heart. But I'm looking at human beings that are being dehumanized, and it afflicts my soul. It reminds me of when I attended the museum for the Holocaust. The dehumanization of human beings afflicts my soul. And that is what is happening over here in this humanistic bubble. That America has created. And so what I see, though I'm extending the scope of the original intent of Paul, he's definitely just focused here on the household of faith and what Timothy is supposed to be doing with this church and setting it up. We can extend that out and we can begin to say, us establishing ourselves as the city of God on earth in righteousness and faith and love and peace is not just about us wanting to have something neat and tidy for ourselves. It is about being able to have something on earth that is like a light, or in the midst of all of this darkness. It's like flavorless. The world is flavorless. And finally, we've got a little seasoning and salt in the picture for them to be able to see. That there is still on the face of the earth, by way of Jesus Christ and his Spirit, hope for humanity. That has got to be the part of the extended picture here of how we may, by good and necessary consequence, apply this passage. So we are not just trying to have a nice, neat and tidy house for the sake of a nice and neat and tidy house. We are doing so because this is God's way. to introduce and be a witness for the salvation of all of those over here who are suffering and they don't know that they're suffering. If this city becomes you, then what hope is left for humanity? And therefore, you, like Timothy, must pursue the marks of the Christian community because you are the church which is for the salvation of the world. You are the ark that will save them from the flood of this humanistic philosophy that has engulfed all of America. And so my one last point that I would say to you is that though Timothy would be pursuing these things in order to be able to haul have a ordered household of faith. You must do that in the household of faith. I've said that to you a thousand times. I'm just extending the scope of this and saying, let us seek for the kingdom of God to be in places where the kingdom of God is not, because it is for the good of our neighbor. and for the glory of God. Could you get on board with a vision like that? Is it worth it? To start showing hospitality to these people that are being ground like raw meat within this system The way sometimes the media presents those who are engulfed in this particular system is that they are a threat to where we would never want to go anywhere near them. All we really need to do as a church is to put the fortress walls up and stay in defense mode. But I have news for you today. When I speak to those who are not Christians, who are totally convinced by this humanism, when I speak to them as actual people and not as digital people, I am finding that they are ready to have some conversations. I'm finding that I do not need to treat them like they are Al-Qaeda and the worst threat possible on me and my family. I actually have a little bit of freedom here in working with them. They're open to hearing certain things They're open to certain conversations. And I would encourage you, therefore, in each of your domains, Timothy had a domain, it was called the church. You have a domain, it's going to be family, church, and where you work in your society, or where you go to school, or the different clubs that you belong to, or the grocery store that you go to, that you would seek the kingdom of God above all else there The people desperately need it. When I was at the Holocaust Museum, this will be one of the last things I say. At the very end, after you watch a video of different experiences that people had, there's a giant plaque. I wish I had the full quote with me now. It's on a photo on my phone. But it is from a Lutheran minister. And it moves in stages. And it said, this happened in our society, but I didn't believe it. And then this happened in our society. You remember this? This happened in our society, and I didn't believe that. And then this happened in our society, and now it's too late. And then they came for me. I'm blowing a trumpet for you right now To tell you that the fields are ripe for harvest. And for the sake of the glory of God and humanity, you must begin to engage with this earth. They are in the grip of the monster. Jesus Christ has said to you that By my power, if you just say my words, then I will gather those from the world into my loving care. Do you think you could begin to start showing some hospitality? To initiate a conversation, to somehow preach the gospel? Has this become an affliction to your soul? That's what it means, brothers and sisters, to be a golden cup. You've been enlisted. To bring salvation not just to each other and become a Christian ghetto, but to bring salvation to the world, especially in your particular area So let us endeavor to be golden cups. Let's flee wickedness and let us pursue the kingdom of God among a kingdom of humanism. Please pray with me