I'll be reading Habakkuk two, one through four. I will stand my watch and set myself on the rampart and will watch to see what he will say to me And what I will answer when I am corrected. Then the Lord answered me and said, Write the vision and make it plain on tablets. That he may run who reads it. For the vision is yet for an appointed time. But at the end it will speak, and it will not lie. Though it tarries, wait for it, because it will surely come, it will not tarry. Behold the proud, his soul is not upright in him, but the just shall live by his faith. Lord God, ask for clarity and purity of thought. May we, your people, receive your word. Let me not impede anything at all. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. I used to have a friend, his name is Kareem, a really smart guy. He uh is a mathematician. He ended up as an astrophysicist. Now he models galaxies slamming into each other on supercomputers. But when I knew him, we used to debate a lot. We would play this board game called Go, and we would argue just for the pure joy of arguing. And we would argue mathematics and science. science, and then we'd argue politics, and we had very different opinions on politics, and then we would get to a religion. He had a really low opinion of religion. He was really smart. He was really sarcastic. He just really enjoyed arguing. So most of the time it was just fencing. But I remember one conversation we had in particular, because he stopped being sarcastic for a moment. He told me, and he is very honest and very vulnerable, that when God told Abraham to sacrifice Isaac At that very moment, Abraham should have stood up and walked away from God. worship. And this really goes beyond Abraham and Isaac. He was using that as an example, as an illustration of a problem. It gets down to this. If God is good, how does he allow evil? If God is sovereign, really all powerful. Then how does he ordain such suffering in the world? How can God have the innocent killed? Is he evil? Is he powerless to stop it? This dilemma is sometimes called the problem of evil. I don't recall what I said, but I didn't have a good answer for him at the time. I knew he was wrong. God is not evil. Straightforward to me at least. And I knew some arguments I could use. But I didn't have anything that could actually answer the pain in his question. Now, it's silly to say that I'm not going to believe in God because God doesn't live up to my sense of morality. It's ludicrous. And while that's true, it did not get to the heart of my friend's revulsion. at what God was doing. So what could I say? What should I have said? I could have said, let's look at Habakkuk together, or at least I could have thought about Habakkuk when I formulated a response. Habakkuk is about the problem of evil, the problem of pain, and Habakkuk teaches us. This. The problem of evil is solved. The first thing Habakkuk teaches us is that God has a plan. So let's stop for a moment and consider the church. Not not just us, but the wider church, say the church in America. What do we find? Well, just looking at the headlines for this past week, there are scandals among God. There are rap in the church. There are pastors being forced out by gossip and by rumors without any trial. On the other hand, we have a pastor being implicated in a murder for hire scheme. Church leaders are throwing out what God in Scripture says about justice and redefining it to mean whatever they want it to be. There are formerly reputable seminaries teaching some very disreputable ideas. There are false preachers who are getting filthy. Rich by treating the gospel like snake oil. We could go on, but this gets really depressing, and I usually stop reading the news then. Now Habakkuk lived about 600 years before Christ. He lived as the Chaldeans ruled in the capital city of Babylon. So they're also called the Babylonians. And that they had a significant military force. So this is the backdrop for Habakkuk. And Habakkuk looked at his people. He looked at the covenant children of God. These are God's elect people, effectively his church. And what Habakkuk saw was distressing. Maybe it was worse than what we have now, maybe not. Habakkuk saw violence in God's people. He saw iniquity and he saw the rich plundering the poor. He saw that the law The Torah that God gave them was being ignored. And worse, it was being perverted against the way God intended to be used. Twisting what God says is even worse than ignoring it or being ignorant of it. Now there were still good guys, still a remnant, but they were outvoted and outgunned. Habakkuk saw chaos. He did not see God's hand at work. He didn't see any structure, and he didn't see any plan. So Habakkuk turned to God, and his prayers recorded in chapter 1, verses 2 through 4. O Lord, how long shall I cry and you will not hear? Even cry out to you, violence, and you will not save. Why do you show me iniquity and cause me to see trouble? For plundering and violence are before me. There is strife contention arises. Therefore the law is powerless, and justice never goes forth. For the wicked surround the righteous. Therefore perverse judgment proceeds. Now, have you ever prayed like this? Prayed why and how long? O Lord, how long shall I cry? And why? Why do you let me see such evil? This is a prayer of someone who loves the church. This is a prayer of someone who loves their family. If you have faith in God and if you love anyone, I'm convinced that you will end up praying like this. How long and why? Why are God's people so evil? So Habakkuk asks a question. A good question. I think it's a good question. It's a question I've asked. I know some of us have talked about this question before and prayed about it together. And God thought it was a good question too. We know he thought it was a good question because he answered it. Look among the nations and watch. Be utterly astounded, for I will work a work in your days which you would not believe, though it were told to you. For indeed I am raising up the Chaldeans, a bitter and hasty nation, which marches through the breadth of the earth, to possess dwelling places that are not theirs They are terrible and dreadful. Their judgment and their dignity proceed from themselves. God goes on to describe the Chaldeans. With vivid illustrations of how horrifying they are, and how strong they are, and how completely unafraid They are. They are bad news. They are unstoppable, and God is raising them up and sending them straight towards His own people. Habakkuk saw wickedness in the kingdom God created, and he wondered why God wasn't doing something about it. But God was doing something about it. So this first thing Habakkuk teaches us is that God does have a plan. And his plan is to destroy evil. Habakkuk prayed for justice, and God responded with the Chaldeans. When God is done speaking, Habakkuk replies, And to summarize Habakkuk's reply, he said, What? Habakkuk wanted to know that evil was going to be punished, but this is not what he expected. Now Habakkuk was no heretic. He was shocked. At how God is responding. But he knows God's sovereignty, he knows his power, he knows his justice, but he also knows God's love. So Habakkuk responds to God and he starts off with praise. Are you not from everlasting, O Lord, my God, my holy one, we shall not die. O Lord, you have appointed them for judgment. O rock, you have marked them for correction. So Habakkuk is confessing that God is eternal and holy and just And then he says something that might be kind of surprising. He says, we shall not die. Because if you look at what God's doing, it sure sounds like everybody's going to be wiped out. This is a confession of faith. Remember it, because Habakkuk's going to address it later on. Now, when Habakkuk's praying, he not only asks the question, But he also includes a lot of things that he does know. I think of this as being on r really shaky ground. Kabakuk's very confused. So he includes some solid rocks, some stepping stones in his prayer That you can say, I'm not sure what's going on, but I know this is true, and I know this is true, and I know this is true. He doesn't understand everything, but he knows God is holy. He knows he's everlasting. He knows he is a judge. And he knows that God's people will ultimately not be completely wiped away. He knows God is pure. And he knows God says that God cannot look on wickedness There's a paradox here. Habakkuk does not, he's really careful, he does not accuse God of evil. And he doesn't accuse God of being inconsistent. But he does say You cannot look on evil. There is evil everywhere, and you see everything. But you can't look on evil And it's one thing to be punished by somebody more righteous than you. That makes sense. That fits with the order. But the Chaldeans are not righteous. Relative to the Judeans, they're awful. How can God let his own people be treated like animals? He says, like fish in a net. And then he underscores just how bad of a choice the Chaldeans seem to be, to be God's anointed judgment. Therefore, they sacrifice to their net and burn incense to their dragnet, because by them their share is sumptuous and their food is plentiful. The Chaldeans are idolaters. Why is God using the less godly to punish the slightly less ungodly? The Chaldeans worship their own tools. They worship their technology because they see their technology as the source for all their blessings. And this might just have some application to America today. That's a different sermon. So Habakkuk asks God, I know you are just, but how is this just? And Habakkuk takes his question to the Lord. And he closes with this prayer: I will stand my watch and set myself on the rampart. And watch to see what he will say to me, and what I will answer when I am corrected. Habakkuk is taking a posture. He's taking a posture of alertness. He's saying, I'm going to watch for your answer like a watchman on duty. Now, I know a few in the congregation have experienced standing watch. I don't, I think most of us don't. So I I was looking for some way to how do we say I was gonna say Habak it's like Habakku is waiting by the phone for an important phone call But I think about half the people here have never actually waited by a phone because phones aren't tied to the wall anymore. So maybe a really modern poor translation of the Bible would say Habakkuk stood there hitting refresh constantly. So why does he do this? Does this because God's answer is important and God's answer is urgent? So what do we do when scripture doesn't make sense? When God's word does not make sense? Is it our problem or is it God's fault for not explaining Himself? This is what 2 Timothy says. All scripture is given by the inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof. For correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Is that true? Yes. Is it true in every single case? Yes. Is it always obvious how every part of scripture applies? At least not to me. So when we read something that doesn't make sense, either it really looks like scripture's contradicting scripture, or it looks like scripture's contradicting real life. There's a disconnect, and we have to take the approach of Habakkuk and take our lack of understanding back to God and to God's Word. Also, when we do pray, look at how Habakkuk closes his prayer. Do we expect God to hear our prayer and to respond to us? Or do we pray like we're writing in a diary? Dear diary, what should I be when I grow up and why is there so much evil in the world? Is prayer, is your prayer an internal dialogue, or is it something where you're praying to a person and you expect a response So Habakkuk had a burden. He needed God to answer. He knew God would answer, so he acted before God like somebody that's expecting an answer. And wouldn't it be terrible to live out your entire life with access to the throne room of the most holy, bought by the blood of Christ, and the whole time treat God like He's a silent As an idol. God's answers are always important. And so we treat them with urgency and honor. And this is how the Lord answered Habakkuk. Write the vision, make it plain on tablets, that he may run who reads it. So God is here saying. That his response is to be written down as scripture. What God is saying is important. It's important to be preserved, and it's important. It's not just an answer for Habakkuk. It's for all of God's children. And then God tells Habakkuk to be patient and yet to be ready. For the vision is yet for an appointed time. But at the end it will speak and it will not lie. Though it tarries, wait for it, because it will surely come. It will not tarry. Be patient, but be awake. Soon and very soon. Get ready now. Be ready now. All through Scripture. The Lord repeats this refrain. He tells us to be ready and to wait expectantly. And then having set it up, God responds with his answer to Backup's question. This answer is at the core of the whole book of Habakkuk. The whole book swings on it like a hinge. This is the answer of the Lord. Behold the proud. His soul is not upright in him. But the just shall live by his faith. So the second thing Habakkuk teaches us is that there are only two ways to live, either by pride or by faith. Behold the proud, his soul is not upright in him, but the just shall live by his faith. This is the lens that we need to look at Habakkuk's question, at the problem of evil, and at God's answer. This is a God saying, yes, Habakkuk, everything you have said is true, but it is not complete. Habac it needed another stone to step on to make it across the mire of this swampy problem of the justice. I'm sorry, who wrote this? It sounded really good in my head. Okay, so on one hand we have the proud, the Chaldeans, and those inside God's kingdom that act like Babylonians. Scripture describes them as stiff-necked and refusing to bow. And God sees that their necks are upright and compares it to their souls. Their souls are not upright. And on the other hand, we have the humble, those living by faith. They are just because God is just, and He is the justifier of those who have faith. We see the book of Romans here, and we see the letter to the Galatians and Hebrews, all of which quote Habakkuk. Habakkuk was really important to the New Testament authors We need Habakkuk in order to understand the New Testament. And we need the New Testament to understand the fullness of what Habakkuk is pointing at. We understand Scripture by the light of Scripture. And then God begins to expound on his holy justice. He has shown us how God is just in using the Chaldeans to punish his covenant community. As terrible and terrifying as the Chaldeans are, they are milksops compared to the wrath of an angry God. They are a blunt instrument. But God, when he turns on to the Chaldeans, he has poetic justice. God pronounces five woes on the enemies of his people. Uh Jesse left standing orders for the deacons to take me outside and thrash me if I went over thirty minutes. So I don't have time to go through all of this sort of prove it. So I'll just skim over it lightly, but take some time to read Hebak later on. First, he says that in their greed they have been overextended. They have lived with plenty for too long. They've relied on unlimited credit. But now they're they will be outnumbered. Their debts are going to be called in. They will be mocked in the streets for being being so foolishly greedy. Because they plundered, they will be plundered. Second, those who coveted in order to secure their households. Will have their own households turn against them. Third, those who turn to bloodshed to build the things they wanted will find out that all the things they wanted. didn't last. All that lasts are the bloodstains and the knowledge of the one thing that they don't have, that they never went after, the glory of the Lord. Fourth, those who delight in exposing and shaming their neighbors will be overwhelmed by the cup of the Lord. They will be exposed. 2. 16 says that they are going to be stripped down and shown to be uncircumcised. This in judgment is the ultimate humiliation. God exposes everyone's hearts. The circumcised hearts and the uncircumcised hearts. Those who are not marked with the sign and the seal of the covenant will be ashamed. So think about this. All the shame in our lives, and all the fear of shame in our lives, all should point towards this final judgment. When we will be exposed as having circumcised hearts or uncircumcised hearts. Fifth, the idolaters will find out just how useless their gods are The Chaldeans worship their technology and their tools. And they were really useful in their time. But when the Chaldeans actually need help, When the whole world, through God's majesty, is turning against them, they will turn to their idols and find out that their idols are silent. They have nothing to teach. They have no answers. Idolatry is all fun and games until you actually need help from your God. And then God proclaims the end of the matter. But the Lord is in his holy temple. Let all the earth keep silent before him. Then Habakkuk prays. This is a prayer not just of submission, but of understanding. Habakkuk stood and waited for a response. He received the word of the Lord. And this prayer is Habakkuk's earnest response. O Lord, I have heard your speech and was afraid. O Lord, revive your work in the midst of the years. In the midst of the years, make it known in wrath. Remember mercy. This might be a silly question, but why was Sabbatic afraid? Because the wrath of God is terrifying. Now, if God's wrath is not something we should be afraid of, then all the work that Jesus Christ did for us is of little use. He took God's wrath on himself. for our sake. So therefore, we should be afraid and be comforted, and we have to live in that tension. We have real hope only when we have real fear. Otherwise, the good news is just nice news. And that sounds ridiculous because it is ridiculous Because Habakkuk received God's word, and because he was afraid, he came to this conclusion. The conclusion of the fear of God is the hope in God. And so he prays, in wrath, remember mercy. There must be wrath. God is just, but God is also love and delights in mercy. Back it goes on in praise about God's glory. We don't have time to read it. So read it later on tonight. Read it slowly. There's just a lot of majesty and a lot of structure, a lot of irony in this poem. Habakkuk prays about God's power. He prays about how the nations are startled when God comes to them. They are startled because they have not been paying attention. When God said turn and remember, they didn't. They neglected God, and so they're startled when He does not neglect them. Habakkuk praises about nature. And when we look at nature, we should direct our eyes towards the maker of heaven and earth. Nature is awesome for a reason. Nature is awesome, and it is for a reason. And Habakkuk prays about God's justice, about God marching through the land with indignation. And then in 313, this is special, we receive an answer to the question at the beginning. How did Habakkuk know that the people of God would not be destroyed? Remember back at the beginning? Are you not from everlasting, O Lord, my God, my holy one? We shall not die. Habakkuk has some kind of assurance of salvation. And he explains what this is. God's salvation is for someone and with someone. You went forth for the salvation of your people, for salvation with your anointed one For the people of God with your anointed one. Ultimately, this is the Christ. This is the fulfillment of the promise God made back in the garden. This is the seed of Abraham that would crush the head of the serpent. This is the descendant of Abraham that would bless every nation and every people. This is the fullness of Moses, who led his people out of bondage of Egypt. The anointed one saves us from the bondage of Babylon, the great beast, leading us from even the clutches of death. Habakkuk can rest in God's salvation because God made a promise. And Habakkuk has faith in God's promise. Habakkuk learned to have faith in the face of God's justice being poured out. So the third thing Habakkuk teaches us. Is that not only will God destroy evil, but he will save the faithful. Paul quotes Habakkuk when he's preaching in Acts 13. And he warns the listeners what will happen if they refuse Christ. For I will work a work in your days which you would not believe. They're what we're told to you. This is because the good news of the gospel is only good news if you respond with faith To those that reject it, it is a bell tolling their own destruction. So Habakkuk has asked a question: how is God just doing what he is doing? Backup had the same question that we ask. How is God in control when everything is such a mess? This is the problem of evil. And here's the answer. The problem of evil is answered, and that God's people will Ultimately prevail over evil, and evil will be destroyed, because this is God's plan. Therefore, the just shall live by faith Not blind faith, not like Baltimore believes kind of faith, but faith in God's promise, faith in the Anointed One This is the doctrine of Habakkuk. Doctrine is a set of beliefs. But doctrine, without leading to doxology, without leading to praise, is dead It's useless. So Habakkuk does not leave us there. He closes with a song, a hymn of praise, and it goes like this. Though the fig tree may not blossom, nor fruit on the vines, though the labor of the olive may fail. And the fields yield no food, though the flock may be cut off from the fold, and there be no herd in the stalls Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. The Lord God is my strength. He will make my feet like deer's feet. He will make me walk on my high hills to the chief musician by string instruments. Habakkuk says that this is a song to the chief musician. So our chief musician, Bradley, has adopted this song to us. So let us stand and respond to the doctrine of Habakkuk with the doxology of Habakkuk.