Mark chapter three, we'll be continuing on in the Gospel of Mark. We're looking at Mark chapter three, we'll be reading verses thirty-one through thirty-five. Mark chapter three, verses thirty-one through thirty-five. Mark chapter three God's Holy Word for God's holy people Then his brothers and his mother came, and standing outside, they sent to him, calling him. And the multitude was sitting around him, and they said to him, Look, your mother and your brothers are outside seeking you. But he answered them, saying, Who is my mother or my brothers? And he looked around in a circle at those who sat about him And said, Here are my mother and my brothers. For whoever does the will of God is my brother, and my sister, and my mother. Let's pray. Almighty God, this is your word preserved for us that we would be made more like Christ. That we would honor you with our thoughts, with our words, and with our deeds. We pray, Almighty God, that you would show us in your word What you would have us change. Show us how we should think differently. Show us, Lord, how we should behave in a way that will bring you glory. And I pray, O God, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. Well, we've been going through Mark, and Mark has been giving us these short accounts of Jesus' life and ministry. In a way, we can think of these as photographs. There are pictures, snapshots of events that prove to us who Jesus is. They prove to us that He is the Christ. He is the Son of the living God. He's the Son of David. He's the Messiah, the great prophet, priest, and king. Long promised to the family of God. Jesus has been teaching with great authority and wisdom. He has been healing all manner of diseases and suffering. He's declared sins forgiven, and he's proven his power to forgive sins by healing that paralyzed man. Do you remember that? He cleansed lepers and he commanded unclean spirits and they obey him. He is doing what only God can do. Showing himself to be the Son of God, the Almighty, Yahweh is his Father, and through it all, there are these crowds of people that have gathered around him, flocked to him And in our passage tonight, we are given another picture of Jesus showing us how he understands that crowd. In other words, how does Jesus understand the people that are being drawn to him? And if we see how Christ understands them, it'll help us to see how we should understand them as well And so tonight we see in this passage, verses 31 through 35, that the family of Jesus Christ is not determined by blood, but by love. The family of Jesus Christ is not determined by blood, but by love. And those are the two ways that we'll look at this passage tonight. First, we'll look at not determined by blood, verses 31 and 32. And then we will look at but by love, verses 33 through 35. So let's look now at the first section, verses 31 and 32, in which we see that the family of Jesus Christ is not determined. By blood. It is not based on natural blood relationships. It is the closest of natural relatives of Jesus of Nazareth who've shown up at this house by the Sea of Galilee. And we see right there in verse 31, then his brothers and his mother came, and standing outside, they sent to him, calling him. So there's no mistaking it. Jesus had brothers. Jesus had a family. No matter what the Roman Catholics may try to tell us, Jesus had a family, an earthly family. And it's important for us to remember this because it reminds us that the fifth commandment applied to Jesus also. And he kept it perfectly, even in this situation that we'll look at tonight. Family is important. Family has been God's design for the human race since the beginning. It was there at the beginning that He made man, male and female. And he declared, and just as Jesus reaffirmed that a man and a woman would leave their parents' families and join together, making a new family of their own. God uses families throughout history to fill the world with blessing. Just think of how God used that family of Noah. Think of how he used the family of Abraham, the family of Israel, and the family of David, all of those families. Have been used by God and now have led up to this one family of supreme importance And I'll remind you, brothers and sisters, tonight that that family of supreme importance is not the family of Mary and Joseph of Nazareth. It isn't that family that's standing outside the house calling and seeking Jesus. Family is important. But it is also important that we keep family in its proper order within our Christian lives. We all have familial obligations, but they are not always the most important obligations that we have. And it seems that this is in play here. If you'll recall from several weeks ago when we were looking at verse 21, we saw that the family of Jesus was seeking him then. We're told that he they were trying to seize him, trying to to grab hold of him. And presumably this is because they wanted to help him. They'd they'd heard what he was doing. They heard how he was running himself ragged to minister to these people. And they they wanted to to help him, to give him some rest, maybe to just to force him to eat a meal or take a nap. But in verse 21, it tells us what they really thought. They thought that Jesus was confused. He was out of his mind. Perhaps they felt a family obligation to their big brother. They couldn't just let him work himself to death, especially not for these strangers. And so they're at it again. But notice that they are not seeking their big brother in the right way, for the right reasons, with a right understanding of who he is and why they should be seeking him. In families there are certain expectations, and in family-centric cultures like the Jewish culture and others, those expectations don't just come from within a family, they come from the society around them as well. And to that culture, it was not unheard of for the family to call and the individual to stop whatever it is they're doing and go take care of the family business, to heed the call from their family. Did Mary and her boys think that they had a greater claim on Jesus and on his time than those strangers because they shared a blood relationship with him? After all, what more could they have done? There's such a huge crowd around Jesus inside the house that they can't even get through to him. And yet their message gets through. And what is their message? They're seeking him. They're calling him. The crowd relays this message to Jesus. Look, your mother and your brothers are outside seeking you. And this is the core of it all. This is the occasion for Jesus Christ, the one wiser than Solomon, to enlighten all of us as to the real nature of life's most important relationships. The message reaches Jesus. Your blood is here. Your kin, people you love are out here looking for you, Jesus. They're seeking you. And no one would have faulted Jesus for politely wrapping up his sermon Making his goodbyes and making an exit to go take care of his family. In fact, that's what the people there would have expected. But that's not what Jesus does. He takes advantage of this opportunity to really drive home that there is a change, a great change that comes to the family of God in the new covenant that He is bringing. Who is God's family? Who are the family of the Son of God? It isn't determined by the bond of blood. But by love. And so that's what we'll look at now in verses 33 to 35. Look at what Jesus says. He answered them, saying, Who is my mother? Or my brothers. Do you see the irony? You see this great reversal. Jesus' family is seeking him. They're looking for him, but where are they? They're outside. What about all those people that were surrounding him? They're not outside. They're inside. What were they doing? Weren't they seeking Jesus also? If his family was really seeking him for the right reasons, with the proper understanding, wouldn't they be there? Wouldn't they be inside among that crowd, sitting there at Jesus' feet? Wouldn't they be part of that immense group that couldn't bear not to be near Jesus? Mark has already told us in chapter two of what those friends of that paralyzed man did. They were desperately trying to get their friend to the to Jesus' presence to have him close to Jesus. Mark doesn't tell us that Jesus' brothers then proceed to cut a hole in the roof so that they could drop themselves down at Jesus' feet. And so Jesus looks around in a circle at those who sat about him. And he says, Here are my mother and my brothers. In the parallel account in Matthew, we're told that he stretches out his hand. That he doesn't just look at the whole crowd, he stretches out his hand and gestures directly to his disciples. The family of Jesus of Nazareth might be outside looking for him. But the family of Jesus the Christ, the Son of the Living God, those who are closest to Him, near to Him, it was them, all of those. Who were seeking him, following him, having their lives re-centered on him. It was that crowd right there, those who are following Jesus And so he clearly states the lesson in verse 35. For whoever does the will of God is my brother, and my sister, and my mother. The family of the Son of God is made up of those who love his Father. They love the Lord God Almighty, and they want to see His will done on earth as it is in heaven. This has been the message of the Old Testament and the New. Be like God. Be holy, for He is holy. Be perfect, for He is perfect. Be imitators of God as his beloved children. Do the will of God. And you cannot do God's will if you do not love him. That was our reading from earlier. That we know that we love God if we do His will. You cannot do God's will if you don't love him. You you just won't. If your only motivation to do God's will is fear, it will not be enough. If you're just afraid of Of the punishment, that won't be enough for you to sacrifice your own will and put his will in place. The same if what your desire is is for reward and blessing. That won't be enough for you to completely lay aside your own life. So that you will live a life for Christ. Christ's brothers and sisters want to do what God wants. Everyone for whom Jesus lived and died, who will have an inheritance in his kingdom, this is what is common among all Christians, without exception. They sincerely want God's will to be done, regardless of their own will, regardless of what their own hearts tell them. And Jesus is the perfect example of willing and loving submission to God's will. He humbled himself. He was born. He made himself subject to all the miseries of this life, to all the effects of sin that ravaged human bodies. He even subjected himself To the misery of death, and not just any death, but the horrendous death of crucifixion. He didn't deserve that death. Perhaps the greatest example for us in Jesus' life is when he's in the Garden of Gethsemane. You remember what he prayed? He knows what is coming. He knows. What he has to look forward to. And like a rational, reasonable human being, he says, please God, let this cup Go away from me. If there's any other way, let it not happen. But do you remember what he says next? Not my will, but yours be done. The perfect Son of God wants the will of his father to be accomplished. And his brothers and sisters, his family. Those people who are not bound to him by blood, those who are bound to Christ by love, they want this same thing. The family of Christ is bound together by our love for God, for His glory, our love for His plan of salvation, our love for His providence. We want God's will. to be what happens in this world and not our own. Those who are closest to Christ are those who love the will of his Father and want to see it done. It's those who love what God loves and who who hate what God hates that are the family of Christ. Those who sacrifice their own will, their own desires, to see God's will and his desires enacted in this world. And so make no mistake, brothers and sisters, I don't want you to be mistaken as to what I'm saying. I am not saying that family is unimportant. I'm not saying that. Mark is not saying that. Jesus isn't saying that. The Bible isn't saying that. Of course, family is important. It was very important to Jesus. It was so important that he cares so much for his mother's future. That even though he's suffering the agony of the cross, do you remember what he does? When Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing by, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. Then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour that disciple took her to his own home. That's John 19, verses 26 to 27, hanging on a cross. Struggling to breathe, blood pouring from his wounds, he cares and loves his mother so much that he takes time to commend her to the care of John. And to command John to care for his mother. Family was important to Jesus. And do you remember it wasn't very long ago when we were looking at 1 Timothy 5, verse 8 in the morning services. The Holy Spirit's taught us through Paul that not caring for our own family is to behave worse than an unbeliever. Family is important. It really is. But we must remember to keep family in its proper place. In the proper order, so that it does not become too important, so that it doesn't become out of balance and become an idol for us No matter our earthly family obligations or expectations, if we are the family of Christ, if we are the family of God, then we are to do the will of God. A lot of the time, you know what that will mean? A lot of the time doing God's will will mean prioritizing your family. This is where he's called us to serve him. He calls us to spend most of our time with our immediate families. He calls us to share our space. With our immediately our immediate families. And if we are going to then be Christians amongst our immediate family, Then we have to do the will of God to love them well and to serve them as He expects us to. Boy, you better believe it. You will be a bad sibling. If you don't heed the Ten Commandments, you'll be an even worse sibling if you don't understand why God has given us the Ten Commandments. Let me prove this to you. You will be a terrible roommate if you don't know the eighth commandment. And if you don't follow the eighth commandment. You know what the eighth commandment is? Do not steal. You're going to be a terrible roommate if that doesn't matter to you. Right? You're a bad roommate if you don't keep your fingers off your brother's stuff. God has given us this rule because it makes sense. It's how we show love to our neighbors. Or think about this: you're going to be an even worse roommate, an even worse sibling, if you don't heed the sixth commandment. What's the sixth commandment? Thou shalt not kill. Your terrible roommate if you kill your roommate, isn't that right? But the Bible teaches us that God has given these commands not just so that we would follow the letter. You're not a good roommate just because you didn't murder your roommate in the middle of the night. He wants you to love your siblings, not to hate your siblings, not to call your sibling a fool, not to call your sibling waka He wants you to care for them, to make them higher than yourself, to exalt them. As Christians, it's within the family that we have the greatest opportunity to demonstrate our Christianity, to show it to our children, to show mercy. We may have a household rule, and that rule may be broken. We do not have to always punish that rule in exactly the same way. We can show mercy. We can demonstrate forgiveness. We can model this for our families and for our children. How do we do this? We do this by asking for forgiveness when our own attitudes are in the muck. When we're the one who's walking around with a chip on our shoulder, we can ask for forgiveness and show that bad attitudes don't fly. They don't fly for children, they don't fly for adults. If you're a Christian, there is something that God expects of you, and he expects you. To think and live and act as a Christian. Now there are some among us who have remarkably close families. Your relationship with your siblings is very, very close. Your family, your extended family is very, very close These people are sharing time together. They share their innermost thoughts with each other. They are very, very comfortable just being in each other's presence. They're just it's just easy to be together. Can you think of some families like that that you've known? Well, the first thing for us, if we're not in one of those families, is we've got to guard our hearts. We must Be certain that we don't allow ourselves to then be bad brothers and sisters and violate the tenth commandment, which is coveting. We can't covet the families that we see that may have relationships that perhaps look better than ours. That's not what God wants. We're we're not to covet our neighbor's wife, and by extension we shouldn't cover covet our neighbor's parents. Wishing that we had our friends' parents? We shouldn't covet our neighbors' children? Wishing that we had better behaved children, or I don't know, children who Didn't have such difficult curly hair that makes things take so long in the morning. We don't want to do that. That's not what God has called us to do. We must work hard not to let jealousy make our thoughts about those close families turn to bitterness. Rather, we should we should have the joy. That God has blessed them with such great relationships. Let that sweeten our thoughts about them. And remember that those great relationships, they're just a foretaste. It's just a picture of what all of our relationships will be like in the new heavens and the new earth. Whatever good we observe in our relationships here and now, it's just the forte, just the picture. Everything will be so much better, a billion times better. So there's no point for you to get jealous of what someone else has now. Well now I want to speak to those of you who have those close relationships, who are in such close, tight-knit families, it can sometimes be hard to extend that family feeling to others. And so I would encourage you. To heed Jesus' teaching. He is teaching us that our family is far larger than we could have ever imagined. Your family is not just ma and pa and bro and sis. That's not the most important and closest relationship that you will have in your life. We are part of a family that will extend into eternity, a forever family And that family is not based on who birthed us. It's not based on who we've married or who's married into our household. Those close families are good examples for us. They show us what this Christian family relationship can be. We can be that close, though we are not from the same parents. We can be that close. Though we are brothers from another mother. We all want God's will to be accomplished. We're all longing for Him to return and to end pain and suffering. It is that which ties us together closer than any bond of blood. And as we wait for Christ to return, we have his family here, our Christian family, to strengthen us. To strengthen each other, to encourage each other, that we would run the race well, that we would finish our race faithfully. That's why He has brought us into this thing called the church. And so all of us must really try to see every other Christian as our true and our immediate family. We must strive to love each other as family, to help each other as you would help your own family. Because we are so much more than just people who, for two hours every week, sit in the same room staring at the same person, trying to make sense of what they're saying. We are far more than just people who go to church together. If you want your Father's will to be accomplished, you are now part of the family of Christ. Which means that these are the people that you will serve with forever and ever. And so if you have a close family, help us. We need you. We need you to help us. You know what the goal is. You know what it looks like to have a brother who you call when you are struggling. That's what it should look like for all of us in this church. We need you to help us see what it's like. We need you to help us bring us into your family. Show us what that special relationship is like, how it works, so that we can do this with each other. It's important that you do this because there are some in this church who do not have that kind of family life. In fact, there are some in this church who have no family. Either because their families are not believers and they have abandoned them, or they have no family because in God's providence That's not what the early parts of their life were like. And as you get older, you may want to start thinking about this, kids God has given many people very different upbringings, very different family and home situations, and sometimes they're very unpleasant. But now God has given them a new family, a real family. They don't need to mourn that they never had a mother who loved them because they are in a church filled with mothers who are loving them. They don't need to be afraid because they never had the chance to have children. They don't need to despair because they never had children, because God has brought them into a family. That is constantly growing. And they have children that they can love and pray for. Some of us have family members who don't believe. Some of us have family members who downright hate God. We can still honor them. We can still love them. But it is crucial that we have this proper understanding. The most important family relationships we have are determined by our love for our Father in heaven. Not by the womb that we shared, not by the blood that we share. We already have more in common with Christian strangers in China, in a completely different culture, speaking a completely different language, than we will ever have with the people who we grew up with If they don't love Christ and they don't follow God. We must be wise in our dealing with our unbelieving relatives. We may go through seasons where we have to limit the amount of time That we can spend with them. Because we need to wait until our faith and our love of God is mature and strong enough that it will withstand the attacks that we know will come. Because if you are a faithful Christian And you are in a family of unbelievers, being faithful to Christ will earn you a tax. Even if you're not trying, it will earn it. Because there will come a conflict in which you will have to choose Christ over the world, and they won't understand Oh, what a joy it is when the two are one, when our earthly family loves God and serves Christ, and when our earthly brothers and sisters are also our heavenly brothers and sisters. It's joyful. And this should be our constant plea for our blood relatives, shouldn't it? This should be our constant prayer. That they would be shown the same grace and mercy that Christ has shown us That they would turn from their sin, that they would repent and believe the good news that Jesus alone has the power to save, and that He does save sinners. And he does draw people to him, vast crowds, people who want to see his father's will accomplished. But there is one final situation. Brothers and sisters, that I want to address before closing. Because Jesus' teaching here can be extremely challenging for those of us who may have blood relatives who are claiming To be in the family of Christ, and yet their every deed and word is counter to that claim. By their lives, they are showing that they do not care about the will of God In Luke 14, verse 26, Jesus says, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters, yes, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. We cannot let anything come between us and Jesus. Nothing. That verse there is very clear. We can't let our Father A desire for his approval or validation, we can't let that come in the way of our relationship with Christ. We cannot let our mother Though we love her, and though she birthed us and cared for us and fed us, if she is not following Christ and following God, We cannot let that relationship alter our thoughts of God and how we want to follow Him and see His will accomplished If a member of our family is not following Christ, not seeking Him, not trying to live their life ordered according to His Word and for His glory, then there may come a time when we have to Though we recognize that we still must honor them and we still love them greatly. The special place of importance and influence that they had. Perhaps it's time to let that go. We must not follow them in their sin. We must follow Christ and what He tells us and how His people Accomplish God's will and deal with sin. We must follow what we're told in Matthew chapter 18. And we follow it because we love Christ and we want his will accomplished. We follow it because we love them And so we cannot ignore their sin. We must confront it. We must confront their sin. And if they refuse to acknowledge sin and refuse to turn from it and to seek the forgiveness that Christ freely offers, then Jesus tells them we're to think of them as heathens and tax collectors. Those who do not love God. We are to treat them as those who do not care about God's will and who do not want to see His will done. In other words, we are to understand that they are not part of our family. And this is why excommunication is such a very serious painful yet necessary act of discipline in the church. If the family of Christ is made up of all those who do the will of his father, and if you claim to be in that family, but you act in a way That shows you do not care about the will of God the Father, then the church must declare that you are not in the family of Christ. In order to spare the shame that would come upon Christ and upon the church. It is an awful Awful, fearful thing when this has to happen. And yet it does have to happen And it will happen in the future, perhaps in your lifetime. But I want to remind you, brothers and sisters, that even that situation is never hopeless. It is not the final word. We can never stop praying for them, even those who have been excommunicated. Never stop pleading with them to turn away from sin and to turn to Christ. We don't dishonor them, we don't insult them, we don't act rudely to them. That is not the will of God. Rather, what we do is we show them who the true family of Christ are. By living our lives according to God's will, by loving His will, doing His will, we show them by striving with all that we have. To follow our Father in heaven and his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And perhaps our God will use us, perhaps he will use you, and your obedience to draw someone back to Him. May our great God, who adopts you as his child by the blood of Jesus Christ, give you love for all those who do his will, binding you together as his holy family forever. Please pray with me. Oh great God. What joy it is to know That our families can be our families forever. That the people we love most dearly in this world There may be for them and for us a love that never ends. We'll never have to stop loving each other. Oh God, that is our prayer. Our prayer is that you will work your saving grace in their hearts. Work that great miracle that gives them a heart of flesh. That renews their wills, makes them follow you. Oh God, we pray that we would all of us Begin to recognize how special that is that you have given us faith to believe you, to love you, to follow you. Help us to see how special it is, Lord, that all of us here together are pulling in the same direction, and that this binds us together even closer than if we were blood relatives. Lord, this isn't always real for us. We don't always get it. And so we ask you to show us. Show us, God. Help us to see what it is like to truly be your family. And we ask God that we would see what a great blessing it is to be your son or your daughter, to know our future To know our Father. Oh God, please hear us. Please help us. Please show us that we can better love each other. As we serve together from now to the through eternity. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.