We're now going to continue our service with the preaching of God's Word. It'll be from Philippians, it's chapter three this morning. If you want to take a look there with me, that would be great. And I'd ask that you'd stand for the reading of His Word. Philippians three, and we're looking at the first eleven verses together. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. For me to write the same things to you is not tedious, but for you it is safe. Beware of dogs. Beware of evil workers. Beware of the mutilation. For we are the circumcision who worship God in the Spirit. Rejoice in Christ Jesus. And have no confidence in the flesh, though I also might have confidence in the flesh. If anyone else thinks he may have confidence in the flesh, I more so Circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, concerning the law of Pharisee Concerning zeal, persecuting the church. Concerning the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. But what things were gained to me, these I have counted loss for Christ Yet indeed I also count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish. that I may gain Christ and be found in him. Not having my own righteousness which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ. The righteousness which is from God by faith that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death, if by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. Heavenly Father, Lord Jesus Christ, and Holy Spirit, Spirit, we ask that you would glorify Jesus the Christ today, and that he would be seen as most excellent. particularly in regards to our status and resume in this world and our status before you. It is in his name that we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I see some new faces this morning as well as those I haven't seen for a while. I've been traveling in exotic lands. Did we see you both? And so let me just uh remind us that we are talking about partnership. That's what the entire book of Philippians is about. It's about a partnership. And I don't mean uh like a marriage. I mean more like a business partnership. The word fellowship in the first chapter is is business language. We'll see business language again in this passage, but we're talking about partnership and it means it's the difference between, as I've been saying, it's the difference between being an employee and being a partner. You know, it really helps you answer the question, doesn't it? What does it mean to be a Christian? You hear so many different answers within America, and a lot of the times it's like an accoutrement. It's like wearing a necklace or a pair of earrings. That's what Christianity is. It's something that you add to your existing life. But here to be a partner it means it takes up your whole life. Everything. It's all consuming. If this were a fish and it were in the pond, it would eat all the other fish. And that's what it would mean to be a partner. That's what it means to be a a Christian. And we've been looking at different aspects and perspectives on partnership. In fact, last week we looked at a really important or two weeks ago. We looked at the attitude of partnership. We in that passage saw this one image that encapsulates the whole thing. And you can think of the gospel of Jesus Christ, this good news about him, which we're going to hear about this morning, and that we are to hold it up We're not only to hold fast to it ourselves, but we're to hold fast to it in such a way where we would want to hold it up to other people. When you can when you bring the two words together, hold fast and hold forth. That's the concept that the passage was getting at. It's holding something up because it's so beautiful that you want other people to see. If you're a grandparent or a just love family Seeing a newborn baby and holding them up in her up in all their glory. In fact, it should remind you of a particular passage from Luke. And if you don't know this passage very well, I'd encourage you to invite yourself over to Dave and Sandy Pott's house and they have a painting of it. And it's a Simeon He took Jesus up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation which you have prepared before the face of all peoples. A light to bring revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. Can you see them there holding up Jesus Christ as the light to the Gentiles, literally? And that's what we are to be doing in our attitudes. That's what we learned two weeks ago. And our attitudes, it's the gospel is not a dreadful thing. It's the joy of our lives, and we want to share it with others. Tonight to this morning, we move from the attitude of partnership um you can scratch out the title in the bulletin. I've changed it. Sorry, Bradley. It's me, not you. It's the uh righteousness of partnership. Now that's a lot of words But I think that's really what's going on here. It's the righteousness of partnership. I originally it's the enemy of partnership, right? Is that what it says there? Yeah, and and so th you'll see the enemy present in the passage, but this is really more about righteousness. So we're looking at righteousness this morning. It's a word that we use still. We don't use it in the exact way that it was used then. We have a larger semantic range. For instance, if you've watched Finding Nemo, and the little turtle says righteous, that doesn't mean what this means. You think of self-righteous, that comes closer, but today we're going to be discovering what righteousness means all over again. It's the righteousness of the gospel. And I want to look at it under three things. The background of righteousness will really help us when we look at how it's used within the Old Testament scripture. Our innate desire, our constant desire for righteousness is the second thing I want to look at. And then righteousness fulfilled or the fulfillment of righteousness. How do we gain such a thing? here. Well, I want to begin by just showing you the theme that's present within the passage. Take a look with me at verses 6 and 9 of chapter 3. Paul goes through a litany here and then he moves into chapters and six as a kind of summary concerning zeal persecuting the church, concerning the righteousness which is in the law of blameless. And then you move on to 9, and he's going to mention this word again, righteousness, twice over. He's going to say in verse 9, and be found in him not having my own righteousness, which is from the law. He spoke about that in verse 6. But that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith. Everything here, all the parts are subordinated to the idea of righteousness It's a term that he was very familiar with, and we've lost touch with it within our culture. If you return to the Old Testament scriptures and you just look up the word And you study the multitude of contexts, what you find may be a little surprising to you, although I think as we tease it out, you'll see the parts. Righteousness has a huge background in biblical history. Let me just give you a few samples of its its plain meaning. For instance, in the Psalms, in Psalm 72, 1 through 3, give, O God Your just judgments to the king and your righteousness to the son of the king. He will judge your people with righteousness and your oppressed ones with just judgment. Now this is Hebrew Originally in Hebrew. And so there's a poetic device in Psalms called poetic parallelism. And so he's going to say one term and then he's going to say a different term so that you can see the different shades of meaning. Of the two terms. The two terms should be talking to each other. Do you see the two terms that are present in Psalm 72? Let me say it to you again. O God, give, O God, your just judgments to the king and your righteousness to the son of the king. Do you see that? He's really pointing out here that righteousness means justice or to judge justly. You see the same thing again in Jeremiah 22, 3. Perform just judgment and do righteousness. Deliver the one who has been robbed from the power of the oppressor. Can you see that picture? That there are those who are oppressed within the land. Those who are being taken advantage of by those who are have more military prowess or who are more powerful, and God shows up on the scene to justify or make righteous or make just the situation. He's going to relieve the oppressed through his justice. And he always does so well. And you could go through in a word search in the Old Testament, and you would find that around 200 different times the word is used this way, and it is always contained within a legal dispute It's a lawsuit. And for instance, if you just want to take a look at the book of Micah, it begins with this notion, and Isaiah. And the other prophets. That's what they're doing. They're bringing a lawsuit against the nation saying, you have done such and such, and God has this against you. God is in other words entering In as a kind of prosecutor, if you will, or one of the parties in the case, but he's also prosecuting the case as the just or righteous judge, bringing righteousness to the land In Micah 1 2 it says, Hear all you peoples, listen, O earth, and all that is in it. Let the Lord God be a witness against you, the Lord from his holy temple. You hear that lawsuit language? He's a witness against them. And then you read the whole book of Micah, I'd encourage you to do so. It's a long lawsuit against them and how he's going to rectify the situation and bring justice. You could say the same thing about the Book of Romans. The Book of Romans he he brings out these same themes in speaking about righteousness It's a lawsuit in the beginning against both Jew and Gentile. In fact, everyone pretty much agrees by the time you get to chapter 3, verse 9 of Romans, it's the consummation of of this first part of the argument, and he says, What then? Speaking to the the Jews. Are we better than they? Not at all. For we have previously charged both Jews and Greeks that they are all under sin. Now the word charge there is really important because it's lawsuit language. You have been charged with a crime against the king. And God will always bring justice to his people. Always bring justice to the land, he will always bring righteousness. That's the idea. Now, we all have a desire for justice to be done. You can see, for instance, in Psalm 51 that David has a desire for righteousness and justice to be done, but he knows he also has transgressions, so he wants God to be just, but not Figure out a way to do so without destroying him. That's really the heart of Psalm 51. And that's the heart of what we see in this next point of what the Apostle Paul is doing here, particularly in this passage They asked the they knew the answer to the question, how might we be before God? Or at least they thought they did In other words, they all had a desire for righteousness, for God to both act justly but not be destroyed. So here's the question: How do you keep a just job, a just God, and yet be justified? How is it that you would allow those two things to exist? Paul gives his answer. Paul gives his answer pre-conversion, and he says. That he tried to strive and acquire a way out from under God's lawsuit through these various means. Now look at all of the lists that he gives Look at the list that he gives. Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, and then he shows how much more he was even than they. He talks about this confidence that he has. Confidence in verse 4. Though I also might have confidence in the flesh. Do you see that? This is how God will be just, and I'll get out of the lawsuit. It will be through flesh. If anyone else thinks they may have confidence in the flesh, I more so, circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, concerning the law, a Pharisee, concerning zeal persecuting the church, concerning the righteousness. Which is in the law, blameless. How might one be considered a just or righteous person that God would act in justice and not destroy you? He just gave his resume. Do you see that? That it's a resume? It's a list of things that recommend him or a thought he thought recommended him both to his nation and to his God. All of those different things. I don't want to go into each of the individual things. You can see that he had a an ethnic pride, if you will, or confidence. He had a zealous pride or confidence. He had pride in his learning, pride in his background, pride in his his liturgies, pride in just being a part of that group of people, and not just a part of the people, but the top tier of all of those people This is the Apostle Paul's resume that he used to rely upon in order to say, when God judges, when he brings righteousness or justice to the earth, I will be found amongst those who are just because of these. these things that are given. You know, it's the exact same thing if you think in our culture, we don't use the same language, but we've got the same kind of thing going on. For instance, if you have ever applied to college Or if you are applying to college, an application is like a resume, is it not? There is a door that is shut on you, and it's called the college door. And you can't get in the college door until you have an application submitted. And then someone there has to review it, and they have to determine that you have the qualifications in order to be able to enter You see the exact same thing here with the Apostle Paul. This is his college, if you will, resume or application. Now, Paul ends up bringing this up because the Philippians are tempted to add to their resume before God to increase their status. Take a look at the very first part of this passage He tells them to beware of the dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the mutilation, for we are the circumcision who worship God in the Spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh. Why would he warn them of all these things? He warns them because there is a temptation for them in thinking that they have one resume that Paul has told them about, that they need to add to it with something else that these other teachers are telling them about. Now this is all I don't know who cares, right? Uh this church isn't even around anymore. I mean I guess you could go see the ruins But it actually ends up making a huge difference because we end up doing the exact same thing as these groups of people. You have to be able to explain why is it that when Paul believed that this Philippian church had everything that they felt like they needed more And then let me ask you the question. If you are in Jesus Christ, Paul tells you you have everything, and yet you constantly feel like you have to have more. That something isn't right between you and God, that there's a lack of assurance somehow. You have to be able to explain this urge of needing a resume. Maybe you're not convinced that you constantly present a resume. But you do, and I'll convince you of that in in just a second. But we do need to be able to explain this. How do we explain this urge within this particular church? My contention will be that we all have an urge for righteousness. How do we explain the urge here? Let me back up for a second and explain why this is important. You need to be able to explain this. Before we were trying in this book to be able to explain suffering. As Christians, we have a revelation from God. He spoke, he's not quiet, and he explains things to us. If you choose not to be a Christian, you try to explain suffering in a different way. We as Christians, we see that the world has a lot of suffering. And yet just when we're about to give up, there's a sh A a a ray of light and hope that shoots through. And so we have this balance that we have to keep, that we see suffering, but we see a good providence, and we have to be able to explain those things, and we can do so. There's one my favorite essay. But I got a chance to read once again on vacation and be happy to return to her. Her name is Annie Dillard. And uh she writes of being overwhelmed with suffering because she's sitting at Tinker Freak and she's looking at this frog that doesn't jump away from her and then all his insides are sucked away by a giant water bug and she says, how can this be? Why would God make a creation like this? Strange Going somewhere though. Why would God make a creation like this? But then at the very next moment, she also remembers these these moments Where she's looking out on a on a Floridian ocean wave, and there's these little wedges of green translucent waves that that pop up and sharks are running through it. And it's beautiful. It looks like a shark in amber. Like you see scorpions. And right in that moment, she points out and she says: in that moment, the sharks are writhing through the wave, destroying bait fish, and yet there's beauty. You see it right in that moment in the wave, you see the the suffering and you see the goodness and beauty that are both present, and we as Christians are able to explain that And we have to be able to come up with a similar explanation here of why is it that we see within human beings a constant need to validate themselves. You see this within the Philippians. They had everything, but they needed more because they have a constant urge for validation. We have a constant urge for validation. You can see it right in the beginning of the scriptures when Satan knows exactly what the urge of the human heart is. When he says to Eve, you will be like God. That's a status change. Cain murders Abel because his resume failed him and he developed envy. You, at almost every minute, are trying to add to your resume. These are the questions that you ask throughout the day. Why should other people like me? What is it about myself that's likable? You pick out your outfit today based on messy. Why should I like myself as an another question. You have a resume for why you should like yourself. Sometimes the resume goes down, sometimes it goes up, sometimes you're in a good mood, sometimes you're in a bad mood And then you have the ultimate question, I think. Some of you aren't really asking this question any longer. Maybe not here in the room, maybe. Why should God like faith? Why should God like me? Paul gave the answer that God should like him because of what he did as a Pharisee He performed the law in such and such manner, and he tithed mint and dill. And he did this and he did that. And he has this resume here before you. And it's different than ours. But we have a resume and we have a list as to why we think God should like us. We slip into this and we say, God likes me because I go to church more than other people. people go to church. Or you say, because I wear the right clothes to church. I have a bow tie. God likes me. Or you can say God liked me because I'm a Republican. God only likes Republicans. And those are the lists that we have. And I know it can almost sound silly to say this, but those really are the things that we evaluate ourselves by and evaluate other people. And You at first you'd say, Well, that's silly, I don't think God evaluates me by those, but you begin to evaluate evaluate yourself so much by those different standards that you then And allow the slippery slope to just keep on going, and you slide right in to the point where you believe God evaluates you upon the same thing. Here's a test for you, by the way, to see if you fall into this When God does not give you what you want, do you get angry with him? The reason why you would get angry with him is because he owes you something. God, I wore the right clothes I voted on the Republican ticket. I did these things you owe me. That's one of the tests. And you can end up really in America very, very quickly thinking that these are all of the different things that we have to figure out how to do, and then if I do all those things, then I can call myself a Christian Do you see that? Paul thought he was a person of God. And yet we see within his letters that the very zeal that he had, he found that he was persecuting God's people and said that he was therefore the chiefest of all sinners. You can think that you're a Christian if you have this list of things that you do. Depending on what Christian community you're a part of, you can take pride in this or pride in that Some Christian communities will would take pride if I wore a t-shirt and flip-flops up here. I'm a true Christian. Other people would take pride that I wear a suit up here. I'm a true Christian And we would use these standards to evaluate ourselves to find out if we're in the fold or not. You know, there's a story that I heard from a preacher who read it from a book. And uh from Dorothy Sayers and she tells a story about a very bad legalistic missionary who was talking to some poor native chieftain And some primitive tribe somewhere in the world about Christianity. And the chief said, now let me get this straight. If I become a Christian, I can't kill my neighbor and cut off his head and shrink it The missionary said, yes. That's right. You cannot. Wouldn't you love to have that conversation? No, you cannot do that. You may not shrink his head The missionary said, yes, that's right. That means I cannot kidnap his wives and take them into my harem and use them as my wives. I can't steal wives? That's right. I also can't loot their villages and burn them. That's right, you may not. And this is what the chieftain says. Well, I'm 70 years old. I can't do these things anyway. I'm already a Christian. I can't chase people. I can't take women. I can't plunder villages. I'm a great Christian. Do you you see the problem though that's being presented there? When we slide down the slippery slope and there's a resume that we try t that we use to present before other people and ourselves for how we're accepted We bring that same resume to God, and you are taught within America that that is Christianity. And you could become a missionary and you could go to a native tribal chieftain and you could tell him those things and he would say those things to you. that therefore he's a Christian. But what you end up finding here is a final point that the Apostle Paul gives. You have the background of righteousness and understanding God's justice and our need to be justified and accepted before him. And you also see here the second point: the desire for righteousness that each of us have, and the slippery slope that can happen as we present our resumes before God. But this last thing that we see is the fulfillment of righteousness, and is the only way for us to be acceptable before God has been presented here within this passage. It's the only resume that matters, and it's Jesus' obedience to give you the spoiler. It ties into the theme of partnership if you take a look here. Look at verse 7. But what thing look at the prophet language P-R-O-F-I-T. Profit. Business profit. But what things were gained to me, there's an audit happening. But what things were gained to me, these I have counted lost for Christ. Yet indeed I also count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I've suffered the loss of all things. That whole list, all the privileges that he had, every one of them, gone. You know, it says here that they were rubbish to him. It's not a great translation. I don't can't say it from the pulpit, actually. I'm gonna hold off. You can use your imagination as to what he's saying there. But all of it has become rubbish. There's gains And there's losses. What once was a gain has now been considered a loss based upon the the the uh uh seeing Jesus Christ and the righteousness that is offered through him. What was once a prop a positive prophet on my account I consider to be dung relative to the new prophet of Jesus Christ. And remember that this whole thing is set within the context of a lawsuit. How will you, how will you, human being, hey human being, how would you escape God's justice? How will you escape the lawsuit? What will you put on your credentials that he would not smite you with his wrath? That he wouldn't do justice. You're a part of the unjust problem. Do you know that? You know, in the matrix they call you a virus upon the earth. And something like that, is that true of you, or do you have something to recommend you to God? Are you not a virus? What are you doing? What is the human race bringing? How will you escape God's justice when He chooses to refine the earth with fire? How will you be one of the things that remain? That's the main question of the whole section Your resume, according to Paul, no matter what your list was before, he had a better list. He had a better list. He was reading the scriptures, trying to do exactly what God had said in the Old Testament. But now that Jesus Christ has come, He had a better list than you, and you find that your resume is but fig leaves covering your nakedness. All of those things that you think would make you acceptable. And the answer, according to verse 9, is that the only answer is that it would be found in Jesus Christ, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things. And count them as rubbish. Why? That I might gain Jesus Christ and be found in him. Notice something that's really important here. I understand there's a lot of concepts flying right now, but you've got to hear this right here. Notice how he phrases this In verse 9, be found in him not having my own righteousness, which is from the law, any law. But that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is, look at this, from God by faith. It's not something that you're able to bring up yourself. It's something that is received or is given to you. Theologians call this alien or received righteousness. It's something that we rail against as humans. You know why? Because we want to come up with our own righteousness. We want to say, I did it. I had the victory. But here we find that the true gospel is that you can bring nothing to the table. Everything must be given to you. God will be just and not drop his standards of justice, and he will be the justifier by providing a resume for you in Jesus Christ That's the message of the gospel. By providing a resume for you in Jesus Christ. Now I think it's interesting. You know, I just gave you the basic gospel message. I pray that you would not fall asleep I felt like I have permission to give you the basic gospel message, one, because it's a good thing. But two, right in the beginning of this passage, he says, Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord, for me to write these same things to you To you is not tedious, but if for you it is safe. So I felt free to remind you. To remind you of the background of righteousness and God's justice and what's at stake. How will you last through the burning fire? our innate desires and the slippery slope that can happen in trying to recommend ourselves to God through a resume, and then the fulfillment of our being accepted by God through the resume of Jesus Christ. And I want to end with this. I hope it just gives you the opportunity to think of some things We were noticing in the beginning of Philippians the story of Joseph and how Paul was just like Joseph and that what they intended for evil, God intended for good, even though Paul was in jail in the beginning of Philippians. And there's this curious part, I don't know if you remember this, this is from Genesis 45, verses 9 through 13. There's this curious part that's given in speaking about Joseph, who is a type of Jesus Christ. I'll read verse 13 first and ask you what you think it means. It says, Joseph is saying to his brother, So you shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt And of all that has you have seen, and you shall hurry and bring my father down here. Why does Joseph want his father to see his glory? Is it because Joseph wants to take pride and he's arrogant? Well, the answer is given starting in verse 9. Listen to the whole context Hurry and go up to my father and say to him, Thus says your son Joseph, God has made me Lord of all Egypt. Come down to me, do not tarry. You shall dwell in the land of Goshen. You shall be near to me, you and your children, your children's children, your flocks, and your herds, and all that you have. There I will provide for you Lest you and your household and all that you have come to poverty. For there are still five years of famine, and behold, your eyes and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see that it is my mouth that speak to you So you shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt and of all that you have seen, and you shall hurry and bring my father down here. In the Gospel of John, Jesus says that he, praying to his father, longed for his disciples to see his glory. In John 14. And he says it for the exact same reason. Jesus wants you to see the glory that he has in being able to provide all things for you. By being found in Jesus Christ, you may have everything. Everything. All of righteousness. All of the world. That is what is offered to you in true Christianity. And do you know what you bring to it? Nothing. You have nothing to recommend yourself. It is upon and only upon his sovereign mercy that he brings you in. to Jesus Christ. It is my prayer that we would see the glory of Jesus Christ as our Savior And tying it back into our attitude from last week that we would once again, even though it's the basic gospel message, it would be so exciting to us That we would hold it up and it would just shine out in all the world to be able to see. You know how difficult life is when you're trying to recommend yourself to everybody? When you're trying to recommend yourself to yourself, you know what kind of neuroses and psychoses you end up developing and nervous ticks and habits? Everything is offered to you here. Freedom, put your deadly doing down and pick up Jesus Christ