Our Christmas meditation tonight is taken from Psalm eighty-nine, and I'll just read some portions from the Psalm I'll actually be touching on uh different sections of the psalm for this meditation. I'm not going to read the whole psalm to you. Please allow me to read portions of Psalm 89 and then I will pray for illumination for us. Psalm 89 is a psalm remembering the covenant with David and sorrow for lost blessings. I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever, verse 1. With my mouth will I make known your faithfulness to all generations. For I have said, Mercy shall be built up forever. Your faithfulness you shall establish in the very heavens Verse 3, I have made a covenant with my chosen. I have sworn to my servant David, your seed I will establish forever, and build up your throne to all generations. And the heavens will praise your wonders, O Lord, your faithfulness also in the assembly of the saints. God is greatly to be feared, verse 7, in the assembly of the saints, and to be held in reverence by all those around him. O Lord God of hosts, who is mighty like you, O Lord? Your faithfulness also surrounds you. You rule the raging sea. The heavens are yours. The earth is yours also. And now we move to verse 19 where he shifts his focus specifically on the king. Then you spoke in a vision to your holy one. That's the king. and said, I have given help to one who is mighty. I have exalted one chosen from the people. I have founded With my holy oil I have anointed him, with whom my hand shall be established. Also my arm shall strengthen him. The enemy shall not outwit him But by my faithfulness and my mercy shall be with him, and in my name his horn shall be exalted. I'll set his hand over the sea, his right arm over the rivers. Then he'll cry out to me, You're my Father. You're my God and you're the rock of my salvation, and I will make him my firstborn Moving to verse 30, the blessing is not only to the king, but also his sons. Even if his sons forsake God's law and do not walk in his judgments, if they break his statutes and do not keep his commandments. Then I will punish their transgressions with the rod and their iniquity with stripes. Nevertheless, my loving kindness I will not utterly take from him, nor allow my faithfulness to fail. My covenant I will not break. But in verse 38, we see the lament beginning. But you have cast off and abhorred. You have been furious with your anointed. You have renounced the covenant of your servant. You have profaned his crown by casting it to the ground. You have exalted the right hand of the adversaries. You have made all his enemies rejoice. You have also turned back the edge of his sword, and have not sustained him in battle. You have made his glory cease and cast his throne to the ground. How long, Lord, will you hide yourself forever? Lord, where are your former loving kindnesses? Will you remember, Lord, the reproach of your servants? And of course the final words of this psalm, blessed be the Lord forevermore. Amen and amen. We have a special privilege this year in that on the Lord's Day we will also be celebrating Christmas. And so I'll be focused A little bit differently than we would normally need to, because tomorrow I can focus on the purpose of the incarnation, the purpose of the nativity. Tonight, uh the focus will be just a little bit different. We'll wait till tomorrow. for for a more full sermon on the incarnation. There's a wonder, I've already begun to feel it myself, in the air tonight. There's a stillness always on Christmas Eve. I find this especially true for children. You can see what my family calls the sugar plums beginning to dance around in their heads The glimmer in their eye. But I've also been speaking with folks where this is a season of great emptiness. There is a stillness for the children, but for the more seasoned, this is a night of great emptiness. It can be a time of joy and smiles, but also a time of remembered losses. And I simply want in this meditation to encourage those who are feeling lost. I want to encourage you. I want to encourage you this Christmas Eve that behind a frowning providence, your God rests a smiling face. We see in this psalm really can be divided up into three parts providence, faithful. Providence frowning, and then it ends with God's smiling face. In verses 1 through 18, I tried to give you the sense of this general faithfulness and the providence of God for his people. The psalmist trust that God is faithful because God has said, I'm faithful. I will uphold my faithfulness. In verse 3, the psalmist recounts that God spoke and made a covenant with David. I have made a covenant with David. The psalmist trust that God is faithful due to his providential care. If you were to go over the psalm tonight, you'd see in verse 9 that he rules the raging sea, that the north and the south All of the parts of the cosmos is the point, are his creation and possession, verse 10. And in verse 14, he rules them all with perfect justice and perfect harmony. The point of the psalmist here is again his faithfulness, and so he's pointing out that God's providence in watching him do the wonders that he does. That he intends for you to give unhesitating confidence in his faithfulness. And this is especially true if you are the king of Israel. God's providential faithfulness is promised to the king after speaking about it generally, starting in verse 19, there's this vision. And he's now going to speak directly to the Holy One or the King in verses 19 through 29. The Psalm shifts from remembering a past word To past and present providences in this vision. In the vision, God speaks to the king and he reassures him of his faithfulness. In verses 19 through 20, God chooses by his own hand and by his own wisdom. He chooses the king and he anoints the king. I'm sure you can think of some stories of God choosing the runt of the litter. God's hand and power will establish the king, verse 21. If you wanted someone to establish you, who would you choose? What could be better than God establishing you? His hand, his arm. God will protect even his children and his children's children in verses 30 through 33. Even if they disobey, of course he will discipline them as a father, but he will never forget his faithfulness to them. His faithfulness in verse 33 is put succinctly, it will never fail. You can see this in the life of David or Solomon. You can see in the stories of David and Solomon how God kept these promises to those kings. But more importantly, you can see how God kept these promises to the eternal King, Jesus Christ. He's the ultimate office holder here for this psalm. Jesus our King. He's the eternal king, and you can see how he relied on his father to uphold his faithfulness in the promises God the Father anointed Jesus with the Holy Spirit, the ultimate anointing that this is referring to. God the Father announced Jesus as his Son. As his firstborn. In Colossians, you can see this. God the Father established King Jesus. In these Christmas stories that we read, God the Father is a is sending angels to protect Jesus from Herod. This is all a part of this psalm, his faithfulness, his mighty arm and his mighty hand seen in action. He establishes Jesus in wisdom as a young boy He already knows that he must only be about his father's business. And he gives him, Jesus, through the Spirit, all that he needs for his priestly, his kingly, and his prophetic office. All through his ministry you see success. But there's a strange shift in the psalm. I would encourage you to read this when you have light to see it. But beginning in verse 38, there is a strange shift in the psalm. You would expect at this point for there to be immediate praise of the continuing of recounting of the faithfulness of God, but it actually shifts and recounts the opposite What do you make of that? God providentially frowned upon the king and went so far to cast his crown to the ground. Things are so bad in the king's life that the psalmist is claiming that God despised or renounced the covenant. Now that must be bad God placed a crown on the head of Jesus, verse 39, and now God has knocked his crown off, and the crown is in the dirt. God allowed Jesus to escape the murderous crowds throughout his life, but now all those protections, like torn-down walls, verse 40, are removed. Jesus was seen as glorious and shining among his followers, and now in verse 45, he is covered with shame. Have you ever been ashamed? From the night that Judas betrayed Jesus, it seemed that the faithfulness of God the Father to his Son had ended. Jesus would read this Psalm, Psalm 89. Promising the Father's faithfulness to him to get through the day. And when he got to this section, And when you get to the section of Jesus' life where Judas betrays Jesus, he had to see the link. He had to see the link. He's struck by the high priest on the face. He is flogged. He is stripped naked. What is more shameful than that to be publicly humiliated and stripped naked? He's mocked. He is crucified. Can't you hear him saying? As a part of this psalm, will you hide your face forever, Father? I mean when did enough become enough? Will you hide your face forever from me? Will your wrath burn forever against me? My jaw is already out of socket. My flesh has been ripped from my body. What cruel games will you allow them to play with me? At his crucifixion, Jesus says something very similar to what we read in the Psalm. In this pain that he's going through, but it's from Psalm 22, and he says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Do you understand the human emotion that is present there? Do you have you ever felt like God has left you? You can see the sense of the question on why Jesus would ask it. For Psalm 89, like Psalm 22, He's rehearsing God's faithfulness, but he's honest about the times of God's frown. And here's the ultimate question that we have to answer. During a time like this, a time where we're considering our losses, we're considering the difficulties that we face and how they are highlighted and emphasized during a holiday. At this point in Jesus' life, this is my question to you, at this point in Jesus' life. Picture the pain. The sense of abandonment. Did Jesus Christ the King still believe that God was faithful When he says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Is it a statement of unfaithfulness in the Father? Did King Jesus believe that behind a frowning providence there does in fact rest a smiling face, or there's a liar? It's the ultimate question that every single person in this room faces, and you will have your holiday too, where you face that same question. Jesus Christ. believe that behind those clouds that he had to experience, there still rested the Father's smiling face. And you see this in verses 30 through 37. You can't forget that this is a part of the Psalm. He says in verse 34, the Father says, My covenant I will not break. My faithfulness will never fail. You wonder if Jesus was rehearsing these things inside of his head. While he's being crucified, if he's thinking of verse 4, if he's saying, he'd never break his covenant. He said he would never, he said he'd never leave me. He said that he would always be with me. He would always be faithful. Going back to Psalm 72 or 22, Jesus, my God, my God. My God, my God, why do you forsake me? If you notice, he still calls him his God. It's a sign of what's going on in Jesus. And in Acts 2, Peter gives a sermon incorporating Psalm 16, another messianic psalm. And Peter says, what was said in the Psalm 16 couldn't have been about David. It had to be about Jesus because David's still dead But Jesus not. He's resurrected. And the Father said, I'm always faithful. I'll never forget my covenant. I will never allow my holy one to see corruption, is the quote that Peter gives. You can imagine Jesus for a moment at the crucifixion. I see the nails piercing my hand. Have you ever had that kind of cloud over your head? I see the nails piercing my hand. I feel death taking me. Nevertheless, my God said, I will not see corruption. Can you hear him saying that in his head? He won't let me see see corruption. This in some sense is is not the reality of my of what my father is accomplishing. This is a temporary thing. Behind even these clouds rests my father's smiling face. Verse 36, he must have been saying this. My seed, my people will endure forever. My throne will be like the sun, and it will be forever like the moon. You know, I wonder if he re rehearsed those things from this psalm. That's from verse 36 and 37. It will be established forever like the moon, even like the faithful witness in the sky. It begins with a providence that's faithful. It recounts that in general, and how he wants unhesitating confidence in him as the Father. It then moves into how he will particularly be that way with the king. We know that the office was held by David. We know the office was held by Solomon. We know that the office now is held by Jesus Christ. And it will always be held by him. Those promises were to Jesus. And yet we see shifting in the psalm his crown knocked off of his head. But Jesus making sense of that not as that he can't trust the Father, but that behind these clouds his face will always remain the same, smiling at me. This whole Advent season was about remembering that God the Father has fulfilled his promise. the nativity, the birth of Jesus Christ. It is all the promises present before you. Jesus Christ is all the promises. Right there before you. He sent his son. We have lit the candles to remember what our King Jesus brings to us. Hope, peace, joy, love. And yet as Jesus has ascended and we wait for his second advent, we do not live in an illusion Our hope, your hope, is questioned. The peace that you feel living in this world of war has become tattered and frail at times. And we have mourned this year. Our love wanders for Christ because of temptations and sin that it's still a part of us. And we can say, even in Advent season, we have to be honest and we have to say, how long, Lord? How long will you hide your face from me? And we can say all those things with this psalm as we wait for Jesus' second advent, his second and final return. And I encourage you this Christmas, this Christmas Eve, to consider the faithfulness of the Father to Jesus. Have you ever thought about what's being presented here in the Psalm? No matter how difficult the holidays are becoming, if it's not a holiday just going through your life Nothing is being asked of you. God the Father is not relating to you any differently than he has his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ felt the same things that you did. And we should ask for His Holy Spirit to encourage us and to stir us up, to always remember the smiling face that is behind the clouds. He, just because you are in Jesus Christ and will be raised on the last day, you may say of yourself, I will not see corruption. I will have my day of vindication. People have shamed me, but I will one day not be ashamed. I feel pain, but one day I will have nothing but joy. Even though Providence may frown We remember this Christmas Eve that behind the clouds rests a smiling face. Here's one of my some of my favorite lyrics from a song I'm going to leave you with. If you ever want me to email them to you so you can paste them on your fridge or Mag magnetically, not with paste. These capture what this psalm asks of us very well. And I'd ask that you would be comforted, and I pray that the Holy Spirit would comfort you from these words. Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take. The clouds you so much dread are big with mercy, and they shall break in blessings on your head. Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, but would you trust him for his grace? Behind a frowning providence, he hides a smiling face Please bear with me Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for allowing us to be honest, even on a day like this, or a night like this, where there's a stillness, there's a pleasure in the air, we can think of all the joys. But we also have remembered losses. We have pain in our life. And when those things come and you have declared that you'd be faithful to us, we wonder what's happening? Why are you allowing this to happen? Would you, Holy Spirit, give us faith to always remember that He is our God? That he is our Father, that he loves us. Will you help us to see a smiling face behind the clouds? Lord, would you help us to remember that when everything looks gloomy, When everything is gray, that just above those clouds, everything is as it always is. Blue skies and sunshine. We pray, Lord, that you give us perseverance. We pray that you would allow us to keep moving in our pilgrim's progress during this season And we pray that through your Holy Spirit you would comfort us through these teachings in Psalm 89. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.