Matthew six, nine, and ten. In this manner, therefore, pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you have promised us through your Son, the Spirit. And Lord, I pray that you would strengthen us, therefore, spiritually today. I pray that you would use the words preached here and that you would move your congregation into more and more life. I especially ask O Heavenly Father, that they would know you as Father. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Last week we started to think about prayer I think prayer is a pretty popular topic. Really, whether you are a follower of Jesus Christ or Any other person, it does seem to me that people tend to be interested in talking about what is prayer We saw last week that there's something about us as human beings that can get prayer wrong Now, what are all of the ways that we could get prayer wrong? Well, one of the ways that wasn't explicitly mentioned would be we don't pray at all. That would be one way that you could get prayer wrong. But Jesus was focusing on his audience at the time, a group of people that tended to identify themselves as especially religious Whether you were Jewish or whether you were Roman or Greek or whatever it was, you are, it would be very rare to not be a part of some kind of religious tradition. So he focused on what are some of the ways that we can go wrong within that bubble of things. So he helped us to see one of the main problems that can happen with us as human beings is that we can be hypocrites with our prayer We can use our prayers not to continue in a healthy relationship with our God and Father. But instead, we use it really to benefit only ourselves. We are using prayer in order to increase within our status As some kind of persona to give impressions to other people so that they look at us a certain way. However, we're using it, prayer is meant to be a personal request to God and a relationship with Him. And it looks like that on the outside when you pray as a hypocrite. But on the inside, those aren't the reasons why you're doing it. In fact, you don't really put much stock in God at all. You don't think much of him, and you don't think he's very reliable. So you've decided to use prayer for something else. Well, that's how the story could go, especially with hypocrites. The second thing that Jesus brought up within his teaching was babbling. That we can enter into prayer where we think that we could have some kind of influence on God if we just enter into a constant repetition. And what I was trying to say to you last week is I wanted to look at the heart behind that. The heart behind that was that you can't talk to him like you would talk to a regular father. You have to sit there and beg and plead in meaningless repetitions to try to pry good out of him like he doesn't want to do good already. Well, that's a really dangerous spot to be in terms of relating to him. That really brought us to the end of the sermon last week where we learned that what Jesus is revealing here, not getting lost in the weeds which we can sometimes do, is he's revealing to us that a prayer problem is a relationship problem. And I'll submit to you that that is why he keeps, one of the reasons why he keeps using the word father. You'll notice last week he used the word father twice. Now he does that on purpose. He could have chosen any other name or any other title of God at this point, but he chooses Father. And he does that for a reason, because I think he's really trying to focus on helping you with your relationship with him, and then the prayer starts to take care of itself, to tell you the truth. Now, before we start in on our passage this week, I just want to ask you, did you find yourself thinking about your relationship with God this past week, especially as you started to enter into prayer? I want you to be encouraged by that because that's the Holy Spirit working in you. That's the Holy Spirit working in you. And he wants you to really think about these passages. The Lord's Prayer is extremely popular for a reason. You should be thinking about this prayer all the time. And so what we're going to do is we're going to slow down a little bit and look at some of the details, as opposed to speeding through all of the six petitions. We're going to do it in two halves. This morning we're going to look at the first half of the Lord's Prayer. And then next week, Lord willing, we'll look at the second half of the Lord's Prayer. And that'll allow us to dwell on a little bit. But I'll tell you this right now You really should be thinking about this prayer every time you pray. And go ahead and just ask yourself, what does this reveal to me about my relationship with God? and about who I am and my relationship with other people. God, self, and others. What does it reveal? As you keep entering into this kind of prayer, what does it reveal? I'm telling you, I have been doing that all this past week with a special emphasis because I'm preaching this and it has been extremely beneficial. I've been very, very surprised. I have found myself going off thinking I'm going to do some endeavor and then starting to pray to God and then saying Well, I have no idea if this is for your glory or not. I'm just going to sit back down on the couch. I've got to think for a second. I don't know what's going on here. Why what what is happening There's all kinds of great fruit that is coming from just bringing up this prayer all the time. Okay, so what we're going to do here this morning is look at the first part of the the uh Lord's Prayer. We're gonna look at it under three main points The manner of prayer, the person of prayer, and the two desires of prayer. It's really the two desires of prayer For this week, we'll have a couple more desires next week. But we have the manner of prayer, the person of prayer, and the two desires of prayer. And so I'm sure you already noticed this, but I just wanted to start pointing out by pointing out that at the last part of verse number eight, that's that second part of for your father knows. And he had already said Father in verse number six. Well, take a look at how the prayer begins. Father. So my argument to you is that he's still very concerned about your relationship with him. And in order to get at that, he is going to start off with verse number nine pointing out the manner in which we should pray So how should I pray? Well, he's going to show you what this is supposed to look like in the manner of prayer. It says, in this manner, therefore, pray. Now that's significant, isn't it? He doesn't say in these exact words, always pray. In fact, if you were to do that and your prayers were nothing but our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, if you the only thing that you ever prayed, what have you fallen into? The vain repetitions. If you were to look across the church's understanding of this passage throughout the longest time ever since this teaching was given to us, you would find them saying, no, we don't need to continually repeat these words. We can do that if we want to read Scripture out loud and repeat the words of Scripture. But the point of him saying here in this manner, it means that he's giving you a model. You don't need to follow all of the words, but you do need to follow the purposes and the spirit of what is going on here within this prayer. You need to follow the manner of the prayer So if you wanted to, you could begin to think of it like this. Now there's a little bit of confusion still left with prayer, so let me just add this. Prayer, if you were to look at the history of Christian writing, was often referred to, especially the Lord's Prayer, is that you are petitioning God. That you are setting before him your desires, at the very least, and that is a petition. In fact, if you were to look at some of the catechisms and the confessions that are a part of the world of the church You're going to find that the Lord's Prayer is divided into six preface and six petitions. We're not going to do it exactly that way. We're going to make it a little bit simpler. But it's petitions. Now, what is a petition? I know that you have heard that word before, but it usually has to do with protesting something or trying to keep big government from doing something or Something or something you want to stop, you petition people to stop that. For example, you could write, if you wanted, you could write a formal request To some um institution that they change such and such, and it would be a petition to them to do so And you could have other people put their name on the letter to show that there's strong community support, and you would say to your friends, yes, my name is on the petition. I recently saw, I don't know how familiar you all are with Saverna Park, but on Route 2, as you're heading towards Annapolis and you just pass College Parkway, On the left hand side is a putt putt, a driving range, and a three-part course. There was some kind of publication that they are going to sell all of that land and build townhomes that a developer wanted to grab it and do that and change the whole infrastructure. So what do you think began to be formed but a petition? And this was led by one of uh local officials, didn't want to see this happen, so she sent out um a message saying anyone who is interested in this, we need your support because we're going to petition them that this area can't be developed, but that it would be used for something else Now that's what petition means, and your brothers and sisters throughout the long Christian past, when they would say that they are praying to God, they're saying, we are petitioning him. And I think that does a lot of good for us to understand that it is a kind of formal request that we're laying before God. It is a formal request that we are laying before God, but we don't have to give the formal request in the explicit words of the Lord's Prayer only. We simply use it as a kind of template or model or form by which you would put together a petition. So we'll get into this next week, but if you're asking for the Lord to give you your daily bread and it has nothing to do with his kingdom. or hallowing his name, but it's the direct opposite, and it's building up the kingdom of Satan. Well guess what? You shouldn't be praying like that. That's his whole point. He's pointing pointing you to here that this manner of prayer is like a formal written request or petition, and this is the kind of template that you should be following as you request things from him. Who is your God? Now that is the manner of prayer, and I hope that you can understand the manner by first understanding that this is a form. You don't just repeat these things. You don't have to. You can use some of the language if you want. But you don't just vainly repeat it. And then number two, that a prayer is a is best understood as a petition, a formal request to your God. Now, that's the first point. The second point That's from verse number nine. We can continue now in verse number nine and we can see, well, who is the person that is receiving our petition? Who is the person of prayer? And it says, in this manner, therefore pray. And Jesus starts off, and the answer to that question is, our Father. Well, boy, does that make it easier. Imagine if you wanted to stop land development from the putt-putt and becoming townhomes, and the person who had to make that decision was your father. Petitioning your father, or petitioning your mother, or petitioning your family. He begins off by saying that it is our father. Now there are different senses in which we in our culture will take God as father. Sometimes when people say That God is Father, they mean it more in the sense of He has created everybody. That He is the Father of the earth. You'll read in some late 1800s and early 1900s. In some of the hymns, it'll talk about the father of the world in that way. That's one sense. But here what he's referring to, because he's referring, he's speaking to his disciples, is this is father to those who are united to Jesus Christ. And one of the benefits of being united to Jesus Christ is that you are adopted into God's family. Though you be a foreigner And though the covenants and the promises did not used to be yours, though you were living in futility and without hope and without God, all as Colossians and Ephesians says, because of Jesus Christ and his work, you are now adopted and you beha have become adopted. You have received his inheritance and become the people of God. I am your God and you are my people, and we can rightly call him Father in that specific sense. Now, like I said in the beginning, the reason why Jesus is saying these things is so that we could work on the relationship. See, this is what I'm saying, is that when you go into that petition, We don't we can use certain words, but we can also detect that there's a certain spirit inside of us that would have chosen different words. if we were more disrespectful. Let me explain to you what I mean. You could start off your prayer and you could say, oh God, would you please help me in my medical condition? And if we were to look at what your heart really said, it would be, oh ethereal one who never really does anything for me, I don't really have any other option. So I'm just gonna shoot this prayer up to you, and maybe something will happen, like I flip a coin. That can be a part of us. And Jesus is well aware of that. He knows what dwells within our hearts. And I think the purpose that Jesus has here is to help you with your relationship. with God. And so he starts off with the word father, number one, so that you would understand that he is ready to help you as his child. He doesn't want you to stay away from him. He wants you to go to him. Now we have a really long history of staying away from God. And there are things that pile up all week long. That whisper in our ears or say pretty loudly, you don't really need to have anything to do with Him. You don't need to get close to Him. There's even something boring inside of us that doesn't like God. We were born at enmity with him, and there's something of that that remains. So Jesus, knowing all of this, is bringing this to you and saying, listen. He looks at you like a good father would look at his child, and he doesn't want his children staying away from him. Would you draw near? He wants to help you. Now here's the thing though, and this is why it's so important, and this happened to me this last week. When you now you adopt it, you say, okay, I'm going to start using Father in prayer. Father, would you help me with this medical condition? And then nothing happens with the medical condition. You know what rises in the mind? Not a very good father. Father didn't do anything again. This is why I don't call you father. Because I really don't think of you that way. And we're going to get into that in just a moment. But that begins. That's what I told you in the very beginning. When that kind of stuff comes up, now we get the opportunity He's revealing to you. Jesus is very insightful here. He's revealing to you your relationship between you and God. And we now need to get with other people and we need to start working on that. God wants you to work through that so that there's the obstacle is removed and you can draw near again. He wants you to stay close to him even when your prayers seem like they're unanswered He wants you to remain close to him when times are difficult and things don't seem to go your way. When things don't go your way even at the highest level, he wants you at the end of the day to still say, He's such a great father. And that will be an exercise of faith. All of that comes out here with just this first point that he wants you to come to him as his child. He never changes that That never changes no matter how you read experience. The father never changes from loving you as his child Now the second thing that is said here within this portion of the Father, his fatherly love toward us, is that it is our Father who is in heaven. In verse number 9, it's still the same thing. Our Father who is in heaven. Now, I think the reason why he puts that is not only Does he want to help you? Does he want you to come to him? But here's the thing. Not only is he ready to help you, he can help you. The whole point of him being talked about as in heaven, as if you look at other scriptures, for example, 115 of Psalm 115, verse 3, but our God is in heaven, he does whatever he pleases. That's a thumb. He does whatever he wants to do. So I can go to him because he's ready to hear me because I'm his child, and I can go to him because he can do whatever he pleases. He has the power to affect things. He has the power to affect things and now what's keeping me from bringing my petition to him? He loves to hear from me. Zephaniah says he sings over me. He loves me that much. He loved me so much that he sent his only begotten son. In order for us to not remain apart, the temple veil was ripped, which is the flesh of Jesus Christ according to Hebrews, and now I may enter the throne boldly. That's all language of I get to move close to my Father. So what would be keeping me out of the petition? Well, maybe he can't accomplish what he said he well that's not true either. He does whatever he wants. There is no power greater than his And that's how Jesus starts us off here with verse number nine, our Father who is in heaven. And that's the person of prayer. Boy, is that so important for you to remember. throughout the rest of this week and the rest of your life. God wants you to go to Him as a child when you use the word father, which I encourage you to do. That's what you should be remember. Remembering he wants us to know that he has the power to help, because he's, and that is reflected by in heaven, he is ready to help you, he is able to help you. Amen. Now we have one more point. And this point we've now moved into the two desires of prayer. So we have the manner of prayer. The person of prayer is our Father who is in heaven. And now the two desires of prayer. Now the way that I'm viewing this entire prayer, I was really surprised to see from the longest time ago that not only was this prayer divided into a preface in six parts. but also two parts. Over and over again I keep reading that the part that we're looking at today corresponds to the first part of the Ten Commandments. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind. And then the second part, which we'll get to next week, is and your neighbor as yourself, which has to do with give me this day, give us, not me. Give us this day our daily bread. And that goes into loving neighbor with the with all of the rest. So this first part here, we are focused on the love of God. And Jesus therefore is encouraging us, now that we understand that He is our Father, what it took in order to reconcile us as His sons and as His daughters through the death life and resurrection and ascension of Jesus Christ, we now get to move toward Him as His children and express our desires in the way that Jesus says that we should. And the first desire is this in verse number 9. is, hallowed be your name. Now, I looked at that in the grammar, and that's an imperative. That's a command. May your name be hallowed. Or let it be hallowed. It's in a third person, so let it be hallowed in the same way, let there be light, that kind of idea. Let it be hallowed. And now we get to have a shorter sermon this morning because Jeremiah defined hallowed for us. Thank you, Jeremiah. We're a good team, buddy. The the the and the the language here is exactly like what Jeremiah has said. Hallowed means to be set apart or holy. The question that you can begin to ask is, okay, well set apart how? How do we how do we want, or how is it that when we write this petition, if you wrote a petition saying we don't want townhomes, there shall not be townhomes, let there not be townhomes. Right? That would be in the same grammatical form that we see this. Here we're writing the petition and we're saying, let your name be hallowed or set apart. Okay, well what does that mean though for it to be set apart? What do we want to see? What's the vision that we have? Well here on earth. Well, in Matthew 5, 16, which we already looked at, that gives us a major clue. And all of this teaching that Jesus is giving us flows from that. Matthew 5. 16 gives us an answer on, well, what does it look like to hallow his name? It says Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. You could restate that and you could say, let them see your good works and hallow the name of your Father who is in heaven. You could say something along those lines. And you can see that this is a declaration that the witness of God's people contributes to the revelation of who God is. And when God see, when people see who God really is, they celebrate because he's so good. That's the whole idea. So you have you would have, by saying, Our Father who who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, what you want to see on the earth is that when people think Of the triune God, they think there's no one better. There is no one more wise. There is no one more benevolent. There is no one more loving. There is no one more kind. There is no one more trustworthy. And you know what would happen if people really thought that way? Bigger worship services. Because they'd all be praising his name. That's what you want to see. You want to see his name hallowed in that way. That there would be one author wrote that that throughout the world, your petition Instead of on land development, is this. Throughout the world, Father, I want every person, young and old, to acknowledge your wisdom and your goodness and your righteousness and your power. and all of the other good ways that you've revealed yourself. I want them to acknowledge that. Hallowed be your name. Now, do you see how that starts to work when we move in that direction and the prayer begins there? You see how the prayer is starting to build on itself Where earlier, when we were talking about him being our father, and then he doesn't fulfill our expectations like we think that he should, we immediately would start to move over into profane thoughts of him. And here Jesus is double layering it and he's saying, whoa, whoa, whoa, we've got to be super careful here. If you yourself don't believe that God is good, because of the misinterpretation of your experiences then you're never really going to petition him with any kind of meaning that there would be a vision in the world for all people to see that he's good because you yourself don't believe that he's good. That's really where this whole thing begins in your relationship with him. Is that you see his wisdom, you see his power, you see his loveliness, and you would like others to see it and for it to spread across the land. The first petition, when we start to get our heart, when the Holy Spirit starts to change our heart to where we can start to say that first petition, that second petition is going to start coming out of us. Where, whoa, wait a second, this God is good. I want other people to know him. So now I'm going to pray, Lord, not just for me, but would you show the whole world The holiness of your name, how you're different than anybody. We're used to relying on people that are untrustworthy and have tricks up their sleeves. Everything's political. Oh, but not you. Finally, a fresh breath of fresh air. I want everybody to know this. Now I'm starting to pray the Lord's Prayer just right there. Even though I didn't use the same words. So that's the first desire that we would have here, and that is, I want the world to see how glorious God is. And you'll remember from your catechism that God reveals his glory in his wisdom, his power, his holiness, his justice, his goodness, and his truth. And it's truth. Can you imagine what would happen to the world if people just believe that God told the truth? What would happen if people believed that this was true? You see what we're getting at? That's a good vision. And that happens by them hallowing his name. They ultimately are not convinced that he is true because of manuscript evidence. They are convinced he's true because he spoke it. And that's what the Holy Spirit does in a person's heart. The Holy Spirit can lead people to manuscript evidence and scrolls. But ultimately, what the Holy Spirit does is convinces you, God said it, and He's trustworthy, therefore I accept it as true. That's all that I need. For my Bible told me so. Which is God's Word. Okay, now that's the very first desire that we see there that is given to us. When you and I and others believe that, then we begin to move even further and we want to see his ways done. We want to see his name hallowed in the establishment of his kingdom and of his will. This isn't just theoretical, this isn't ethereal, it's not just the spiritual world. We actually want to see what uh we want to see this In physical earthly form. And that takes us into the second desire, which is your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Again, this is a further petition that is given by us as God's people. Now, let me start this portion off by just saying that we have a problem. And that's why we need to state this desire continually that his kingdom would come and his will would be done on earth as it is in heaven. And the problem is this. Is that there is a kingdom that is also present that once does not want the kingdom of God to be established. And that kingdom, according to Revelation, shows up in all different kinds of forms The kingdom of Satan shows up in the kingdom of Persia, it shows up in the kingdom of Greece, it shows up as the kingdom of Rome, it shows up in the kingdom of the United States of America or China or whatever it is It manifests itself as a kind of world system that is definitely not seeking to promote the glory of God. If there is any talk of the promotion of the glory of God, it is an instrument used in order to promote its own glory and influence. That's how those world systems work. And that is the problem that we have. One ancient author wrote, such is the corruption of our human nature that all of our affections, forget the nations, talk about inside of us. All of our affections and our thoughts are like so many soldiers of Satan rising up and opposing the justice of God, trying to obstruct and disturb his reign. Think about that. Think about the war that wages within you. Somebody brings to you a very clear scriptural truth so that the kingdom of God can be established within your heart and within your home, and you become venomous and enraged and you come up with a thousand justifications for why you don't need to submit to that. Where'd that come from? That's what that ancient author is referring to, is that even within our own affections and our thoughts, they turn into little soldiers of Satan, rising up with their arms against God and his kingdom. That's the problem that we have, and so we have to go in with petition. Asking God to overcome the problem. Please, our Heavenly Father, for your namesake, please do not allow the kingdom of Satan to prevail in my heart. in my home, in my congregation, in my county, in my state, in my nation, and throughout the world. That's the desire that is here within this prayer. And so instead of that negative view, Jesus brings to us We want his kingdom and his will to be done. Now, to put this simply, I think what Jesus wants us to do more here is to dream. I think he wants us to start having higher aspirations He wants you to start to catch from his word a vision of what he intends to do with his creation, and that you would start petitioning him to bring it, starting now. So for example, I don't know how you've taken the last three weeks we've really been focused on Revelation chapter 21, verse 4. Brad preached on it. I mentioned it in the evening service, and here it is again. It says this. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. Now that's the ultimate vision. That's where all of history is headed in that direction. So what you get to do in your petitions is you get to ask the question. Lord, how can some of that show up today in my life and in the life of my home and with my friends and in my workplace? And even within my nation. How can that start to show up today? How is it that we could have less tears today? Well, you might have an answer to that. I bet you you do. And you'll bring that to him and you'll say, your kingdom come in this specific way, and your will be done in this specific way. Which is totally in line and possessed by the same spirit that we see in Revelation 21 verse 4. Although it's starting to happen right now. A little piece of heaven starts to show up on earth. Let me ask you in Revelation 21. 4, I don't hear anybody in there interrupting the proclamation of John because they have an outburst of wrath and anger. But maybe that's a real struggle within your home or in particular relationships. Your kingdom come, your will be done. Let's get this anger out of here. That's the prayer. Oh Father, would you please help? Would you bring your kingdom in my own heart that I would have patience and I would be quick to listen and slow to speak? I'm always putting my foot in it. That would be an example of your kingdom come, your will be done. And you can see there that we want to dream a little bit. We want to have that sanctified vision that we want heaven to come to earth Now, you know, this is when it says your kingdom come and your will be done, I think the ultimate ideal here, we've got to be really careful and define kingdom. One of the ways in which his kingdom will come, which is legitimate, is when we see Romans chapter 13. Where when things start to get out of hand, God has given the government the authority of the sword in order to keep a cap on the possibility of sin within the world. So if you start to become a murderous people, God has given the authority to the to a certain group of people to dissuade you from being murderous and they can use coercive force. In a sort of way, the kingdom has come The kingdom has come. But when Jesus is calling you to pray this prayer, you can pray that part of it. But the other sense I think is more ideal and prevalent as to what's going on. And that is That you would not have to incarcerate people and force them to do anything, but that they would be persuaded by the preaching of the word and the power of the Holy Spirit to voluntarily submit their lives to Jesus Christ. That is what we're looking for. And that's why I'm up here preaching without a sword. I have the sword of the Spirit, but not a real one. Because this is how the kingdom is to proceed. In this second way that I'm talking about, I understand that there's other senses. One author wrote, This is done partly by the preaching of the word and partly by the secret power of the Spirit. It is God's will to govern men or humans by his word. But as the bare voice, if the inward power of the Spirit is not added, if it doesn't pierce the heart, then is no good. Both the Spirit and the Word have to be joined together in order that the kingdom of God may be established. And I'm talking about the fuller sense of that kingdom. We therefore pray that God would exert his power, both by the word and by the Spirit, that the whole world may willingly submit to him. That is the idea. And that is what we are praying for in this second desire. Your kingdom come in that way, Lord. Your will be done in that way. Now what convinces me of it that it should be that way? Do you see anything in verse 10 that that's really what's on Jesus' mind and not just a bare coercion, though there is legitimacy to that in certain cases? Because it's supposed to be done on earth as it is in heaven And you'll, if you take a look at your catechisms or your confessions, you'll you'll see that they follow up, that we would become obedient as the angels are in heaven. They end up using the angels as an example to where there's not a kind of coercion going on with these angels. That when God says, go as my messengers, they don't say Well, I mean, could I just have 15 more minutes? Or you sent me last time. That's not what happens. They just, as they're ministers, they go As angels, they go. They can't wait to go. That's what they do. Now, you can see why I have decided to just do a couple verses at a time. And not try to pull off all six petitions. I don't have the mastery or skill to do that one. You can see here that Jesus is giving us a lot already, though we've only covered half of it. He has shown us not the specific words that you need to say every single time, though you can draw from his language. But he's showing you the manner in which you should pray. And I hope you're really starting to get a taste of that and how it contributes to your relationship with him. Number two, not only does he give you the manner of prayer, but he showed you to whom you are praying. To whom you are giving petitions. He wants you to come to him as your father, as a follower of Jesus Christ. And he wants you to know that he's your Father who is in heaven, which means he's not only ready, he's able. And then number three, we started to get into some of the desires that we want to see for in our petitions. We want to see his name hallowed across the whole world. We want to see his kingdom come and for his will to be done. And we want it to the full effect. We want to see that voluntary submission on earth as it is in heaven. So a lot of valuable things here that Jesus is giving us just in the beginning of this prayer. Prayer begins and continues, I hope that you can begin to see more and more with relationship. I encourage you to start praying this way this week. Pray in this manner. Pray in this manner. Don't jump to just give me today what I need. Start at the beginning. And you may find, you'll probably will find, the things you think you need, you're really trying to cover up a hole that can only be filled by God Himself. Pay attention to what the Spirit shows you about you and your relationship with Him and about who you are as a person and the kind of salvation that you need from Jesus Christ. What does it show you about how you think about God? What does it show you about who you are yourself? We have been estranged from our Father and Jesus Christ here, even in this teaching, because he is full of grace and truth, is seeking to help you as his disciples. to restore your relationship with your Heavenly Father. It is the most important thing you could ever do in your life. And I, my friends, my brothers and my sisters, I will be praying for you this week. In this form and in this manner. And I'd ask that you would please pray for me. Let us pray now.