Bulletin. It's a single verse. 29 verse 18. It is a single verse, but we'll benefit from some of the surrounding verses once we get into the sermon. Proverbs 29, 18. Where there is no revelation, the people cast off restraint. But happy is he who keeps the law. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, without you, we will have ears that cannot hear and eyes that cannot see. We pray therefore that by your Holy Spirit you would illuminate our minds and our hearts by the preaching of your word. I pray that you would bless your congregation. In Jesus Christ's name. I'm going to come back to this question in a little bit. And children back there, you can even think about this question too. What do you think is the is the best gift that you could give your one of your friends You can tell me at the spaghetti dinner afterward what gift you would choose. Is it like a Pokemon card or what what would it be? Yeah, you think so? Yeah Yeah, yeah. Well just think about it a little bit and think about what is the best gift that you could be that you could give and see if you hear what gift I think is a great gift to give. You can see the proverb in front of you. It's just a single line, and that actually is discussing for us the gift that is in that is focused on here within the scriptures as a as a superordinate or ultimate gift. for a community to have. But before I get there, let's just step through uh some of the pieces of this proverb. You know, proverbs are are are like um hard candy. Anybody here ever enjoy like a gobstopper? uh or an atomic fireball. I remember when I was younger and I tried to enjoy a gobstopper. Am I like dating myself by saying gobstopper? Are there still no? Okay And or an atomic fireball. I remember first just trying to really get into it and I think I've cracked a tooth. And that's not the way. You really have to take your time with it and let it break down. And it's the same thing with the proverbs. We've got to look at each of the pro pieces and slowly let it melt out to where you can enjoy the whole thing. And that's exactly what's going on here with verse number eighteen. So step with me in these different these different words. For example, in verse number eighteen The proverbist begins by saying where there is no revelation. Now it's important for you to note that there's a lot of debate over this word here, but basically revelation is often used for Each of the prophets throughout the scriptures, but one that maybe you'll remember is from 1 Samuel chapter 3. It says, Now the boy Samuel ministered to the Lord before Eli. And the word of the Lord was rare in those days. There was no widespread revelation. Same word. And then if you go on to read in that book of 1 Samuel, we'll see the kind of revelation that was revealed to Samuel. Listen to this. This is from 1 Samuel 3, 11 through 13, and all it is is just a specific example of what a revelation is. I'm trying to get you to see what a revelation is. Then the Lord said to Samuel, Behold, I will do something in Israel, at which both ears of everyone who hears it will tingle. In that day I will perform against Eli all that I have spoken. Many of you remember that story of Eli and his sons. But here, my only point is to just point out that Samuel has received a revelation or the prophetic vision. Now there are many other prophets who are given access to the counsels of God of what he's going to do right there at that time. time period or what God will do in other time periods or where God is headed with everything in the world. Those are some of the things that we see for example in Daniel. Daniel's given access to the counsels of God. The Apostle John in the book of Revelation, that everybody is so fascinated with, that's access to the divine counsels as to where things are headed. You think of Moses as a great prophet receiving revelation where he Where it says that other prophets receive in a vision, same word, or a dream, but Moses receives face to face. Again, he receives Is a kind of revelation. And that's where we start off here in the proverb is that revelation in verse number 18, where there is no revelation. Now he goes on, and the proverbus points out a problem. that happens. The Proverbist points out that those who don't have the prophetic vision cast off restraint. Now what What does that mean? If you don't have the prophets, if you don't have the prophets and the apostles really, how what do we mean when we say we cast off restraint? Well cast off and restraint, I think uh we can gain a lot of insight by just looking at the verses around the proverb. These proverbs are set together in collections. I've talked to you about that before and I don't want to bore you again. But these are stitched together in certain collections. And so if we look at verse 15 and we look at verse 17, we can get some sense of what he's trying to get at when we talk about if you're missing the prophet. Take a look at fifteen with me, for example. You'll see that these are what are called rearing proverbs. It's like uh how how are you going to rear or raise up your children to where they are Responsible, living for God. In verse number 15, you can see one of the clues is that the rod and rebuke give wisdom. But a child left to himself brings shame to his mother. Now I bet you you have personal experiences with that, where uh those who are left to themselves can become ashamed to their mother. And someone needs to step in and help to discipline the child and to give them some structure. Well, my point in bringing up verse number 15 is just to say that the rod and rebuke are giving a kind of wisdom and discipline that a child who's left to themselves usually does not have. The child who was left to themselves would be what the proverb here in this verse, in verse number 18, calls no restraint. Sometimes I hear parents silently talk about children that aren't their own, and they'll say, man, they've really let that kid run wild. Anybody ever heard that? That really let that kid run wild. And that's us that's the same sense here in verse number 15 of casting off restraint. Without the prophets and the apostles. or that divine instruction, then there is a casting off of strain. You can see it again also in 17, it's still a rearing proverb. Correct your son and he will give you rest. That corresponds very well in 18 With the idea of happiness of the one who keeps the law. Correct your son, and he will give you rest. Yes, he will give delight to your soul. This is anathetical or opposite to what we see in casting off restraint. So where there is no revelation from the apostles or the prophets, then what you have are people that go wild. People who cast off restraint. Now the proverbist gives a parallel. There's two lines here in the proverb. The first line is showing you the problem that people can run into, but then there is a line that shows the solution. Instead of those who are running wild, there are those who are blessed. In the next line. And instead of those who have no revelation, there are those who keep the law. It's not just here the law, but it's those who have dis who have by the grace of God put themselves under that law. Law here is instruction in righteousness primarily. primarily and specifically being able to navigate and dominate your life in the correct sense of that word. Be able to exercise dominion in each one of your situations by way of knowing instructions in righteousness from the prophets and the apostles. So when you put all of these different things together, there's a nice little lesson. I I wanted to go through the details because it's important for me for you to see what God's Word says. But if you wanted to just summarize the message here in Proverbs 29. It's this. People are only truly happy when they earnestly and willingly sit themselves under the Word of God. We're only really happy if we submit to the Word of God. Let me just ask you, do you believe that? That we're only really happy in the biblical sense of that word when we're under the Word of God. Now I want you to to uh take a moment and I want you to think of terrible things. This is what I want to do is I want to try to prove that to you that we're only really happy when we I want you to think about when do human beings consider themselves in dire situations and unhappy? What would be taken away from them? What could be some of the worst things that would be taken away and they would consider themselves the unhappiest? Let me, for example, say if I took all of your food away. If there was a famine, do human beings suffer and consider themselves in an unhappy condition What about water? What if I took away food and water? And you would consider yourself an unhappy situation. Now knowing that, knowing the basic needs of humanity, I just want you to listen to the prophet Amos. When he sets up in a hierarchy, what's the worst famine that a group of people could encounter? And he's going to say the worst famine is not when you lack food. And the worst famine is not when you lack water. The worst famine is when you don't have God's revelation. It says in Amos chapter 8, 11 through 12, Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, that I will send a famine on the land. But it will not be a famine of bread. And it will not be a famine of water. It will be a famine of hearing the words of the Lord. They shall wander from sea to sea and from north to east They shall run to and fro seeking the word of the Lord, but they will not find it. You can see here Amos is setting up in this hierarchy That the worst thing that could happen is not the the food and it of the famine of food and not the famine of water. It's when he takes his words away from a group of people. Can you think of any other scriptures where that would be the case? Where the way that God sees this is that you know what's worse than him taking food away from you is him taking his voice away from you. Can you think of Did anyone else think that? In Romans 1, this continues our argument that We're happiest when we're under the Word of God, and unhappy is when the Word of God is removed. In Romans one twenty-four through thirty-two, it says this. This is a r really familiar verse Therefore God also gave them up to uncleanness and the lust of their hearts to dishonor their bodies among themselves. Who exchanged the truth of God for the lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator who is blessed forever. Amen. For this reason, God gave them up to vile passions, for even their women exchanged the natural use for what is against nature. Likewise also the men leaving the natural use of the woman burned in their lust for one another, men with men committing what is shameful, and receiving in themselves the penalty of the error which was due. And then listen to this in verse 28. He's already said this earlier, I didn't point it out, but in verse 28, he'll revisit a theme. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge. You see, the word of God that has been given to them, they're pushing it away and they're suppressing the truth and unrighteousness. And it says that they did not retain God in their knowledge, and therefore One of the worst things happened to them. God gave them over to a debased mind to do things which are And if you keep reading you'll see that uh that's brought up uh it's it's brought up some more that one of the worst kinds of judgment is not the famine of food or the famine of water, but it is the famine of the word of God and not being under it. Not having revelation leads to chaos, anarchy, and disorder, and running wild. you can see there in Romans 1, they're running really wild. What do you think uh Jesus says about this directly? I find it really interesting to see that when Jesus wants to bless people, He could bless them with whatever he wants. But listen to this in Mark chapter 6, verse 34. Look at what he considers to be really precious to give to people. And Jesus, when he came out, I read this to you last week in the morning sermon. When he came out, he saw a great multitude and was moved with compassion for them. You remember this? Because they were like sheep not having a shepherd. So then what's the what's the first act of compassion and love he could have towards these people? It wasn't food and water. The next verse is, so he began to teach them many things. One of the greatest gifts that he could give is for them to no longer have a drought of the Word of God and godly teaching. but instead step forward and proclaim the word as to what God's plan is in the world for them, that they might be able to go forward in blessedness. You know, I think this is important for us to be able to hear this argument that that we are humanity is happiest when under God's God's word when given access and appreciation for divine revelation. It's really important be for us because I think that a lot of the times when we Move out toward the nations as we've been talking about in the morning. Giving the gift of God's word isn't the first gift that comes to our mind on how to bless the nations. You know, I started off with the children asking them, what would be the greatest gift that we could give? After this argument The greatest gift we could give to the nations actually would be the divine counsels that have been enscripturated to us, so that they would no longer be foreigners and strangers. to who God is and what he's doing. I wonder if that was your first thought. I wonder if it's it was something else. Maybe you thought the best thing that we could offer people People are job programs. Best thing that we could offer people are uh is a college education or training in the trades. All of those things are good, but when we look across the scripture There's a priority that is given that when God really wants to show his love to people, he gives them his word. He reveals himself to them in the scriptures. And he reveals even themselves to themselves by way of the scriptures. In Ephesians 2, 11 through 13, we can see a dismal state of humanity. Therefore, remember that you, once Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision by what is called circumcision, made in the flesh by hands. That at that time you were without Christ. Now listen to what it means to be without Christ. You were aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenants of promise. You know where you would find the promises? God's revelation. They were strangers. That was what part of their dismal state of they were strangers from what God had revealed in His Word. And part of the great joy that Paul has in this same set of chapter in this same chapter is to get to verse number 13 and say, but now in Christ Jesus You who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Jesus Christ. So you get to ask yourself, as you're thinking about the Great Commission, what would it mean for you to bring people near to Christ? Certainly it would be your hospitality, certainly it would be your kindness, your sharing of your wisdom. But you can see in the scriptures that there is a priority that if you want to bring people close to Christ, that they would no longer be strangers to life, then you would bring them close to God's word. I'll just conclude by saying this. This morning I told you again, I don't know how many times I'm going to tell the story, but it is my story. So what are you gonna do? I told you the story of when I had gone into the rehabilitation center and when the intake officer brought me into his office He unlocked the bottom drawer, and then he pulled out a Bible, put it on his desk, and he shared with me what the preacher of righteousness named Noah had said. That's the way the New Testament talks about Noah. He was a preacher. Let me just ask you as a way to just put a final point here on what the Proverbist is getting at with you. How different would it have been if instead he pulled out a folder that had a listing of job opportunities? Or college applications. Or a GED program. None of those things are bad. But isn't it true that the most precious thing he could have given to me in that hour was to open up the Word of God and to reveal to me the divine counsels? about judgment and about salvation and about repentance and about what it means to be a man and to live a good life Yeah, that's what the proverb is proverbus is after here. People are only truly happy when they earnestly and willingly subordinate themselves to the Word of God. And since we want to bless the nations under Christ, let us give them God's word. Let us pray.