But you, beloved, building yourselves up on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. And on some, have compassion, making a distinction. But others saved with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garment defiled by the flesh. Let us pray. Lord Christ, there are libraries of wisdom in this verse. I pray that you would have mercy on us and give us some. At least some, and please, not just for our minds, for our hearts and life. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Well you can see we're getting to the end here. We have after tonight just the doxology. From the beginning of this series on Jude, we have noticed that this letter was and still is a call from Jude. To Christians to contend earnestly for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. You can see right on the front of your bulletin, fight for the faith. It's the same idea. We pulled that idea from the beginning part of Jude's letter. Well, what we've learned over time are many things. But we can say this, to stand any chance of living up to Jude's exhortation to contend for the faith. We must remember the words of the apostles' warning, where they warn us that mockers will give us trouble in these evil days. We listed four ways in the last sermon or the last two sermons. We listed four ways where we must conduct ourselves to contend for the faith in these evil times. And Christ works through these ways to preserve us. He works through many ways to preserve us. But he at least works in these ways too. And the first, if you remember, was seen there in verse 20, but you beloved, building yourselves up on your most holy faith. The second, then, was praying in the Holy Spirit. The third, keep yourselves in the love of God. And the fourth, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life Well this week we add another exhortation, which is summarized under this one participle which I'm taking as a with the force of a command, and it is make Now I want to make a few observations here so that we can look more closely at verses 22 and 23. You can see have compassion is a command. I'm saying making a distinction goes along with that command. Save with fear is a command. But I'm really seeing the heart of this as making a distinction. And the others are the distinctions that he's making. And so let's make a few observations. Observation number one. You can see the distinction present in verses 22 through 23. Remember, this is a the situation is there are false teachers who have misarranged the mosaic of faith. And Judas writing to this group to resist them and to persevere. And so what he's saying here is that on some of the false teachers, the church should have compassion or show pity. On others of the false teachers, the church should save or seek to bring them out of the fire, bring salvation, but they should do so with fear. When it that second distinction is a little bit confusing, but what he's going on what's going on there, there's a few things going on. I'm just going to point one out. The idea is that we are to seek to help But because they are in a rebellious mode, they've got their this kind of rationale that they're not easily worked out of. And that rationale tends to be persuasive. Heresies that stick tend to be persuasive. They stick for a reason. We must, with sobriety and carefulness, as we seek to save them from the flames, make sure that they don't seduce us. as we try to help them. As Jude says in verse 23, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garment defiled by the flesh. We can seek to be helpful, but we must at the same time not become defiled by their company. I have watched some who did not take that warning and it did not go well, at least for a time You could say this, really. We all know, right, that bad company corrupts good character. But what I'm adding here is that even the good character that is trying to help the bad company can be corrupted That's what Jude is concerned about here, at least one of the things. So that's the first observation. You can see those two distinctions that he's making Now here's an observation number two that broadens the scope and starts to look at some more teaching within the canon of Scripture on this idea of making distinctions. The scriptures elsewhere commend the maturity and wisdom of Christians when they make distinctions. So for example, I want you to consider Solomon and his determination of who was the real mother of the child. He had to figure out a way to make a distinction. He did. And I don't, you know, we don't have that kind of wisdom. That is something different than our level. But we do read in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 14, this And that's a verse you should memorize. 1 Thessalonians 5. 14. Now we exhort you, brethren, listen to these distinctions. Warn those who are unruly. Comfort the faint-hearted, uphold the weak, be patient with everybody. Those are distinctions that we see within wise people like Paul. And finally, if you want to see a fuller list of distinctions, then I turn you to the larger catechism handout in the bulletin. So let's take a look at that. I just give you question and answer 151 without the scriptural references because of the amount of paper that we would need. What I encourage you to do, however, is to go back to this question and this answer in the larger catechism and look up all of the scriptural references. It will challenge your reading of the scripture But look at how they arrived at these should be distinctions. What are those aggravations that make some sins more heinous than others? We just read about that with Jesus saying that they had the greater sin, so some are greater, some are lesser. What are some of those, what makes the sin greater than others is what's going on here. Sins receive their aggravations, it's called. Number one, notice these major categories and distinctions from the persons offending. If they be of riper age, Greater experience or grace, eminent for profession, gifts, place, office, guides to others, and whose example is likely to be followed by others. The sin is more grievous. Number two, here's another category and distinction: from the parties who are offended. If immediately against God, his attributes and worship, against Christ and His grace, the Holy Spirit, his witness and workings, against superiors, men of eminency, and such as we stand especially related and engaged unto. against any of the saints, particularly weak brethren, the souls of them or any other, and the common good of all or many. Here's another distinction for you, number three. From the nature and the quality of the offense, it can make it worse. If it be against the express letter of the law, it says it right there. That kind of idea. You had no reason to not know that you would break many commandments, contain in it many sins. For example, you do one act, and there's about five sins involved in the one act. If not only conceived in the heart, but breaks forth in words and actions, scandalize others, and admit of no reparation. If against means, mercies, judgments, light of nature, conviction of conscience, public or private admonition, censures of the church, civil punishments And our prayers, purposes, promises, vows, covenants, and engagements to God or men. If done deliberately Willfully and presumptuously, impudently, boastingly, maliciously, frequently, obstinately, if you sin with delight, it is more grievous If you continue in the sin, it is more grievous. Relapsing after repentance, more grievous than the first-time offender. Number four, here's another set of distinctions for you. From circumstances of time and place, if the sin is on the Lord's day. Or other times of divine worship, or immediately before or after these, or other helps to prevent or remedy such miscarriages if in public or in the presence of others who are thereby likely to be provoked or defiled. Now that you can, like I said, go to this larger catechism, and there's a scripture reference for every one of them. So I would encourage you to do that to see how they arrived at those kinds of distinctions and the wisdom that these saints had before us. I'd encourage you to not only look at what I have said from 1 Thessalonians 5. 14, the example of Solomon, but all of the scriptures in the larger catechism. Those are the two observations I want to make about this what Judah's saying here. Make distinctions. On some have pity, on some save with fear. And here is a teaching, I believe, that falls out of this. Because of the context of the letter and the appeal of the apostles, we must have something here about the evil days. And so it is this. In evil days, we must be a congregation that makes wise distinctions That's pretty simple, but I'd like to apply this with three L's and a P. Legalism, lust, legitimate, and then practical. Okay, three L's and a P. Let me repeat to you the doctrine first. In evil days, we must be a congregation that makes wise distinctions. First, legalism. I want to make a few comments about the distinction of about distinctions in terms of our church culture and culture at large One reason that the church has less wisdom is because of a loss of distinctions. And one reason that she has lost some of these distinctions is in part due to a large-scale legalism. Legalism has a lot of aspects It's like a slippery eel trying to hold it, is like trying to define it. But one thing that we can say is that it does not account for differences or distinctions in time or place or persons It tends to be absolutist with no nuance. And that's not what we see recommended to us and commended within the scriptures. I just want you to consider a concrete example In two ways to approach an ethical situation. A man who professes to be a Christian is seen to be a staggering drunk at the local Home Depot. Now, there is one approach to this. One approach is to evaluate this man by his drunkenness, which is in fact a sin, and we end the matter there. He has a problem with drinking. Drinking is a sin. This guy needs to repent. Of course, all of that is true. But then, let's say that we come alongside of this person and we spend some time with the man, and we find out that he recently backed over his three-year-old in the driveway. Let me ask you now, is this man just a drunk? Is he just a drunk sinner? You got it all figured out Isn't he also a saint trying to deal with his suffering? Shouldn't we work with him in many ways besides condemnation of the action that we saw explicit? and a call to repentance. In fact, I would contend, you know, this is a hypothetical, but in my hypothetical I would think that we should listen to Jude with the first distinction and have some compassion and pity. Do we need to address the drinking? Of course we need to address the drinking. But wisely and with distinctions and not in legalistic absolutism. That's my point there with the legalism. That's the road that you end up going down in order to have things nice and neat. And then there is the second L, which is lustful. This is the opposite problem. You can run into legalism or you can run into being licentious, and both sets of people like distinctions. On the other hand, and one of the reasons why a person becomes a legalist is because sinners create distinctions to persist in our rebellion against God. Anyone who has been around little children, know this. For example, I want you to think of the keen ability we show at an early age. You tell your children that you don't want them on their devices. You find them on a device and you say, didn't you hear me? Let's say it's on the Lord's Day and really aggravate the sin. Yes, they say, but we are not on our device. We are at our device watching a show. Now it's funny because it's just so real. Okay? With some kind of evil genius and sophistication, your child has capitalized on the ambiguity of prepositions. And has made a distinction between on and at. And it just comes natural. And those kind of distinctions we don't want But then there are the legitimate third L distinctions. Instead, what we want to see is a use of distinctions for the establishment of God's kingdom In other words, we want truly wise distinctions. And these come from meditation on the scriptures through various experiences in the hands of God's Spirit. You cannot do this on your own. Christ Himself must form your mind. The Word of God teaches us the order of reality He shows us the way to view our world. Now, I have a bit of a grotesque illustration for you. If you have ever butchered an animal, You have noticed that God has constructed the anatomy of the animal into clear muscle groups And a good butcher does not make up how to cut up the animal. A good butcher finds the seams between the muscles and the joints. And just goes with what God has already separated into pieces. And that is the same kind of thing that must happen with us as we are reading the scriptures. The Word of God gives us the seams. That we must view our world and life and actions within, that we might be righteous, that we might have justice, that we might have sound judgment And then we move to our P, which is practical. And I put this in because all of that was a kind of uh scriptural construct on how the word how the spirit teaches us to think about distinctions. But I don't want you to think that this is just an intellectual endeavor. And it can begin to sound like that. It is the foundation for any kind of practical work that you will do as a Christian. Our culture right now, for example, is redefining and redrawing the distinctions and scenes of reality. Let me ask you a couple questions. And I think that in asking the question, you will see that in order to have wisdom in the answer, you would already have to have a set of distinctions. Listen to this. What is the ordered relation between man and man, woman and woman, and man and woman Let me ask you another one. This one's a bit more tough. What is the ordered relation between my biological sex and my gender? Or is that a legitimate or real distinction? Right? As a Christian, here's another one. This is a bit of a different topic. As a Christian, what is your ordered relation to homosexuals? Can you have a relationship with them? If so, what kind of relationship What would you call it? Can you be a friend? Can you be a coworker? Can you be their sibling, or must you disown them from the family? Can you be their mentor? Could they be your mentor? Could you be their mentee? What do the scriptures say and infer? What distinctions do the scriptures give you to know your ordered relation in any of these things that I've mentioned? You can see that you would need to have those kinds of categories to be able to make the distinction. As Reformed Christians, here's another one. These are all problems that we run into, and we run into these problems because we don't have the distinctions any longer. They were lost somewhere in the 14th century, I don't know. We're trying to retrieve them As Reformed Christians, here's a good one for you, what is your ordered relation to other religions and even other Christian denominations? Presumably, you cannot worship with Muslims. But let me ask you a question. Can you fight abortion together with them? I'm seeing some of you do this, I'm seeing some of you do this. We should keep we should come up with some distinctions. I wish we had dinner tonight because I could talk about all of these things. I have I've been thinking about them for a while. Let me ask another one. Many of you do not believe that certain charismatic gifts continue today. But can we have any kind of Christian fellowship with Pentecostals or charismatics? Good question. You will need distinctions handed to you from God by His Word to answer any of those questions. So, if there is a charge that considering this command from Jude is too intellectual and not practical enough, I think we can just dismiss it. That now. This is all the foundational work that needs to be done to truly live our lives righteously and with wisdom. In other words, we go back to what the doctrine is tonight. Truly, in evil days, we must be a congregation that makes wise distinctions. All of those examples I gave you are a result of evil. and difficulty and confusion. So truly, in evil days, we must be a congregation that makes wise decisions. We have to avoid both legalistic and licentious distinctions. And instead, we need to, by God's wisdom through the Spirit, carve out our lives at the seams which God reveals in his word Please pray with me