You see someone looking for a seat, you can invite them to come sit next to you. We shall have another minute. You're okay. Alright, good morning everyone. Good to see you all. Welcome to Worship. Uh if you look at your bulletin We're going to head into a call to worship here in just a moment, but notice how the very first thing we'll I'll read to you is from Psalm number eight. I just want you to notice that um right before the verse that we've started with mentions the angels and then in each of the successive verses in Psalm 8, there's going to be a listing of different domains and realms that are under the authority of Christ. Your gathering here together as a body is not the only body that is gathering today. Across really, taking into consideration time zones, across the globe, there are people just like you gathering to acknowledge that Jesus Christ has been given all authority in heaven and in earth. And when we begin to sing to him and talk about him as having power, giving praise to him, and is It is the really the only right thing we could do in relationship to him because of who he is, which is why we call this a worship service. Because of who he is, he will serve you here. You will benefit from being here. But really, the reason why we call it a worship service, because it is the greatest service that we can give to him. to gather and to acknowledge him in our praises and our songs. And so I pray that the Spirit would help you to sing from a pure heart this morning. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, what a lovely day you have given to us We saw a line of storms come through this area last night, and we just give you thanks that today you have taken it down the humidity. There is a breeze going through the trees out there, and it just makes us stop and smile to see the sun and the blue sky. All that you have put together. Lord, we thank you for your good providences, reminding us that though sometimes in our lives we will have seasons of oppressive heat, there is a breeze on its way. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, that you give us hope like this, that you give us faith like this, and that you give us love like this. Lord, these are just a few things to mention about you this morning. There's so much more. And so we come before you because you have gathered us. to acknowledge our allegiance to you by way of song, by way of listening to you like we listen to no one else by way of responding to you in a way that we don't respond to anyone else because no one else demands our all like you do. And it is our great privilege to give it to you. We pray that you would send your spirit to us. Help us. We are a group of creatures that Have a tough time. We have a tough time acknowledging you for who you are. We ask for your help this morning. In the name of Christ. Amen. Let's stand and we'll hear the call to worship from Psalm 8 and go right into song. You have made him to have dominion over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, even the beasts of the field, the birds of the air and the fish of the sea that pass through the paths of the sea O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth. Amen. Let's uh sing together praise to the Lord the Almighty. So, you know, I think that's a good question. Praise to the Lord the Almighty Night be not creation. Almighty so praise the Lord. How not me, how might be present with what we or did. Oh, no, I mean we're gonna If we write me, bring to the Lord with our gloves with Spreading its way through or shut to the Lord of the Speaker. Let me start from his people on him. Let me go let me under me. Amen. Let us confess Christ now from Genesis one, twenty-six through thirty-one. Then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him. Male and female he created them Then God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air And over every living thing that moves on the earth. And God said, See, I have given you every herb that yields seed which is on the face of all the earth. And every tree whose fruit yields seed, to you it shall be for food. Also to every beast of the earth, to every bird of the air, and to everything that creeps on the earth in which there is life, I have given every green herb for food And it was so. Then God saw everything that he had made, and indeed it was very good. So the evening and the morning were the sixth day. Behold your Christ. Let us pray. Lord, we see here the great responsibility that you gave to the first Adam, who really was just figuring the long-awaited second Adam who is Christ Jesus. You, Christ Jesus, have been announced across heaven and earth by the Father and his angels, that you have been given authority in heaven and earth that all things are under you, and that you are subduing all things. And Lord, we further read elsewhere that you are using us your bride in the subduing. But Lord, this past week sometimes we were part of the problem instead of part of the solution. We do not want it to be that way any longer. But there is something working within us that we give into sometimes. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that in this time of confession You would help us to move further and further away from that realm of death and more and more into the realm of life. We pray, Lord, that we would live for you, subduing all of creation to the order that you have decreed and that you are executing. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Good morning, brothers and sisters. As we uh as we enter Into this very sacred time of confession and repentance. Given enough time, each of you could remember When the smallest of gestures or tasks meant more than what you ever intended it I think each of you, as as I often do, are unaware of the impact. That the ordinary works of our hands truly has on this garden, this creation that God has given us. Sowing seed is not enough. It must be tended to. It must be watered. It must be nurtured. As good stewards, even with our limitations and weaknesses, which we all have, we must remember that we are in fact God's servants. As we work, we tend to give off indicators. Indicators that communicate either perpetual frustration Or contentment in our small and ordinary work. Contentment In this small and ordinary work is a quality, a quality of the believer A quality that is endearing and something that we should pursue. Is it you? Is it you out there, the grumbler? The complainer? I know it's me sometimes Especially when things just don't seem to go my way, according to my timing. Philippians 4, 11 through 13. Not that I speak in regard to need, for I have learned that in whatever state I am to be content I know how to be abase, and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I have learned both to be full and to be hungry Both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things, yes. We can do all things through Christ who strengthens us. Again in 1 Peter 4, 10 through 11, as each one of us has received gifts, minister, brothers and sisters, to one another. one another as good stewards of the manifold as the ma of the manifold grace of God Brothers and sisters, let us now prepare our hearts for a time of confession and repentance of our awesome God as we bow our heads now. Our Lord God Almighty Creator and sustainer of all, of your creation, I confess, Lord, that all too often I disregard the works of your hands. In the normal and seemingly mundane, not recognizing that in all things and at every moment You are ruling and reigning sovereignly over the means and the ends of all that you have willed to be done It is an act of unbelief if we are not recognizing these things. By not having The words of your scriptures in our minds, we forget not only who you are, but the sustaining work of your hands We think that a full cup on Sunday is sufficient to satisfy throughout the week Daily, daily are we to be meditating on the works of your hands and your very word, if we're not We're not aware of the works to which you have called us to perform, and are for sure not seen in your works. If we are not your hands and feet, we're too self-absorbed in our own strength, in our own desires and motives We confess, Lord, that our works are often motivated by our wants and wills, and not yours. As we are driven by selfish interests and laziness, gluttonous behavior and habits may keep us from good works. O Lord, convict our hearts to be content in the small good works that can often lead to great and awesome outcomes. You alone, you alone turn the mundane into miracles. You have called us to be prudent In our understanding of all things, even our works for those that are prudent And crowned with knowledge, the knowledge that we should be content in the ordinary works to which you place before us Now, brothers and sisters, in the silence of your hearts, incline yourself to Him who gives you breath. And confess how you've neglected the works befitting your frail frame. And repent, if not according to the small and ordinary work assigned to you. For he shall be like a tree planted by the waters, which spreads out its roots by the river, and will not fear when the heat comes. But its leaf will be green, and will not be anxious in the year of the drought, nor will cease from yielding fruit. For you are good. Our Lord God, always good. It is in Christ's name we pray this. Amen. Brothers and sisters, turn with me if you will, as I read, 1 John 1, 8 and 9, for this assurance of pardon. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Praise be to God. Let us respond gloriously as we sing this next hymn, Arise, my soul, arise, please stand. Apple. For we do his mercy in glory baby God. His precious blood to please on for every race takes on for every race takes place. For give me no for give me right, for give him no for give me time, for when some My life is very hot smile, his party voice I hear He rose me for his dog I guess. No longer be contents, I now draw not in conference, I know not, and water. Praise God. Please remain standing as the usher comes forward with their tithes and offerings. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, the giver of all good gifts, here we present these tithes and offerings before you. Even these are a reflection, a reflection of faith. A faith that we are not our own but yours bought with a great price. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain that we can carry nothing out, and having food and clothing. With these we shall be content. Use these elements, Heavenly Father, multiply them. Bless the Giver. That they may be used for the advancement of your kingdom here on earth until you return. In Christ's name we pray, and trust and obey. Amen. And God will be able to do that. Thank you. You may be seated. Since I got up here and doing the bounds, why don't you stick around so she has an elder next to her? You can pray for her too. All right, we are come to a point in our service that is uh quite exciting. We're Uh Natalie Cheetu, if you could come forward and if you want to bring anyone with you. You're here, right? Yes, you are. Hello. Great. Come on up. She'll be joining the church today. Good to see ya. Natalie, this is Severn Run. Severn run, this is Natalie. And we're going to do um everything within our ability to welcome her, right? Amen. Yeah, right. Natalie, you did such a great job meeting with the session. You had us It was just too easy. You gave us all the right answers. No, you really should get a chance to get to know Natalie. The Lord has really blessed her with an understanding of who he is. and what he requires of her. She has a lot of exciting things happening in her life right now and I won't be the one to tell you what they are. That's up to her. And so we're excited for her as she makes another step in joining all of us. When we were in our meeting together, we went over the vows and And you also listen to the sermon series on the vows, so you are vowed out, I'm sure. But today we're making vows before the Lord, and it's a good thing. It's a good thing. All of you, Seven Ryan, being present here, we are we are gathered to hear her make vows before God and to us also in a sense. And you, Natalie, are to assent to the following declarations and promises by which you enter into a solemn covenant with God and his church. So I'll just read each one and the and you can answer by God's grace, I do. Do you acknowledge yourself to be a sinner in the sight of God? Justly deserving his displeasure and without hope, save in his sovereign mercy. By God's grace I do. Amen. Do you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as the Son of God and Savior of sinners? And do you receive and rest upon him alone for salvation as he is offered in the gospel? Amen. Do you now res resolve and promise, in humble reliance upon the grace of the Holy Spirit, that you will endeavor to live as becomes the followers of Christ? Do you promise to support the church in its worship and work to the best of your ability? Amen. And lastly, do you submit yourself to the government and discipline of the church? I'm sorry, I already did did I read that one? No, okay, good. Did you submit your do you submit yourself to the government and discipline of the church and promise to study its purity and peace? Amen. Mark, do you mind praying for her, please? Okay. Let's pray. Our Lord and our God, we uh we thank you for your abundant mercy and grace. We thank you that that you continue to reveal yourself in mighty ways. even here in the life, in the testimony of Natalie, your servants, we thank you for arranging her life and ordering her life for your glory. We thank you that it is here at Severn Run. We thank you that you have blessed us with the knowledge of her gifts and the knowledge of her heart. And her will and her desire being constantly transformed to your will and your desire We pray, Lord, that you would continue to do a good work in her, that you would use her in mighty ways, that you would bless her abundantly Lord, that when she goes through trials, that you would sustain her, that she would give you praise and glory. Father, we love you. We love all the things that you do. We pray that your love would manifest itself in and through Natalie's life. And that we would be blessed to see it. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. If you're a member of Severn Run, could you stand before we let her off the hook This is this is the body of Christ to which you are joining. And that includes the regular attenders also, but I just had the members stand And um together we are serving we are serving Christ. Let's welcome Natalie into our fellowship. All right, you did it. Thank you. I hope you all recognize the the um tremendous wonder it is to see a human being make a profession like that publicly. That is not natural. So let's stand. Let's stand for the r I know. Yeah. Yeah. Let's stand. You should just be thankful that I don't have kneelers in here yet. Let's open our scriptures to Acts chapter thirteen and I'm going to read verses one through twelve. Now in the church that was at Antioch, there were certain prophets and teachers. Barnabas Simeon, who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manon, which had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul. As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Spirit said, Now separate to me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. Then, having fasted and prayed and laid hands on them, they sent them away. So being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus And when they arrived in Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. They also had John as their assistant. Now, when they had gone through the island to Pathos, which is on the other side of Cyprus, They found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew whose name was Bargesus, who was with the Pro-Council, Sergius Paulus, an intelligent man. This man called for Barnabas and Saul and sought to hear the word of God. But Elimus, the sorcerer, for so his name is translated, withstood them, seeking to turn the pro-council away from the faith. Then Saul, who also is called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him and said, Oh fool of all deceit and all fraud, you son of the devil, you enemy of all unrighteousness Will you not cease perverting the straight ways of the Lord? And now indeed, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you shall be blind, not seeing the sun for a time. And immediately a dark mist fell on him, and he went around seeking someone to lead him by the hand. Then the pro council believed, when he saw what had been done, being astonished at the teaching of the Lord. Let us pray. Lord Jesus Christ, we ask that you would give us insight as we map our lives that you have given to us over the life of Sergius Paulus here. We pray that you would lead us into taking up our responsibility for you, and that you would keep mists from blinding us. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. I wonder if you noticed uh I wonder if you noticed it when I read in the passage. Did you see the pattern? Well, over the last few weeks there's been a pattern that has been emerging, and it is the hand of the Lord. At first, when we saw the hand of the Lord all the way back in chapter 11, it was Christ graciously calling and training folks. into service as his king, and they were to be like their king, especially amongst their service to the community. Last week we still focused on the hand of the Lord against the hand of Herod. We gained hope as we witnessed Christ's hand outpower that other hand and all other hands that raise themselves to heaven. Christ remains to this day the one with a sword out of his mouth, defending and protecting his church and maintaining a level of order throughout all of his creation. That's the hand of the Lord in eleven, as the hand of the Lord in twelve, and now we have the hand of the Lord in chapter thirteen, verse eleven. And that's our theme that continues this morning. And now, indeed, Paul says, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you shall be blind, not seeing the sun for a time. And immediately a dark mist fell on him, and he went around seeking someone to lead him by the hand. You'll notice that there were some hands prior to the hand of the Lord in this passage where they laid hands. on Barnabas and Paul. There's hands everywhere. I want to make a few observations about what's going on here with all of the hand of the Lord specifically in relationship to Paul and what's happening. Really what you I think this is a way and not just the way to understand or how to frame what is before us. And th the uh the there is a way to understand this passage is by way of understanding Paul and the laying on of hands of him and sending him out and the work that he will do is very, very similar to the ministry of Elijah. In some sense, Paul has taken on himself the role of a prophet. Now, here are a few observations for us with regard to that. Many have commented in terms of Paul and Elijah. Many have commented on the similar biography between Elijah and the Apostle Paul. There are a lot of details that go into that, including when Paul converts, where he travels, and what Elijah did. But I just want to show you this one example from a Romans chapter 11, from Paul's own mouth, that Paul thought of himself in terms of Elijah. It says this in Romans 11, 12 through 5. Or do you not know what the scriptures say of Elijah? How he pleads with God against Israel, saying, Lord, they have killed your prophets and torn down your altars, and I alone am left, and they seek my life. But what does the divine response say to him? I have reserved for myself 7,000 men who have not bowed the knee to Baal. And here's what Paul says, even so, at this present time there is a remnant according to the election of grace What Paul is doing there, whether you understand all of that or not, what Paul is doing is he's understanding his own ministry by way of the ministry of Elijah. You can see that he's quoting 2 Kings there. That's the first observation. It's just to see a little bit of evidence in the biography of Paul that he really does think of himself like Elijah and understands his task and his commission as very similar to Elijah. And what that does is it brings us to the second observation. Once we see that model, we can really begin to see who Bar Jesus is. And these character types should continue in your life so that you can acknowledge who certain people are in our culture. Our Jesus is listed as several things in the passage that if you're on the track with the Elijah model, you'll recognize immediately what's going on. First of all, he is a Jew It says it right there in the scriptures. But then it mentions these other things that should there should not be these other stars in the constellation of who Bar Jesus is. It says that he is a sorcerer. That is forbidden. It says that he is a false prophet. That just comes right out. And so we're really landing ourselves in the exact same storyline that Elijah was in. This lets us know that Bar Jesus is very much like the false prophets from Elijah's ministry. That's who he was mainly working against. And because Bargesus has intoxicated and mystified the pro-council, Sergius Paulus. Bar Jesus has taken on the role as a kind of Jezebel, who is another character in the Elijah story. And therefore, what we should expect is a show of God's strength through Paul against the crooked ways of the leaders. Now you'll think of Elijah and you'll think of how he called down fire And then they slayed the prophets, and eventually Jezebel was thrown out the window and eaten by dogs. That's that story. But here we see a power of God acting in a different way, but it has really the same result It shows who is God's messenger and who is not. And Sergius Paulius ends up seeing that, and he is astonished at the teaching of the Lord. Paul says, he announces the hand of the Lord, and immediately what Bar Jesus caused in the pro-council ends up happening to him. There's a kind of tooth for tooth and eye for eye here What Bar Jesus did through his seduction and deception, he had done to him, which is represented by the mist. He announces the hand of the Lord, and immediately Bar Jesus is mystified, and he becomes blind, and it is shown that he is the only one in that scenario that can't see the light of day. It's not Paul. Paul sees clearly now, though the same thing happened to him. So that's observation number two, is who is Bar Jesus and what is he doing? If we understand that by way of the story of Elijah, there's a lot more information and it becomes more clear of what's going on here. Now this is the last observation, observation number three Once the false prophet is removed, then since this is mirroring the story of Elijah, Ahab, and Jezebel, We should see the chosen ones returning to their true authority who is Christ the King. And that is exactly what we see This is what we see, but it ends up being in a special way. The Gentiles step forward. A Roman pro-council. comes out of the dark and into the light and it acknowledges the authority of Jesus Christ. It says in Acts chapter 13, verse 12, then the pro-council believed. when he saw what had been done, being astonished at the teaching of the Lord. That really gives us a picture of what's happening not only in the life of these early Christians And how Christ operates and works through his word, the word of his prophets and the words of his apostles. But it shows how that same word will work today. And some of the same enemies, some of the same characters are still around. We still have Bar Jesus's, and we still have Jezebels. And we have Sergius policies that come out from underneath their mystifying seduction. Really, if you wanted to summarize just in terms of your own life, we could say this. With a strong hand, Christ acted or acts with us as he did with Sergius Paulus. He removes the blinding worldly mist, and he permits us to live within his reality and in his truth. And we stand astonished at the teaching of the Lord. That's really what I want to explore this morning, and so I want to restate that for you again. With a strong hand, Christ acts with us as he did with Sergius Paulus, the Procouncil. He removes the blinding worldly mist, and he permits us to live within his reality and within his truth. So I have just one point that I'd like to unfold, and it is called the mantle. Do you know what a mantle is? Not a fireplace mantle. It's not what I'm talking about this morning As Christians delivered from that mist, we must take up our mantle. I'm using it in a sentence for context. We must take up the mantle of Christ's reality and truth. And so you can see when I say that the main point here is that that I want to draw out with application Is the mantle. It's mantle is a is a term meaning a kind of responsibility that has been delegated to us or passed to us The son has now assumed his father's mantle is a sentence that used to be a part of our language. Christ passes on a responsibility to us. We are to take up his mantle. I want you to think about that in terms of the pro-council. Think about him and him leading or ruling for Caesar on the island of Cyprus. While under the advice of his upbringing in Roman society, greatly influenced by the Greeks, while sitting under cultural expectations as what it means for him to be a leader on Cyprus While he himself has spent some time in Greek and Roman philosophy, while he is receiving advice and counsel from Bar Jesus, who is his advisor, Sergius Paulus, in acknowledging who Christ is, would have to change the order of his whole life and how he does all things. He will not stop being a pro-council. He will not stop ruling over Cyprus. But the way in which he does so and for whom he does so will change, which will reorder his whole identity and how he does things. He will take up the mantle of Christ. And that's what it would look like for him. Now that Christ has revealed himself to Sergius and Sergius, nothing can be the same. Because you have to remember, all along at the beginning of chapter 11, the hand of the Lord was a political statement. This is the hand of an all-powerful king. Sergius Paulus undoubtedly recognized that Which is why in the pastoral letters we see it being made crystal clear that Christ is not just king, but king of kings. He's not just lord, he's lord of lords. This is a direct reference to saying that he is above Caesar. Sergius Paulus would have seen it with no doubts. Christ has the authority to forgive sins. Christ has the authority to release people from the captivity of the devil. Christ has the authority to claim you as his own servant. And so the pro-council of Rome now needs to perform his political job, not with primary allegiance to Caesar, but to King Jesus. And I'm sure he'll receive instruction from Romans chapter 13 on how to do so. That's what it would look like for him to pick up that mantle. Now you're not a pro-council, except by way of analogy or metaphor. But the mantle has been passed to you also. In the face of your upbringing, in the face of your cultural influences In the face of cultural philosophies and religions, what you have come to recognize in being astonished at the teaching of the Lord is that Jesus Christ supersedes them all You see that picture in Psalm 8 where he's at the top of the food chain? That's something that you have come to recognize. And when you recognize, you realize that your life must be ordered the way that he wants you to order it. He is the ordering agent. Your allegiance is to him. And just as Sergius would start to order Cyprus according to Christ's kingdom, so too must you seek Christ's order in the life that he has given to you. You must seek Christ's order in yourself. You must seek Christ's order in the way that you do not give yourself over to lusts and passions. But you demonstrate self-discipline according to the word. You have self-governance But it's bigger than just yourself. You must seek Christ's order in your family. You are to seek Christ's order in your church And as given opportunity, you are to seek Christ's order in your larger civic community. I've said that a hundred times. And here we're seeing it again of what it means to be astonished at the teaching of the Lord, like Sergius Paulus. Now, just because we see that doesn't mean it's easy. And just because you've heard this message before doesn't mean I'm not going to give the message again. In a sense, I feel like I give the same message every Sunday because it is so difficult to grasp. We can hear it, but it's so hard to embrace and receive. And I think it's because of a lot of things, but I want to bring up one problem that arises within us as American people on why we struggle to take on Christ's mantle and order our lives the way he would order it. Though Christ removes the blinding mist from us so that we may believe and embrace and live for him. We still end up having to be on guard because if you haven't noticed The mist tends to blow back into our lives. The reality of this mist Which Bar Jesus cast on Sergius Paulist, which was cast uh is a is a deep reality that has always been a part of the life of the church This is just a single instance of it that shows up in terms of a mist and being blinded from the light of the sun. But being blinded and being taken away from reality to where you can no longer serve Christ Has been a part of biblical reality for a very long time. And there are other images, and I want to give you another one. Most of you are familiar with Proverbs 31. But you're usually only familiar with the second half of Proverbs 31. And when someone mentions the second half, if you are a woman, you usually hate that they're mentioning it and you just feel bad about the whole thing And you shouldn't, and I'm not going to talk about that half anyway. Let's talk about the first half of Proverbs thirty-one. I love that in Proverbs thirty-one, as we Develop a thick and deep sense of what is going on here with this mist that can be a part of our lives like we see in the passage. Proverbs 31 starts off with a message From the king's mother. Now I wonder if he was embarrassed about that. I wonder if he said, Oh mom, come on. Really? This is going to be put in the scriptures. The whole time they're going to see my mother giving me instruction? But that's the way that it went. King Lemuel's mother warns the king of several things. And I'm going to mention the two main ones that she warns: bad women and too much wine. That's pretty good wisdom, right? Bad women and too much wine is what she ends up bringing up. And her m his mother is concerned with a thick sense of those realities. His mother is concerned because what they will do is they will blind him if they get out of hand, they will blind him to where he cannot exercise his role as the king. He will overlook things that he should not overlook. He will not be able to see people the way that he is meant to see people. He will miss reality. The role of King Lemuel is to remember justice by the time you get to the end of that first part. It is for him to have a mouth and to speak for the speechless. And if he comes under those intoxicating realities, then he will not be able to do so. He will not be able to bring shalom or peace. He will not be able to bring God's order to the land because he will have become intoxicated or seduced or deceived himself, and he will become a part of the problem. And here's the thing: though it is true that bad women are and bad men are a bad idea, and that you shouldn't drink too much wine, that they are blinding in themselves. They are but signs of more serious or just as serious or further realities. Realities that seduce, realities that deceive, realities that intoxicate you, where you cannot see what is right and true. And his mother does not want that for her son. And Christ does not want that for us. In our passage, the image of the mist and blindness, they end up falling in the same kind of category. And it's a great example to see how you can come under a deceptive influence. Bad company corrupts character. Bar Jesus acts as a bad woman who is Jezebel. Bar Jesus acts as wine, dulling the senses of the proconsul. Those of you who love Lord of the Rings, you have got to be thinking of worm tongue at this point. If you don't know what I'm talking about, just ask me later. But here's the question that you have to ask when we start to think about this misty reality that can show up in different ways. There's a kind of thickness. The question that you have to ask is, of what misty, of what seducing, and of what intoxicating realities do you need to be aware of in your life? That ends up being the ultimate question that I think over time we grow in wisdom as to what those things are for us, even as individuals. But I want to give you one answer, in line with what we saw with the mantle. Whatever takes you away from the mantle of responsibility which Christ has given you in your specific life Is intoxicating. It is dulling. It is deceiving. It is distracting. It is seducing. Whatever takes you away, it could take you away all at once, or it could be incremental and take you one little baby step at a time. But whatever it is, it's what King Lemuel's mother was talking about. I want to give you an example from my childhood of this, kind of metaphor that I hope will hope will be helpful. I remember playing Little League Baseball over in Arnold for the Magavista Baseball League. I think I was on the Orioles. I was the first baseman. Now this didn't last long, just to give you a heads up. I moved on to lacrosse just to spare everyone But I was the first baseman and the pitcher, we were mm past coast coach pitch and we were now pitching ourselves, which was exciting. We were all taking it really seriously. We all had big league chew in the side of our mouth trying to spit and all that kind of stuff. We were really excited about the socks. You know, you you remember these things Well the pitcher sends in a pitch, and the hitter, we were just getting strong enough as young men, too, to hit line drives. The hitter drives it just over the second baseman's glove. There's a man on first. If played correctly, the center fieldman will glove the ball, throw to second, and second will throw to me, we'll have a double play and we will be awesome But that is not what happened in Magavista Little League Baseball. The ball goes out into center field, it bounces, it rolls, and it rolls, and it rolls right past the center fielder. And do you know why it has rolled past the center fielder? Because the center fielder has taken off his glove. He is sitting on the ground with a stick in his hand, stabbing ants in little ant hills in the center field. Isn't this awesome? I've seen this happen on a soccer field also. I was out there helping to referee and all the little kids were supposed to be following a soccer ball and a cute puppy came on the sidelines and the entire field But both teams ran off the field to the dog during the middle of the game. Same kind of thing keeps happening in these little league sports. The thing is, is is the center fielder he agreed to play by the rules. I don't know what he's doing. He agreed to play his role in the game. But somehow and in some way he became mystified and distracted and intoxicated by ants on their anthill, the anthill. And that is a I think a good example for us to get our heads around how this can happen for us, especially as American people. Do you know how many anthills you have in your life? And how many sticks are given to you to stab them with? Or magnifying glasses to whatever? What we have to do when we look at a situation like that that took place over in Arnold is to use it to help us to understand God's kingdom. We swore allegiance to Christ to play by his rules. We swore allegiance to Christ to operate in his limits. We swore allegiance to Christ that we loved his boundaries, that his boundaries actually are giving us freedom for the first time We acknowledge that he's the one that gives us our roles in our life. It's his game. He determines the positions. We are men and women. We belong to families. We are members of the church. We have civic roles. These are all things that He's put us out on the field in these different positions to play our role. And what do we end up seeing over and over again? God sends the ball right over the second baseman's head. It's going out in the second field. We're meant to field it, we're meant to make a double play, but we are caught in the midst of some distraction in our life where we are not able to tend to that which Jesus Christ has given to us. We end up becoming we have our own anthills, do we not? We end up focusing so much and being so appalled at national events that we forget the people that are right in front of us. We end up focusing on social media and the the the way that that feels to relate to people there that we don't even know about what's going on with the people in our own house. We don't have local relationships. We are forgetting that we are ordinary people. Sometimes we become distracted from what God has obviously called us to. He has obviously put responsibilities on our laps And yet somehow we develop in our mind that we are theologians or we are philosophers or whatever it is. And it ends up being a distraction and a deception because it's taking us away from the obvious responsibility that God has given to us right now. We're like that center fielder. All we have been asked to do actually, and this should come as a uh uh I'm so excited actually to give this message because I just want to tell you that most Americans, including you, do way too much One of your problems and my problem is we just don't have good boundaries. And so we end up neglecting the actual mantle that has been handed to us. All you have been asked to do, Christian, is to play center field. That's it. The problem, however, is that as American people, we want more. We don't like boundaries, we hate limits, we defy specific roles. We are caught because we are caught in the mist. We are caught in the seduction. We are caught in the intoxication. of American thinking where we think we can be whatever we want as long as we've watched enough YouTube channel shows And what I'm encouraging you, and what what what this what we have to be encouraged in when we look at these scriptures to be able to take that mantle like Sergius Paulus did, to rule over our cypresses. The things that God has given to us. We have got to accept the limits of the Lord. We've got to remember what we signed up for, the position we have, the role in the story that we're taking. We have to remember that because you are filled with the Holy Spirit, that where you dwell has become sacred space Picture yourself in a garden. And because the Holy Spirit dwells in you, that space has become sacred. And what I'm saying is that without considering our real capacities and limitations, we end up making the garden way too big and we cannot handle it. We think we are mighty hunters, and so we go after prey that is larger to us, and we end up becoming the prey, and they are the hunter. When it would just be so much simpler to come out from the hand of Pharaoh and come under the hand of God and embrace the simple life that He has given to you. to draw a smaller circle with limits that you can handle and boundaries. If you have, for example, I could do this across the board in terms of where you are in your roles in life, but I'm going to do this. If you have small children, is that not enough? I mean, come on. You really need to do more? If you have several children, and I see you up here at the church all the time, I'm going to shoo you away. You have got enough responsibility as it is. Now that's ordinarily speaking. I understand there's extraordinary situations where we all need to chip in. But I pray that you would receive this as a kind of encouragement. We seem to be the only creature who neglects the mantle from Christ because we don't know our limits. I've been watching a lot of wilderness shows and reading a lot of dog books. You know this about me Did you know that bears leave their scat so they know exactly where their territory is? Did you know that deers have deer deers whoa deer have musk land so they know where their territory is? Did you know that dogs do the same thing, and so too do cats? We seem to be the only creature that doesn't know where our territory is. We keep enlarging our boundaries We need to learn from the creation. Where does Christ want you to focus right now and taking the mantle that He has given to you? Where should your focus be? What is the sacred space to which he has called you, not what you have invented in your own mind? Have you expanded your boundary markers too far? Do you need to learn some limits? What can territorial creatures who scat in the woods, what can they teach you about staying in your place in serving Jesus Christ? All of those kinds of questions have to be considered as we consider being serious about taking up the mantle of Christ like Sergius Paulus did. You can see the problem, and you can begin to see the answer there. Limits. With a strong hand, Christ acts with us as he did with Sergius Paulus. He removes the blinding worldly mist and permits us to live within his reality and in his truth. That reality and that truth that he has for you will be ordinary and small. I'm sorry to disappoint you. But I don't want you to be foggy. You will not change the world. You don't play all positions in the baseball game. You are just an outfielder. You won't even be the MVP of the game. You are meant to play your little part in God's great theater. And it is my prayer that we can begin to embrace this because this is so good. We get to have simple and good lives for the Lord. If we know our limits. We can begin to smile and enjoy our mantle from the king again. Let us pray. Father, we know that all of these things are true. We understand the metaphors that are given, but Lord, there's so much work to be done Lord, these are frameworks in which we are meant to live. But there is so much specific application to be done as a community and as individuals. How do I take this sermon? How do I take your word here and its application and work it out with what I am facing? Lord, I pray that you would continue working past the sermon. I pray that your spirit would be with your people, that you would show them that you have given them a pleasant place. I pray that you would show them their boundaries where they can serve you with joy and not take on too much. I pray, Lord, that you would make their responsibilities even more and more clear, and that you would help us to help each other in doing that. I pray, Lord, that we would respect one another's limits because they are the limits you have given. And we ask these things in your name. Amen. Let us stand and we're gonna sing our invitational hymn, Jesus Paid It All, and I ask for the elders to please prepare the table. I need my own speech. It must love down his land. Jesus made it all to him I will be able to do it. My grace just killed me. She was paid all to my home. Amen. You may be seated. This is the table of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not the table of Severn Run. We didn't come up with this idea. I didn't invent it. This is uh Jesus Christ's table. He is the only one who has authority over this table. I am to do what I'm told. He has placed a fence around the table, so to speak, in saying that this bread and this wine must be taken in faith. Which means that you can't be so ignorant that you don't know faith, and you can't be so wicked that you want nothing to do with faith. means that you have to be able to make a kind of public profession like you saw in our sister Natalie this morning She is welcomed at this table, as are all Christians. I ask that you would take it seriously. If you cannot enter to this table in faith If you have not been given the thumbs up, if you will, from the elders, that you do discern what's going on with the cr with Christianity That you would hear this warning. Therefore, whoever eats this bread and drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink the cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this reason, many are weak and sick among you, and many die. When you hear these sermons, if you know that you're not a Christian, Then I encourage you to come and talk to me about what you're hearing. Perhaps Christ is calling you as he did Sergius Paulus, and that you too will one day be astonished at his teaching. I will tell you this, you will never regret it. For those of you who are Christians, you are to come to this table in faith, and that means a lot of things. One thing that it mainly means is you can't come up here just because you are hungry and I did a longer sermon today. You are to these these elements have been set aside from their common use. This is not a dinner party They've been set aside so that you would see not bread and wine, but by way of the Spirit you would by faith acknowledge who Christ is, what he has done, and what he is doing. He has given us tangible signs because he understands how difficult it can be to stay out of the mist. And so when the elder dismisses you, and you come to take the bread, which we will do together as a family, and you come to take the the wine and the grape juice. I pray that you would remember who Christ is. It's not anyone who has died that we celebrate their death. We celebrate the death of one who had the authority to die on our behalf and to cleanse us from our sins and to lead us into all righteousness that we might order our life unto Him. That's a little bit of what the bread and the wine say. Let us pray. Lord Jesus Christ, you alone have the authority to forgive sins and to atone for them. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, you alone had the authority to decree that this would be done voluntarily by your son. This is the order of salvation, and may we not disorder it. Lord, I ask that your people would take in faith today, discerning your body, understanding who you are what you have done in your life, what you have done in your death, what you have done in your resurrection. That they would know who you are, Father, as maker of heaven and earth. who the Son is, the only begotten, and who the Spirit is, who has been sent to glorify the bride for the sake of the Son, in response to the glory of the Father. I pray, Lord, that we would eat in faith, knowing that you have given yourself for us. That we would take up our roles and live within your limits. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may dismiss the rose, Mark. And we'll load up and spot things. Oh, I'm sorry, off the job here. But only grid or throws a trap. Oh no, I'm from his heart. Yeah, you have to get her some. Can you take her some? Thanks. You ended in perfect time. It's such a privilege to be able to take this in faith, which you'll hear as Christ gives us his words of institution. is an acknowledgement that things are not all ordered as he would want them yet, but that he will return and order them all. And so our labor is not in vain. For I received from the Lord that which I also deliver to you. That the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it. And he said, take, eat. This is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Let us take and eat in faith. Lord Jesus Christ, the reality is that this world tells us that we need so many different things. But when we take this bread, we remember that you alone are our sustenance. We must feed of you. You alone are the bread that strengthens our body and our soul. You alone are our life. You formed us in the womb, and you shall raise us from the dead, giving us new bodies in our entrance to eternal life. Lord, we thank you for this tangible reminder that you are our bread. In the name of Christ. Amen. In the same manner, he also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Take and drink. Lord Jesus Christ, when we see the wine. We acknowledge by faith that this is the covenant seal, that what you are doing with your creation will in fact be done. That we will see in full manifest reality Psalm eight come into fruition Every knee in heaven and earth shall bow before you. All of the world shall be under the rule of the second Adam. Everything shall be in perfect order. Everyone in their own domain. Lord, no outfielders playing with ant mounts. Lord, we thank you for this. And we thank you for this hope. And we pray that our hope and our faith and our love would begin to give us joy even now in the little things that you have given us to do as members of your covenant. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and close our service with a song. What people are not right, but then love God belongs to you. Lord God is way from ways to wait of day when he must win the And all this problem with the lost will not get you like you. We will not be for God and will be to try on. And pray we pray and go for All the locks shall be all the Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction, and I pray to see you at the evening service tonight, followed by a meal. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.