Let us now turn to the word preached. Today we'll be hearing from our Lord from Psalm number fifteen. Please follow along with me in your scriptures. God's holy word. This is the Psalm of David. Lord, who may abide in your tabernacle? Who may dwell in your holy hill? He who walks uprightly and works righteousness and speaks the truth in his heart He who does not backbite with his tongue, nor does evil to his neighbor, nor does he take up a reproach against his friend. In whose eyes a vile person is despised, but he who honors those who fear the Lord, he who swears swears to his own hurt and does not change, he who does not put out his money at usury Nor does he take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be moved. Please pray with me. Lord Jesus Christ, recreator of the cosmos, beginning with your people, we ask that you would sanctify us this morning onto your That you would transform us, that we would leave different people than when we came in this morning. That we would glorify your holy name in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Many people will ask us many questions in our lives. I wonder what our some of the questions that have been asked you this very morning. Some of the questions are trivial. Could you pass the salt? That's a pretty trivial question. Who's your hairstylist? Some of us would consider that a very important question. Other questions are obviously more significant Significant. Did you remember to take your blood pressure medicine this morning? It's a significant question. Will you take him to be your lawfully wedded husband It's another important question. What is the most important question that has ever been asked of you? You have to answer that maybe Maybe tell me afterwards. What is the most important question that's ever been asked of you? As we've been looking through these different psalms, psalms of different types, you could categorize them according to the kind of questions that they're asking you. We've studied the front porch of the Psalms, the front door of the Psalms, which is Psalms 1 and 2. How may we enter the Psalms? Basically what those are the question that they are asking. We then turn to two lament psalms, Psalm 3 and Psalm 4. How will Yahweh save us from injustice? Justice that is done by our own people are the questions that were being asked in those Lament Psalms. Last week we looked at a hymn of praise, Psalm 8. Why has the God of galaxies chosen the weak of the world. And what a lovely answer we heard that he's worse working through nursing babes and infants, the church, hearing their praises and prayers to overcome his enemies and chaos. Those are the questions of the Psalms that we've heard already. And now the question for us today in Psalm 15. is the most important question. This Psalm, Psalm 15, did you notice the difference in just how this felt from Psalm 8 or the other Lament Psalms? It's not a mistake that this would be called a Torah Psalm. Can you see why it would be called a Torah Psalm or a Lal Psalm or a Catechism Psalm or an Instruction Psalm? Those are all categories. That uh have been given to this Psalm. And like the other Psalms, Psalm 15 also has a question. It starts off right at the top for you. Here's a summary of it: Who may dwell with God Who may have communion with him? I can't think of a more important question to ask this morning or any other morning or any other time in your life. How may you dwell with God? Well, here's the answer. Who may dwell with God? Jesus and all who put their trust in him That's the answer. Who may dwell with God? It's Jesus and all who put their trust in him. Now I want to look at this psalm under three main parts. It's the most important question. There's a most moral answer, and there's a most moral answer in context. We've got to look at this whole thing in the context. And so let's begin with the most important question, our first main heading. You can see there in verse 1 the question being asked, Lord, who may abide in your tabernacle? Who may dwell in your holy hill? Notice the Hebrew poetry paralleling there. You see almost a repetition of going on, and there are repetitions that go on. David asks the question in verse once with a sense of urgency. The who is repeated. Who may abide in your tabernacle? Who may dwell in your holy hill? And I believe that with each repetition, there is a heightening and emotional sense that's going on within the Psalm. There's a sense of urgency about this as he asks for himself as the King. and for his community and for all those who are throughout the earth. The question that he's asking, notice the words that he uses. He says, who may abide, who may dwell. He's very precise. He's asking about permission. God, to whom do you permit to dwell with you? He has to ask, and it can only be received by a special message from the Lord. It's about the permission. Because the question is asked for those who do not have permission inherently. There are no native rights. And that's what the Hebrew communicates quite well. In my translation, it says Who may abide in your tabernacle? Perhaps some of yours says sojourn. That's a more accurate description of what's happening here. Who may sojourn in your presence? Sojourn, the reason why I say that's more accurate is that sojourn means to leave one's homeland for political, economic, religious, or other circumstances. and to dwell as one without rights, as a newcomer and resident alien in a land not your own, not inherently your own A contemporary example, it's kind of silly, is this. In October 2017, Australian documents were leaked to the press revealing Australia's policy for non-citizen asylum seekers, sojourners. This is what the policy said. The policy change specifies that since taxpayer money cannot be spent on pets, vaccination, equipment, toys, or betting, And some asylum seekers now want to have pets. They must ask for permission from the country to have pets. Now, this is a contemporary example of obviously not having native rights. You've never had to ask the government if you could have a dog, but they did have to ask that. And that gets that across. Now, if we turn to the scriptures, we can see sojourning throughout. Abraham sojourned in Egypt without rights, Genesis 12, 10. Lot and Sodom, 199, Israel and Babylon, Jeremiah 40 chapters 42 through 50. And David is asking for all people who may sojourn in God's city or country. as a kind of asylum seeker, seeking provision and protection from this God, Yahweh. To whom will God give permission to enter his city? Now notice how I've started to use the word city. Here in the scriptures it says the tabernacle or the holy hill. There's actually a number of different terms there. could fit here. Tabernacle, holy hill, city, new heavens and new earth. That's what we see as we see this idea of the tabernacle and the holy hill develop throughout his scriptures. It really is a great sense in which tabernacle or holy hill is the city. If you pay attention to the narrative drama of the scriptures, you see that Yahweh moves from hill to hill or mountain to mountain. And those mountains are hills, are God's place of temporary residence, his city or country, if you will. Yahweh begins with dwelling with Adam on Mount Eden, the Garden of Eden. With Noah on Mount Ararat, with Abraham on Mount Moriah, with Moses on Mount Sinai, with David on Mount Zion. And toward the end of Exodus, an interesting shift takes place. And you know all this if you've been attending. This is just a review. The glory of God dwelling on Mount Sinai moves and dwells on a constructed tabernacle, which is why we see Holy Hill and Tabernacle in this passage spoken of synonymously. Because the hill moves to the tabernacle, and the tabernacle becomes a portable mountain or temporary residence of God Himself. And thus the tabernacle becomes this portable mountain upon which God dwells with his people. And this portable mountain became permanent in the temple. Which was constructed on Mount Zion, bringing both tabernacle and mountain back together again. But if we go further in the scriptures and receive further revelation from God in the New Testament, Even the temple was not permanent forever, thus it's not standing now. Jesus taught that whether tent, tabernacle, or temple, or city They were all temporary replicas of a final new heavens and new earth. And notice how the new heavens and the mountain motif are dovetailed. Now you've heard all the terms, city, tabernacle, temple. New heavens, new earth. Notice how they all come together in this one particular passage, Revelation 21, 1 through 3. Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away Also, there was no more sea. Then I, John, saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God. You see the interchange here of all of the different language. I'm just expanding out so that you can see in all of Scripture this verse one. Everybody's asking this question. Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God. When David asks, who may dwell on your holy hill? Who may dwell on your tabernacle? As we look throughout all of the scriptures, To gain the full context, he is asking more than about a hill, more than about a temporary tabernacle, more than about a temporary city. He is asking, who are my people? Who are the people of God who will go to heaven? That's what he's asking. To put it in a most contemporary terms, who will go to heaven? To put it in the most accurate terms, who will be a part of the new heavens and the new earth? That's precisely what he's asking. Here's the question for you. Is this your question? I asked you earlier, what's the most important question you've ever been asked in your life? I hope this is the one I hope I'm making the record books today here, or rather that David is, or rather that the Davidic Messiah Jesus is, and asking me this question. Question. Is this your question? One high school student said, No, I'm not worried about dwelling with God. I'm worried about dating and having a girlfriend. That's most important to me. And that's not surprising. It's not surprising. When I was in high school I felt the same way. I once heard from an older man, he was about eighty years old, that he was surprised one day when a freshman college student was s walked into the church and he was But then the uh the older man continued and he says, As I paid closer attention and the college student was close working walking closer and closer to me with a smile Smile, I realized he wasn't smiling at me, he was smiling through me to his peer group. He didn't notice me at all. And that's my point. And that's why I'm not surprised. When you were young, all that matters It seems, are friends, girlfriends, boyfriends, friends. And so this isn't your daily question. But that's not exactly true Is it isn't that a caricature and a straw man a bit? I mean if you're in high school, isn't that a straw man of you? You don't always think that way, and I think that's true. When you're a young you all you care about is your friends. Let me be more precise when you're with your friends or when you have the music on and you're thinking about your friends. But when the music's off, when you're not with your friends, when you're forced to be alone, when you lie on your bed or you're driving in your car, there are questions that begin to fall. Important and significant questions. And now it doesn't matter whether you're in high school or no matter what your age is. When you have a time of quiet, you begin asking, who am I? What is the purpose of my life? Is there more than this life? Where will I be after this life? How may I dwell with God? The human heart radiates this question because God has placed eternity within our hearts. And when you can stop the chattering of the word Now, when you're in our culture, when we ask this question, how may I dwell with God? There are many different voices in the culture. And it seems like there's a dozen different answers every day, doesn't there? How may you dwell with God, depending on the church you attend? This morning, you'd all be getting different answers from the same preaching on the same psalm. You'd hear different answers to this question. In our culture, some would say that all you have to do is be yourself, and there are many different roads to the one God. Buddhism, whatever, we're all taking different roads and we're arriving at the same defin same destination, and it can't be further than from the truth. That's not the answer that David gives here. God doesn't, here's another answer. God accepts you as you are. Others would just say there is no God. I stopped thinking about that question. What does David say? Over and over, when we're in this situation, we're tired of hearing from mere mortals and we want to hear from heaven again. What does heaven have to say through David? It's a most moral answer. And this brings us to our second made heading. David summarizes this next section, very surprising, what we see here. Are you surprised by the answer in the Psalm? Did you expect him to say this in verses two through five? He summarizes the whole thing in verse two. He who walks uprightly and works righteousness. surprise you? That there is a most moral answer to who may dwell with God? Tell me that hasn't been downplayed within our culture. Who may dwell in the new heavens and the new earth? Verse two, those who are morally blameless, he who walks uprightly or blamelessly. You can see why our main statement this morning is that That it is Jesus and the people that are in him, that trust in him. And I hope from our study in Proverbs that when we look at this passage here, when it says, who walks uprightly, that you notice the word walk. Walking in the way. We saw that in another instruction psalm, Psalm 1. We saw that language used throughout all of Proverbs, walking. You know that this refers to a lifestyle. A way of being, not just what you do on the outside, not just your actions. It does include your actions. It's not what you do, but who you are, and then what you do. And this is consistent with Jesus' moral teaching, isn't it? Didn't he teach that it is a walk, Matthew? Hypocrites? Well did Isaiah prophesy about you, saying, These people draw near to me with their mouth and honor me with their lips, but their heart is far away. From me. It's not saying that everything proceeds from a kind of mushy-gushy love emotion. That's not the heart in the scriptures. The heart in the scriptures is your motivational center. It's from everything comes from there. Like a stream issuing forth. It's the fountain of life. And if you memorize Proverbs 4, like I instructed. That's what it's That's what it teaches. It's the fountain of all of life. The heart is the center of core. It is your very core then. And it's teaching. unrelentlessly or relentlessly, that you must be morally blameless in your very core And center, and from this pure heart will flow all of the activities of your life. Those are the people that dwell with God. David lists, if you include the general statements, ten activities or moral commands in verses two through five. I can't match them up with the ten commandments. on a one-for-one scenario. They do not match up in my mind, but these are would be derived from those moral commands we see in Exodus. But you see ten here, and he just walks through them. And I'm not going to go and expound each one here. I'll just list them for you. The first you can see in 2a, which is general, as I've mentioned already, he who walks uprightly and works righteousness. Walk uprightly breaks down into two main categories. Those who work righteousness, and then you see the next stanza there, and those who speak the truth in his heart. My scripture actually has it set up in stanzas where you'd see the main two and then it's indented for the for the next. Verse 3 indented for the next The next two, verse four and then indented. Perhaps your scriptures said that also. And that's helpful to us to see the Hebrew poetics that are going on. To work righteousness is equivalent to executing righteousness. You see situations, and you always secure success in your moral enterprises. You are fruitful with your hands and with your heart. And likewise, to speak truth in your heart, it's not focused so much on the act of speaking. or the content, although both matter, but on the reliability of your words, that people can trust what you're saying. The point is that only those who walk the walk and those who talk the talk with moral blamelessness have entrance to paradise. This is the answer that David is giving. And now David begins to list particular vices and virtues in verse 3, and I'll just go through these briefly. First stanza, does not backbite or gossip. Second stanza, brings no harm to the innocent neighbor Third stanza of verse 3 does not shame or stain the reputation of his innocent neighbor. I'm just reading through these for you. You. These are those who dwell with God. In verse 4, the first stanza, rather they despise evil. What that means is that you don't give social weight to scumbags. You give social weight to those who fear the Lord. As you can see in the second stanza. And in the third, those who will keep a vow even when it hurts. You keep your word even if it hurts. I think of Jephthah as an example. a mysterious example. Or verse 5, the first stanza, if you lend money, it is without charging interest. Second, that you do not receive bribes. And the fuller point is that you would rule justly against the innocent. You would always judge with truth. And with justice, even if it were to hurt you. And that's where the bribe comes in. And so here is one thing I could say. We see what it takes to dwell in paradise, to be with God, go and do likewise. From a pure heart. You can see the immediate difficulty that we run into as humans Beings. Go and do likewise. This didn't even cover all of the Ten Commandments. It was just aspects of the Ten Commandments. But if you were to violate one of these, it says elsewhere in Scripture, then you have violated all of the Ten Commandments. And the fact that it must come from a motivational center of, as he speaks, of blamelessness, of uprightness, who could stand before this? And yet, this is a Torah Psalm for good reason. It's a catechism psalm that all the youth of Israel would have learned. Just be a moral person and you'll go to heaven. That's actually not what he's saying here. This is the problem. When you read a psalm like this, because of the superscript and the way that it's framed within your scriptures, you read it in isolation from its content. From all of the other Psalms. But they were compiled together. They were written by the same person. And more importantly, they all took place, and they all they were all said in the same place. geographical context that we already began to talk about. And so to truly understand the full meaning of what's going on here within this psalm and not erasing the Torah aspect of it at all, which we'll get to, the law Here is our last point, a most moral answer in context. You've already seen the most important question You've already seen that you have question one, answer two through five, and it's a most moral answer. And now we've got to look at the whole psalm, the most moral answer, in the context of the Psalter and in the text. temple system. You must read your scriptures in context. It's vitally important. Otherwise you could make any verse mean anything you want. Haven't you seen people do that to you And so we have to read this in context also. Let me remind you that the context of all the Psalms is the sacrificial worship system of Israel. Israel. When someone would read this psalm, there would be blood nearby. Sacrifices, smoke going up into heaven That's the context of this. The Psalms, it says here a Psalm of David. In other Psalms, it meant it would it would say to the music direct director of music. The Psalms are inspired words set to music for worship. During David's day, this took place in the temple or in the tabernacle, or before it was constructed, David had a special tent made And thus the psalm, with all of its moral instruction, would be physically surrounded by an altar for sacrifices and a consecrated priesthood to offer those sacrifices. And so what we really need to do, if we want to understand the context of this particular psalm and understand the law in context in a Torah Psalm, is you've got to ask this question: why the sacrifices? Why couldn't we just receive a Torah Psalm? Why in the temple must there also be sacrifices? And you already know in your heart the answer to that. Because humanity cannot morally be morally blameless and therefore needs a blameless life substitute. That is the lesson of the sacrifices. That you need a blameless life substitute. Pay very close attention to my words. A life substitute, not a death substitute. That is true also. But I am talking because of the way that this psalm is structured and its message about life and the life that you would live That you need a life substitute. Listen to this. This is from Leviticus 1. 3. All of a sudden, the book of Leviticus is very important for you. Leviticus 1. 3. If his offering is a burnt offering from the herd, he shall offer a male without blemish. Now listen to Leviticus 1. 10. If his gift for a burnt offering is from the flock, so you have the herd, now you have the flock, from the sheep or goats, he shall bring a male without blemish. Were you expecting that? Is that how you have thought of the sacrifices in terms of the emphasis in this portion of Leviticus on being without blemished? Weren't you expecting me to say we need a sacrifice to pay for our sins? That is true also We do need that. But I said a blameless substitutionary life. And this is a common misunderstanding. Both are needed, but this loses its emphasis. Most picture the hands laid on the scapegoat. Have you pictured Do you know what I'm talking about when I say that from Leviticus 16, 5 and 6? Where you lay the hands upon the scapegoat to transfer the high priest with Transfer the sins of Israel onto the goat, and the goat would be sent out away from the dwelling of Yahweh? But is our psalm about going away from Yahweh or going to him? That can't be what's going on here. It's about us dwelling with him. The high priest transfers the sins and the guilt onto the head of the goat, and the goat is sent from the presence of God, and therefore the goat may not dwell on the holy hill or the tabernacle. And this psalm is not about going away from God, it's about it's going to him and dwelling on his hill. And that's why we have to turn to the blameless sacrifices, not those that have become blamed. And that's in the beginning of Leviticus. That's the point of that kind of sacrifice that you must understand as a Christian who have inherited all of these promises. The sacrifice in the temple had to be without blemish or blameless. Did you know that it's in our Psalm the same word blameless and blemish are the same and in verse 2? That's what he's saying. It would have already resonated and brought up pictures of that which is blameless offered in your stead. He who walks blamelessly, being offered without blemish. And full consecration. The blameless sacrifice was offered as a substitute, showing complete devotion and moral perfection for God. Which is why God became disturbed when they would offer sacrifices with blemish. It destroyed the whole point. And so far, I'm only speaking about the replica, the temporary. What about what we learned earlier in the first point about Not only is the tabernacle and the holy hill about a city, it's about all of the new heavens and earth. It's not about the high priest Aaron, it's about the high priest Christ and all of his work for us. When we start bringing it into that realm. We see that it's not the temple and the sacrifices, it's Jesus. And so when we go even further and deepen the context of this psalm, Within worship in the true temple, the new heavens and the new earth, we see that Jesus is answering all of these things for us. Jesus is Yahweh's appointed priest He lives a perfectly moral life that he would be a sacrifice for you without blemish. Offered to God the Father. And therefore, all those who turn to Jesus as priest and sacrifice may join him. on his holy hill. Listen to this from Hebrews 9, 11 through 14. The very context is the sacrificial worship system. But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come Then through the greater and more perfect tent, not made with hands, that is not of this creation, he entered once for all into the holy places not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer sanctify for the purification of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our consciences from dead works to serve the living God. I am not morally blameless, and yet when I accept my offering, who is morally without blemish, I no longer have a guilty conscience, he says. My conscience has been purified from these dead works. to serve the living God in his tabernacle and to dwell with him on his holy hill. Jesus Christ is the key here. And this is brought out in Ephesians 2. 13. But now in Christ Jesus, those of you who could have never dwelled on the hill, those of you who were once far off, have been brought near. How? By the blood of Christ. It is by the blood of Christ, which is morally blameless, that you are able to dwell on his hill. Who shall dwell in the new heavens and the new earth here this morning? How will you answer the most important question of your life How will you deal with the moral ramifications of this psalm? Who shall dwell in the new heavens and the new earth? All who have turned to Jesus as their priestly representative and blameless life sacrifice. That's the answer But here's the problem. If we just stop here, it means that we have to ignore all of the moral responsibility that was placed on us. Because Jesus has taken it up. Is it either or, is it either Jesus or us, or can it be both and in one sense Of course, our justification is only going to be through the blameless Christ and his justifying work. But will he leave us in our sin? Will he apply the Torah Psalm to our hearts that we would become these kinds of people? You know the answer is yes. And that's the beauty. Jesus is the blameless sacrifice and our representative high priest. But for all those who go to him as priest, Jesus is also our king. Conquering us. And don't forget, I'm still reading this in context. This is the Psalm of David, the king of Israel. All the Psalms are about the king But the king is in the order of Melchizedek, and so he's also a priest. He's going to do all of the work, which is why we need no one but Christ as our Savior. As king and as prophet and as priest, and here as king, he subdues the will of his people to the will of Yahweh. In other words, Jesus begins making us really and actually blameless as he changes and sanctifies us progressively. from our sins. He changes you. He makes you into a person who does not backbite and gossip. Verse 3 of Psalm 15. You're the kind of person, or you'll become the kind of person that brings no harm to his innocent neighbor. You will not shame or stain the reputation of your innocent neighbor. You will despise evil and not give strong social standing to scumbags. You'll keep your vows and your oaths, even if it hurts. If you lend money, you won't charge interest. You won't receive prize, but you'll judge justly. And if we were to go further in the context of the scriptures of what the king is doing, he will even change our corruptible bodies. Which would not be allowed in the presence of God, into incorruptible bodies, that in every way we would be really and personally fit to dwell with God in the new heaven and the new earth. When we read this psalm, in context, it is most glorious. It almost turns into a hymn of praise because of what we read, they start to meld together. Whether justified or sanctified, truly any person that puts their hopes in Jesus Verse 5b shall never be moved. He who does these things shall never be moved. They will dwell, according to Psalm 23, verse 6, they will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Do you want to dwell with God in the new heavens and the new earth? Then you must turn to Jesus Here's a second question. Do you want to be a new creation? Are you tired of the same old sin? Do you want to be beautiful and righteous? Do you want to shed the thick skin of sinful thoughts and words and works? It's the same answer. You must turn to Jesus. This is why we sing that Jesus is our Savior, our only Redeemer, and our only mediator. Here's the question. Here's the question for you. And then we need to sing this. Psalm together. Who shall dwell among you in the new heavens and the new earth? It'll be those of you Who put all of your trust in Jesus? Let's pray. Father, it's lovely that it boils down to something so simple, that Jesus loves us, and this we know because the Bible has told us so. But here we see the unfolding of his love. We see the unfolding of your eternal plan of redemption and how it was revealed slowly but surely, even in the book of Leviticus. And now brought to bear in the context of that sacrificial system, we see your Psalm 15, your instruction or Torah Psalm Oh Lord Jesus Christ, we could not keep these laws for a moment, but you have kept them perfectly. And since you are our mediator and our savior, you have kept them for us. You are our great mighty man, our mighty warrior, conquering death and hell and sin and reconciling us to the Father We put all of our trust in you that we would be blameless and righteous. And we put all of our trust in you that we would be sanctified. And eventually glorified, that me may dwell in the new heavens and the new earth with you. Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus. In your name. Amen.