Let's turn together and we're going to stand for the reading of God's Word in Deuteronomy, chapter it's uh not sixteen, but seven. And we'll be looking at twelve through twenty six. This is God's word, Deuteronomy chapter seven, beginning in verse twelve. Then it shall come to pass because you listen to these judgments and keep and do them, that the Lord your God will keep with you the covenant and the mercy which he swore to your fathers. And he will love you and bless you and multiply you. He will also bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your land, your grain, and your new wine and your oil, the increase of your cattle, and the offspring of your flock, and the land of which he swore to your fathers to give you. You shall be blessed above all peoples. There shall not be a male or female barren among you or among your livestock. And the Lord will take away from you all sickness, and will afflict with you none of the terrible diseases of Egypt which you have known But will lay them on all those who hate you. Also you shall destroy all the peoples whom the Lord your God delivers over to you. Your eyes shall not have no pity on them, nor shall you serve their gods, for that will be a snare to you If you should say in your heart, These nations are greater than I, how can I dispossess them? You shall not be afraid of them, but you shall remember well what the Lord your God did to Pharaoh and to all Egypt. The great trials which your eyes saw, the signs and the wonders, the mighty hand and the outstretched arm by which the Lord your God brought you out. So shall the Lord your God do to all the peoples of whom you are afraid. Moreover, the Lord your God will send the hornet among them until those who are left, who hide themselves from you, are destroyed You shall not be terrified of them. For the Lord your God, the great and awesome God, is among you. And the Lord your God will drive out those nations before you little by little You will be unable to destroy them at once, lest the beasts of the field become too numerous for you. But the Lord your God will deliver them over to you, and will inflict defeat upon them until they are destroyed And he will deliver their kings into your hand, and you will destroy their name from under heaven. No one shall be able to stand against you until you have destroyed them. You shall burn the carved images of their gods with fire. You shall not covet the silver or the gold that is on them, nor take it for yourselves, lest you be snared by it. For it is an abomination to the Lord your God. Nor shall you bring an abomination into your house, lest you be doomed to destruction like it. You shall utterly detest and utterly abhor it, for it is an accursed thing. Pray with me. Lord Jesus Christ, I pray that you would personally through your spirit minister to your people through your word this morning. And I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. While driving through Pasadena the other day, there's roadwork being done. Major road work where they have the slow and the stop signs out. letting certain traffic through. And as we were finally allowed through, passing by all of the gentlemen that were working, The one gentleman holding the slow sign, quite older than myself, I'm thinking in the in his 80s, he waved and he smiled. Now, I was not expecting to say this. Jack was in the passenger seat, but out of my mouth I said, folks like him are the salt of the earth. It was just the way he looked. It was the way that he didn't know me, where he made eye contact and recognized me as a fellow human being. Jack asked me, he said, What are you talking about? He's the salt of the earth. What does that mean? And I said, Well, it's born from a biblical saying. I was trying to be real quick on my didn't have I said it's born from a biblical saying, God expects his people to be a great blessing and to incr add incredible value to his world, and that has been extended to just people. Who add value to the world as opposed to diminish this world? They're the salt of the earth. Hard workers was what I was saying. I was saying a man Who was friendly, recognized other human beings, was working a laborious job, and was content, who had the look on his face as if he'd been in the sun his whole life and wanted nothing more. The salt of the earth. Like my grandfather. My grandfather is the kind of guy who who who judges who you are in part by when he shakes your hand if you have any calluses. And you're not gonna get that from typing on a keyboard, so you better start woodworking on the weekends. It was that kind of guy. The salt of the earth. You know, maybe there were other ways that I could have answered Jack's question. I think through experience of who Jack's grandfather is and who his grandfather is. And I hope through me he'll understand. And I hope through you that Jack will understand what it means for someone to be the soul of the earth. I hope he'll have memories of some of you. And he'll think they were the salt of the earth. I wonder how you would answer Jack's question if you if he were to have asked you, if you would to have said it And I wonder if you realize how important the saying is, especially for today, to recognize that this is supposed to be your primary identity. As the people of God, you are meant to be the salt of the earth. You are meant to be a great witness of what Jesus Christ Christ is doing. You know, we often look at this book, Deuteronomy, if we look at it at all. I'm making you look at it by starting a sermon series some time ago. But if we were to look at it on our own, we look at Deuteronomy from a personal moral perspective, which is fine because it does and contain some laws, and therefore you would be personally and morally responsible for what God says to you, that which is applicable. But the thing is, is I hope that you're discovering that Deuteronomy be goes beyond just the personal interaction with law, that there's something larger at stake here, something that transcends the personal. It moves into not only us as a community, a church community or a global church community, the universal church, it moves into what the church is saying to the whole world. The Ten Commandments, the Shema, teaching the gospel to our children, the law of Hafarem, like we talked about last week, they were all part of a bigger plan for God to bless the world through his people. Let me just quote to you where the fountain from which Deuteronomy flows. Genesis 12, verse 3. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you, and in you, Israel, all the families of the earth shall be Blessed. That's the great Abrahamic promise. And if you read Paul, you can see how he works that out. I'll bring it up at the end. But you want to remember this missionary perspective, which is still applicable to us because we are the true Israel. There is no more Jew or Gentile, but all are one are in Christ, all are one in Christ. He has abolished the dividing wall and brought us together as one family. When we remember that, and we also couple that with this missionary perspective, we can see how important it is for us to be going through Deuteronomy today. And it is important for us to remember that as we look at this passage this morning, that we would remember when we look at this passage that all of the blessings that we receive is God's people. All of the blessings that they received in the passage that is before you were meant to be a witness to the world that all blessing comes from God. All of the victories that you have received within your life, no matter how small you think they are and how much awaits you, because all victory awaits you. Whatever the victories are in this passage, it was to teach one thing that all victory comes through God. You've already said it in your bulletin You said it in two ways. Praise God, from whom all blessings flow. And glory be to the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, as it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end. Amen. Both blessing and victory alone are from God, and we as his people are meant to show that to the world. And I'd like to look at it under blessings and victories. We'll just look at it under two parts so that we can understand how this has worked out in this original context. We can be responsible Bible students But I'll also see how this makes a difference for us. So let's take a look at some certain blessings. It begins in verses 12 through 16. If you were to create an outline for yourself, these verses, I believe, should be chunked together. Verses 12 through 16 are very clear. In verse 12, let me read it for you. Then it shall come to pass, because you listen to these judgments and keep and do them, that the Lord your God will keep with you the covenant and the mercy which he swore to your fathers. In verse 12, Moses is giving another motivation before the people set out into war. Now look at verse 13. He's now going to start enumerating, if you're in Shirley English as a student, there's a Enumeration sentences. And here is an enumeration of those blessings. Verse 13. And he will love you and bless you and multiply you. He will also bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your land. And then he continues on. Enumerating the blessings. And so, generally speaking, the motivation is in fact blessing in this passage. The blessings are of two kinds, if you study the passage, the fruit of the womb and the fruit of the land. Future generations, and that their families would increase. But the focus, if you notice, it mentions, of course, all of the things that were promised within the garden, because this is supposed to be a kind of Vision of returning back to Eden. That's always the case within the scriptures. Always trying to get back to Eden, which is why chapter 21 of Revelation is another picture of Eden. You'll see though that the focus here is on land, more so than enumerating and expounding upon generations of human beings. You can see that it says, for example, grand Grain, notice the how it becomes more and more specific with the land. Grain, new wine, olive oil, cattle, offspring of your flock, the lambs. The plants and the animals, and he continues, were open to blight and disease, but part of the blessing, verse 14, again still focusing on the land, is that the land will be free from these curses That was the promise literally to this group of people. And it was a motivation. Now, as believers after the resurrection of Christ, we have to be very careful about how we apply these. kinds of passages to your life. I know that you want to just go ahead and grab the blessings. And that's fine. There's plenty of blessing within the Christian life. But I uh have you let me just get to the Point. Have you heard of the prosperity gospel? Oh, we all have. Okay. There's a I think a Netflix show now called the American Gospel. I encourage you to watch it. The prosperity gospel is defined or also known as the health and wealth gospel, or by most by its most popular brand, the Word of Faith movement. And it is, in fact, a perversion of the gospel of Jesus Christ that claims that God rewards increases in faith with increases in health and/or wealth. That's the basic belief. Now of course we profess that we will receive all health and all wealth inheriting the earth at a particular time in history. namely the end of the age, but that has not occurred. And so they're you know really jumping the gun and promising things before they are promised. They're focused too much on the not yet and not enough on the already, if you want to put it that way One of the most popular forms of Christianity in the world is the is this word of faith movement. It is especially popular outside of North America. It is not a joke. It is, you know, we consider major heresies that have run across the land throughout our past. This is one of them It causes a lot of destruction. It typically accompanies, but not always, but typically accompanies Pentecostal and charismatic movements, because those movements, guess what, have a problem with putting too much emphasis on On the not yet, and not enough on the already, where they get their categories mixed up as to what has already come to be. They use verses like this in this passage to prove their point. If you obey, that is to say, if you exercise enough faith, Then God will bless you with health, and He will bless you with wealth. It's kind of a circular argument Because if you said, well, he hasn't blessed me with health or wealth, then they just say, you haven't had enough faith. And so we're always seeking for more and more faith with the primary motivation. And this can be very difficult in a country that's extremely poor when someone comes in and is rich and says that their riches are from God. I had a friend who finally went out from his parents' roof. and decided that he would try to find his own way, and while at college, decided to attend a Pentecostal church. This was in the city, New York City. While he was there, there was a woman who was diagnosed with cancer. They decided, since this is the age of health and wealth, that if the congregation had enough faith, then this woman would live So they decided that she should deny all medical treatment, which she did. They became concerned that if, you know, what if she dies? The pastor just said, well, I'll raise her to life. So the family bought the whole thing right before him. He watched this. He was very excited to finally get out of the frozen chosen of Reformed faith and get into this vibrant thing where heaven has already descended on earth. And cancer would be healed. And so the cancer came, and it came more rapidly than it would if there would have been some kind of medical treatment. I don't even think they looked for organism. Organic ways, just faith. Well, as you can guess, very quickly she died. They had permission somehow to bring her dead body into their presence The pastor brought his hands over her to raise her from life from death to life, and it didn't work. Now, he left the church immediately. Because he realized what was going on amongst this group of people. They had claimed that a certain power of health and wealth, because of their faith, had entered into this world already, and yet when it mattered most, it left everyone. Everyone empty. So I encourage you to be very, very careful in how you read your scriptures. Do you see how dangerous it is to read your Bible? It's not a joke. It's life and death. That woman could have lived longer. Maybe she would maybe she would have ultimately died from cancer, but she could have lived longer to be with her family. And with her friends. But they had tried to embrace promises that God had never made to them at that particular time. There will be a time when death will be fully defeated, and that'll be at the general resurrection upon Christ's return. So you can see how dangerous it is to misread your Bibles, and so what I want you to do is to look more carefully at this scripture to see exactly what is the author's intent during this time. This passage was a motivation for that particular group of people, not first and foremost you. It was a particular motivation for them to resist intense temptation at that time. What they were heading into, physical and literal war, God had provided and given these promises to them so that they would be able to make it. You are not in the exact same situation, although I'll show you there are some timeless things. The temptation was for them to stop being a blessing to the world. And to join the world in their idolatrous darkness. That was always the temptation. So motivation after motivation had to be given to them. They were also scared to go forward into war. Look at this passage again so that you can begin to see the emphasis. The expressions of blessing. Now you would have to look at this in the original language or read someone who knows it to understand what is going on here in this passage. The expressions of blessing are every single one of them are rare Hebrew words. They are not the typical word that a person would use when saying these kinds of of sentences. It would be like if I asked you out for a glass of wine and I say, hey, you want to get a little fruit of the vine with me? You'd say, no, because you're weird. That sounded really weird. No one says fruit of the vine. They say fruit of the loom, I guess. Sorry. I couldn't resist And so too here, if you were to do a word study, you would see that each one of them are rare. For example, the word grain, degon Wine, usually the word is yayin. Here it's turshu. Oil, shamen is normally the word. Yeshar is the word that each is here. Increase of cattle is usually a gel. Here usually shigar. Offspring of your flock is usually cobes. Here it's estarte. Each word, therefore, if it is chosen and rare, why is it that they chose these rare words? Each word is deliberately chosen to assert one thing Every single word that we see there is showing us that Yahweh is the only God and from him all blessings flow. What they have chosen to do in this passage is to choose the rare word that is lexically connected. With the names of the gods of Canaan. Each god in Canaan was named after that particular area which they controlled. For example, the grain god. The wine God, the oil god, the increase of cattle god, the offspring of your flock god. If you were aware of the Canaan gods, then you would have heard their names. I just said them to you. Dagon, for example, should be a very familiar one. And so that is what's actually going on here. And the primary emphasis is that they are to realize that they are to be a witness to the whole world That these other gods do not bless anyone. It is Yahweh alone who is in charge of the grain and the wine and the cattle and the sheep and all the cattle on a thousand hills. He alone is the one from whom all blessings flow. And they were to be a witness to that. That's the whole point of this passage. And they were to learn that themselves amidst temptation. And so when we put this back in the missionary context, we realize that the whole world was to look to Israel and realize that they must turn from their supposed gods, like Ashtarte. In repentance and run to the only true God, Yahweh. Now, you know, this is exactly what Paul is doing, because idolatry continues into the book of Acts as he goes around the meditation. Mediterranean Sea. People are still thinking that certain gods are giving them the blessings, like Zeus, as opposed to Yahweh. If you want to, you can turn to Acts chapter 14, verses 15 through 17. But this is exactly what Paul's argument is from. Paul and Barnabas enter into the city. Paul heals a lame man. Immediately the priest of Zeus brings Sacrifices to sacrifice to Paul and Barnabas because they believe that they are the gods that have descended. That's the context. And Paul says, Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men with the same nature as you. And preach to you that you should turn from these useless things to the living God, who made the heaven, the earth, the sun. And all things that are in them, who in bygone generations allowed all nations to walk in their own ways, nevertheless, he did not leave himself without witness And Israel was meant to always be a witness to this, in that he did good. Listen to this: He's the one that gave us rain from heaven. He is the one that gave us fruitful seasons. He's the one that filled our hearts with food and with gladness. Now that that's a figure of speech there. Notice how filling that he gave us rain, rain from the heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food. And then with gladness, which is a reference to wine. So you can see the grain and the wine and the cattle, everything is supposed to be referenced back to him, and they were supposed to get that, but they were still missing it And so Paul, as a good Christian, witnesses to them there on the spot that they would begin to understand what was supposed to be taught all along from the nation of Israel. Israel as they were set off into a separate land as a separate nation and a separate people peculiar to their God, showing forth his praises. That group was motivated with material blessing. That is true. That was for them in their particular time. But the larger and the timeless point for all of God's people is that they are to see us as an example of knowing who the only true God is and from whom all blessings flow, and they would turn to Him. The people of God, in other words, are blessed to show that all blessings flow from Him. And God's power Is to be demonstrated through his people. Now, as we move on to the next part of this, there's a question that arises in their mind in verse 17. You can imagine the conversation that's going on inside of the crowd as Moses gives this motivational sermon. Okay, I'll acknowledge that God gives us. Makes everything fertile. But can he really, like when it comes down to it, can he really overcome seven other gods? That we're getting ready to go up against. Isn't that what mustn't that be what's going on as we consider that God not only gives us certain blessings, but He's going to give us give them a certain victory. Look at the verse. It's really coming out of a question in seventeen. If you should say in your heart You can see Moses giving the motivational speech and he catches the eye of one person who's going, I don't know about this idea, Moses. I mean, come on. You're not even going into the land, man. I'm the one that's got to go You could see this doubt that's rising within their hearts. And so now Moses in this next point is going to reassure them by showing them that they will have certain victory as God's people. And this is verses 17 through 21. Now that he's uh reassuring them is easy to see. He looks on their doubtful faces in verse 17, and then therefore, beginning in verses 18 and following, he reassures them of their certain victory. That will happen in the future with the past victories that they have already had. Now we have to see this in light of the context again. It's very important to make good observations Surely we have already read that they should have assurance of victory, even though they doubted that the nations were more. This was a problem within their minds. There were more nations than the one nation. There were seven. They were very concerned about that. We saw earlier also that they were usually taller and stronger. The one person was 9 to 13 feet tall. They doubted because the nations had stronger militaries and stronger military weapons. But in the ancient Near East, we must understand that it's never just about human militaries fighting human militaries. And you don't have to read scholarship on the ancient Near East, just read the scriptures To see how these people interact in battle and what their real concerns are. Of course, they're concerned about military might, but ultimately it always goes back to whose God is stronger. That's always the question. And so if you were to look at verse 18, this is how he's reminding them. You shall not be afraid of them, but you shall remember what the Lord, your God, did, and now he's going to hold it in opposition to Pharaoh, who was considered a God. And all of the gods that were supposed to be looking over Egypt in those domains that God showed Himself to control through the plagues Each of the plagues of Egypt was a divine battle between Yahweh and the gods of Egypt, showing himself to be the one who actually controls that domain. The land, the sea, the insect, the animal, even Pharaoh himself, Yahweh was in charge. That's always how they understood it. They understood Yahweh as the divine warrior Sending forth the hornet before them to take care of their adversaries, showing himself to be the God of heaven and earth and in charge of all things. And that was demonstrated in Egypt. He is the Lord of Lords and the King of Kings. You see, in Egypt, they thought there were many lords and many kings. And the declaration here is that he is above them all. For example, if you want at another time, just take a look at Exodus chapter 15, particularly in verse 11, with the song of Moses. Look at the song of Miriam. They are war songs. And it is about a divine warrior overcoming all of the gods, even Pharaoh himself, who claimed divinity. And so Moses, therefore, is recalling the former great divine battles among gods and the certain victory of Yahweh over them all. It wasn't just about physical military. There is a much bigger picture that's going on here within that society. We have a secular society and we have trouble connecting to the They saw the divine in everything, and spoons and bowls and plates. Everything was owned by a God. And if you received curses, it was because of some God of that particular area So what he's saying here is he's saying if you look back, and Yahweh could destroy all of those gods of Egypt How much more will he be able to destroy all of the gods in Canaan? And now, of course, God's is in quotation, because there really are no other gods, he's the only one. But that's the rhetoric that he uses. That's the author's intention. That's the specifics of that original context. And I imagine, or I could imagine you saying, boy, I am so glad that we have moved away from such archaic thoughts and got to the New Testament so that we don't have to have weird conversations like this anymore. But the problem is, is when you get to the New Testament, it's the same conversation that is happening. Acts 1927. So not only is this trait of ours in danger of falling into disrepute, this is after Paul goes to Ephesus, and he starts to preach Christ as the Lord. The merchants there who make idols, who work in a temple of a god, say this. So not only is this trait of ours in danger of falling into disrepute, but also the temple of the great goddess Diana may be despised and her magnificence destroyed, whom all Asia and the world Worship. It's still continuing, folks, even in the New Testament, under Christ. 1 Timothy 6, 15 through 16 Which we will manifest in his own time, he who is the blessed and only potentate, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords who alone has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen or can see, to whom be honor and everlasting power. Amen. Now what would it be like if you were under Caesar's reign and someone said Jesus Christ is the only potentate. Do you understand the political context of this? Caesar had made himself, had claimed divinity and titled himself on his own coins. Son of God. You see, it's the same thing. It's another Pharaoh. And the message that Paul brings forth is that there will be certain victory even over the Roman Empire. Those who claim to be kings of who who claim this themselves to be kings, well guess what? There is a king of all kings. And those who say themselves to be lords, well guess what? There is a lord of all lords. Certain victory is yours. Christian. I don't care what Caesar says about himself. Read the coin, but then throw it away. Because he's not the Son of God. Jesus is. Is a direct assault against Caesar who claimed divine status. Now listen to this one. I know you've read this before. But listen to the words, particularly in the conversation that we're having about certain victory. Acts chapter 12, verse 21 through 23. Haven't you read this before about Herod splitting open? Listen to the words more carefully now in this context. So on a set day, Herod arrayed in royal apparel. Sat on his throne and gave an oration to them. And the people kept kept it's I think in some translations it says purple apparel, showing his reality and He sits on his throne, he gave an oration to them, and the people kept shouting, the voice of a God, and not of a man. And then comes verse 23. Because of what God the Father is still doing, then immediately an angel of the Lord struck him. Because he did not give glory to God, and he was eaten by worms, and he died. Do you see how it changes when we We get the context right of the main narrative that's still flowing through, not just in the Deuteronomy, but coming up into the New Testament It would be these victories for New Testament Christians over supposed divine rulers of that day that would remind them of their certain victory through Jesus Christ. Christ. They're essentially seeing ever since the resurrection of Jesus Christ, the idols in all of the Greek towns and their temples are being knocked over and smashed, and there's nothing They can do about it. The greatest idol of all who's on the coin, Caesar himself, Jesus Christ is conquering. And that would be important for people to see as they are dragged out of their homes, they lose their property, and their children and wives are killed. In persecution, particularly as it reaches into Nero. But they would see by faith and not by sight, and remember stories about Herod, and remember stories about the only potentation. and see the and remember the resurrection of Jesus Christ would be so important to them not to have some kind of religious feel-good feelings. But to remember that no matter what it looks like out there, God the Father through Jesus Christ is conquering all of his enemies and ours. It is a certain victory No matter what my eyes tell me. Now that's this passage. There's a lot of Christian meat and teaching in there. We can responsibly deal with this passage and not take things that are not intended for us, but there sure are enough timeless things to take. It begins by seeing certain blessings. The Old Testament people of God were blessed for their obedience as a prime motivation. But more importantly, as we start to generalize out, to see how it is applied timelessly, It is to show the world that all blessings flow from Yahweh, and you can see that from the argument of the rare names. There is also certain victory for God's people. The people struggled with fear just as we do. Not only were the nations greater, but they feared the gods of those nations, most importantly. And that goes up into the New Testament. Moses reminds them that all gods are nothing before Yahweh. And that mentality continues. Therefore, God continued to show all the world that he is greater than Zeus, he is greater than Caesar, he is greater than Herod. Which is why Herod, after the after the people pronounced him to be a god, was eaten by worms in God's providence. Are you getting the point? All blessings and all victory belong only to Yahweh and those who join him Now that's a truth that you can hold on to. When we tie that back into our missionary context, we can enter back into the personal moral. And realize that you are supposed to be the salt of the earth in this particular way, a witness to the greatness and the power of your God against all other gods. You know, as I'm meditating on this passage, there is this dear experience that I had when I was a child. That still rises at least a few times a month for me. When I was younger, I had night terrors, and things would get really weird for me. And my grandmother, who is very dear to me, love you grandma, she gave me a card. That had a prayer on the back, and she knew I was a visual person, and on the front of that card was a picture of Michael the Archangel With his foot on the neck of Satan. And that image strikes me all the time. I think of it all the time. I think of how comforted I was after saying. The prayer. We are supposed to be a group of people where that card and that picture is a witness that we manifest. every single day of our life. You know, it can be difficult to figure out how am I supposed to connect all this, all these gods and these little statues and I prayed through the passage in Ephesians chapter six on purpose. It said that our battle was not only with flesh and blood, but with the principality. And the powers of this age. How is it that principalities and powers manifest themselves over the and rule over the human race? Is it not that they create deception nationwide? and infrastructures of deception. When you look, and I would encourage you to do this, when you look at your scriptures, who is it that created and put into place those Greek gods? Isn't every temple around every Mediterranean city during that time a manifestation of the influences of the princes? of the the powers, those forces and how they manifest themselves in the great deception of Satan. You see where I'm going with this in the card? Satan has deceived the entire world. Didn't you not know that? But here's the thing Is that Jesus Christ is so powerful and so strong in the book of Revelation, he sends Michael the archangel who can defeat Satan and doesn't even need to show up himself. Now that shows real power. But we know, of course, that it is through Jesus Christ, and however he would work, and whatever means that he would use, where he is destroying the power of the devil. Let me ask you, let's bring this down just for a second, and then we'll go to the supper. What are the works of Satan within your life? Now when you think of that, you think of like the eighties and nineties and you think, I don't play Dungeons and Dragons. And you think I've never made a uh some weird star in my basement sacrificing chick. Chickens or whatever. But is that really the only way that he manifests himself? How is it that he brings deceptions and lies and destruction and death and futility Into your life. In other words, what are the works of the devil? What has he brought to this world, and how are they specifically showing up in your relationships? The message of the gospel is that Jesus Christ is the only one, and he is acting to reverse the work of the devil. That is what it means. And it has already begun within your life. Many of you have already given me testimonies. You have given me your memoirs. Whether you've grown up in the church or you haven't grown up in the church, you are sharing with me, with everything that you tell me. The work that Jesus Christ is doing in slaying the work of the devil. Anything good? Anything good in your life? It's because Jesus Christ Himself has beaten back the tide of sin within your life. Anytime you have understanding and you gain clarity, it's because Jesus Christ has beaten back the confusion within your life. And that has begun now, I understand, in a small way, and it will be completed at the end of days. But those are our blessings from Jesus Christ that are being pronounced. They are our certain victories in Jesus Christ, which we'll discover even more at the table. Are you getting the picture? Do you see the picture of Michael, the archangel, putting his foot on the neck, sent by Christ himself to destroy the work of the devil, whether it's in idols or not? What God was doing through this group of people, he consummates and he does through Jesus Christ. You know, they fall away in an exile. They become like the nations themselves. But God the Father raises Jesus Christ as the ultimate Israel, the representative of all his people to bless the entire world and ever since that time The world has been streaming to him for blessing and for victory. Do you see that that's the Christian story? That this story was just a shadow of the reality that you yourself are experiencing. Are you ready to be witnesses in your life to that fact? To the facts of the blessings of Jesus Christ? Let's live up to our doxology and live up to our theme song of this church, Victory in Jesus. Now we have a special opportunity this morning to consider this even further as we participate. So let's close in prayer, and then I'd ask that we would move into our invitational song and for the elders to please prepare the table. Please join me in prayer. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for the blessings and the victories of Jesus. And we ask you, as our Lord, that you would go forth now with us into this table, that what we have heard, that we would tangibly see, that we would taste. That we would know more clearly through your sacrament what it is to commune with you, to receive your blessing, to receive your victory. We ask these things in your name. Amen.