Then they came to the other side of the sea to the country of the Gadderenes. And when he had come out of the boat, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit. who had his dwelling among the tombs, and no one could bind him, not even with chains, because he had often been bound with shackles and chains, and the chains had been pulled apart by him, and the shackles broken in pieces, neither could any one tame him. And always, night and day, he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying out and cutting himself with stones. When he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and worshipped him. And he cried out with a loud voice and said, What have I to do with you, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I implore you by God that you do not torment me. For he said to him, Come out of the man, unclean spirit. Then he asked him, What is your name? And he answered, saying, My name is Legion, for we are many. Also he begged him earnestly that he would not send them out of the country. Now a large herd of swine was feeding there near the mountains. So all the demons begged him, saying, Send us to the swine that we may enter them. And at once Jesus gave them permission. Then the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine. There were about two thousand, and the herd ran violently down the steep place into the sea, and drowned in the sea. So those who fed the swine fled, and they told it in the city and in the country, and they went out to see what it was that had happened. Then they came to Jesus, and saw the one who had been demon possessed, and had the legion sitting And clothed, and in his right mind. And they were afraid. And those who saw it told them how it happened to him who had been demon-possessed and about the swine. Then they began to plead with him to depart from their region. And when he got into the boat, he who had been demon-possessed begged him that he might be with him. However, Jesus did not permit him, but said to him, Go home to your friends. and tell them what great things the Lord has done for you, and how He has had compassion on you. And he departed, and began to proclaim in Decapolis all that Jesus had done for him, and all marvelled Please pray with me. Almighty and gracious God, thank you for this picture in the life of our Savior. We ask, Lord, that you will reveal it to us now. By your Spirit, lead us into all truth. And also we beg you, Holy Spirit of God, do not let this word come into us and then leave, but let it stay in us, be planted in us, and grow up to bear fruit for your Glory. And I pray, Almighty God, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. Children, did you know that there was a time in human history when one of the most powerful rulers One of the most powerful kings in all of history. Went insane and crazy. I'm not talking about present rulers, and I'm not talking about recent history. I'm not talking about any American presidents, if that's what you're wondering. We're talking about King Nebuchadnezzar. And in Daniel chapter 5, we are told something. Daniel chapter 5. We're told in verse 21. Then he was driven from the sons of men, his heart was made like the beasts, and his dwelling was with wild donkeys. They fed him with grass, like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven, till he knew that the Most High God rules in the kingdom of men and appoints over it whomever he chooses. King Nebuchadnezzar was so prideful, he was so proud of himself and thought that he had earned and gained his own power, that the Lord God had to humble him. And he made him like a wild beast, living as though he were an animal. Well, you may have heard in our passage tonight we have a similar experience of a man. who was living as though he were a wild animal. But before we get into this passage, I just want to remind us that Mark has been showing us Through these snapshots of Jesus' life, that Jesus is the Son of the Living God He has done what only God can do. He's cleansed the lepers. He's forgiven sins. And to prove that he could forgive sins, he healed a paralyzed man. He has restored withered limbs and done many wonderful things. He's taught. And the way he taught, if you recall, he was teaching with such authority and power that it was as if no one had ever taught that way in the history of the world In the previous chapter, in chapter four, Jesus has been teaching how his people need to understand this world and what it is he's doing in it, no matter what it may seem like. He's given us These parables, these wonderful stories, and we've gone through the parable of the soils, learning that it is God's will that a person's heart would be made ready to receive the seed, the word of the gospel. We saw in the parable of the lamps that it is Christ's fire that has lit us, and it is his light that we shine into the world We spread the gospel, we patiently trust Him to grow those whom the seed has been planted in, that it will grow up, first the the sprout, then the blade, then the grain, then the full grain. God is moving the spread of His gospel through this world. And from the last time we were in Mark, we saw we had moved beyond just the parables, and we got this wonderful incident. Do you remember? It was the incident of the storm. And Jesus showed himself to be the master even. of winds and waves. And from this, the followers of Christ learn that we do not need to be afraid because God cares about us. And he uses his power to bring peace into the lives of his people. Well, in our passage tonight, we learn something very, very special, very important. We learn that the power of Jesus Christ. Conquers our depravity and restores our humanity. Brothers and sisters, the power of Jesus Christ conquers your depravity And restores your humanity. We're going to examine this passage in two main headings tonight. We're going to first look at conquered depravity. We'll see this in verses 1 through 13. And then we'll look at restored humanity, verses 14 through 20. So let's jump right into it. And first we look at verses 1 through 13 and we see how the power of Jesus conquers depravity. And we see it by examining the description of unrestrained depravity, which we'll see in verses 1 through 5, and the impact That Jesus has on human depravity in verses six through thirteen. So looking now at verses one through five, let us see how the scriptures describe the unrestrained depravity of this poor man. Who is known through history as the Gathering Demoniac? Do you guys know what depravity is? Depravity is defined as moral corruption, wickedness of mind and heart. This passage has not been included to prove to us that there is a supernatural world of demons or an unseen realm. That's not why this passage is included. This passage is dealing with human depravity. And I want you to notice a few things. Notice that immediately. Do you see it there in verse 2? Immediately. Jesus has no chance to get settled or to rest. And if you recall, that was the reason that they got into the boat and wanted to sail across the sea. was to get rest from those multitudes. But nope, Jesus doesn't get any rest. As soon as they land the boat, this poor man, this poor Tortured man with the unclean spirit, he rushes to Jesus. So the first application I just want to give very quickly is, do you notice that Jesus seems to never get a rest? Does it ever feel like in your life it's just one thing after another, one challenge, one trial, one storm following on the heels of another one? I just want to encourage all of you tonight. Your Savior knows what that's like. He can relate to you. No sooner has he finished delivering a most powerful sermon with those parables and getting through that storm than he's confronted by this man. And you could imagine how terrifying that might have been, especially for the disciples, who, well, they don't quite know what's happening. I want you to look now at the description of this man. We'll see this description of his depravity. Look at verse 3. He lives in the tombs. What does that tell us? One, it tells us he was unclean. We know from the Old Testament that to be living among dead bodies would make you ritually unclean They would not be able to enter the temple or the tabernacle and to praise and worship God. But it also tells us something else. It tells us that this man was not able to make his dwelling among the living. Those who were alive, other people, were not willing for him to stay with him. And we find out why in the rest of the description of his unrestrained depravity. He has an unnatural strength All of the normal methods that the society would have had to restrain this man's wickedness and his evil, they failed. You see what they were doing? They had put chains on him. It says often. That tells us something else. It tells us that this was not just a one-time incident. The man didn't just have a a crazy season, and then he was going to be shackled, and that was the end of it. It had happened over and over again to the point where he was driven out into the wilderness. Now, this unnatural strength that he has, he's able to pull the chains apart. He's able to break this the shackles of the fetters on his feet. Now this may be the strength that's coming from the demons. Or it could be a strength that comes from the unrestrained depravity. Most of us are restrained by our pain sensations, aren't we? If we do something that hurts us, we stop. This man may have been so far gone in his mind that he could have injured himself. You may have seen in movies, you ever seen in a movie where somebody gets the handcuffs off by breaking their thumb? It always makes me go, oh, oh, that's terrible. But they're willing to take this pain so that they can slip out of their bonds. Perhaps that's something that was happening to this man. Mark says that no one could tame him. Do you see that word there in the New King James? It comes from a Greek word which is related to the word for house, domos. And it's from this word that we get the English word domesticated. This man was undomesticated. He was not fit to be in homes or human dwellings. Essentially, he was wild. He was a wild man, wild like a wild animal. It says that he's constantly, night and day, living in those wilderness places, crying out. And harming himself, this word for crying out, it's not like he was shouting nonsensical phrases or shouting words at people. It's the same word that would be used for the crying out of an animal Have you ever been outside at night and heard a fox cry out? It can be terrifying. This is the kind of thing that we were hearing. Those anyone who came near those tombs and those cave dwellings in the wilderness would have heard the crying out of this man. And it would have been a shock. And then I want you to notice one last thing. Notice the self-destructive behavior from his unrestrained depravity. It says that he was cutting himself with stones. He has no regard for his own physical safety, something which is very much descriptive of human beings in their right mind. Most of us won't do something that we know will destroy us. And so the demoniac here is a picture for us of the state of a human being. in unrestrained depravity. And as I said before, this doesn't mean that I don't believe these were actual demons possessing this man. We just don't have time to go into all of that now. And I'd be happy to have a a lunchtime conversation with you about the unseen realm. and about demon possession. But that's not what this passage is here for. It's here to show us the depravity of this man who was unrestrained and it made him like a wild beast. Made him dangerous and it made him terrifying. But something happens, something which no one who had ever encountered this man could have anticipated And so we see in verses 6 through 13 the impact of Jesus on that man's depravity. The man sees Jesus from afar and he runs to him. Now it's it's possible that when he saw him from afar, he was just looking for another victim, someone else to terrify or to shriek at or to to to steal food from. Who knows what he was doing. It's a horrific thought. Imagine, you ever seen a picture of Charles Manson? Any of you? He he looked He looks like a wild man. Could you imagine if a naked Charles Manson ran down the hill at you shrieking and screaming? I'd be scared. I'm not scared of much, but I'd be scared of that. The Lord knows what he is going to do. And something happens when he approaches Jesus. He runs up to him and he does something that no one could have expected. Do you see what he does? He submits. The man who could not be subdued and could not be tamed or domesticated falls on his knees and on his face before Jesus Christ Encountering the Messiah overpowers the wickedness and the depravity in this man, even the wickedness from the unclean spirit. And so he bows. This word for worship is a beautiful word. It's proshuneo in the Greek. And it means to come forward or toward, to kiss. And the image here would be that of uh some of royalty or of a king. You would come forward to him and you would bow to kiss his signet ring. It's used many times in the New Testament for the way that we worship Jesus. And so he does this, despite his wildness and his wickedness. There was no way that he could deny that he was in the presence of the King. What no one else could do by human methods. Simply the presence of the Messiah does. It subdues him. You see there he asks, What have I to do with you? which is essentially him saying We are so incompatible. We are in different worlds. What in the world is happening here? Why are you here? What could you possibly want with me? He uses a divine title. A title that was used in that verse that I read from Daniel. Do you recognize it? He calls him the Son of the Most High God. And for me, this seals. It seals the truth that this man really was possessed by demons. Why? Because we have seen these unclean spirits often identifying Jesus as the Son of God. They're the only ones that know it. Humans don't really get it at this point. Even Jesus' disciples don't really understand. You remember at the end of the last passage when Jesus calms the storm? Do you remember what the disciples say? Who is this man? Who could he be? He is the Son of the Most High. That term comes from the Old Testament, from the Hebrew, El-Eljon. God above all, or the Most High God. This is the Greek equivalent of that word. This demon reveals that it knows exactly what its future is. Do you see that? He he begs that Jesus would not torment him. He implores, and he he implores by God, basically swearing. He's begging for a kind of mercy, if mercy could be shown to him. He wants to be allowed to continue as he had been. Until that appointed future time of judgment. And if we were to go back into Revelation, we'd see that there is appointed a time of judgment where all of the demons, where Satan, and even death, sin, and hell itself will be cast into the lake of fire. In verse 8, we have something interesting for us. It says in the New King James, For he said to him, but the construction of this verb actually helps us understand a better picture of what's happening. Literally translated as Jesus was saying to him. And so we get a clear picture that this man had rushed to him, and while he's rushing to him, Jesus begins to speak. And before Jesus can complete his statement, which is recorded for us, come out of the man, unclean spirit, before he's finished, this man is begging him begging Jesus, imploring him. And so we see Christ's compassion. I don't believe this is compassion for the unclean spirits. No, this is compassion for the man. He recognizes how this demonic possession has unrestrained his depravity and made this man so dark, so ravaged by wickedness. So what does Jesus do? Look there. He asks him in his name. And I believe Jesus is asking the man. This is important. He's asking the man his name. He is not asking the unclean spirit. He is humanizing this wild creature. This is not an animal. This is a human being. I know we have dogs, and our dogs can recognize their name. But have you ever rescued a dog that had a different name and you changed its name and it only takes a couple weeks that dog now responds to a new name? The only names animals have are the names we give them. They don't know their names. You ask a human what their name is And so the man answers. Do you see what he answers? It tells us a lot about how he thinks of himself. He says, My name is Legion, for we are many. He identifies completely with the unclean spirits that are within him. Whatever his given name had been, he has replaced it. And he has replaced it, supplanted it, with one that includes his new identity. In verse ten The man is the one begging not to be sent out of the country. It's not the demons. And we'll find out later why. We'll find that out when we get to the last section. It's because this is his homeland. This is his home, and he doesn't want to be driven out of it. He had already been driven out of the towns and the human dwellings, but he was not willing to leave the region. He went and lived in the tombs. Verses 11 to 13, there's a shift now. Shift is now to the demons. The demons are doing something. And you see what they do there. They beg Jesus. They beg him. In Luke 8, verse 31, we're told that they beg that Jesus would not command them to go out into the abyss. Which really highlights for us that these demons knew what their ultimate end was. They are terrified of Christ. Why are they terrified of him? Because he is the perfect. holy judge of all creation. They know that he will justly judge them for their wickedness. And they know that there is no hope for them at that time. There is no savior for the demons. That is a privilege and a blessing that the plan of God is only for human beings. There is only a human savior, not a demon savior. And so they begged to be given permission to enter a large herd of unclean animals nearby in Jesus. Out of mercy for the man, out of compassion and love for the man. At once allows them to do that. And we're told a large number of pigs. How many? Tells you there. 2,000 pigs. And they run off a cliff into the sea and they drown. So, what is the impact of Jesus Christ on this man whose unrestrained depravity is so clearly described for us? The depravity is conquered. This poor man was so far gone because of the supernatural demonic possession. His humanity was nearly gone. Yet in this encounter with Jesus Christ, The wildness and the depravity is conquered. He is conquered. He is subdued. He is tamed. What no man could do, Jesus accomplishes by his word and his presence. And in casting out the many demons, Jesus has conquered the man's depravity. And thus, what has he done? He has restored. And this is what we see in verses fourteen through twenty. We see restored humanity. Whenever Jesus does this miraculous saving work Conquering depravity, restoring humanity, as we've seen previously in Mark, there is always something amazing. There are awesome results. And we see these awesome results in verse 14. In this case, we see a very common result, one which Mark has been telling us over and over again. When Jesus works, wonder spreads. It spreads far and wide. When Jesus is at work doing his holy will, it is so amazing that those who witness it, even those who witness out on the fringes of it. They cannot help but share what they have experienced. I want you to notice that we're not told that the herd was visible to Jesus and his crew. We're not told that they could see the herd. It's the demons who knew that the herd was there and asked for permission to go there. And so for the herdsmen, they may not have even seen a boat. Pull up to shore, it may have just been like all of a sudden these pigs go wild and throw themselves off a cliff And so the word spreads. Many come in awe of what they have heard has happened. And what do they see? What do they find? They find a man so transformed, so wholly and completely different from what they were expecting. What is their reaction? They're terrified. They hadn't they knew of this man. They knew of the wild man who lived in the tombs and who terrified everybody. And they see him restored. They see him with his humanity fully restored. He's sitting there. That's what it says. It says that he's clothed, he's in his right mind. No one would ever have imagined that was possible for that man. They knew what he was like. They knew that the strongest of the local police force couldn't subdue this man. And then they find him like a human being. It's not difficult to understand their reaction when they're told how it happened, how he was tamed, how his depravity was conquered. Look at their response in verse 17. A crazy man they can in some ways understand, can't we? We can be with them. We can understand somebody who's gone a little off. And does some things. We can even understand a demon-possessed man. It makes some sense to them. But this man With the power to spare him and to conquer the depravity, that does not make sense. For them it does not compute Jesus is so far beyond what could have ever been imagined. Like the disciples, they're wondering, who is he? Who is this man? How can he do this? How can he restore one so far gone? Well, it's almost beyond doubt that these are Gentiles. Right? A herd of 2,000 pigs, that's a bit big for a person's personal pig farm, right? It's not just one Gentile in a big area. Two thousand pigs, that's a that's a pig economy. Right? And we have some historical data that tells us this this region, and we can get into all the details why it's the uh Garasenes or the Gadderenes or the Gergosenes, there's all different names. We can get into that at another time if we wanted. But it's obvious that this was a Gentile region, not a Jewish region. They don't even want to try to make sense of it because they have no previous knowledge of Yahweh or Jehovah. They don't have any any frame of reference for what's happened here. They are terrified because all of this year's prophets just flew off a cliff. Whatever this guy is doing, they don't want to be part of it. They just want him to get out. The awesome results of Christ restoring humanity in one so entrenched in depravity, so tortured by the evil, wicked spirits. It's the spreading of wonder among all the peoples, even people who don't know that there's a God named Jehovah. And there's fear. There is absolute terror because of the otherness of this man. This God man, the Lord Jesus. And though that is the result in those who are watching it happen or hearing about it, we see a very different result in the one whose humanity has been restored by Jesus Christ. That man was restored. The image of God was no longer clouded or hidden in the deep darkness of those evil spirits. Now he has received something wonderful. the restoration of his humanity, and he gets then another marvelous thing, a marvelous mission. For Jesus Christ. And we see the mission in two ways. He now knows who is to be the object of his loving devotion. And he now has a wondrous message to deliver. So we're looking now at verses 18 through 20. In verse 18, it's clear the man begs Jesus to let him stay with him, to go with him wherever he goes, to be near him. And when Jesus conquers depravity and restores humanity in us, it creates an abiding love for Him. It creates a desire to be with Him and to be near Him and to be in His presence always. Could you imagine the formerly possessed man ever wanting to look for another savior throughout the rest of his life? Where would he even go to find such a savior? He had nothing to do with this Savior coming to him now. How would he go about finding another one? One aspect of the marvelous mission that was given to him by Christ. Is that now and forevermore, he must live his life in loving devotion to the Lord Jesus and to his Father in heaven. But we see in verse 19 that Jesus does not permit him. I wonder why that is. Do you have any ideas why he wouldn't permit him? Well, one, we've already kind of been talking about it. If this is a Gentile region, it's likely this man was a Gentile. It's likely that It would have been problematic for a Gentile at that time in Jesus' ministry to then be added to the twelve disciples who had already been called. And so it wasn't fitting for him to then be in that place of honor that he had requested. Although I think that the the formerly possessed man, he wasn't looking for honor, he was really just looking to stay as close to Jesus as he possibly could. But Jesus has another idea, doesn't he? He has a marvelous mission for this man. He gives him a wonderful message that needs to be shared. The Greek here of what Jesus says, I love it how it is literally, because it's a little bit clearer to us than what's put in the New King James. Literally, the Greek says, go to your home. to those who are yours. It shows us what's happening here, doesn't it? Kind of explains to us why the man did not want to leave that country in that region. It's his home. He has family and friends, those who are his, that he loves, that are there. He has a primary vocation, that was his vocation, his calling, that had been distorted by his depravity And Jesus is telling him, go back to what you were called to. Be the man that you can now be, having your humanity restored. Live out that calling and use it for God's glory. He has a glorious message to deliver to them. And do you see what he's to tell them? He's to tell them what great things the Lord has done for you. And how he has had compassion on you. And so he goes. And he doesn't just share it in his little town. We're told he shares it in the Decapolis. Do you guys know what Decapolis is? It means ten cities. And there were ten cities along the Transjordan region, and he's traveling through and doing this. Brothers and sisters, the awesome power of Jesus Christ conquers depravity and restores humanity. He did it for this poor man. Do you doubt that he can do it for you? Are any of you here tonight more depraved and more wicked than this man Are any of you in more need of being put into your right mind than that man filled with legion of evil spirits? If God can do this for him, he can do it for any one of us. None of you are so far gone that God cannot restore your humanity, save you, and give you a marvelous mission for his glory. I don't know if you noticed this, but I did. Because I've lived a depraved life. I've had a time of depravity myself. And I started to notice some of my own life's depravity. in the description of this man. I wonder if you did. The man was naked. Nakedness is often included with depravity, isn't it? Nakedness Pornography, a perversion about sexuality. This is often what happens when our depravity is unrestrained. There's another aspect to nakedness too. This man had no shame. We cover ourselves, right? There's a there's a point in in our lives when you're a child that's a It it happens pretty young, where all of a sudden running around naked isn't funny and cute anymore. He wants to hide himself. She wants to cover herself. Unrestrained depravity is shamelessness. And I recognize that in my own depraved life before Christ grabbed me. There was nothing that was shameful. No one could shame me. That didn't matter what I did. I didn't feel that shame. Like this man, sometimes we can feel unbound, unrestrainable. Nobody can tell us what to do. Nobody could tell you that you shouldn't be that way and shouldn't live that way. There's a great word. The word is incorrigible. You ever heard that word? It means unteachable. It means no one can correct you. That's a sign of depravity that's been unrestrained. And so I'd ask you, can no one tell you what to do? If somebody tells you something about yourself, something you've done wrong, is your first inclination to defend yourself and what you've done? That might be a result of some residual depravity going on. Do you think of yourself as autonomous Meaning you only have to do what you want to do. You are in charge of you entirely. There is no you have no responsibility to anyone else. You're not responsible to keep control of your mouth in a public place because there might be children nearby. If that describes you, then you may need to run to Christ. Beg him to restore your humanity and to conquer your own depravity. There is hope. Hallelujah. There is hope in Christ. And I encourage you, this may sound weird, I encourage you to do as the demoniac did. Don't waste a second. Immediately run to Christ. Immediately. At once. Go to Him. Fling yourself at His feet. Put your face to the ground and beg Him, beg Him to spare you. That depravity, the unrestrained depravity of this man, it sounds a lot like the last days we were reminded about this morning, doesn't it? I'm gonna say something, and I really don't want anybody to take this the wrong way. I am not trying to be sarcastic. I'm not trying to be cynical. I am not trying to be funny. I'm very, very serious about this. Do you recognize the pronouns for this man? Do you see the pronouns that he uses? Did you see that he changed his name? Can you think of someone else, maybe? Who used to be known as Bruce, and changed his name to fit his own identity, what he thought of himself. Look at verses 10 and 12. You see the pronouns there. What were the pronouns of a demon-possessed man? They them. We us. Human beings are not plural creatures. We are singular. And there is a demonic influence at work when someone wants to think of themselves and identify themselves as a plurality of beings. For me, this helps me see the true character of what's going on in these perilous times, in these last days. What is happening is truly demonic. But again, brothers and sisters, there is hope. In Christ there is hope for all who submit to him, even for those who have spent themselves, their lives, night and day, cutting their flesh. Even for those who may have ultimately cut themselves, there is hope for restoration in Christ Simply because they've mutilated themselves to match their own identity does not put them outside of the saving mercy and compassion of Christ Jesus. And so, brothers and sisters, the last thing I want to point out is that this mission that has been given to this man is the same mission given to you. You do not need to convince someone that they are wrong. That's not what he said, was it? Did Jesus tell the man, go convince everyone that they were wrong about you? Nope. He doesn't say go convince everyone they're wrong in their ways. He says, go and do what? Tell them what God has done for you. Share with them the compassion God has shown to you. And that is what we are to do, brothers and sisters. You don't need to go and write a treatise. You don't need to get a seminary degree and write books and have podcasts. You don't need to do that. You need to simply take that good work God has done in you and share it with those you love. Share the marvelous compassion God has shown on you. And you know what will happen? They may not necessarily believe, but they will marvel, and your God will be exalted before their eyes, and they will be without excuse, because they will know you and see the great transformation. Of Christ restoring your humanity. The awesome saving power of Jesus Christ conquers your depravity and restores your humanity. May we never fear. Sharing this truth and the details of how Jesus has done this for you and for me. Please pray with me.