Our text this morning is the the entire Psalm fourteen. If you'd like to turn there, I will read the the entirety of the psalm, and then I will pray for The Spirit to illuminate our minds. This is Psalm 14. The fool has said in his heart, there is no God. They are corrupt. They have done abominable works. There is none who does good. The Lord looks down from heaven upon the children of men to see if there are any who understand who seek God. They have all turned aside. They have together become corrupt. There is none who does good, no not one. Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge who eat up my people as they eat bread, and do not call on the Lord? There they are in great fear, for God is with the generation of the righteous. You shame the counsel of the poor, but the Lord is his refuge. Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion when the Lord brings back the captivity of his people. Let Jacob rejoice and Israel be glad. Amen. Please pray with me. Father, we simply ask That your Holy Spirit would be with us this morning, that we would truly savor your words after we understand them. We ask, in other words, that you would enlighten and illuminate our minds, our hearts, and our wills unto your glory in the name of Christ. Amen. You can see in your bulletin the main or big idea this morning And just allow me to state that for you. We're going to cut right to the chase. You've had enough introductions in your life. When the foolish oppressed the church, the church must remember her God. That's what this Psalm is about. When the foolish oppress the church. The church must remember her God. And I've divided this into two parts, as you can see, the Lord looks down and the church looks up. You'll see this metaphor as we go through the sermon. And the first part that we see in the Psalm is that the Lord looks down. And I'll get to that in just a second. The main point, though, here for this first point is that the foolish oppress the church. And you can see this in verses 1 through 4. In verse 1, the psalmist is giving a generic statement about fools. He's drawing a conclusion after some serious observation in his life. Now, when I say it's generic, I mean he's not speaking about anyone in particular yet. That's not where he is. He is simply telling you the definition of a fool. The fool is anyone who has said in their heart that there is no God. The psalmist is expressing a typical biblical anthropology or the science of human beings. This is pretty sophisticated, actually, what he's doing here. If you were to read through the Psalms and the Proverbs, you'd see a whole host of categories that we really as a church should be adopting. on different kinds of human beings relative to their struggle. For instance, besides the word fool, which is just one word in understanding people, you would also find a title called The Wicked Or the title for the teenager during that time was the gullible. Or you also had listed the idiot You also have the sluggard, the senseless, the mocker, the sinner, the ungodly, and the scorner. These are all biblical categories of different kinds of people, and you can even see some of these categories being put into a hierarchy moving from one tragic consequence to another, consider Psalm 1, which gives an ascending scale of wickedness from the ungodly to the sinner to the scornful. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the path of the sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful. You see, there are three categories that are biblical for human beings, and they're moving in an ascending scale. And the word foolish is at the end of an ascending scale also. If David were present and he called you a fool, you should be shaking in your boots. It is quite a serious word to use for a person. He does not say the gullible has said in his heart. Because the gullible doesn't say anything in their heart for more than five minutes. The global is a person that moves back and forth with every wind and wave of doctrine. They are like cattails in a marsh bent in whatever direction the wind blows. The fool, however, differs from the gullible and that the fool has decided exactly where they stand in relationship to God. They're not undecided. They do not bend. They have decided that it is foolish to believe that there is a God. Now, this is what he means by this. You have to remember this is an Eastern context. The Psalmist uses the word heart here to pull out what's going on with this fool. The fool is the heart of this fool is the center of the person's being. That's what the heart means here. The heart is the center of the human person and it determines the movement of the entire person. The heart is the wind in the sails of human animation. Consider this from 1 Samuel 25, 37. I thought this was this fascinating. So it was in the morning when the wine had gone from the ball. By the way, that's the Hebrew for fool. And his wife had told him these things that his heart died within him. Hear that word heart? His heart dies within him. Now listen to the next sentence. And he became like a stone. That's because the heart is the only thing that allows you to be animated or to be moved. If you lost your heart, you'd be like a stone, immovable. From it flows all the thoughts, words, deeds, and emotions of human life. At the core of the fool, in other words, at the heart of the fool is this thought There is no God. It is that which animates everything within their being. But there's a caveat here because this is, again, an Eastern context. And it's not atheism or theoretical atheism concerning the existence of God. I would challenge you to find a person during that day that did not believe in a God. That's not what he's saying here. In fact, atheism here is not a thing in this context. I don't know that there is atheism really today. The gods have just changed. If you defined atheism in a particular way, they are atheists in that they don't believe in Israel's God. They don't believe in Yahweh. They don't believe in Elohim. Or if they do believe in him, he is just one of the gods, and he's probably the weakest, and therefore of no consequence. He does not need to think about them. Think about him. That's what it means here when it says that he does not believe in God. That's what the atheism here is, is that this God, Yahweh or Elohim, is weak. And that's what he's saying within his heart, and it directs everything about his life. It frees the functional atheist or the practical atheist to do what he wants with no concern for Yahweh or Elohim. If you were to turn to Psalm 10 in your spare time, it expresses it well. It's a similar thought to this. The fool has said in his heart, God has forgotten. He hides his face, he will never see. What are the things that you would do if God couldn't see you? That's what's being said here. That's the kind of atheism. He may exist, but he can't see me. And you can begin to see if that's the core, if that's the animating wind of the whole person's life, you can see Why the Psalmist, David here, would write some of the results that come out of this. Look at verse 1. Look at the results of this practical atheism. They're corrupt. Of course they're corrupt. They have these awful works, of course. And there is none who does good. Of course. Why? If God is dead or if he is of no consequence. Those are the results that he makes as a general conclusion. And then what we see in verse 2, all the way through verse 4, is a furthering of that conclusion. From the inspired uh uh observation of God Himself. Now the picture here in two is the Lord kind of looking through a window from heaven. Can you kind of picture that? The picture is of God looking from a window in heaven and making observations about the human race, and the Lord stacks the observations in increasing horror. None seeks God. That's God's observation. He's looking out. None seeks God. None seeks me. All move away from God, toward corruption, verse 3. The idea of corruption there is like that of milk that spoils. They have become putured in rot, and this rot has spread to affect his people. In verse 4 They're eating up his people, it says. The picture is of the practical atheist because there's no regard for God is to disrespect, mock, scorn, and oppress those who rely on that God So therefore, the practical atheist is oppressing the church by chewing them in their teeth like bread. Instead of calling on Yahweh for provision in verse 4, as they should. They take matters into their own hands and they flourish through oppressing the church. In fact, by the time you get to verse 6, they mock the very idea. You shame the counsel of the poor. They mock the very idea of relying on God, and therefore they mock the church. During the days of national Israel, the oppression that we're seeing here would have been toward their faith, of course. They would have been tempted to believe in uh the gods of other nations, but it also would have been physical. For example, any exile that they would have experienced would have resulted in the temptation to adopt that nation's God And that foreign nation would, in fact, live off the backs of the church, and they would say, I'm living off of your back. You've become my slave. Are you sure you still want to confess that God? He doesn't look like he's really here for you. The very fact that they were able to put Israel in slavery proved their point. Today, the oppression will be against our faith, and it happens not to be very physical right now for us as Americans. The Holy Spirit gives a great illustration of the kind of oppression that we see against the church. Have you ever read 2 Kings 18, 33 through 35? I'm sure you have. But let me recall this story to you because it's the perfect picture of the kind of oppression that we undergo. Now here's the representative from Assyria coming to speak to the Israelites. Has any of the gods of the nations at all delivered its land from the hand of the king of Assyria? In other words, when the king of Assyria shows up, all these other nations that had these gods, were they able to stand up to the king of Assyria, or has he conquered every single land? Israel, listen to my words Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sephravim? Where are Hanah and Ava? Indeed, have they delivered Samaria from my hand? Who among all the gods of the lands have delivered their countries from my hand, that the Lord, Elohim, or Yahweh, should deliver Jerusalem from my hand. Do you see what he's saying? He's saying in summary, why put your trust in Yahweh or any other God when you can worship the stronger king of Assyria and put yourself under his protection? It's the exact same situation that we have today. At every moment you are tempted to place your hopes, your expectations your solidarity, your security, and the hands of someone that is not the God of the church In our case, why put your faith in God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit when you could depend on the advancements of the modern world? If you're pretty enough, you could depend on your looks. If you're talented enough, you could depend on your talents. You could depend on our government or our military. And you have to remember that the story of Assyria, right after He says, you should go with the king of Assyria, forget this Yahweh person, is that they conquer Israel They do in fact slave them, enslave them. Can you imagine the temptation that would have happened within the people's minds at that point? Maybe we should have gone with the king of Assyria. God is allowing us to be ransacked and our children to be killed. And now we have to ask the question for us as Sever and Run: isn't this exactly what the culture is saying? That there is an oppression from the full of our culture. Tell me that it does not even have to be in words, but tell me that the undertone of the entire culture is not this constant whispering. Where is your God? Tell me that the fool is not oppressing the church with that whisper. Where is your God? Where is he when you needed a job and you still don't have a job? Where is your God when you want to get married or when you're struggling in marriage? How long have you had a bad marriage? How long have you been waiting? Where's your God? I thought he was good to you. Where is he when you were alone or struggling with sin? The entire world and all her institutions is trying to get you to say, with Job's wife, Do you still hold fast to your integrity? Curse God and be free. That's what the fool is doing. That's how the fool chooses to oppress the church. That's what we see in the Psalm here. We see the oppression, and we see that it hasn't changed after all these years. That the church is still being oppressed in the same way. The question now becomes, how can we give the answer that Job gave to his wife from that sentence? Job says, curse God. Job's wife says, Curse God. And then Job says in the very next verse, but he said to her, You speak as one of the foolish women speaks. Shall we indeed accept good from God and shall we not accept adversity? And that's where we turn now to the second point. And that's what Job had to do also to be able to answer to his wife. The Lord looks down and he sees the foolish express uh uh oppressing the church, and in order for the church To be able to make it through such oppression by the fool, which will continue until the return of Christ, the church must look up The Lord looks down, but the church must look up. The church must remember her God. Now, one way that this is taken, that the church must look up, is to just keep your chin up. When Jesus returns, everything will be fine. Your faith will be vindicated in the end of days. But that's not what the Psalm teaches, as I'll unfold here in a second. He's saying that you actually, in remembering your God now, can move into joy at present, and you do not need to wait for the future. Which is quite remarkable. Verse 7 says that we should at present rejoice and be glad. We are now to have joy. And the question becomes: how, as a church, are we to do that? And the answer is that the church must remember her God. That's what the Psalmist says. It comes out clearly by considering verse 6. He says Speaking of the fool, you shame the counsel of the poor. The poor here is a title for the church, just as the fool is the title for the non-church. The fool shames or mocks the counsel or wisdom or the plans of the poor or the church. They make fun of us for believing in God. Well, what in particular you see in the next verse there? The council of the poor is announced as the Lord is his refuge. So can you imagine? The king of Assyria on your doorstep, and you say, I don't need to make amends with you. The Lord is my refuge. He would say, You're a fool. You should come under my protection. Yahweh will not protect you. He's shaming the counsel of the poor there, and in the same way, our counsel is shamed, and our counsel is that the Lord is my refuge and no other. The fool shames or mocks us, but the council of the poor is announced that, in other words, the church believes it is wise to look up to Yahweh or Elohim for all of her needs and never to abandon him. To always remain faithful to Him, because He is the only hope, He is the only peace, He is the only love, and He is the only joy. The Psalmist, in other words, is encouraging a well-known fact that you see through all of the Proverbs and through all the Psalms. He is intentionally invoking the name of God for you to consider the character of God Himself He intentionally in this psalm lists two separate names of God. In verse 2, it's Elohim. And in verse 6, it's Yahweh. Verses 4 and 6 are Yahweh. God reveals his name for our counsel in the midst of distress. In order for us to continue to have faith for him. He announces amongst this congregation in the Psalm that Elohim is here. Yahweh is your refuge. And that would recall to their minds all of the faithfulness of their God. And why they should be putting their trust in him. Elohim is the primary name of God for his sovereign creative majesty. His name, Elohim, is used twenty-seven times out of the twenty-eight verses in Genesis 1. For the kind of person that he is, the kind of God that he is. Yahweh is the name revealed to show his covenant faithful to his people, covenant faithfulness to his people and their redemption, and that he'll never leave them And then if you flip through the rest of the pages of scripture, he reveals himself as Adonai, El Shaddai, El Eljan, El Olam, El Gabor, Jehovah Jira, Jehovah Nisi, Jehovah Shalom All of these different times, he's revealing himself as the kind of God he is to his people, that they might strengthen their knees and their faith and not turn to the king of Assyria in whatever form that may be. And the same is being called upon the church today. Now, here's a familiar one that I have brought up to you before. The psalmist cites the names of God to remind the people of the character and promises of God, and I had mentioned this to you last Easter that he cites himself as El Roy to Hagar. He is the God she says, you are the God who sees me in my pain. In my desperation, you are El Roy, and he agrees to the revelation. What did that say about who God is? Was he then therefore worthy of her trust, or should she go try to find somebody else to help? Didn't she just relieve herself within him once she realized who he truly was? The same is being asked of us. The name of God, when held in faith, creates a present hope of the reality that is so tangible you rejoice as if it were present. That's what's happening in the Psalmist. If you take a look, David sees the future deliverance of the church. in verse 6 that the Lord is the refuge. If you turn to verse 7, he begins to picture the deliverance of the church, that it would come out of Zion, that the Lord would in fact bring the cap bring the captivity of his people. that he would free them and then as if it was happening right before his face because he is so sure of the character of God He says that they should rejoice at present. Let Jacob rejoice and all of Israel be glad. Right now, that is the tense of the verse. Right now and forever is the tense of the verse. Right now and forever. The reality of who God is is so powerful and has pressed itself so strongly upon his imagination and his heart. That the reality of what God will accomplish has become a present reality, and therefore, although only happening in the future, it brings joy to his heart now. It is a clear aspect of how he asks us as a church and what we are to do, not to wait for later, but to bring the later to now because we're so certain of his promises that are revealed within his name. The Lord looks down and he sees our situation. He sees that the church is constantly oppressed by the fool with the whisper, Where is your God? And he asks us, so that your joy is not lost, so that you do not give in to the temptation of the fool, you must look up and be meditating upon the character of who your God is. If you have doubts, about the assurance or the surety of his faithfulness to you, you have forgotten who he is. Renew the names. is what he says here. And joy will enter into your home and he'll sit with you at your table now and you'll sup with him. Now, this teaching in application, I think this teaching, that's the basic teaching of the Psalm right there And the teaching, I think you can already see the practical application of it, because I've started to bring that out, but it says it's of extremely great use to the church today as we're seeking out joy. As I work especially with the students of the congregation, their Bible reading sometimes evolves into a sentimental reading of the scriptures. And I notice that it happens within adults also. Do you know what I mean by a sentimental reading of the scriptures? It means that all you really hope for is that you're going to open your Bible today and kind of get a fuzzy feeling They just want to feel good for a moment. You just want to remember some kind of past event, and there's going to be this kind of surge that falls over you. And when that doesn't happen, it wasn't a really good reading It wasn't a really good day. And eventually it doesn't happen enough to where devotions aren't really useful to you any longer. Now you don't understand why we would need to read the scriptures anyway. I mean what use are they? And I don't understand them to begin with. That's really the line that we end up going down. And here, what's given to us is to say, forget the sentimental reading of the scriptures. If you understand the kind of warfare in which you are involved Then the scriptures are necessary for you, and they are sufficient all of your life You will be tempted to give in to what the fool is saying. Let me tell you a little surprise here. You've got a little fool inside of you There's a little fool inside of you that's saying, yeah, where is your God? Tell me you haven't asked that question this year Where is my God? And here we can see that he, like the psalmist, presents his word to us. that we could remember who our God is so that we can cast out the fool and kill the old person that's within us and ignore the people that are without. Knowing that they're in fact fools. You see what happens when when you don't know who God is, the fool starts to sound, well, maybe they're not so foolish. But here we see the Psalmist telling us: don't give yourself over to a sentimental reading of the scriptures. Look at the scriptures and discover who God is. Read every passage and don't leave the passage until you know who God is in the passage. Who is he revealing himself to be? And here's the trickiest part, it's moving even further away from the sentimental reading of the scriptures. You must meditate according to this psalm on that passage with your left hand And you must also hold your life in your right hand, and you have to ask the question: does my life deny who God says that he is? Because I can't sleep at night and I am full of anxiety, and my God says that he is my ever-present help. He says that he'll never leave me and he'll always be with me, but I feel like there's no one with me and I feel lonely. Those are contradictory. You read with your life in your left hand and the scriptures in your right, and you ask. Does my life deny got who God says that he is? And inevitably you will have to begin to wrestle with yourself. Because if you're honest, you're going to find all kinds of places where you actually don't believe God is who he says he is And now it's time to really start getting into the Bible study. Now you need to drop to your knees and you need to pray. You need to pray that God would reveal Himself to you, that He'd capture your imagination. And you're going to struggle with this, and you're going to know you can't do it on your own, so you need to go and you need to meet with some friends and you need to have fellowship and you need to talk about it. You say, Here's this passage. Is that really who God is? Do you know God like that? Because I feel like I'm alone. And after you've received some of those stories and people telling you how that really is God and you're still not fully convinced, you go home into the You go home and it's quiet and you get out the hymnal and you s you pick some hymns and you sing the reality of God into your heart and you just keep singing. This is who my God is. I will not be a fool. And you do that. You pray, you fellowship, and you sing, and the result, you know what the result would be? It would be a psalm. That's how psalms happen. It was that when a person, when a human being decides to go through that, you write a psalm. And that's what we see here with David, and he's asking the church to start writing Psalms so that we can start to know God again, so that we're no longer giving into the fool and feeling ashamed for the power of the gospel. Pray, fellowship, sing until you believe him, and the belief is accompanied by joy You start with this. My God has removed himself from me. The light of his countenance is far from me. And then you end. Lord, you said, and I believe, that you will never leave me, you'll never forsake me. And I can see it so clearly. And I have to worship you now in joy and in love and in complete peace despite what is going on around me. Let Jacob rejoice and let Israel be glad. Please pray with me. Father, would you deliver us from sentimental Bible reading and make us people that wrestle with you? Lord, I pray for this congregation that everybody's hip socket would be out of joint because of the wrestling that they would do with you. Father, teach us that being a Christian is a courageous affair. And believing in you against the foolishness of this world and the little fool inside of us takes every part of our being. Father, would you deliver us from cowardice? Would you make us real men and real women that really believe in their God? Father, we can't help but to confess to you right now that we're so sorry that we think less of you than you are. We have such evil thoughts of you, but you are so beautiful, you are so magnificent, you are so majestic. Father, we ask that you give us faith. Give us faith in you as our Elohim or as our Yahweh. And we ask that you do this in the name of Jesus Christ and through your spirit. Amen.