There's a popular cartoon meme going around on the internet. Don't worry if you If you're not sure what memes are or you're not on the internet very much, you're you're not missing out. But there is a funny one. It's a it's a cartoon dog, and he's sitting at a dining room table. Perhaps you've seen He's at a dining room table and the room around him is on fire and everything is burning. And there's a speech bubble from the dog. Says it's fine. Room is burning, but it's fine. And sometimes I think our lives can seem like that. The estate of sin and misery is burning around us, everything is falling apart all the time. At least it seems that way. All of life seems to be consumed by the pain and the suffering and the disorder of sin and misery. And when we're honest with ourselves, it's It's more than we can handle. We know we can't do anything about it. So what should we do? Should we be like that dog and just convince ourselves that everything is fine? Well, thank the good Lord in heaven. For He has not been content to look at the world in the process of self-destruction and simply say it's fine. God has enacted a plan to annihilate sin and misery, and that is good news. That is, brothers and sisters, the gospel. And we have been here in the Gospel of Mark for quite a while now, and the book of Mark is the good news of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, having come. to right all that is wrong, to reorder this world. And so far Mark has shown us that God prepared his people to encounter him, and he did that through the Old Testament prophets, specifically the last Old Testament prophet, John the Baptizer. We saw that Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ, and He Himself was prepared for His ministry. He was proven to be the perfect spotless Lamb of God because he was tempted by Satan and yet he withstood it without sinning. We saw that the gospel, the good news that Jesus preached, requires a response from us, and it's a response which will transform our lives. That's what we saw in the response of the first disciples, which he called And then we encountered Jesus' authority in his teaching and in his command. We learned that his authority is over all things, even the spiritual world, when he commands an unclean spirit, and it has no choice but to obey him. Most recently, we saw that Christ saves us for a purpose. He saves us to serve him. And we saw that in the account of Jesus healing Peter's mother-in-law. And tonight we're going to continue to have an encounter with the Lord Jesus, with the Messiah, and we'll see him in this passage, which teaches us that Christians submit the disorder of their lives to Christ. Even if they don't fully understand how he will deal with it. Christians, you must submit the disorder of your life to Christ, even if you're not sure entirely how he will We're going to look at this in two sections. We're first going to look at the submitting of human disorder. That's going to be in verses 32 and 33. And then we will look at Christ's merciful ministry. Submitting human disorder verses thirty two and thirty three and then we'll look at Christ's merciful ministry in verse thirty four We begin by examining this account of the people of Capernaum as they were submitting their human disorders to Jesus. First, we see an ordered submission in the way that the night of miracles plays out. Look at the very beginning of verse 32 with me. He says, At evening, when the sun had set. Now it's it's very interesting that Mark would particularly say this at evening when sun had set. Traditionally the Jewish people had two evenings, 3 p. m. and approximately 6 p. m. , which is when the sun would set And Mark records this in exactly this way, so that we would know clearly that the Sabbath had ended. The people did not bring their disorders to Jesus until the Sabbath had ended. It indicates something about the people. They understood, or at least had an idea, that Jesus had come from God. And despite the necessary healing that happened earlier that day, the man with the unclean spirit and Peter's mother-in-law It seems that they did not assume that he would perform or even was able to perform more miraculous wonders until the Sabbath had ended. Well, in addition to being ordered in the submission of their human disorders, we see that what they're doing is proper. It's a proper submission. We see that in the the next little bit of verse 32. Because it says that they brought to him. They brought to Jesus their disorders. They thought Jesus was a man of God. And they knew that only God can do the kind of wondrous miracle that they needed. It isn't likely that everyone was present in the synagogue to witness what Jesus had done for that man with the unclean spirit. And we know who was present in Peter's house to watch the miracle with his mother-in-law. Mark tells us. It was only Jesus and the four, Simon, Peter, Andrew, James, and John. It's highly improbable that those four men would have been able to go out into Capernaum and bring to Jesus all those people by themselves. And therefore, it's reasonable for us to conclude that many of the people who had come, maybe most of them, were coming out of a very simple faith. They had heard something amazing. They had been told that this man had done something wondrous, and they believed it. And they believed it so much that they acted. And their action, we see in the next part of verse 32, is a loving submission. It says, they brought to him all who were sick and those who were demon-possessed. And simply by saying that they brought, or the same word is. carried, they carried them, Mark is showing us that it wasn't the sick and the demon-possessed who were coming to Jesus on their own. And often in our own experience we see those who Who we know are sick or suffering, and we see them need others who are well to intercede for them, to act on their behalf. Now we we need to consider something. Even if the folks bringing the afflicted weren't the kindest or gentlest, even if they weren't the purest of people, we can recognize that they are showing love. By the simple fact of bringing to Jesus someone who can't bring themselves. And the last thing we see in this first section is we see that the submission is public. It says in verse 33, and the whole city was gathered together at the door. The whole city wasn't coming in hope of relief from their own disorders. Or to be cleansed from their own impurities, they had their own reasons for coming. And it isn't likely that uh they were literally all crushing themselves just to be squeezed in right at the door of Peter's house That's a figurative expression which shows us that what was happening was not being done in secret. The whole city had gathered there and knew what was happening in Peter's house. The sick, the demon-possessed, these human disorders were being submitted to Jesus in a very obvious and visible way. So Mark tells us of this wondrous night in Capernaum in which many people submit their disorders to Jesus. They're ordered in the submission by recognizing that only God can heal them. And they are proper in their submission by bringing those who are suffering to the one who has shown himself to be sent by God. They're loving in this submission in that they are bringing others to Jesus, those who could not bring themselves, and we see that they aren't ashamed or embarrassed by what they're doing. They're doing it all in the open, in public. And if we try to put ourselves in their position and see this from their perspective, I hope that we're going to be able to clearly see the Messiah's merciful ministry. And we see this in verse 34. It says, Then he healed many who were sick with various diseases, and he cast out many demons, and he did not allow the demons to speak, because they knew him We see Christ's mercy and that he heals and casts out demons for many of them, despite whatever motivations had brought them to Peter's house. He didn't have to do this. Earlier in this chapter, in verse 14, we see that Jesus came preaching. He came first and foremost with a message. He came with the good news. He came to reveal to God's people that the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Was it this teaching which drew so many people to Peter's house? It was the obedience of the unclean spirit which validated Christ's authority and caused the whole city to clamor for him. They came to Jesus, not that they could simply be in his presence. and to be taught by him to receive that wondrous gospel message? Rather they came, or it seems like they came, to get something from him. They came in a sense objectifying Jesus, treating him like something that they could use. And we know that this is neither loving nor respectful. Jesus could have turned them away. He could have rebuked them for selfishly approaching the Almighty God like he's some kind of vending machine. What did Jesus do? He didn't send them away. We're not even told that he rebuked anyone for seeking something from him. He shows his great mercy by ministering to them in exactly the way that they needed. He restored the good order of his father into their lives, though nothing obligated him to do that. If we were to look at Matthew's account of this very same event in Matthew 8, verse 17, we get a little bit more information. Which helps us know how we're supposed to interpret this mercy of Christ. He tells us that this is the fulfillment of Isaiah 53:4, which we read earlier. This is the suffering servant. This is the anointed one of God, and he is taking on himself our sicknesses and our infirmities. And the very next verse, which we also read in Isaiah. Verse 5 of chapter 53 reminds us of that price, that unimaginable price, which was paid to restore our lives to disorder. It says that he was wounded for our transgressions. He's bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement for our peace is upon Jesus It's by his stripes that we are healed. And it is this proper understanding of this merciful ministry which helps us understand the very final part of verse 34, which At times can be very confusing. In this simple statement, that Jesus says we see the mercy of the Messiah and that he ministers With all the people, all of his holy people in mind, he's not just ministering to those who are there at that present moment. Mark tells us that he did not allow the demons to speak because they knew him. I'm so grateful that Mark gives us the reason because they knew him. They knew who Jesus of Nazareth really was. He's the Redeemer of God's elect. He's the Son of God in human flesh. And they knew what he was really going to accomplish. They knew what Isaiah had recorded. Now we have to ask, would it have been so bad for them to have shared that? How might the people and the authorities have responded If all of these demon-possessed people were crying out that this was the Messiah, the Holy One of God, as the man from earlier that day had done. It wasn't the proper time for that to be fully revealed. And think about what else they might have said. We can get an idea of this from the account earlier. The man with the unclean spirit says, Did you come to destroy us? If every demon had been given the chance to ask that same question, you can imagine the ideas about Jesus. That the people hearing that would have formed. They might have thought that he was there at that time as the long-awaited conqueror who would throw down evil and throw down all the enemies of Israel After all, if he was there to destroy the demons and the unclean spirits, it would be a simple feat for him to then destroy human authorities and governments. And so the accounts of these statements of the demons could have dominated the way that the people would have heard about Jesus. What an obstacle to true faith and repentance that could have been for many. Who would believe that the same man who all these demons were afraid of, and who they had all declared he was coming to be their destroyer Who could have believed that that man would willingly go to a cross? Being crucified would have meant that he failed. That he failed to do what they all thought he was there to do. Jesus did not what the demons would say about him To become the dominant message to those who would never meet him in person. He wanted the world to hear of him first as the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. The lamb led to the slaughter, bearing our iniquities, the one who is silent before those who are seeking to slay him He wanted the dominant message about himself to be his death and his resurrection. And so in his great mercy He silences those who would sow confusion about him, even though what they would have been saying was true. All these people did what we must also do. They submitted their disorders to Jesus, even though they didn't fully understand who he was or how he would deal with them. And so we must ask ourselves, how do we do this? How do we submit our disorders to Christ Well, we need to be sure that we're ordered and proper in our submission. We need to bring our disorders to Jesus in the way that he has told us we should. And so I know you all might be tired of hearing it because it seems to be an application that comes in many of our sermons here at Severn Run. But it cannot be overstated. We have to cultivate a life that is dominated by prayer. What is prayer? Prayer is an offering up of our desires to God for things agreeable to his will in the name of Christ. with confession of our sin and grateful acknowledgement of his mercies or thankful acknowledgement of his mercies. That's Westminster Shorter Catechism, question 98 Do you see the order present in that catechism question and answer? We have to know what God's will is if we are to know that what we want is agreeable with it. We have to confess our sins. We have to gratefully acknowledge God's mercy. It is proper for us to bring what we need to Christ. And through Christ to our Heavenly Father, who has proved himself loving and gracious, we must not be ashamed to submit our disorder to Him, and so we shouldn't try to do it in secret. We shouldn't try to have it all be hidden. We shouldn't try to hide the fact that we have disorder or that we're struggling. We must be careful not to rob God of his glory. How can we edify the family of God by sharing how He miraculously restored the Father's order to our life if we are constantly trying to portray ourselves as never needing to be restored? Disordered, or never having been disordered. And this is why confessing our sins is so important. And I would like to encourage you now, with James 5 Verse 16, which says, confess your trespasses to one another, and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The effective, fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much. And this leads us to consider how we too can be loving in submitting our disorders to Christ. And in the same way as the people of Capernaum, that's what we should do, we can bring the disorder of others to Christ on their behalf. Sometimes our disorders can overwhelm us. At times people will struggle mightily in many different ways, physically, emotionally, spiritually. And when someone is in the midst of such a battle, perhaps they're battling constant anxiety or severe depression or chronic pain and fatigue or maybe at times severe grief and mourning. I don't think it's wrong or disrespectful to consider them like someone who is so sick or so so injured that they can't move themselves to be where they need to be. And so I would encourage you, brothers and sisters, to build up in your life the habit of praying for others. I'd even suggest making a conscious effort to pray more for others than for yourself. C. S. Lewis has an interesting rule about reading books. Does anybody know what C. S. Lewis's rule is? He said that for every one modern book you read, you need to read two ancient books. So for every contemporary author you read, you need to read two dead guys. And he says that because it reminds us that we don't have all the answers here and now in the modern day. In fact, a lot of the times we are more um enslaved to a per uh a perspective of contemporary times than those in other times. And so reading the older books can pull us out of a weird cloud and remind us God is clearer than what moderns may be thinking of him. Well in a similar way, perhaps you could adopt a a kind of rule. This is something that I've done for myself. I'd encourage you to do it. Every one time that you pray for yourself, pray twice for someone else. Or every time you bring one petition for yourself to God, bring two for others. It will help you. It will help you to get outside of yourself and to remember that Christ is not just saving you. He's saving many, many millions of others, billions of others, more than can be counted. I exhort you also to try your hardest to avoid a trap which I often fell into as a younger man. Don't neglect praying for others because you don't really know what God will do. It's okay to pray and ask God to do amazing, miraculous things. It's okay to pray that he would heal the bodies of the people we love completely. It's okay to pray that he would heal our relationships, even if they seem so far gone. It is okay to pray that he would restore the souls of people, that they would be able to live in peace with God I used to be afraid to pray for big things, especially when it came to physical healing. Maybe you shared this. I was afraid because I couldn't handle the crisis of faith that would come if God didn't answer that prayer. If I prayed for complete healing for someone and God didn't do it, that would have thrown me into a very dark place. Sometimes I would be afraid to pray for people I loved, friends that I had, that God would save them. And I was afraid to pray because I knew how much they hated God. I knew how much and how strong and how well practiced they were at ignoring him But, brothers and sisters, do not allow yourself to fall in that trap. God can do impossible things. He can do things that to us seem impossible. And so we must bring those who would never go to God, would never pray for that. We can do that for them. We can bring them to Jesus, carry them to him for the restoration of order that they desperately need. Well lastly, I want to close by focusing us all on the amazing mercy of Jesus Christ. I want you all to think about a person in your life, someone that you love so very, very much. May not be the person you love most, but just somebody you love tremendously. And I want you all to think about that person. Picturing them in your mind, whether it's your mom or your dad, maybe it's a best friend or your brother or your sister or something. And now I want you to think about how they struggle. Think about how they suffer. Think about what it is in their life which causes them the greatest difficulty. Maybe they're anxious or they're afraid. Maybe they have trouble in social situations or they have difficulty making friends. Maybe they suffer through periods of intense depression. Maybe they can't just seem they just seem like they can't stop a particular sin. I want you to really think about it. Really think about how much it challenges them, how much it affects their entire life. And now ask yourself in your own mind: Do you love them so much that you would be willing to take that disorder onto yourself Do you love them so much that you would take that and make it yours? Would you be willing to live with that struggle? To live with that difficulty, to live with that sin? If it meant that they could be free from it. Would you be willing to do that? I imagine that your love for them moves you to say yes. It would be hard for sure. It would be true suffering. And it would be very difficult. But wouldn't you gladly bear it if it meant that person you love so very much no longer had to struggle? Or deal with that. Brothers and sisters, this is how Christ loves you He loves you so much that he takes your infirmities and your disorders upon himself. He takes your sins and your iniquity as his own. And he not only takes it as his own, but he pays the just price. The price that would have been yours to pay That's how much the Father loves you, as we were reminded so poignantly this morning. Christ doing this hasn't convinced the Father to love you. Christ doing this Is the sure sign, the assurance that Christ's, that God the Father really does love you. Christ pays the price for your sin, and you receive the mercy and the grace of God. If you could, you would do the same for someone you love so dearly. Is it really that hard to believe that Jesus would do this for you? And that he would do it for those that we would bring to Him Jesus willingly deals with all of our disorders, our sin, our iniquity, our cantankerousness, our meanness, our unkindness. Our pain, our suffering, every aspect of our state of sin and misery, Jesus deals with it And he deals with it by taking it upon himself. It has been nailed to the cross, as we're told in Colossians 2, verses 13 and 14. And you being dead in your trespasses And the sir uncircumcision of your flesh, he's made alive together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses, having wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which was contrary to us He has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. Brothers and sisters, rejoice in knowing that your struggles will not follow you into the new heaven and earth. Do not hesitate to submit your disorders to Christ, even if you don't quite know how he will deal with them. Our God is merciful, and He is ready to save His people from their sin.