It just gets stranger and stranger as we reach the end of the book of Judges and spiral down this corridor. Last week we were beginning our time with Samson and we learned that another symptom of the canonization of the church Is their growing acceptance and inclination toward evil? The eternal Christ, however, shakings up, keeping his church true to her calling. And when he shakes, the problem, however, is that we say, Oh, the Lord has forgotten me. The Lord has forsaken me. And we learn from Isaiah, from the word of the Lord Himself Can a woman forget her nursing child and not have compassion on the son of her womb? Surely she may forget, yet God will never forget his church This week we continue with the Samson cycle as we will next week also. And so I want to begin by making a few observations, and then we'll have some things to talk about by way of our doctrine. The first thing I want you to notice is let's just observe together verse 5 for a second and follow the journey here. As you can see in verse 5, Samson persuaded his parents to meet the Timnite woman. Originally, they were argumentative against that. They wanted him to marry a fellow Israelite. He works on his parents similarly to the way his wife worked on him or his fiancee. Now, as they're going on their way, there's these two plots that are happening within the story. And I'm just going to tell them as a single plot. But as he's headed down there to the vineyards of Timnah, verse six you can see that the Spirit of the Lord rushes mightily upon Samson, giving him extraordinary powers, because to his surprise he is attacked by a lion on the way. Apparently not with his family because his family still does not know this. They uh thus they won't know the riddle either. So he finishes that job. This is the way the story goes. This is the very first time that he's able to speak with the Timnite woman. He had has only seen her up to now and just desired her. But now they're getting to know each other, and she is speaking to him. And you can see that once that visit is ended, the narrator rushes us uh back north. Or up. The directions here are up and down, and those are significant. Perhaps we could talk about that some other time. But he goes back up, and then he's going to visit a little bit later in verse 8. And now on his trial on his travels, he sees the lion which he killed, but behold There's a great surprise that actually happens here that's present within the text. But behold, he sees inside of this carcass a beehive full of honey. It is a community of bees That looks quite sweet to him. So he scoops up the honey quite crassly and trots his way continually down to Timnah. He even, and now the narrator draws this out for a particular purpose, he is even going to give this honey to his parents, though they do not know that the honey is from a carcass. As you can see, verses nine and ten. Now, if you're not familiar with Nazarite vows or with Levitical vows, there is just the violation of uh Samson's calling written all over the place just with this single account. Reading this, you should be saying, oh no. Oh dear. That's what should be happening when we see this. And our attention should really be funneled in on that particular instance for observation number one. Observation number two is this is just going to continue. Samson is a very crass person. The Hebrew, with the way he scoops the honey and just keeps on going It shows that he has a seared conscience with regard to the will of God. And then he trots on down observation number two into verse 10. And it says in a lot of translation that he has a feast. But I'm going to tell you, this is a bachelor party. The language that is used here is, well, let's just keep going So the locals uh were nervous and um they also say companions here which is a possibility But this is really 30 soldiers, I believe. The language here in the Hebrew is like compatriots or or the mighty among the Philistines. They're pretty nervous about this guy. They're kind of acting like bodyguards as he comes into their town. And during this feast, he is going to start to enter into war with them, but he's going to do so with a war of words and riddles and seek to to um the language actually, if he wins their garments, The language he says to them is, I will dispossess you of your garments. Well, that's the same language of Israel dispossessing the Canaanites from their land. I mean this is a hot moment right here. Uh he's bold. And yeah, he's bold. And so during the feast, Samson is not fearful, but he's playful and he poses a riddle to these warriors. Reflecting on his experience, knowing that no one knows this but him, the narrator has gone to great lengths to show you that, he's now going to oppose to them an impossibility So he says to them, out of the eater came something to eat, and out of the strong came something sweet. Now they agree to the wager But, as you can see, they cannot, after three days, figure out the riddle. So, uh they see a way forward. Let's threaten the Timnite woman Well, you see what they say to her, I will burn you and your home. We've already seen examples of this in judges of people burning each other's homes down and the people inside of those homes. And so in great fear and trepidation, she complies and she figures out a way to squeeze this by way of a constant dripping and nagging and I'm sure other things. to be able to get this out of her husband. Well you'll notice in verse 18 that you're supposed to be feeling a sense of suspense at this time. They solved the riddle on the seventh day, the final day of the feast, at the last hour, as the sun is going down This is a real Hollywood movie that we have in front of us. Just at the last moment they rise and they answer the riddle by saying, What is sweeter than honey, Samson? And what is stronger than a lion? Well, in your scriptures, let me ask you a question. When you get to verse 18, do they not only give the riddle, but then uh even the way Samson responds, do they break that off as a poetic stanza? You see the formatting in your Bible? What they're trying to indicate to you is that Samson is riddling back. This is a sword fight of words. That's what's happening here. So they give him a two-liner, and then he is giving them a two-liner, and is quite derogatory toward his wife. By the way, it and it relies on the way the Canaanites thought of women by the uh also. Sanson responds with this two line liner, degrading his wife and venting his anger, and he says, If you had not plowed with my heifer. Tip number one from this sermon, do not, no matter how angry you get, call your wife a heifer. Okay? If you don't know that by now, uh set up some pastoral counseling. Well that's what he ends up saying. And his anger is not quenched. Nevertheless, he is filled with the spirit, and he overtakes and kills thirty men for thirty pieces of clothing. You see the connection there. And he gives, pays his debts to those soldiers. That's observation two. Observation number three. And this is really where we can start to puzzle through the meaning of what's going on here theologically. The key to this section should be apparent to you and that you're going to need to solve the riddle. You're going to actually need to solve the riddles. Because there is an accumulation of revelation by way of the riddles. You've got to first remember if you're going to unlock this puzzle You have got to first remember that Samson is a figure for Israel as a whole in her constant infidelity. That's the problem. Her infidelity. Now this is a real historical story, but the narrator is not a newscaster. We're going to have to get used to that. The narrator is not a newscaster just telling you about some guy named Samson He tells the story of Samson theologically. He wants you to see the nature of God, what he's doing, nature of humanity, nature of the church. There's a theological indication here. Now, that being said, here's the second key to the riddle. Perhaps you noticed, as I pointed out to you, that the soldiers gave their answer in the form of a riddle themselves We it has a double meaning to it. It's a part of wisdom literature. It should have a kind of double meaning to it. When you look at This verse 18, and it says, What is sweeter than honey and what is stronger than a lion? You could read that as the soldiers just answering his question with a question. But they don't put it in the indicative form They put it in a question themselves because what's really going on here is they're teasing him. So they put it in the form of a riddle, and then he responds back to them with a riddle So listen to the riddle again and take it not as an answer only, it is an answer to his riddle, he recognizes that, but also take it as: you have to answer these questions too, as a teasing element. What is sweeter than honey? And what is stronger than a lion? How would you answer that? How would you answer starting with the second half of it? What is stronger than a lion? Well, according to this story, it's obviously Samson. Because without anything in his hand, like a butchering knife where you would quarter a young goat, he can just rip off the hindquarters even of a lion. And now here's the uh really teasing part. We have a person who's actually stronger than a lion, and this is where the soldiers are going to strike them hard. What is sweeter than honey? What is sweeter than even the honey which Samson unlawfully ate? Well, the answer here for Samson and for all of Israel, as I've already alluded to, is the Canaanite woman. It is his weakness. And if you know this story, you know that foreign women Idolatrous women, non-Israelite women, are his weakness all the way throughout. In fact, if you're going to read the story, you want to pay attention to the women in his life. Samson has this problem from Proverbs 5, verse 3. For the lips of a strange woman drip honey, and her mouth is smoother than oil. And so, what you can see arising out of this as we reflect on the nature of the church is the weakness of the church after she has been given her strength. On the one hand, the church is filled with the Spirit and stronger than lions. But on the other hand, the church has the habit of giving up its strength. For the world's sweet temptations. That's what we see with the story of Israel, and it's what we're supposed to learn as we see the canonization of Israel in the book of Judges. That there is a will and a desire problem. So let me state this doctrine for you again. On the one hand, the church is filled with the Spirit and stronger than lions But on the other hand, the church can give up its strength for the world's sweet temptations. That's what we see, especially with Samson. He's just given over to his appetites and disregards God. That's the story of the church ultimately. Now, what I'd like to do is actually broaden it out a bit and see that it's not just the story of the church, but it's the story of all humanity. That's what canonization is about, really. And so I'd like to look at this under a few things, if you're taking notes. The first application will be the problem of honey for humans The second will be the gospel as honey for humans. And then finally, our duty to remain sweet. The problem of honey for humans, the gospel as honey for humans, and the church's duty to remain sweet. So let's go ahead through each one of these The narrator is going out of his way to portray Samson as a man enslaved to his appetites. Everything, and that is directed to us by way of as soon as his eye sees something, it is a covetous eye, and he has no control over his impulses. If you took Samson to the grocery store, he would buy everything right there when you start to put your food on the little escalator thing. The thing is called an impulse buying shelf. It could be called a Samson shelf. That's the kind of person that he is. And the narrator is going out of his way to show this. So when when we expected, when we see God placing the honey in the carcass, we expect that based on the fact that he has seen this Timnite woman and how he acts, that as soon as, behold, he sees the honey, behold as a kind of seeing, look As soon as he sees it, we know that he stands no chance, and that whether it is lawful or unlawful, and it actually tends to be it's very unlawful, he scoops it out and goes on his merry way with a seared conscience. He sees and he eats. There's no thought of God. In fact, if you want to think about his God, it's his belly. And this ends up being a picture of the canonization of the church, which is another way of talking about a picture of humanity in the fall. It is a picture of the struggle of humanity. And it is actually a quite tragic story. We are meant to be glorious creatures. That is our station in life. Like lions, according to Genesis, we are meant to rule, to be the kings and queens of the jungle. We are meant to have dominion over all of the earth, and yet, despite the strength that is given to us by way of the Spirit of God, we pass it off for the silliest things. We see Samson passing it off for honey and the Tim Knight woman. But let me ask you, is this the first time that we have seen strength forfeited for something silly? Don't we see this as early as Genesis chapter 3, verse 6? So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, there it is, something to eat again. That it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree desirable to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate. She also gave to her husband, and I'm going to go ahead and clarify this right now in Genesis, who was with her, so we don't put all the blame on the woman like the man wanted to do. We're not going to read this like a Canaanite She also gave to her husband who was with her, and he ate, giving up everything. Whether it is forbidden honey or it is forbidden fruit, the human race has this destructive inclination to kill itself. Through silly things. Now, don't get me wrong when I I I'm using this image of honey, so it could sound like God doesn't want us to have anything sweet. And that's not the case. There's a lot going on here with figurative language. God is not a grump. If he sees you with sweet things, he doesn't have this desire in his heart to just knock it out of your hands If he ever sees you having fun, he just wants to stop it. That's not the picture that we have of God. He wants us to have sweet things He wants us to join him, actually, in the sweetest of all things, which are his desires for his creation. He wants our wills to be united to his will as the Son's will is united to the Father's and the Holy Spirit. It says this, for example, in Psalm 19, 9 through 10, just so you don't get the wrong idea about Christianity, we love sweet things. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. They are more to be desired than gold, yes, than much fine gold. They are sweeter also than honey Dripping from a fresh honeycomb. Doesn't get better than that. Judgments in this passage are the ways in which God orders his creation and maintains it, and his ways and his designs. Should be sweet to us, sweeter than honey dripping from a fresh honeycomb. And this is the problem with humanity. This is humanity's problem with the honey, is that his ways are not sweet to us And we're seeing this more and more every day. There is a statement within the New Testament. Taste and see that the Lord is good We look out at humanity, they have tasted of Christianity through the gospel being preached for hundreds of years. They have tasted of the Lord in some sense, and they said, Ugh. It doesn't taste good. That is the nature of the reality of who we are as humans, left to ourselves. Now we have a foremost example before us today that actually connects quite well to the honey example with Samson and the eating of the fruit with Adam and Eve. And the foremost example that we have today in this kind of action has to do with gender. God gives us our gender. I want you to think through this. This is not another pulpit-beating moment. I want to think intelligently about this with you and connect it through the whole canon of Scripture. I want you to think about what's going on in front of your face, and I want you to separate yourself from it. God gives us our gender, and He makes that gender clear by way of easily discernible biological traits. Your gender and the ease by which you can tell if you're a boy or a girl is a revelation of God. And his Counsel and design and the execution of his designs for you. God even shows If you put two and two together, that the male and the female shh they fit perfectly. They're meant as like two halves coming together for a whole. But what we end up seeing as an extension of all of the other ways that we have seen the same thing is that humanity ignores the clear creative design. and either seeks to transcend our biology, that is to say, God's counsel and his decisions, or to bring our biologies together in unnatural ways, things that do not fit And yet, when we talk about gender and we talk about homosexuality, we section them off as a kind of special case. And I guess you could make that kind of argument, but I want you to see just how similar it is to all of the other sin in which the human race partakes It is interesting to me that in lists that include vices, there is both covetousness and greed and homosexuality in the same list. We're meant to be seeing these in at least some sense on the same plane. And this story from Samson allows us to see that these are all stemming from the same problem that humanity has with honey. God gives us vocations. I consider male and female a vocation. The vocations of male and female The vocations of ruling as lions over the earth, exercising dominion in princely and uh well, what would be queen, princessly glory? And yet we always choose to self-destruct in shame. It could be what we see in Samson or Adam and Eve or what you have done this past week. in denying the precepts of God and how He uh his will on earth uh uh not coming to place on earth as it is in heaven because you choose to sin against him, or it could be the gender debates that we have today or homosexuality. It is all an unwillingness to accept our vocations from God. And we end up being as silly as what we see within those books by C. S. Lewis. Has it ever shocked you That Edmund is willing to give up everything for Turkish delight I went online to look that up. And there's actually, you know how there's people in the world that are searching around for different kinds of treasure and um Well, there are people in the world, there's a whole communities that write about trying to figure out why did C. S. Lewis use Turkish Delight. I would love to hear what you have to say. A lot of people try to make connections to the rationing that are happening in World War II. I am wondering if C. S. Lewis, reading the scriptures, saw that it is the nature of humanity to give up their glory for things as silly as Turkish delight. And you wanna want you wanna know what's so silly about this? Let me just ask you a single question. Have you ever had Turkish Delight? When I saw that movie, I was so or read the book, I did both. And I thought, man, this has got to be the best thing on earth. It's going to be like celestial manna when I find this. Somebody gave me Turkish delight. I took a bite and spit it out It was the worst candy compared to our candy. And that just accentuates the point. Of the glory that we forfeit for the shame because we cannot control the appetites that are in our hearts. And like I said at the very beginning, I actually don't think this is funny. I think it's a real tragedy. It's happening within the people that we love. And it is happening within you, to an extent as Christians. And this really brings us to our second point, which is the gospel as honey for humans. I want to stay on this sweet theme. The world offers us a kind of counterfeit sweetness. It tastes sweet in the beginning, but then it tastes like death if you stay with it. But with what God gives to us in Christ and the Spirit, the gospel is the honey for humans. The good news is that our triune God is not leaving us as human beings in a condition of sin and misery. But he is restoring us to our glory He is doing this in fact in two ways. First, God the Son has come down from heaven And he has specifically taken upon himself, not an angelic nature, but he has taken upon himself our nature. And he has done this first to pay the debt of our nature. The debt of our race, the debt of our kind, which our nature has accumulated, or our race has accumulated And he did the second in his resurrection to elevate the race of men, meaning humans, to their intended royalty and glory. That's the first part of the gospel. It's just the work of the Son from heaven becoming man. It's the work of the incarnation, and all that will take you right up into the ascension and his return. The first part of the gospel is Christ. Now here's the second part of the gospel. Christ sent by the Father is the first. The second is That the Godman in his ascension sends his spirit to indwell a chosen community. He is now going to take all that he has earned, all of the treasures of wisdom and knowledge and understanding And he is going to pour them out upon the face of the earth, and you are going to begin to see the effects of his work in every top tribe. and tongue and nation, as he not only by way of status elevates the human race, but in actuality, by way of grace, perfects our natures. It is through the Spirit that this community gains a taste for God and His ways, and we begin As small as a mustard seed, to discern that God is sweeter than honey With this changed heart, over time we start to look like lions And we begin to exercise over ourselves, over our families, over our communities and church and county and country, we begin to exercise dominion now. through our various vocations. This is your testimony. It is the testimony of what Jesus Christ is doing in you as a human being This is a big deal. And this rule, this rule that he gives to us by way of the Spirit under His rule becomes a great witness to the rest of humanity. To repent and to join the church. That is why we are here on earth, as it is in heaven. It is for the whole world to see what real sweetness is and to come running, to run to us like Mount Zion. As streams of water flow out to it from us. This is caught, and this idea of sweetness is caught in 2 Corinthians 2, 14 through 16. Now thanks be to God who always leads us to try in triumph in Christ. And through us, listen to this, through us, God diffuses the fragrance of his knowledge in every place. For we are to God the fragrance of Christ among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing. To the one, this is very, this is really starting to help you to see the distinctions within this honey conversation. To the one kind of human, we are the aroma of death. But to the other kind of human, those who are receiving their vocation by way of the Spirit and their effectual calling, and to the other, the aroma of life leading to life. That's 2 Corinthians 2, 14 through 16. And this, my friends, if you didn't know it before, is the gospel. It's right there. Gave it to you in two minutes. And this leads us to our final point, which is our duty to remain sweet. As soon as we begin looking at the gospel like this. The gospel is no longer only about you as an individual American. There are bigger things going on in the cosmos than just your life and your actions for your life. When we pull all of this message together, then you should feel the pull of your effectual vocation or calling as Christians to the world. Ends up being the point. It is imperative that we as Christians maintain our love to God, an enjoyment in his sweetness, so as to be a continual sweetness to the world. There's a principle here that you could summarize in just saying, you are what you eat. We eat sweets and we become sweet that the world may have sweetness. Then they might have the real honey. In other words, if God is restoring this world by showing them The world, what is truly good and sweet? And if he is doing that by saying, You want to know what real life is? Look at my church. Run to the ark. Look at my church. Then let me ask you a question. How important is it beyond you as just an individual, but includes that? How important is it that the church does not become the world? If you become canonized, what hope is there for anyone in the way that God is exercising his counsel on how to redeem humanity? Do you see the great tragedy that will happen if you as a community do not take this seriously? Your responsibility as the church goes far beyond your individual lives. You Can now officially infuse with real meaning what it means when Christ says to you, perhaps with a note of tragedy in his voice, don't you know that you are the light of the world? When he was speaking to his people in Jerusalem who had strayed so far. You could hear him saying with these other images Oh church, you are my sweet fragrance, carried by the breeze of the Holy Spirit. To every tongue and tribe and nation, speaking of my goodwill toward mankind. All that I long to have for you is my sons and my daughters. You have like the prodigal son, Ran off, and you are tending to pigs and squalor. But I have so much more for you. Repent and believe. Run to me. Drink streams of living water. All of these messages that we quote from Bible book to Bible book to Bible book are meant to be communicated and are entrusted. This deposit is entrusted to you, the church. You are the treasure box holding the treasure of Christ for the world. And we are to share this with them in word and indeed. In other words, put negatively, as we think about our duty to remain sweet, I'm just asking you, brothers and sisters. How tragic will it be if we become another stench And that is our message this morning in those three applications. And we can summarize this, or at least the doctrine from which we derive these applications. Is that on the one hand, the church is filled with the Spirit and stronger than lions? We are meant to be glorious. But on the other hand, the church can give up its strength for the world's sweet Turkish delight. It should be our prayer and our benediction that God would preserve our strength and that we would be a sweet aroma. Sweeter than honey. Let us pray.