Now, hear the Word of God. This is Hebrews chapter 11, the first three verses. Now, faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. For by it the elders obtained a good testimony. By faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God, so that the things which are seen were not made of things which are Visible. Father, we ask again for your blessing on us. Seal these things to our hearts. Lord, we ask that you would not allow us to drop This word that you give to us. Please keep Satan from picking it off the path. Please keep worldly careers from strangling and choking this out. We beg you. In the name of Christ, Amen. Angela Duckworth, have any of you heard of her? No one? Aww Angela Duckworth wrote a book called Grit. I'm sure you've heard of the movement. She helped create an educational paradigm shift through her book, The Power. Of passion and perseverance. The idea that she gives, her thesis statement, is that talent is not the soul or the primary cause of success in life. Are you talent-biased? She would ask. Rather, when you do the study, when you look into it, it's passion and perseverance that make a person successful. with talent. This is still a large movement and many are discussing the research. There's educational shifts and focuses going on within our school. When you hear a conversation about grit, or when I hear it, since I've read most of the book and I've had podcasts on it, I usually hear a misunderstanding of what grit is For example, some people would say that finishing the Boston Marathon takes grit. And I'd say you need a Read the book because that's not grit. Grit is uh perseverance over a long period of time. It would be more appropriate to say this. It takes a lot of grit to train for the Boston Marathon. The folks that are training for that that actually make it require a schedule that is day in and day out running, whether they feel like it or not, whether it's raining or not, whether they're sick or not, whether it's their shoes fit or not. They stick to it. It's stick to a long period of time. Actually you could even say that the mentality to even want to enter into the Boston Marathon was grit because it took a long time to build such a thing, to want to enter into such an event. Now there's a certain set of questions. This was it this was interesting. I actually saw Angela Duckworth on a a series of talks called TED Ted Talks. Anybody ever here watch Ted Talks? Ted talks and she gives her research and then she asks the question and she says, Well, how are we supposed to get this grit? You know what her answer was. She says, I don't know. That's not my research. Interesting. I mean you could ask that as a marathon runner, how am I supposed to Get the grit to do that. More importantly for us, you can ask, what are we as Christians supposed to do to have a long-term perseverance within our faith? Because if you haven't noticed, it wasn't a momentary decision. It requires a decision every single day for you. Sometimes more difficult than others, isn't it? Perseverance is of great need for the Christian. What do we need for grit within the Christian life? It's a surprising and a very important question for us. It's surprising because in today's world of Christianity, the Christian religion is expressed as a one-time decision made at BBS or something along. And yet when we look at the scriptures and we're honest, we don't see it figured that way. That's not the painting of the picture to be a Christian. It was not a single decision. I understand the theology behind that. I understand what's going on, but in the letter of the Hebrews, the author speaks about the necessity of holding on to your devotion of God. Let me paint a picture for you of the truth. In the Orthodox Christian Church, they celebrate Christmas Eve in a way that is similar to us that distinguishes the difference between the children. I mean in a popular American way of seeing faith and the way that we see it in the book of Hebrews, they have a candlelight service and we have a beautiful candlelight service, don't we? We light our candles, we sing the song, we blow them out, afraid we're gonna catch the whole place on fire, with reminiscence reba uh reminiscing on the smell of burnt hair from some people's children Here's the difference. You know what they do in the Orthodox Church? They keep the candle lit all the way home. When you listen to some of the reports, if you read blogs, those who attended the service, you should see the things they say on the way people look at them when they're driving down the street and people look over at their car and the whole family's holding lit candles That's a good picture. It's a good picture of the difference between how American religion describes the Christian religion and how the author is a very important thing. Author of Hebrews describes it. The author gives us a picture of having our devotion of God lit, but not blowing it out at the end of the service, but having to keep it lit while Driving home to heaven. Does that contradict the way that you have thought of your faith? Because you know, I I believe in the perseverance of the saints. Saints. I believe God will uphold us, and yet I can say that. You've got to keep it lit. How do those two things work together? I don't even care. J I just listen to what God says and I believe both. I'm not even going to get into it with you. Okay? We can have a little theological conversation if you want, but the point is that it has to stay lit. It is It is uh we know that God is the primary cause of the preserving. God promises that he will see his people through to the end, but he does at least enlist our participation and he does require us In his grace, in his sovereignty to use tools so that we will not turn our back on him. Therefore it is our duty to pick up the means, that is to say, shelter the candle, shelter the light. So far in the letter, if you've noticed, there are two main tools for the perseverance of the Christian church Do you know what the two tool tools are now? The Hebrews were being tempted to return to Moses in the Old Testament sacrificial system. Now imagine that. Temptation that would go forth. There's a real temptation that's going there. And how do you what's the tool that the Holy Spirit gives the church with such temptations? It's teaching. the truth of the Mosaic Covenant and how the whole Bible fit together. We've studied those sections up to this point. We're now in chapter 11. Those sections are gone. And we're now into the other part or the other tool. We're no no longer in the the doctrine part where you're becoming where you're dealing with deep things. We're in the a different tool now and the tool is faith. Now the Holy Spirit switches to another tool for the preservation of his people. The tool of faith is used when a group of people must patiently endure hardship, especially When following Christ becomes arduous and painful and long-term, this is the temptation to faint. I cannot do a six lack lap on the track. I'm just gonna sit down. And you can do it in your mind. That's the temptation. And he says the answer to that, the answer to that Angela Duckworth did not know the answer to. The answer to grit is faith. For the Christian. When following Christ becomes arduous and painful, faith is the great grace given and stirred up in us by the Holy Spirit for our preservation. Faith is a gift for Your preservation. That's the big idea. Faith is a gift for your preservation. Now I want to take a look at the dynamics of this, and we're going to have to continue into the evening service. But let's take a look at the dead the dynamics of how faith works as a preservative. And it's very active. You're not sitting around This is a very act of faith. Number one, faith preserves by making the things hoped for real. That's verse one. And you can write that down. Faith preserves by making the things hoped for real. Take a look at verse one. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Now let's talk first about what the things hoped for are. What are the things that are hoped for in this passage? What's he talking about? Could you touch it? Could you The things hoped for can fall in the two main categories present grace and future glory. It's a little odd for me to say that the things hoped for are present grace. Isn't it? Because you think of things hoped for as things that are not present. But listen to me just for a second. Present grace, although it sounds strange, it can grow, which is why we can have hope in it Hope does not usually have things for present, but if hope can grow, then you can have hope that it would grow because it's a future thing. That's what I'm saying. Present grace is different. Present graces or gifts are those things sent from heaven by Christ to his people. Now listen to this. Christ sends you the Holy Spirit, church The Holy Spirit works within you to give you a few things. Let me just mention a few. There's a lot more. He gives you faith, he gives you hope, and he gives you love. Those are Christian graces. When he gives those things to you, the point is to remember that faith, hope, and love are given out in degrees. When we are glorified, we will all be tens on the scale from one to ten in Christian graces. If someone said, How are you in your love? and you are glorified, you'll say I'm a ten. But nowadays, if I asked your relatives how you are in love, they're gonna say he's a four. Or he's a two. Or you know what? He's actually a seven Or whatever it is, right? Because there's degrees. And what I'm saying is that we can hope for a greater degree in our life. We hope that our faith would abound more and more, that our love would abound more and more, that our faith would abound more and more, that our joy would abound more and more. My point is that we hope for our present graces to increase. That's the first thing that we hope for. The second thing are future glories. This is a complete arrival to paradise. You're familiar with the picture of future glory from Revelation, and I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. And he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain. For the former things have passed away. That's a picture of glory. It's a picture of future glories. It is a picture of paradise. Now, what I'm saying, those are the things hoped for. And what this passage is saying is that faith takes those things that are only in the future and it makes it now. By faith, not by reality. Faith is the ability for those things to be real and evident now. The verse says that faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Now listen to what this means. Things hoped for and things not seen are the future promises. Things that are promised but not present. It's especially located in the promise. Promises. Hear me say that. Faith is the ability for those future realities to be substantial, that's the word there, a present subsistence or substance who pastas If you're theologically rich there. Faith is the ability for those future realities to be substantial and evident now, even though you won't have them until later. See that? This is not a definition of faith considered in all of its possible relationships. I'm not defining justifying faith faith for you right now. This is very practical. This is not some academic discussion. He's telling you about faith so that you can persevere. So he's giving you the aspect And the facets of faith that you need to know to have grit. And he's telling you it takes things that aren't there yet, and it makes it as if it's a present subsistence and substance for you. You. It's by faith. Let me put it this way: the author tells us that there are different ways for something to be present. Something could be present by reality. For example, let's say that you went on a cruise, past tense. Have you ever been on a cruise? I guess someplace nice you went if you haven't been on a cruise. When you went on your cruise, it was present by reality. However, what about a future cruise? What about when you're looking at the website and filling your imagination with the excursions, the dining and the dancing that you would only enjoy in the future? If you thought the cruise was a sure thing, then it was not present by reality, but by a kind of faith. I'm not saying it's the exact same thing, but I'm trying to By looking over those websites, it became it became kind of um it changed your mood, didn't it? As if it were here. If you truly were relying on the cruise. We're going to unfold verse 26 later on, but take a look at it real quick. Just scan your finger down in the same passage. And look at verse 26. Here's an example. Moses rejected the passing pleasures of sin and Egyptian wealth for a future reward. And he's an example of faith. The reward was future, was it not? But because of his faith it became substantially present and evident. The future things hoped for became so real to Moses that they were more real and satisfying than the wealth that was presently in front of his face. That's faith. Jesus used Abraham as an example, as another example of faith, not in this passage, but in John chapter 8 verse 56. Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it, and he was glad. Let me say that again. Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day. and he saw it and he was glad. Now how did Abraham see it? I mean come on Was he not way before the advent of Christ? Although Abraham lived far before the Advent of Christ, the day of Christ was so present by faith to Abraham that it actually exerted an emotional and psychological influence on him. Even to the point where he'd be willing to raise the knife. Says that faith is a divine gift that does a few things. Listen to this. And I want you to think particularly of those who have been persecuted among Amongst the church. Those who wake up every morning in Muslim territory and they have to step out their door, and someone says, Are you ready to renounce the faith of Jesus Christ yet? And they say, No, not today They say we'll go to the shack and you have to walk up the hill to the shack and they have to have their feet beaten with clubs every morning. That's what they get to look forward Some are killed, some are martyred. Listen to these things that Owen says that faith is, and you could see it in those people. Faith takes believers out of this world while they're in it. Isn't that what Stephen the martyr did when he looked up and he saw the Son of God at the right hand of God, took him out of this world? While you know what it's like to have a boulder smashed against your noggin? He did. And he was asking for forgiveness for them. Because faith takes believers out of this world, although they're Here's another one. It exalts us above the world while we're under its rage. Isn't that true when you see people with faith? It enables you to live upon things future and invisible, giving such a real subsistence to their power and evidence of their reality that it secures you from fainting under oppositions, temptations, and persecution. And in the midst of a very heavy persecution, I believe that Christ works specifically with those people to increase their faith dramatically within the Now, let me move into almost a it's not a crass example. I don't want this to be seen as trivial. It's just another stepping stone for us to be able to understand faith. You don't hear about this stuff much, so I've got to do this. I don't mean this to be trivial. I actually found it helpful. How many people in here, you don't need to raise your hand, have seen Peter Pan? I saw the Robin Williams version. I saw the cartoon version. I like the Robin Williams one. There are a lot of versions. I think all the versions have the dinner scene Peter has been absent from Never Never Land for so long that his childlike faith or imagination, if you will, was Entirely lost. This became apparent when Peter sat down with for dinner with the lost boys. Do you remember the scene when he sat down, all the lost boys were feasting? They were they were i i th he would even um they would pretend to be eating corn on the com but it looked like they were just holding in invisible corn doing that. Peter says, What is going on here? You can see it on his face that they all look crazy. They're all pretending that there's a feast on the table, that they're they're goblets They tell him, Peter, you must use your imagination. And there's a moment when he clues in. And he's able to use his imagination. And once he embraces this through his imagination, all of a sudden it turns to his astonishment. There is a banquet. There's turkey and goblets overflowing. He even starts to food fight. If you remember that when he flings whatever that stuff is off of his spoon. Now you could dislike the example because you can hear me saying that faith is living in a fantasy world. That's not what I'm saying. I'm trying to give you an illustration so that you can begin from earthly experiences, understand, and ascend to heavenly experiences. I'm not saying fairyland as if you should have your head in the clouds, but I am saying that you need to be heavenly-minded There is a distinction between those two things. And the closest that I can get at this point within this passage, just focusing on verse 1, is to say it's very much like having a sanctified Is meant to be more real than the world around you. When you meet a person that has faith, they can look crazy, as if they see a whole banquet that you know nothing about. But then when you start to gain faith Faith, you go, oh, it was there all along, all the food I could have ever eaten. That's what faith is, and that's why it's like the Peter Pan. The heavenly realities become so real to you that your behavior, your attitudes, and your thoughts to begin begin to be based on On them instead of the world around you. And that is very difficult to hold on to, isn't it? But that's faith. The rewards of this earth begin to pale in comparison to the brightness of the rewards in the next Now, like I said, we're taking stepping stones to understanding what faith is for the sake of perseverance. Can you begin to see how it would be a tool that's effective for that? Where if it were so lively that it would change your psychological, emotional, and behavioral makeup. That's what faith is. But it's those are just stepping stones. We've got to take another step, and it actually becomes way more serious. There's another step, and think we move past thinking of imagination as faith. That's really the threshold of faith. We've got to get into the house. And that's what the verse 3 is going to do. The next step takes you into the house or the heart of the matter. It's the first example that is given to us in the list of examples. Did you know Notice that the whole whole passage is a list of examples. It's almost like you're going through an art museum from one character to the next, isn't it? Seeing one painting of Abel and then going to the next painting. But what about verse 3? Not a painting of a person. You see that? It's talking about the creation story. Notice the examples are in fact chronological biblical history. Throughout chapter 11. Most of the examples are in fact a picture gallery, except for this one. This first example is the creation account. And because of the obvious chronology, and notice how it says by faith, look at all the other pictures. Look at all the other picture galleries by faith, by faith, by faith, by faith, by faith, by faith. Even if it's paragraphed differently within your Bible, this is a part of that list. And because it's in chronological biblical order, I believe that this is referring to Genesis 1 and 2 I'm reading Genesis 1 and I'm looking through Genesis 1 and 2 at this. I'm taking all that information and I'm bringing it to this table. That's what you should have in your mind when you read that. Since that's the case, the example of faith here is that our physical universe was made out of nothing. That's what it says. That's the example of faith. How does Here's the question. How do you arrive at that That the universe is made out of nothing. How do you arrive out of that? How do you arrive at that? All of the observations of all scientists Would never be able to reach that conclusion. Because science is based upon observation, and you draw conclusions about patterns that you see and the things that you observe, and yet you've never observed something Coming out of nothing. So, how would you ever arrive at this kind of conclusion? There are no examples of something coming from nothing in our observable experience. How did the author have the authority to say this The answer is by faith. He says, by faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God, so that the things which are seen were not made of things Which are visible. And since we're talking about Genesis one and two, by faith has a very specific meaning here. It does not mean an irrational, blind leap into the darkness of faith. It is not irrational at all. It is the most rational activity a human could ever be involved in. If you asked, how do you know that the world was made this way to this author, he would not say, I just believe He would not say, didn't you see the sign down in Baltimore? Believe. He would not say that. He would say, Do you know what he would say? What would he say? He would say, because that's what God told me. in Genesis 1 and 2, and he was there. And that wraps up the case for him. Now that's kind of scary. That's kind of scary that that's what faith is because I just landed a whole lot of responsibility right on your lap. That is the next step in understanding the preserving or the persevering grace of faith. Faith is this. This is it at its core. It doesn't become more profound and more difficult than this. Faith is devotedly taking God at His Word. It's not really about your imagination. That just kind of gets us there. It's believing him so much that whatever he says is virtually present to you, even Though it's still in the future. Isn't that amazing? Can you imagine having that kind of ability? You can't imagine having that kind of ability unless the Holy Spirit were to give it to you. The greatest crisis in the history of the universe was when the serpent said, Did God really say that? That's the greatest crisis that has ever happened to us. Us as humans. And Adam and Eve believed the reality spun by the serpent instead of God. No wonder there was such a fall. It took us out of the very image in part. However, the greatest event amongst humanity still to this day, in fact, if you look at verse 2, it says that people please God by this act. That he commends them. The greatest act is when we take God at His Word despite the temptations and the persecutions around us. If you trusted your mother and your father all your life, and they said something contrary to what you know God says, true faith believes God. And says, my mother and father are liars. Not to their face. I mean, you know, be gentle But you see what I'm saying? God is the ultimate authority in your life, and He has proven himself trustworthy to you, and you believe every word. In fact, you hang on his every And it is so true to you that it becomes alive inside of you, and it begins to transform your soul from one state of sanctification to In fact, you could say that growing in the holiness and conformity of the image of Christ is believing God more. This is the additional facet of faith, and it has to be grouped with the previous facets, like a diamond Diamond. They are by faith so strongly present that they are substantial and evident to you. His word is so real to you that you base your decisions on it. Especially the decision to remain devoted and loyal to him. Him and his word. They believed in the promises. People make Christianity so darn confusing and complicated. Just believe God. Truly, with your life, with your feet, with your hands, with your mouth, and with your eyes, believe him. That's Christianity. And Jesus Christ makes it possible for us to do so through His spirit. You trust God and His Word so much that you live consistently with whatever He has revealed to you, refusing to give in the lies of the world, refusing to buy into their spin. It looks like evil and corruption are winning. I mean, have you watched the news lately? But God says, I'm winning. Do you really believe that God is winning. Okay. I believe it. I will live as though justice and truth and love reign. Those are my core convictions and I'm going to live that way. It looks like I will be burdened forever with suffering. God says, It is in fact my will that you suffer now, but the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed. And you will say, Okay. Then I will live in settled contentment and hope. I'm not saying that's easy. I am saying that that's faith. It looks like Jesus will never return. God says, I will return at my appointed time. Therefore, you say, I will live so that you will be pleased when you return. It looks like I'm always to be spiritually weak. Can't kick this sin, as much as I cry out to God. God says, I am conforming you into the strength of my Son by the power of the Holy Spirit. Therefore you reply in faith, I will therefore live with hope and joyful anticipation at my progressive but complete moral renewal Those are just a few statements. Can you imagine if you actually lived that way, with those convictions at the center of your heart? Heart? When you walk into a doctor's office and they say you have cancer, that truth changes your life You begin to look at different things online. You begin to look and act differently with your family. You begin to eat differently. You do everything differently. I'm saying that everything that God has promised to you should be taken with such gravity and seriousness as if the doctor said to you, you have cancer. It is a cardinal truth and virtue of the Christian to To take him at his word at that level. And it is that simple. How many things has he said to you? How much work do you have before you today to just start to believe him in the things that he's already delivered. How many sermons have you sat under? Let me conclude with this You can see that faith is the preserving grace that is given to us. We're going to learn through these examples how we can stir that grace up. Can increase in our grace by the grace of the Holy Spirit or faith by the grace of the Holy Spirit. The whole purpose of this whole section is for you to become a group of people that can persevere Persevere in believing God and that it actually shows in your life. That's the only way that we would know, anyway, is by your fruits. But here's the difficulty that you have got to get your head around. Let me propose a thought project to you. And I'm interested in your answer. You can tell me afterwards for now just Don't tell me. I know, and you all have different visions for this, but I know you all want the perfect body. Some of you that just means I want mobility. I don't I just want to have be flexible. For others of you, you're looking for certain size biceps. But if you notice, most people in America don't have the perfect body. But here's the thing. What if we lived in a world where if you went to the gym for three months, I'm telling you it would be the hardest workout of your life. But it only Lasted, no, not three months, three hours. But it only lasted for three hours. And at the end of the three hours, you would have your perfect body Tell me that all y'all wouldn't have a perfect body. I know that you would because you can do the three hours But did you notice that it doesn't work that way? It takes It takes months and months and years and years in order to be able to attain that because that's the nature of being able to And that's what I'm telling you about the Christian faith. You can't stick in there and stir up the grace of faith or hope or love or just believe it. God one time. This is gonna be a marathon. This is gonna be a long journey. It's actually gonna require a great deal of grit from you. Not one day of training, not one day of running. You've got a whole some of you a whole life ahead of you. Where you're going to have to hold on to this candle and keep other people from trying to blow it out. And faith is the one great thing that Christ gives to you that you might be able to do so. And faith is believing God at His Word. Do you trust God? Sometimes you do, and sometimes you don't. That's the point. We have got to work on our faith, and we're going to work on it through these folks that we have the example of. Faith is the instrument God uses for your preservation Over the long haul. Therefore, you must devote yourself to understanding and applying everything that has been said within this passage. Let me ask and end with a few questions. Do you faithfully take God at His word? Or do you twist his sentences so that you can have your own way? promises he never said. And if you truly have faith, here's the question: how has it changed you? Because if it hasn't changed you, you haven't accepted it If there is no change, there is no faith. Put that one on. Faith always produces faithfulness, faithfulness or perseverance to the end Which I'm calling true Christian grit. Let's pray and ask for His mercy on us now. Father, I am afraid right now. We can deceive ourselves in thinking that since we've heard a sermon, that we have grit. Father, we don't have it until we have it. We do not have faith, Lord, until we act faithfully toward you. Just because we're thinking about it, because we have new realizations, because we have new understandings, we have not done one thing. Yet Heavenly Father, would you help us to have faith that gives birth to fruitfulness unto you? Love, hope, and peace and kindness In the midst of storms, both real, emotional, relational. Father, may we stick to your every word Father, we ask that you'd give us that kind of faith, that we would believe you, that we'd trust in you, that you'd be honored at how much loyalty we have towards you, that people would be confused on how much we just believe in you. I ask, Lord, this is a lot to ask for I know that nothing is impossible with you. I ask these things in your name. Amen.