Breakfast is good. I want to go ahead and get started because I want to try to leave some time at the end for questions. This talk is um a a little tougher than the others in terms of getting your head around. I tried to simplify it as much as I could, but I think it'll be good for us to have some time for clarifying questions and and I did not really do much application in this at all. I'm hoping that we can do that in the in the the questioning, start working out what would it mean, what does it mean for us once we have this positive vision of the church. So before I get into all that, good morning. Good to see you all. Let's go ahead and start our time here with this lecture with prayer. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have given us your inscriptated word. Lord, we know that you have written your laws upon our hearts, but even on a good day, we are very confused inside of ourselves We are able to, in fact, deceive ourselves and to suppress that which is obviously good, which is you and your glory. And so you have seen fit to aid us by giving us your word inscriptuated. And we ask, Lord, that you would teach us from it this morning. We pray that we would not just be hearers of your word, but that we would be doers. We pray that you would strengthen us in your word this morning. We pray that you would convict us in our conscience, that we would know what our responsibilities are toward you. that we would know what we are to believe concerning you. And we ask these things in your name. Amen. Alrighty. So I'm a little behind on the advertising this time around, so you didn't see any dragons or pictures of Eden or anything like that. Just saw a picture of me and that we're having breakfast. But the title of the talk today is The Church as a Commonwealth. The Church as Commonwealth. And so this brings us to our fourth session together. If you need to take notes, I'd encourage you to do so. And then you can bring up anything that is confusing to you. Let's just talk about it at the question and answer time. The first lecture, if you remember, presented a model wherein anger and grief moved God's people to action. I would say that the very first corporate action that God's people took in that anger and grief, as we saw in the model of Exodus, is prayer. They cried out to God, and God heard them. The second lecture clarified that as Christians we're not meant to just be walking around grumpy. That instead our actions, our constitution, our inclination is fundamentally positive. We seek as Christians for all things to be ordered unto God's glory. The third lecture started to get into okay, well, what would it look like if Christians, instead of just being angry about what is happening around them. What would it look like for them to start to have a positive vision for the world? Like we used to. And that was the third lecture. And so we started by developing a theological order or vision for the family, if you remember. It was something along these lines. God the Father has given Jesus Christ all authority in heaven and earth. As such, Jesus Christ is subduing all of creation. Angelic powers, nations, and empires, that is to say, the Leviathan, work against him. Christ has brought some into his realm or kingdom. And under his lordship men have been given as heads. That is the same word. It's a technical word actually within this theology, the head. Same word for Christ as the one who orders all creation. He has given that same analogous responsibility to the male in order to establish Christ's order in anticipation of his return to complete his work. among the family. We could even summarize it by modifying slightly Romans chapter 16, verse 20. And the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet, your feet shortly, men as you establish his order in your households. This morning the lecture seeks to develop or continue to develop a constructive theological vision, but not of the family this time, but of the church. And then next time we have our men's breakfast, we will move into our last time together with me, and we'll develop a theological vision of the church in relationship to the state. And our kind of political responsibilities externally. But today it is a constructive theological vision of the church from Ephesians. And I'm telling you, right, I'm just giving you a heads up right now. This is a little thick So take notes and ask questions at the Q<unk>A. I want to start by doing a bunch of observations, and we're not really going to get beyond that much. I'm just trying to give you a theology of the church from the book of Ephesians. So, number one, observation number one is: I just want to remind us about the letter of Ephesians, and I have characterized it as a catechism for the order of reality. All right. So you should try to get your head around that. In our logic classes at the Academy here, we have 82 students this year, by the way, in our Classical Christian Academy. Really pleased with that. It's a total of 47 families, I think. And our logic classes at the academy here, uh which Jack and Finn are in right now, they already had D1 logic and now they're moving into D2 logic They last year studied, if you gentlemen remember, you studied the generic order of reality. That is to say uh genus and species relationships. Do you remember that voice? Hey, you remember that? Genus and species relationships? Yes. Um and that is called a generic order. Generic order is the order between genus and species. Does everybody know what I'm talking about there? Those are a larger who said that it was a nice deep voice. Alright, Doug. Doug, come on. Genus and species. What do you do for a living? Uh engineering. Yeah, okay. You use this all the time, man. Okay, so the genus is going to be the larger category like furniture. And then if you were to look around in this room, what are all the things that could go in the furniture? Those are going to be species. Genus would be dog. You could look at different species of dog, right? And that's just one observation that we have made on how God has ordered his world. Alright, but God is the creator. When we say that God is the creator, we're already admitting that the world is not constituted by miscellaneous and random energy and matter. We're saying that God has already ordered energy and matter into a particular form. And when we start to make observations about that order, one of the most basic observations that we have made as human beings throughout the ages is that there are things can be ordered into genus and species. If you wanted to look at the Genesis account, notice how it talks about, and God made things according to their kind. That's what we're talking about here. Okay, this is insight into how the Creator has organized his creation Well that is that's one way, and we call that a generic order. Okay, uh remember I'm talking about Ephesians here, which is about it's a catechism for the order of reality It doesn't talk much, however, when you look at Ephesians, it doesn't talk much about generic orders. They're present, and it would be good for you to order all those things. That's what theologians do, actually. Uh uh but it but the order that we want to focus on in Ephesians, which we brought up last time is called teleological order. Does anybody remember what that is Teleological order. It's from the Greek telos. Any guesses? Jack and I had lunch at Adam's Ribs yesterday. Isn't that a great title? Adam's Ribs. And uh we were talking about teleological order. And we brought you you know why I came up is because he and I were discussing the first question and answer to the shorter catechism. Anybody know that? What is the chief end of man? Anyone know the answer to that? Yeah. Yeah. So notice the question, what is the chief end? See the language of end there What the catechism is trying to get at is that there are there's an ordered relation between things, not just generically, but also teleologically. All of creation is ordered to God as their end. That for the sake of which we exist is God and his glory. Okay, that's that's what the idea of teleology is. It's just the end for which we do things. Uh you see ultimate ends like God, uh but you s if you were to just scan the scriptures pretty quickly, you'd start to see that there are other things that are ordered to each other. For example, Psalm 104 is just a giant psalm showing you the the the uh ordered relationships between things and how one how God has structured his reality to where one thing is ordered to the next. Listen to this. He sends the springs into the valleys They flow among the hills. They give drink to every beast of the field. The wild donkeys quench their thirst. So you can see here that God through if you were to study this in school through the water cycle, evaporative processes, then dumping things down into a particular area or that springing from the the earth or from the mountainside, the springs end up being ordered for the sake of wild donkeys. You'll, if you were to continue to read that same psalm, you'll see that grass was created by God for the sake of the cattle And that vegetation, as they say, like vegetables, were ordered for the production of man. And then the next verse talks about how man makes wine and bread. That there's our agricultural products for our benefit and not just bare necessity, but that our hearts would be glad it mentions in that psalm. And so those are those are relationships that are not generic, but one thing is ordered to the other. And this is how God has ordered his world. It's beautiful, and he's and he deserves praise as we start to observe that kind of thing. They are for the sake of one another. Well, that's what's going on primarily within Ephesians. And that is an argument that I made last time. Is that Paul is showing that Showing that for which all things are ordered. That there was a disorder that happened, especially within the moral world of human beings, that they started to live for things that they're not supposed to live for. And now Christ has been anointed and installed as the Messiah, and he is re-or reconciling or reordering the world that they would live for that which they're supposed to live for. Imagine the grass or the vegetation going on strike and no longer wanting to live for the sake of cattle or for human beings. If that were the case, it would be an odd tale, but we would have uh in this tale someone come along who uh gets the grass to do what it's supposed to do and vegetables to do what they're supposed to do. But the problem is not with grass and vegetables. The problem is with human beings. Particularly the Gentiles. And so we read something like this in Ephesians, we read something, we read this in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 10. This is a really thick theological statement from Paul. And so I'll interpret it by way of John Calvin. Here it is from the scriptures, though, that in the dispensation of the fullness of the times He might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth in him. You can all read that in your Bibles. That's Ephesians 1 10. The question is what does he mean by that? It is a rich theological statement, but it is d he is doing what I'm what I'm setting the stage what I'm trying to tell you here is he's showing you How God is bringing everything back into that teleological order. Calvin comments and says this: Out of Christ, all things were disordered in heaven and earth. And that through him they have been restored to order. And truly, out of Christ, what can we perceive in the world but mere ruins? Isn't that true in your experience? Outside of Christ? Does not the world just degrade into ruins? Such a gathering together as might bring us back to regular order, the apostle tells us. has been made in Christ. And I'm repeating what I said to you last men's breakfast. So I I could say it to you this way, which is really the whole point of the first four chapters of Ephesians, and then he works it out in the last in the latter part. It's this God the Father sent his Son in order to all things unto their true end, which is the glory of God. See that? Okay. And we're we're speaking primarily about human beings at this point, but but we could have another lecture on angels, because angels became disordered also, and it is Christ who is ordering them. Right? You can see him his interaction in the Gospels with demonic angels, for example. Okay. So that's the first observation. You got all that? That's tough, but that's good, you know, that's good. That's what's going on here really. Believe it or not. So observation number two then. Here's where we're going to go ahead and drop in with that foundation to the church. One key to understanding the church within that context of God the Father anointing Jesus of Nazareth as the Christ to order all things to their proper ends. One key to understanding the church in that context is to meditate on Paul's language for the church. And if you have your scriptures open, you can bounce around with me here for a second. In chapter 1, verse 22, he uses the word church or congregation. In the Greek it's ekklesia. That's one way that he talks about us. In chapter 2, verse 12, he's now going to use an explicit political language. It's a word that is derived from the word polis. Have you heard that before? Polis. The polis is a city or town. It's really a politically constituted body. Right? Or reconstituted. And you'll see in chapter two, verse twelve, there's a great translation of what's going on here called Commonwealth. Real long history, and I'll develop that in a minute. So we are a church or a congregation, uh ecclesia, not uh not a building, but a congregation, a collection. All right, a collection of people, which is called an ecclesia. This is where we get our word ecclesiology, by the way. And then we have the commonwealth, which is derived from the idea of the polis. In chapter 2, verse 19, notice that it uses the word citizen. That actually is the same word with a prefix as the Commonwealth. It's uh derived from the word polis. It's just those who are together in a polis. What do you call those who are all members of the same polis? Well, we're citizens, right? We're fellow citizens. Then in chapter two, verse nineteen, you'll notice that he drops into another way in which people are grouped together, and that is called the household of God. Or the economy, and we talked a little bit about that last time. Okay. In fact, the whole earth is considered a household under Christ in the sense of an ordered economy. And then you see in chapter 2, verse 21, he drops into temple language and talks about us as the temple of God or the temple of the Holy Spirit. And then in chapter 2, verse 22, he then calls us a dwelling place of God, which is going along with the temple in imagery. So let me just re repeat those really quickly. We have a a a congregation or ecclesia, we have a commonwealth, we have fellow members of a commonwealth, that is to say, citizens, we have those who are ordered uh onto an uh um in in a household or an economy, we have a temple, which I'll get to that in a second, and then you have a dwelling place. If you were to look at what Paul is doing with the kind of language that he's using, you would start to notice that there's a similarity between all of those different concepts. Interestingly, most, if not all, of those words refer to a multitude which is united in one. And that's what we mean by political bodies, by the way. It means it is a diversity of people, but in another sense, they're not a multitude. They're not separate entities, they're one. We would call that, for example, like membership, or we are members of one body. Paul will talk about that later. And you can see that Paul continues to have this on his mind, this idea of there being a multitude of people, but that we are all united. You can see this very clearly in Ephesians chapter 4 Verses 3 through 6. He goes into the idea of oneness. Now, when you have read this before, why did you think he was doing that? I think the most superficial reading of Ephesians chapter 4, verses 3 through 6 is just thinking he just wants us all to get along. Yeah, that's true. But what he's trying to do is to show you underneath of everything, the reality of what God is doing so that you would realize how important it is that we would in fact get along and why we would get along and what power we have to get along and what it means to get along There are a lot of people that get along. What is it that demarcates us and how we get along, for example? Let me read it to you. There is one body. That's a political body, by the way. Okay, that's the commonwealth. There is one spirit. This refers to the agent who has formed Think of the spirit hovering over the face of the deep and making that which was um with uh uh formless and void into habitable space. Here we see the recreation of God and the church The first fruits of it, just as so that as one body, one spirit, just as you were called in one hope of your calling One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through you all and in you all. Do you see the diversity and the unity that's happening within that passage? And it's brought out even more because what we're talking about here are Jews and Gentiles. If you go back to chapter two, for example The mystery of the fellowship that Paul that is revealed to Paul by Christ is that the Jews and Gentiles will be co-heirs. in the same political commonwealth or body. Right? So now you can you can begin to see where though we are uh made up of many, we are unified as one. There is one body, one spirit, just as you're called and one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. one God and Father of all. And all of those terms that I gave you for the church, the ecclesia, right, the commonwealth, all of those things, even the temple Are those things which are constituted of many members but are one, are unified All right, and that's that's very, very important. Now I think that the translators have done a good job and I looked and the translators have been translating this political idea as commonwealth for a long time. It's a great translation in chapter 2, verse 12. The translators have done a great job using the word commonwealth, and this is my third observation. Do you know what a commonwealth is? What's that? Oh. Okay. Yeah. Did they always have the slogan by the way discover your happiness? Pursue your happiness. Have they always had that? That sounds really modern to me. Yeah, okay. It didn't always used to be that way. Yeah, okay. Sorry to hear that. Okay, so um This idea of commonwealth has an archaic meaning. It is a community or a city of people who are united by the same wheel. Got common wheel. or commonwealth. Wheel is spelled W-E-A-L. You can look this up in the Oxford English Dictionary. And a wheel is that which is best for someone or something. Did you already know that, Bill? Really? Where have you heard the word wheel before? You just did. That's great. Good for you. A common wheel, right? W-E-A-L. And so a common wealth or a common wheel. is a group of people who all agree on what is the best thing toward which they should order their lives. Do you see how all this is starting to come together? You can begin to see with the unity language in the context of diversity that what what Paul is getting at. He's getting at the fact, and this is why I love the translation so much, is that they really are, the church really is a commonwealth in the deepest senses and the richest senses of that term, that it is a group of people that are ordered toward the same end. In other words, and this is how we hear it today, it is a community united in a common good. We do hear that today. I hear that from the Anglican Communion, for example, Roman Catholic Communion. They talk a lot these days within the context of COVID. that the archdiocese, for example, has folks wearing masks even within their c their uh community, not just at church. for the sake of the common good. Do you see that? So they're a community organized around a common good. And that's a biblical idea. the idea of a community being organized toward a common good is called a common wheel or a common wealth. Now this idea has been developed throughout the centuries and one person who's most famous for developing this idea of what the church is as a commonwealth, as a community that is all ordered toward the same end, a society seeking the same common good. Augustine is famous for developing this under the idea of love. He says this in the City of God. It's chapter 19, paragraph 24. A people or city is an assemblage of reasonable beings bound together by a common agreement as to the objects of their love. Let me say that to you one more time. A people or city is an assemblage of reasonable beings bound together by a common agreement as to the objects of their love. That's a commonwealth. That's the church. We could summarize it this way: the church is in fact a commonwealth Commonwealths are communities of people who all share what they think is best. And I'm talking about like the summum bonum there, the ultimate good. Or, according to Augustine, they are people who share the same object or objects of love. That's the third observation. And now we move into observation four. And this is just a this is easier from here on out. Observation four is that you can see practical examples of a community unified toward the same common good throughout the rest of Ephesians. And I would like to see how this pla I'd like you to see how this plays out with Paul specifically in terms of one Lord. I think it's very important for Paul. He repeats it a lot throughout his letter. You notice in chapter four verses three through six that he does talk about one Lord, right? And then he will play that out throughout the rest of the chapters. So take a look, for example, at chapter four, verse seventeen. Paul gives a series of commands that sound very much like the outworking of Deuteronomy. We can talk about that another time. And he gives all the series of commands in the Lord. He is deriving his authority by appealing to the Lord. And what that implies is that the whole community is already committed in un in in unity, in obedience to that same Lord. In chapter 5, verse 1, Paul places the Lord as the moral example for the whole community. It is assumed that as the Son acts, so too should the child of God act. Throughout Ephesians. That shows you again the community has a common moral end, and it is embodied in the Son of God as he is incarnate in Jesus of Nazareth. Chapter five, verse ten, we are to find out when we are living our lives what is acceptable to the Lord. Again, you can see that we are united as a community under his authority and what his will is for us. Chapter five, verse seventeen, we are to understand what the will of the Lord is. And then if you then go into what we lectured on last what I lectured on last time, each aspect of marriage is to be done in the Lord. Each aspect of family in the Lord, each aspect of bondservant and master done in reference to the Lord. Do you see the unity that is emerging for this Commonwealth? If a Commonwealth is a community of people who are all ordered toward the same common good or end or object of love, And then you therefore realize that the church is a commonwealth, you can ask the letter of Ephesians from Paul, What is our common end or love? And one answer that you can see is the Lord and His Law. Did you see that? The Lord and His will. That is what makes us one political body. That is one of the things. It is the center of our existence. It is our well-being. There's a famous distinction in theology between being and well-being. You can see within the letter of Ephesians that it is the Christ by way of the Spirit. It's really the Father sending Christ who then and Christ sending the Spirit that makes the being of the church, and then the Trinity becomes the well-being of the Church. the end for which the church exists, its glory. That's observation number four. I hope you're taking notes on all this. Observation number five. Christ as the ordering head of the Commonwealth ensures that the body will live for their proper ends by sending gifts Mentioned in chapter 4, verse 11. Anybody read this section before where Christ, he who descended, also ascended, and he sent gifts to men? This is considered a victory speech, by the way, where if you were to look at the reference that Paul is giving, that is a figure for what Christ has done, it's a military victory. and the booties of war, so to speak, are then distributed amongst the people. Now when you see this gift that is given to the church, it ends up being very surprising to folks They find out that the gifts that Christ gives the church in order to keep them moving towards their proper ends is a group of people. Look at chapter 4 of verse 11 there. And he gave some gifts, right? Namely the apostles, the prophets, evangelists. Pastors and teachers, right? There's one definite article in front of pastors and teachers, so it may be the same office there Different aspects of the office. And you can see in verse 12 that they are given for the sake of, just as grass is for the sake of cattle. Those gifts are for the sake of the congregation to equip them for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. See that So that that that's one of the things that we see here is once you realize that the church is a commonwealth and that a commonwealth is ordered toward the common good Then you see that Christ, in order to maintain his political body on earth as it is in heaven, sends gifts to them that they might not in verse 14 be blown off by worldly winds And that's exactly what happens. There are many Commonwealths out there that have organized themselves towards objects of love. And they are very persuasive in getting you to make their object of love your object of love. And when you do, it is idolatry. And God has sent you gifts through particularly the preaching of the word to call you back in repentance every day. to the life that you are meant to live, which is for the sake of God and his kingdom and glory. Alright? That's the whole idea here with those gifts. I just want you to see that, but it's not just the gifts that we see that are given. There are also in chapter 4, verse 16, the whole body. He refers to them as joints and ligaments. He's using the the imagery of a human body now to talk about the responsibilities within a political body or commonwealth. You have those who are gifts that are given that have a of a special call, and then which is primarily through the preaching of the word. And then you also can see in 4. 16 that the whole body, every single member, is to edify itself in love. But it's not and that edification language is the language of building. It's constructive or an act of construction and restoration from the ruins. And it's always kept in mind of what Paul has said that we're all still striving towards the same end. So now we can all contribute to each other's lives and making sure that we remain united in the common good. Right. Okay. One way, let me just say this as an aside, and I think it's a I think it acts as a kind of illustration that can start to clarify some of these concepts for you. One of the ways that the reformers talked about this kind of unity and how we are meant to edify one another is by way of the conscience. The conscience is a gift from God that either excuses or accuses anything that we do in the moral realm. And it uses your memory to uh hold you accountable to everything. Right? So if you did an action and all of a sudden now it's in the past because you already did it, your memory will then be used by conscience to remind you of what you did, and then you'll either be excused or you'll be accused. But the conscience has to have a rule by which it does the accusing or the excusing. And that rule is the law of God. Right? That rule is the faith that God has given to the saints once for all, passed down. Right? So you could be guilty because you have spoken falsehood. Or you can be excused because you have spoken the truth. You could be guilty because you have done something bad, or you can be excused because you have done the good. And the conscience picks up on all of those things. And to know what is true and to know what is good, you have to have a rule that determines those things. And that rule is the faith and the law of God. This is expressed within the catechism as saying that the scriptures principally teach two main things, what we are to believe concerning God, and what duties God requires of men. Right? The conscience is using that. And as you become trained and form your conscience by the word, it becomes even more morally intelligent. Another way, therefore, to talk about this kind of unity and how we are to be helping one another is this. A community is meant to have the same conscience. We are meant to have the same conscience. There's some interesting study that shows within history that the word conscience, you can break that into two parts, con, which is with. Or s uh science, I'll just state it in the English form, science has to do with knowledge. And that it's uh the sense of having mutual understanding and knowledge as a community. That we are on the same page. I think um that's one of the goals that we would have through the gifts and through the mutual ministry of the members is that we would be, in other words, as Paul says it, of one mind. But I'm using the theologians throughout the years have used the idea of conscience to really get at the heart of what we mean by one mind. Okay, that we would be of one conscience. We are can we are accused and we are excused by the same set of things together. And if you can get to that place, oh Boy, can we can accomplish some stuff. But what happens when you feel like because you're obeying the Lord at church, you feel like the black sheep among the rest of the members? It shows you there's no real community. Okay? It shows you you don't belong. And that ends up being a real problem. So you can see the kind of ministry that we're called to. to exercise, to build each other up, that we would always be of the same conscience, same faith, same conduct. You can see why it would be so important for your officers to subscribe to the same standard or confession, for example. And how and the tr kind of trouble you get into if you don't sub have them all subscribing to the same thing. Okay. That was observation number five. And so let me just go ahead and summarize real quick, and then I want to drop into what I think is an illuminating case study, and then I'm sure you have a bunch of questions. on um maybe of what the church is, the way that it's explained in Ephesians, the theology of it, and then some application. So here's a summary. The church is a commonwealth, ordered to the same common end. In order to maintain that Christian society, Christ gives the gifts of officers to the church and works through the mutual advocation of the members. And now you can see all the theology that's underneath of that. It's a pretty plain statement, right? I'm sure you've heard that before. And then let me just state it again. The church is a commonwealth ordered to the same common end. It shares the same conscience, in other words. In order to maintain that Christian society, Christ gives the gifts of officers to the church and works through the mutual edification of the members. Again, in the context of the end. Now let me give you an illuminating uh case study. Uh today. Finn, is it really your birthday today? It's serious it really is. Okay, yeah. So today is also we know so it's uh September eleventh, right? So we have the also the anniversary of the the uh Trade Center. And uh do everybody remember what they were doing that day? Nine eleven? You don't remember? How old were you and uh You were three. Y you were three. Holly and I were still dating. We weren't married yet during 9-11. I had come home early. Uh we had ended I was framing houses at the time uh over in Bethesda Holly was at the community college. I remember the day distinctly. I remember not being able to get through on my cell phone. Everything was jammed up, you remember that? Uh really um a terrible day in the truest sense of that word. We watched the news loops. We watched news loops of airliners cutting through the tops of those buildings. Uh not bouncing off, cutting through and going into the inside. And we know from further analysis that all of the jet fuel This is all part of the plan, the jet fuel spilling out into the building and the kind of heat that it generates eventually melts the infrastructure and the whole bell building collapses and thousands of people uh die That happened um today within our history. And I um and uh it's still grievous. Has anyone been to the new memorial in New York where the buildings were? It is um you have and you have to is it not moving when you stand there at the edge? It is moving. It's um it's a never-ending pool into darkness in a sense. So it has a quite a poetic effect on your on you physically and and psychologically Um let me ask you, I'm not trying to be insensitive here, uh, but this is a reality that you have to ask. Why did the terrorists decide on those buildings? Decide on those buildings. They could have crashed the planes anywhere. Why did they decide on those buildings? Go ahead. They were trying to destroy the Commonwealth. Now why uh I appreciate you um putting it that way. It was really helpful for me. Can you say why you put it that way though? I believe that they thought that the World Trade Centers symbolized what was at the core of American society. Which was financial power, money, all of that and What better way to crush that sense of belonging to the common thing than to destroy the tallest towers in the city that are for that purpose. Yeah, so destroying the towers themselves, did it cause the economy of America to stop even for a second? I mean hyperb hyperbolically speaking. Yeah, but I'm just saying, was there something inside the buildings? Uh that that that was like a s a secret that if they destroyed it, it changes everything in America. No, and that's why you chose the word symbolic. It was a symbolic action. It's the same thing. Our military is all over the world. By running a plane into the Pentagon, is it going to affect our military? Not really. Okay. And so what you end up seeing here is that these are symbolic actions. Right? Uh the death toll, of course, was terrible, but I think that they were seeking a symbolic action above all. And they accomplished the symbolic action from their perspective. In their minds, let's ask, since Brad has already brought us over to the idea of symbolism in the acts and the commonwealth, what is the common good of America according to them? It's destruction. What's that? It's destruction. They were looking to destroy America by cutting off a central Right. But what how do they conceive of America? What is America what is America united in? What is their common good according to them? Greed. Trade. Consumerism. Commercialization. What's the symbolism and what's the commonwealth united in with the Pentagon? How would they view it? The militarization. What's that? Imperialism. Imperialism, right? I mean they live in a land full of oil, right? So you can begin to see how they look at things. You think you agree with that, Mr. Bucks? I don't mean do you take their position. I just mean do you agree that they view it that that way? Yeah. You do work in the area, so that's why I'm asking you. I think that's a that's a a fair wave top view of it. Okay, yeah. Fair enough. Thank you. Yes, Steve. Could her motivation have been to fight Christianity? So one thing that the uh Islamists believe uh and and it's actually a a common thing among um Judaism as well is the ban on charging interest on transactions. And so I think part of it, greed and stuff, but fundamentally is what they call for ROM or sinful behavior. Yes. As America was rooted capitalism is rooted in sin for them. Yeah. Yeah. And I think w I think it would be fair to say that they view capitalism as an um kind of ac uh expression of greed if we were to start talking about the lusts of the heart. Commercialization is not is not uh uh uh having an economy it's a an economy that leads to sin and is and is rooted in sin and develops out of sin. and you've called that they would call that capitalism, right? Was it a strike against Christianity insofar as they conceive of Christianity as consumerism? They don't believe Christ is the Son of God. Right, but are you I'm asking about what is the symbolic nature of the buildings and the Pentagon. Right? They didn't hit it they didn't hit a church with the plane. Yeah, it's money and power. Money and power. Yeah. They didn't hit the Vatican. Yeah, all of those things. Okay. So so this is a I think this is an illuminating instance where you can begin to start to to use what we're seeing here within Paul to understand reality. When you ask about communities, you want to ask about them as a commonwealth, and you now understand that commonwealths, no matter what they are, are ordered toward a common good and end. This other community, which was in the Middle East, s has their own common end and is therefore a community or a commonwealth. And they looked at ours and they saw that it was ord ordered in a d well, disordered. So much so that it needed there needed to be a symbolic act against its disorder. Yeah, Doug. was going through the political body. Okay. And it didn't make it. And it didn't you're right. Also going to the political body. Yeah. Right. What do you think the symbolic act would have been there? Uh the leadership. The leadership Yeah, those who are leaders in how they have constituted themselves. So you can begin to see the symbolic actions on how they think of the American people and what the common good is for Americans, and that went under attack. That's the point that I'm trying to bring out is that in their minds that America had a common good. Now, if you were to ask the same thing across the scriptures, realizing that symbols reveal that which is the common good for communities. What is the symbol for the church? What is the common good or the what is the equivalent of the World Trade Center for the Church? Okay, it could be the cross. Hopefully we have a hard time coming up with this answer because symbolism and actual figures Whatever. Yeah. But there's a bunch in there and there's even ones used in Ephesians that take the top attention. What would you say it is? So it's gonna be a s it's gonna be a symbol and when this symbol is for example i it would if there are enemies against Christ uh the Son of God and his church throughout all time, enemies would immediately go for this thing as a symbolic act themselves to show that God has gone under their foot and that their gods rule over Yahweh. Then Ark of the Covenant. Actually has a symbolic nature. But let's I don't see that exactly as what's going on in Ephesians. But you know what? You're really close, actually You're really close. Harry. The evil is is huge. The government itself is part of it of the the these buildings coming down and they're all front threatened, their own footprint cannot be achieved by airliners with fuel liners. you're achieved by explosives that bring it straight down. That's the U the US government at the time. Sections up the black hole, the the unknown And that's where we have to be careful is who is the enemy and where are they attacking so we can I agree, but I'm looking for what is the top symbol or what is a major symbol within the scriptures that enemies themselves would attack symbolically It's been done multiple times throughout biblical history by the way. The temple and the raising of the city. That's gotta be at least one. Right? Yeah, at least for the older church, exactly. But I think it now continues in an analogous way. That we're still called example for example, in Ephesians, you're still called the temple, and you are still called the city. Think for example of Galatians chapter 4 verse 26 through 28, or if you wanted to look at Hebrews, listen to this. But the Jerusalem above is free. So now you're likened to a city. That doesn't surprise us because we're a commonwealth. We're not talking about geographical location. We're talking about the true heart of a city, which is a commonwealth ordered toward a particular good. We are the Jerusalem above which is free. Rejoice, O baron, you who do not bear, break forth and shout you who are not in labor, for the desolate has many more children than she who has a husband. Now we brethren, as Isaac was, are children of promise. And that's the whole point, that uh that there's still a captivity over the physical Jerusalem even to this day, but being a part of the new Jerusalem, which is by faith Where we are united by faith and by hope and by love. This is the true commonwealth of God or the temple of God. That would be um and so you can see how the that that ends up becoming a major symbol uh for us and that we are on the right track in understanding what the church actually is. So I'm going to move into some questions and some answers. There are other uniting symbols, by the way. You can see them. I think the cross is a is a good one. The Word is a good one especially. And let me just raise a couple questions for you real quick, such that I would appreciate it if you were to think through on your own time, or you can even use one of these as the questions today And then I'll open this up to questions. Theologically speaking, what are the commonwealths which surround us in Andorono County and how does this inform what it means for the church to evangelize and witness? Something to really think through. How does this idea of what the church is as a commonwealth toward a common good inform us as we look at other communities as a commonwealth who are ordered towards their goods. How is it that that helps us in understanding what it means to evangelize or to be a witness of an alternative order? How could we use our understanding of the church as a commonwealth to navigate decisions related to COVID mandates? That is a really good question. And I think there's actually a quite a bit of light that is shed on us in relationship to COVID and the kinds of decisions that we should be making. By way of understanding ourselves as a commonwealth ordered toward a particular good. Within our society, it seems that folks want to order everything to one common good, which is a particular way of safety. Is it possible that in certain situations the church has goods that are higher than safety? And if so, it will mean that we organize ourselves differently than some communities. Yeah. How can we use our understanding of the church as a commonwealth to navigate decisions related to COVID mandates? Yeah. Here's another one for you. What specific role or roles do you have in the Commonwealth here at Severn Run? How does your role help this Commonwealth pursue its common ends? And then here is my favorite question. Do you have the same conscience as your church community? Why or why not? I think those are some good questions that flow out of this theology of the church. And so um with that I'll go ahead and open it to all kinds of questions. Let's try to stay on what I lectured on. Okay? What'd you say? I said I'm gonna say Commonwealth just to start so then it's already up the the theme I'm getting about this with attacking the temple and so forth, the enemy of the church running back and forth to Today that would apply possibly, and if everybody else is taking this back me up, please. Um but the um the attack in the last two years on our time together church whether it be distractions like oh we're gonna we're gonna have you know our sporting events we're gonna schedule for Sunday mornings or we're gonna have you know pay-per-view TV you can watch whatever you want on Sunday morning we're gonna make church super easy you can't go I've been listening by which is why around here your leadership who are gifts to the body by the grace of Christ have been calling the Sabbath as a mode of a mode of resistance. It is a resistance against other communities that seek to persuade us of a different good. or end for our lives. So you could go ahead and play out what are the ends that people are seeking by way of recreational sports, for example. And we're standing against and saying we don't believe life should be organized that way. And this day especially, this day shows you how every human being is meant to be ordered. Yeah the the the worship service is a s uh um an act showing where the world is headed. You see that? It shows it shows the end for which the Commonwealth of the Church exists. It does it does all it does all of those things, and so it doesn't surprise me that there's a direct attack on the day Why can't Enron County uh put their sports games just on Saturdays? Because there's a Prince of Darkness. So I think you're really reading it well, man. I'm really thankful that you said that and that that the Lord is working in you like that, Nick. Good stuff, man. Uh let's go to uh Adrian and then we'll do Brad. And then Gabe, did you raise your hand, bud? No? Okay. Adrian. In the Empire of Lions, truth is a crown. I I I found that uh God has put me in places I don't know always know about while to witness things. Okay. I was in Brooklyn, New York on September 11th. I just got laid off on a Friday The people in Brooklyn had all told me, you gotta go to Windows to the world. That's a restaurant on the top of one of the streets. uh the two twins out. Yeah, yeah. And I had intended to go that Monday but I was tired. I just slept in. I was gonna go that day. They didn't open up 'til like eleven o'clock, so I was still in bed. Girl's face came down space and say, yo, a plane at the World Trade Center. So I turned the TV on. And I used to go to a basketball court at Wingate High School. And you can see those trade centers from everywhere because they were head and shoulders. above every other building in New York City. You could see him from about twenty miles out on a turnpike because I was driving up and down. And it looked so surreal to me On the TV screen, I said I don't believe this. So I jumped out, put some clothes on, and I ran around the corner to see it in actuality. Nothing that I've seen on a TV E-screen can match what I actually saw. To the degree I even believe they could have doctored what you were seeing on the screen. So I'm just gonna say be careful what you uh believe when you see it on a TV screen. Yeah sure. Because a TV screen uh they can tell you it's real and it's not and tell you it's not real and it is. But you know it it you know I don't have enough time now but what I saw you know and and and the people and the witnesses and I can call myself a witness because I didn't watch it on screen. I saw them come down live. So I I I'm just gonna I just you know respect say to everyone here, you know, watch what you see on a TV screen. Because they they we are in the empire of life And that Prince of Darkness is a master liar. And his lies go far deeper than you can imagine. And so that's that's just, you know. Alright, thank you, Adrian. Bradley. I was gonna uh comment on what uh Nick had brought up. Nick, you listening, you're getting comments. Yep. So uh the idea of worship being a uh like a resistance really makes me think of Exodus. And the purpose for why Moses was asking for two weeks in the wilderness. He just wanted to take his people to worship God. Remember they weren't trying to completely leave Egypt. They were just trying to go and obey and worship. And it was such a resistant notion to the common good. Why? Because Egypt needed all their laborers for all of their work. Yeah. And then Which is another way of saying that the Hebrew people were enslaved to the common end of the Egyptian Empire, which was the glory of Pharaoh and his gods. in God's mercy made America so unique. Which I'm sorry I qualified the word unique because What made America unique is that God allowed it to be formed around the common good of Christian let's say Christian principles. Yeah. Definitely not Christianity, the Christian principles, the first nation in the world where Sunday was a day that mattered. Right? I mean it's one of the reasons in the Protestant Reformation that the Lord's Day became so important to the people was to s show that you're not enslaved to the queen or the king. You're enslaved to Jesus Christ, then at least one day out of seven is going to be used for him. So just the way that we are watching America attacked from within. we can see that there are a group of people trying to create a new common good. Yes. Either in pride or choice or masks or fear, etc. Whatever it is. They're trying to create a new common mentality so that everybody in America thinks the same way about things. Do you think we feel slight strangers. Don't you think that all of those things that they're you and I have read a lot of the same things, if not all the same. Well you read a lot of stuff about stars and physics. and stuff. But don't you think that our forefathers, even more recent forefathers like Van Till and others, were right in grouping those things under human autonomy? They they were catching the themes of scripture and showing that the human race hasn't changed at all since the beginning. Yeah In the book of Ephesians, by the way, I want to launch off of you just for a second. The book of Ephesians, by the way, that whole realm that Bradley's talking about that has a different A c a a common commonwealth that's ordered toward different ends than what the church is ordered toward. That's called the realm of the flesh It's not flesh just as in like individual sins that you struggle with or desires and temptations that pop up. The way Paul uses that is an entire mode of existence. that is always only ever ordered in enmity to God. Right? They could be ordered to a thousand different things. Each community could have a different God. Each community or however you want to work that out, the thing they all have in common is none of them are ordered to the one God, right, by way of Jesus Christ. And so It's important for us to see that's what's going on. Still today, that's the world in which we exist. There's the realm of the flesh, and then there's the realm of the spirit. Those aren't individualistic, pious terms. We're trying to get to the nature of reality when Paul talks about that. Yeah. You raised the first question. You said Let's maybe look at this later. Oh. The question was why did God want us to be together? Uh that you posed earlier in section point two. Um I think it's Why do but God want us to be together? Yeah, it was dealing with the Commonwealth. You know, what was the purpose of the Commonwealth? Okay. Okay. You know, I think it's funny that that Paul, the Apostle Paul, was you know, raised in the Jewish faith. Speaks in the Jewish faith. That's why he was killing Christians because it went against Judaism and everything about the Jewish faith And in two twenty um two fourteen, and he has broken down the middle wall of separation. In three six that the Gentiles should be fellow Fellow heirs of the same body and partakers of his promising Christ through the gospel. There you go. That that tearing down the middle wall of separation uh is symbolic, and it was the the tearing of the veil In the temple, and that there was no longer that separation, it's and it's that introduction to the new covenant with Christ. Bringing the Gentiles in. And here was this Pharisee of Pharisees this leader in the Jewish culture and everything that he knew. So that was bringing together that commonwealth, saying, this is where we're going and this is where the gospel. wants us to be so uh yes the I uh yeah I think that's good. The the that passage is talking primarily about two main things. The first thing is that we are reconciled to God by way of the blood of Christ. Okay, that's the first uh that's to whom we are first ordered. So the Son orders us rightly in forgiveness and adoption to the Father. But then the second thing that needs to take place because Jesus Christ Because God the Father has decided that He's w He He had decreed and is executing in His providence the takeover of the whole world He therefore has to order a body of people that he is already working in by way of the covenant of grace, namely the Jews. He has to break down what is separating them from those who are not under that covenant, who are still children of wrath, and that is the Gentiles. So Christ is tearing down the middle wall of ordinances, he says, which has to do with the ceremonial law, in order to unite these two political bodies from two different realms. into one man, into one man that is then ordered unto uh the Christ of all nations. You you see I had to do that with my eyes closed because there are so many different relationships that I wanted to try to get right there. But but yeah. But that is what's going on there in chapter two. Okay? And so now Jew and Gentile are united as a single commonwealth, which is not easy to do especially during that day, right? So there was a lot of work that had to be done. Yes, Mike. Can I go to the bathroom? Yeah, man. Oh, okay. The question is, may I go to the bathroom? I think you can. uh conscience. Yeah, yeah. Thanks so much for bringing that up. And the way that that relates and the that's almost like a tool, especially for me. And I I think because we're in a commonwealth for every Yeah. And um but that positive side is a whole different aspect for me 'cause I always thought conscience played on me, like yeah. And and maybe because I did s I've done so many things wrong 'cause I'm Yes, that's right. But but He has used that in in conviction. That's exactly right. He uses it to convict you that you would become conformed to what the rest of the body is already being formed and shaped to. So then you'll notice that people will start to recognize in you, they'll say like He's one of us. You know, he's one of us. You can actually start to notice that in people. Right? Brings me to my second point, and that is um community. It's almost like commonwealth is a whole different level of community. Like uh we come together like-minded. Yep. And and uh we we bond together that way and we need each other in that way And an example of that negatively and and we were just having this conversation with a friend of ours and what he did because he cannot get next to any child church like, you know, this one's doing this wrong, this one's doing that wrong, that kind of thing where he can't blend in and And become a part of the body, he started his own church. his home, it's his family, which is it's it's an okay thing if you're in community, right? But if you're not accountable to anybody else that's like minded, commonwealth in that Commonwealth body, then you're you're the you're the law. You know, if you don't have any elders or any deacons to sit down with and and uh yeah and right you know so so just w had that same exact conversation and and had that conversation with him as well by the way, about community, about how he can one of the benefits I think I think what you're saying, if I'm catching you, is that one of the benefits of a commonwealth is mutual accountability. Absolutely. Is that right? Absolutely. Yeah, and we should hold him accountable by bringing him before sound church leaders so that he can find out whether he should be starting his own church. Right exactly. I don't know him. I don't want to judge the matter. I'm just I was just gonna build on that to that point He's frustrated by not being able to find a church that is grounded um correctly in a kind of doctrine Doctrinal way. And uh and I can understand that if you look at our community here just in Nanorona County, various churches here that have just begun to accept the love of the world. You you mentioned their love becomes our love. I know, right? Exactly. And so so many of the things that Satan enjoys destroying uh using tools to destroy the church, the church is actually embracing. Yeah. And So his frustration is where do I where do I find that church? Yes. He hasn't found it. And I've had that Experience but some has had that experience. Exactly. And I think that's a good thing. I sympathize with him. I could say in some sense, every sermon in some sense Since COVID has been the same message. Return to your first love. That has been what has been revealed to us. is that we have been distracted pursuing the loves of the world and forgetting our true love and organizing ourselves towards his glories and ends. But to the end, maybe he has to look at the polyanima. Right? Maybe he has to take a look at himself because prior to COVID Yeah. You know, so so there it's it's just uh yeah. I think it was Brandon. Then it was Doug. Then it was Gabe, are your hands up again or are you just stretching? Okay. Then it was Bradley. Okay. So Brandon, you're up. Uh I guess I I'm curious, based on your last question, do you have the same confidence separate from why or why not? What what do we think the on on both ends there, what do we think the individual's responsibility is When they have a misalignment between their conscience and their church's conscience, and saying what is the church's responsibilities to that individual when those conferences don't align. That's a great question. I think one of the first responsibilities is not to have an overrealized eschatology. Next question? No. No, we we're not in the state of glory yet, and so we are going to have disagreements among one another. both in terms of faith and in practice. But I do think that there needs to be a core there that where the conscience uh should be at rest with one another. And that is the case in the terms of profession as well as in practice. We believe that the core is the the officers here believe that the core is embodied well in the Westminster Confession of Faith. It is derived from a simpler creed, which is the Apostles' Creed And that needs to be unfurled. It is also s in terms of who God is, or what are we to believe concerning him You can certainly turn to the Apostles' Creed and the unfolding of the Apostles' Creed, which is the Westminster Confession of Faith and larger and shorter catechisms. But then the summary of our practice is going to be in the Ten Commandments and that the conscience should be the same in that also. Um Uh but again there's that first qualification that we kind of go up and down on it in terms of There's two things. One, we're not in glory yet, so we have to be very long-suffering with each other. And one of the reasons of that is because we grow in maturity. We are developmental beings. We start off with a conscience that is primarily convicted by um not the word except in very basic things like I will not murder and rape. Okay? But then over time as they're shaped in discipleship by the Spirit in the context of the community under the word with the by way of the mouth of the gifts. You'll see a progress, a developmental path sh going through time And the way the scriptures actually end up talking about that is that there are particular times where we should expect your conscience to be at a certain place, manifesting itself in outward actions. Right? So is that too complicated? I think that covers all the pieces though. Right, yeah. And so that's what the elders are seeking to do here, for example. We're all the time and uh we're getting ready to have a meeting actually. to start getting more and more on the same page as to, for example, what are those milestones? Those milestones. We want the people here to be discipled from cradle to grave What are the milestones and where does Christ expect for people to be when they hit a particular age having been raised under the discipleship of him within the community of the church? By the time we hit the Lord's Supper, for example, what should the men and women who are being admitted who have grown up in the church, what how what we should we expect from them in terms of the shaping of their conscience relative to the the conscience of the community and the expression of that conscience and their role within the Commonwealth. Do you see that? And then there's other ones all the way down to a person on their deathbed will have their conscience acting out in a particular way as they contemplate their death, as they seek to Enter into the rest of their Lord. Does that make sense? Yeah. Um and then Doug. Thanks, Mark, you're helping me out. So when you're talking about I was pondering to myself where did that start? Did that start? My my thought was it starts because we are Created in the image of God. But what where does our conscience come from? God. Yeah, I think I yeah, that's a great question. Um what you're asking the answer that needs to be given to you has to be a descriptive task. Okay. In other words, I just have to see what does God tell us about that, and then I can tell you. And it seems to me from Romans chapter 2 that when we are created I don't know if I want to say in his image, because I'm not thinking about it necessarily as relative to that, but um perhaps so, because the image is described as being made in righteousness and and uh being remade in righteousness and holiness, and that there's a kind of even within those who are born in original sin, um, where there is a remnant of that Romans two talks about it in terms of the law of God being written upon the heart of man. Right. And I and I and um So I so I I'm not sure I'm not sure I don't think I know exactly what you're asking me, to tell you the truth. Where did conscience come from? Yeah, I know. But when you say the word where does man have a conscience? That's that's the basic thing. And the only thing I can come Romans two seems because God has created with him with a conscience. But you you know we also have a conscience that Um if we're not in you know in the body, then it tends towards sinful nature. Yeah, that is correct. The c the conscience that God has given to us can be suppressed. It can actually be uh what's the word it's used? It's like seared. It can be seared. I think about it as being So you're born with this conscience of God because you see everything that He's done. Um and Satan uh overwrites conscience. I had a conversation with with a gentleman in my neighborhood who I was considered very friendly and then I found out how liberal he was. Still friends with him. But um his he uh he's a a South River water keeper, or South River Keeper, whatever they call him. And so he's an environmentalist, and so everything his he believes in his own good conscience He is doing the right thing and protecting the environment and everything, but he has made it his love. He has incorrectly embraced this as his purpose in life. Yeah. Right. His conscience has been, I think about it, it has been overwritten by Satan and the world. I think when God chooses us, when God elects us to have to participate in his family, God rescues us it's it's almost like an antivirus on your your computer. You know, God cleanses us. We are washed clean by the blood of Christ and and reality is open to us, yeah, kind of a thing. So yeah, we're all born with that conscience. But we are born with that conscience. Let me let me back up a little bit. Adam himself was born with the law written upon the moral law written upon his heart. Okay, even after his fall, God in his grace maintains vestiges, if you will, of that moral law that cannot be suppressed. And in order for further clarification of his church, he enscripturates the same law that we might have a very clear rule before us. Yeah, and so the the law by the way written upon the heart is is uh summarized in the Ten Commandments. Real quick, yeah. Uh oh I'm sorry. Real um we're going out of order here. We had Doug and then we had Steve. Steve, and then Tracy, and then Joe. And uh you all are five minutes over. I think he w he was trying to tie on to what was just said. Okay. Do you guys mind if Joe ties on to what's just said? Go for it, Joe. I did raise my hand earlier. I agree with what you said, but it's an important distinction. The conscience and the law of God written on man's heart in Romans two is the unregenerate man. It's the Gentile who's unregenerate. That's clearly different than the new covenant conscience written on our heart, which is the mind of Christ. what we're talking about. I agree with what you said. But all men, all ungenerate men have the vestiges. And those vestiges sometimes line up with the law of God, whether they accuse them or not. Are you making a distinction between the conscience amongst all men and the spirit given to some men? Yes. Okay. I agree with that distinction. Yeah, very good. Thanks so much, Joe. Um where are we at? Steve. Thanks for your patience, Tracy. Patience is one of our virtues in our Commonwealth. Yeah, it does, you're right. Sorry, Steve, go ahead. You know, we all have a foundation in our Bible. And I believe very strongly in their Christianity relative to other religions. But I also believe in some things that people question about herity and life. And when you talk about where your conscience come from. I think this young man here, probably his conscience came from the day he was born when his mother held him on her breath and he looked face to face. and family was the heart of his upbringing. And the things that he saw his mother doing in changing his Divers and holding him and kissing him gave him a an appreciation for what is important, which to me is what kind of There are people who don't have that family connection and you don't know where they're gonna go or what they're gonna leave or where they're gonna end up. And they don't have really a conscious they do whatever they want to do, whenever they want to do it. And we all know there's a lot of those kind of people around. So the mean conscience comes back to How you were raised as a baby was nice. And and what your parents and your family passed on to you. Guess what? And your relationship. We're officially in the nature-nurture debate. Right? We're in the nature nurture debate. So I do think that there is an element where conscience is developed and shaped, and that can be by way of family influence for sure. Train up the child in the way they should go. Yeah, train up the child in the way they should go. But sometimes nature can even buff that. And that's what I did, babe. Alright, Tracy. back to where you spoke about the importance of uh the world range neighborhood yeah yeah and Who spoke by the flesh? Yeah. The flesh is our enemy, that is the problem. Um, that's what everybody in church as a war with it. Mm-hmm. And our consciences, I wasn't raising a as good a family as somebody else or it it's it's Relative. You pursuing righteousness. Spirit and the flesh are more they're gonna be able to you but hidden ground. Um Um I find in myself that my biggest enemy is myself. And that being influenced by what Reprogram yourself. How do you do that? You have all okay, you talk about common wealth. How do you do that? You do it by intentionally pursuing the same goal. And and spirit driven is everything. I'm hearing this whole tone here of all the stuff that has to do with what From what influence do we have? Are we influenced by the Spirit of God or are we influenced by the whatever you want to call it? Yeah. Flesh. Yeah. It is with only two options. Okay. Um n I think Nick was up first, actually. No? Okay, Brad and then Nick. Well uh it tied directly into what you Tracy is talking about, this is why we in our system of doctrine subscribe to something called a sexual calling. Yeah. Where what God does is he by it's a work of his spirit Mm-hmm. Where he goes into your mind and enlightens your mind and convinces you of your sin and your misery. So he re reprograms your conscience. To see where things are, but he doesn't stop there. He renews your will and regenerates. So uh in this whole conscience question, it has to do with uh If God doesn't intervene, your conscience will never be cleansed or recreated or regenerated so that you can actually embrace what's good Yes. Unless he's done it. So I when I think of this, I think of Cain and Abel. Yeah. Right? Same parents, same upbringing, same everything. Right? They they had the same we could say knowledge of what had happened only a few years before they were born. and yet two very different consciences, two very different outcomes. And the whole world has always been the seed of the woman versus the seed of the enemy. Exactly. And those are the two different we could call them lines of conscience that have taken over the world. And the the beauty of what you're talking about from Ephesians Is that Christ has taken down that wall of separation between those who are born into the seeds, and that now any person from any walk of life can be Yeah, and that's what Paul's getting at in chapter four when he says, walk worthy of your calling. All right. He's speaking of you have been effectually called and now you have to work you are to walk according to that uh the some of our ancients used to call it effectual vocation. It's the same idea. But yes, thanks so much for rap you know pulling that all together. I'll do a la one last one. Okay. Yeah, uh great. So thanks to everybody for being here and and being at all the men's events and so forth that's been extremely edifying for me personally, but then also for stretching the family and us as a as a church family. And encouragement, you know, we get Wednesday nights, men's Bible study plus we're also working on uh reading group thing, right? And so as we catechize, as we get together as a you know, as a as men's group different ages too, you know, so thank you for that. Um but to walk together forward with a purpose as as a group of men to become the anvil that breaks down on the local societies, you know you get more talk. Yep. Yeah, that's great. Yeah, thanks so much for that. Thank you all for being here. And if you have any questions, let me know. This is um stuff that needs to be talked about a lot. Uh if your conscience is bothering you on anything that I have said, let's just use that as an opportunity to keep the conversation going. And um And and may Christ unite us towards the same end. The chief end of man is to glorify God and Him forever. What's that? The word pain in the scriptures to Old New Testament. Yeah, very good. Yeah, that's that's great. And what did the scriptures principally teach? Yeah, so if you take a look at those first three, I think it's three catechism, shorter catechism questions. There's the Commonwealth, brothers. Everything right there. And I'm very thankful to be a part of the same body as you. We have one Lord, and let's return to our first love. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you that we can address you as Father. It teaches us to have reverence before you. Our conscience suppressed that fact at uh various points in our life and may still, um, as we wrestle against the old flesh But this morning, Lord, we acknowledge it. We acknowledge that we are all your sons, and you are our Father, and that you have united us together in one Lord, and His name is Jesus. We thank you, Lord Jesus, and we thank you for your law that you have placed before us and given us in your word and enlivened within our mind and heart. We pray that as your sons, that we would not be sons of disobedience, returning to a life of wrath within the life and the mentalities and orders of the flesh. but that we instead would stay in step with the Spirit who is ordering all things unto your glory, unto your ways and your means. I pray, Lord, for these men that you would give them by way of the gifts of the church strength, and upon receiving strength, that they would pour out that strength. in mutual edification of the body to which they belong. I pray, Lord, that each man here would know. And may we all strive together toward the common end. of your glory. May the world see us, therefore, as a different community. May they see a group of people organized to a different end. And may it be a good smelling aroma to those you are calling out. May it lure them into joining us that they may repent and turn towards you, for which they were meant to live for the beginning. We ask, Lord, that you would keep us from idolatry, keep us from the wrong loves. In the name of Christ, Amen. Amen.