Well good evening. Good to be uh good to be here with you. Let me take these oh, now I can see you. Uh I can either read or I can see you. So right now I'll look at you, then I'll uh I'll read. about it. There's so much that that can be said that don't no fear. Let me read the text. I'm going to read it From my uh from my notes um and um which I think differs a little bit from what's in your bulletin. I I speak to sensible people. Judge for yourselves what I say. Is Is not the cup of thanksgiving for which we give thanks a participation in the blood of Christ? And is not the bread that we break a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one loaf, we who are many Consider the people of Israel, do not those who eat the sacrifices participate in the altar? Do I mean that the sacrifice offered No, but the sacrifices of pagans are offered to demons, not to God. Cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons too. You cannot have a part in both the Lord's table and the table of demons. Are we trying to arouse the Lord's jealousy? Are we stronger than he? Now there's a great varied history to the doctrine of the Lord's Supper. The Roman Catholic doctrine, we're celebrating the uh the Reformation here, that doctrine called transubstantiation really has uh quite a long history. Um there are even hints of it as far back as the second century. However, it's debated as to what did those guys mean when they wrote those things? Were they actually promoting transubstantiation or not? It's not a settled issue. So the debate went on and on and it still goes on today. Essentially there are there are four views. There there are some slight variations in them, but uh four views. The Roman Catholic view of transubstantiation that the bread and the wine actually become They change substance and become the body and blood of Christ. They still look, taste, and smell like bread and wine, but it is in fact the body of Christ. Body and blood. The second view is the Lutheran view of what they call the real presence, uh, that the body of Christ, the body and blood of Christ, is by, with, and under the element It's actually there. They don't change. It's still bread and wine, but the body and blood is by, with, and under the elements. The reform view, the one that we embrace, is that Christ is Spiritually present in the sacrament, not corporately or corporally or carnally, as the confession says, but we feed on him spiritually as we partake in the sacrament. The fourth view was taught by the Swiss reformer uh Ulrich Zwingli, and uh it in fact is embraced by most uh evangelicals today. That view teaches that Christ is not present at all in the in the sacrament, and that all we're doing is remembering him. That the that the communion before us is a memorial to uh um the the death and the sacrifice of Christ. Now I think our text is helpful in understanding some of this. It's not the only passage that uh that talks about the Lord's Supper But we'll refer to some of those others as we go. So our text says the cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? And the bread we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? NIV and ESV both say participation, I believe. King James says communion. New King James as well. New American Standards has a sharing in the body and blood of Christ. Young's literal translation, which is almost impossible to read. It says fellowship in the uh in the body and blood of Christ. So the original term has that has that variety of meanings. Communion, association, partnership, fellowship Fellowship, all of those things. So there's some connection with Christ in the sacrament and not just our remembering what he did. Now that remembering is important since Jesus commanded that we do this in remembrance of him. So we want to do that, but there's more going on than just that. Now the roots of of this fellowship sort of thing go way back. That's why we read what may have seemed to be a uh an obscure Old Testament reading from uh from Abraham. What happened there when he came back from the victory? Melchizedek came out and brought what? Bread and wine And they had a fellowship meal there celebrating that victory. But we're also reminded of Moses and Aaron and the elders that ascended the mountain And they ate and drank with God on top of the mountain. An astounding fellowship meal. We're reminded of the Passover, out of which this supper was instituted. There was also eating and drinking that went on when people brought their sacrifices to the tabernacle on the temple. And then what we call the Last Supper, I think in this context we probably ought to call it the First Supper. For it was in that that we actually follow the words and the The actions of our Savior as He instituted the bread and the wine with His disciples. So we have a fellowship, a communion in the body Now we still haven't defined what that means precisely, and if you're looking for something really super precise, you're going to go away disappointed. But uh we'll uh we'll give some hints about it. Uh but think of the wonder and the privilege of this The Son of God came to us from heaven. He lived among us as the God-man, Jesus of Nazareth. He was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. He, the innocent one, who lived perfectly before his father, went to the cross to bear the sins of many and purchased their redemption. Now how precious is that blood? What can you compare to it? What's the value that you would put on that blood that was shed for you. It's really of infinite worth. It is to that body and that blood That we have this connection that Paul talks about, this fellowship. This is so momentous that it's really no wonder that numerous superstitions Grew up over the centuries about it. Doesn't surprise me at all. If you believe that the communion elements are in fact the actual physical body and blood of Christ sitting right there on that table. Then it makes sense to bow or genuflect as you as you come down the aisle, doesn't it? Body is right there. I'm gonna honor it. We recently did a uh a combined service with the Episcopal Church down the street from us, and uh the pastor there is a good Solid evangelical, but he does kind of lean in a uh in a high church direction. And we had communion together with him, and after communion, he drank what remained in the chalice. The deacon come over and pour some water in the chalice. He drank that and then wiped it out with a cloth. We don't do that. Why do that? Well, you have a a different view. So it does make sense if we understand what their doctrine is behind So this fellowship with Christ is an enormous gift of God to us. And we need to use communion that way. It's not something that we kind of kind of ratchet up by making sure that uh that we've confessed every sin and that all is well in my little world. And we work it Remembering really hard. No, this is a meal for sinners. It's a meal for sinners spread by our Heavenly Father Who loves us and desires fellowship with us. And that fellowship comes through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Remembering Christ Should scream at us that we bring nothing to the table. This is the table of Christ, and we are there to participate in Him. What a gift of We don't bring anything, but we get everything. So stop thinking you can make yourself worthy by some action Or attitude. It's like the returning prodigal uh who plots in his own mind as he's returning home. But what he's plotting is the old Pelagian heresy. I'll work for you, Dad. Make me a servant But the dad won't hear anything of it. He starts shouting commands: ring, robe, kill the lamb, let's have a party. My son was dead, but he's alive again. He didn't bring anything to that table other than his sin and his rejection for a time of his own own father. So leave your works, your worth, your self-righteousness at the door. The table is a place to receive. And you come empty-handed. Top lady said it well, didn't he? Nothing in my hands I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. Well, what is this fellowship? And uh it's a fellowship we know with the body and blood of Christ. And I believe we already ruled out by what we said that is the idea of of Zwingli that is just a remembrance, just a memorial. There's more going on than that. Plus the warning of the body and blood, uh you know, have have these condemning words spoken to them for not remembering correctly? That seems way over the top. There's more to it than that. So if there's more going on than a memorial, something just to help us remember There are a couple of questions that we do need to address that speak directly to issues of the Reformation. Do the elements in fact change in uh As I said, the Catholic doctrine uh says that the that the bread and the wine change in substance into the body and blood of Christ, even though they can continue to smell, taste, and and appear to be bread and wine. So you would not know by your senses that that change has taken place. The common superstition had it. This was never uh official church doctrine, but a common superstition had it that when you were given that little wafer, uh that you place a it on your tongue and let it dissolve and not chew it or break it. The idea was that you're you're you're chewing the body of Christ. Don't do that. Just let it dissolve. But again, that was simple Superstition, but it grows out of the doctrine that was held. Numerous difficulties arise with this position. And the Reformation Soundly rejected it. Even the Lutherans do not embrace that there's a change in the substance. For them it's still bread and wine. But Christ is physically present by with and under the uh the elements. Now the argument is made that Jesus said, This is my body. Indeed he did. And we use that. We repeat that every time we we celebrate the supper. It makes the most sense for him to not be speaking in an absolutely literal manner when he does that. Why? His body is right there, still intact. Uh had not yet been sacrificed for them. But yet he holds uh A piece of bread and says, This is my body. Keith Matheson in his um in his excellent book on the Lord's Supper uh used this illustration. I'm gonna gonna steal it from him. Um if I have a let's say I have a a photograph here of of my father and uh and I say this is my father What does that mean? Or let's say there's a video screen here, and my dad's on there doing something, and I point to it and said, hey, that's my father What do I mean? You see, we can say that without meaning that the actual physical presence of my dad is there. No, it's a it's a representation of him in some way and and the video gives us even more information as he either speaks or acts or does something, but yet his physical presence is elsewhere Jesus, after he ascended, ascended to heaven. His glorified physical body is there and not spread across every communion table around the world. So this idea of the bread and the wine actually changing it into uh the body and blood of Christ, um I don't believe Scripture bears it out. However, there's another passage that's somewhat difficult. Let me read a few verses out of Gospel of John chapter six. Jesus says, I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I give The Jews then disputed among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? Eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day Today, for my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him. As the Father said Sent me, and I live in the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. This is the bread that came down from heaven. Not like the bread the Father Ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. The Catholics, right? You gotta drink his blood. And eat his body in order to be part of him. Well, I think the governing passage o over the whole section there was the first verse that I read, verse 51. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. And if anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I give him is the life give for the life of the world is my flesh. He's speaking in a He's saying that you know I'm I'm the heavenly manna, I am I am the bread that has come down from heaven. So we are indeed saved by the body and blood of Christ, but not in a a carnal, corporal eating and drinking of them, but by a faith resting and abiding in him. So the whole Christ Is spiritually present in the sacrament, but not in a physical presence in the elements. Our own Westminster Confession, chapter 19, article seven, says this Worthy receivers, outwardly partaking of the visible elements in this sacrament, do then also inwardly by faith, really and indeed Yet not carnally and corporally, but spiritually receive and feed upon Christ crucified and all the benefits of his death The body and blood of Christ being then not corporally or carnally in with or under the bread and wine, yet as really but spiritually present to the faith of believers in that ordinance as the elements themselves are to their outward senses. So as we partake the bread and wine and those things are real to our tongue and to our smell and everything else, Christ is just We have significant agreement with uh with Reformed Baptists on this. Let me read from the second London Baptist Confession, chapter thirty, Article seven. Worthy receivers, outwardly partaking of the visible elements in this ordinance, do then also inwardly by faith, really and in Not corporally or carnally, but spiritually present to the faith of believers in that ordinance as the elements themselves are to their outward senses. Did you pick up the difference? One word. We call it a sacrament. They call it an ordinance. The doctrine is exactly the same. That Christ is spiritually present. There in the sacrament itself, somehow. And we partake and are blessed. Both. The Baptist and the Presbyterian. Deny transubstantiation, we both acknowledge and accept some spiritual presence of Christ in the sacrament or ordinance. Transubstantiation led to other errors as well, not the least of which, and the reformers harped on this, was idolatry. If I bow before something on the altar at the front of the church and uh and do all sorts of worshipful things, uh to whatever that is. And if that thing is not God, what have I done? I've been idolatrous. I've worshipped something not God So that's uh that's a very crucial thing that um that that the reformers were very keenly aware of. It's believed also that the change That occurs stays with the elements after communion is over. And uh you've perhaps seen videos or or pictures of uh this doesn't happen much around here I don't think but in a strongly Catholic community where they may take the um the bread and the wine and and march down the street and people are bowing and uh and and praying and things to this holy thing. Our belief is that Christ is present as we partake in the sacrament But there's nothing that sticks to the bread and the wine afterward. It's simply bread and wine. Well, second question. Is the supper a reasonable Sacrifice of Christ. Is Paul talking about that here in our text? He does mention sacrifice and offering sacrifices to idols and all of that, but he does not say That Christ is ever sacrificed again. It's just that we have fellowship in his body and blood from that original sacrifice that He made. He was the real and final sacrifice. And we have participation in it, spiritually, but he's never sacrificed again. Hebrews makes that That's so clear that that Christ was sacrificed once. Several of the times where that is stated, it uses um a uh an intensified form of once. Which is usually translated in our English versions once for all. For instance, in uh in chapter seven. Because he did once for all when he offered up himself. Done. In chapter ten. By this we have been sanctified Through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest stands daily ministering and offering, time after time, the same sacrifices which can never take away sin. But he have having offered one sacrifice for the sins for all time, sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that time onward until his enemy Be made a footstool for his feet. For by one offering he has protected pro he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. Once and done Christ accomplished it. When he said it is finished, he meant it. Paul picks up on the same thing in Romans 6. Now, if we have died with Christ, we We believe that we shall also live with him, knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, is never to die again. Death no longer has master over is master over him For the death he died, he died to sin once for all. But the life that he lives, he lives to God. Even so, consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive. So he's not sacrificed again. Communion is not a sacrifice of Christ. It ought not to be uh spoken of that way. I had a um pretty fiery uh theology professor in uh in uh in seminary. I went to Reformed Episcopal Seminary, so there was uh uh you know a lot more liturgy, a lot more And he would threaten the reformed episcopal guys in my class that he if ever came to their church and what was up front Was enclosed so that it looked like an altar rather than having four legs in the table. He said, I'll take a hatchet to it. It's not a sacrifice, it's a meal A grand, glorious meal, and we sit down to a table for a meal. We're not re-off reoffering Christ again. One thing that's absolutely certain is that we're confronted here with a significant mystery. Mystery is so true of uh of so many of uh of our Christian doctrines. You can pick almost any doctrine and there's some nugget of mystery out of it. It's far easier to declare what something is Not than what it is. Take the Incarnation, for instance. God becomes man. Well, we can we can name off ancient heresies right and left Do you want to sit down and explain intricately, point by point, how God became man? You can't do it. And If you could, I wouldn't understand it. So uh mystery is is all over the place. I mean it's it's it's true um of you know two natures Natures of Christ, how can one person have two natures, one human and divine? Tension between the absolute sovereignty of God and the free agency of Humanity. Try and bring that one together. We can, you know, those who deny the sovereignty of God, they're wrong. Those who deny the free agency of man, they're wrong. But right where they meet, can you explain that? It's a mystery. Paul even describes himself and other leaders in 1 Corinthians 4 This is how one should regard us as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. The mysteries of God. There's mystery everywhere we look. So it ought to be no mystery. That mystery is involved in the Lord's Supper. Are we going to fully comprehend everything that's going on here? No. How can we have fellowship or a participation in the body and blood of Christ? As we eat bread and drink wine. Clearly, there's a mystery there. We don't have all the answers. In some spiritual way and by faith, we receive the whole Christ. In the sacrament communicated to us by the Holy Spirit through the means of bread and wine. I can't say much more about it than that. That's what it is. I know what it isn't, but there's mystery there, enormous mystery. So we need, because there's so much mystery, we need to proceed by faith. We need to trust in the Christ of the sacrament. You need to trust in the reality that the symbols represent. The eternal Son of God. Took on flesh, and was made in the likeness of a servant. He became obedient unto death, even death on the cross. In that death he bore the penalty of our sin, paying our debt to God God, he satisfied divine justice in doing so. All who trust him are eternally redeemed. Eternally redeemed Their sins are forgiven. The righteous obedience of Christ is granted to them. They stand not only forgiven, but actually Righteous in the sight of God. By faith they passed from death unto life, and as Jesus said, they will not enter into judgment. How could all that happen? How does it all work together? Here too, so much mystery. God had declared his love for us while we were still sinners in Christ Christ died for us. Now you go ahead and figure that one out. That's absolute mystery why that should happen. So there's a mystery in the Holy Supper, yes So as I said, let's approach it with faith, with reverence, with awe, but also with joy. It's a meal with God that He's invited us to This is glorious. It's magnificent. And I I'm I wanna Yeah, I do. I'm gonna grind an axe here. Um if we believe in It is glorious and we believe it is so good. And uh and all of those things I grew up in a church that's celebrated quarterly, four times a year That's a that's a mystery. Um we ought to do it often. Calvin thought we ought to do it every time the word is preached, or at least weekly. It's a good thing. It's a blessing of God. It's a gift of God to us. So it's glorious. Christ is communicated through these simple everyday Items and it should thrill us every time. Now, to participate in this without faith is to do so unworthily and strong Warnings of condemnation come your way and stand against that. But we have to also discern that there's a connection and a fellowship with the body and blood of the Not that we fully understand it, but we know that there's something there that is connected to the realities. To do so without understanding that is also to participate in an unworthy manner. That's why in our Presbyterian circles we require that you give a credible profession of faith before you're admitted to the table. And also Some understanding of the great mystery. Now there's aspects of a fellowship meal here, too. Just like Moses and Aaron and the elders. on the mountain with God. We're having fellowship, a fellowship meal, sitting down, if you can imagine it's a grand table, sitting down with God in fellowship. Meal spread out by our Heavenly Father through His Son, and we fellowship with one another in it as well. But we fellowship in it, and we do this in great anticipation of that meal that yet awaits us, that great marriage supper of the Lamb, when all saints of all ages will be there Celebrating in the glory of God. So there's two things going on. One, we're looking back at the heart Of the crucifixion, the horrors of the price for our sin, but also looking forward to that glory, to that great meal. So two things happen, and we will do it, at least we've been commanded to do it, until when? Until he returns. So it's a great promise to us of that return offer. Also. So we're commanded to remember Christ in his doing and dying for us, but also commanded to do this until he returns. So we have that backward look of Gratitude, that forward look of anticipation. Right here, right here, we have quininia, a fellowship in the body. And blood of our blessed Savior. Partaking is a great privilege, but it comes with enormous promised blessings. The Lord Jesus Is a full and complete Savior. He offers Himself to you in the sacrament to have fellowship with you. Right now, at this table, he's Standing at the door and knocking. He wants to come in and stop with you. Let's pray