Let's continue to think of our Lord's words to us as we turn to the Psalms. This morning we'll work our way through Psalm 1. How did I get most of the water on me? I don't think that's what they meant by improving your baptism. I don't know if this is your practice already. If it is your practice, I'd ask you to continue. If it's not your practice, I'd ask you to begin. That you would especially be praying for everyone around you during this time in the Psalms. The words in here are precious. I know that I could say that about all the scriptures, but there really is something unique about this Book. I consider it to be the most advanced book in the scriptures. And I hope to preach it many times through my ministry as I grow in my communion with the Lord to truly understand what's being said here. in an experiential way. Pray for yourself. Pray for those around you that these words of this book would take root. Please allow me to read Psalm 1, and then I'll pray for the Holy Spirit's elimination. Blessed is the person or man who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the path of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates day and night. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that brings forth its fruit in its season, whose leaf also shall not wither And whatever he does shall prosper. The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind drives away. Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous For the Lord knows the ways of the right way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. Please pray with me. Lord Christ, we come to the front porch of your own soul. We are on holy ground. We are so with all of your word, but especially here this morning. Lord Jesus Christ, you had this book memorized You know it by heart because it is in fact you. Lord Jesus Christ. We ask for your spirit this morning that we would understand your words. We come to you as little Rowan, totally helpless. And we just ask that you would bathe us. Bathe us in the water of your word this morning. Seal it to our hearts. Please do not allow another Lord's Day to go by where we just go through the motion and words bounce off us. We need you, Holy Spirit. It is only by you that we would truly be able to know these words. In the name of Christ, Amen. Raise your hand if you've ever heard of the band 21 Pilots. I see some people not only raising their hands but really excited. Okay, most of you didn't raise it. You now have to look it up. I mean, you know, just listen to some of the songs. I I'd recommend the album Blurry Face, I guess But I just want to pick up on some of the lyrics that are in one of the songs called Stressed Out. Heard this song, and there's another one called Ride that has a pretty good beat to it. This one is called Stress Out. Listen to some of these lyrics. It's pretty popular amongst our youth, these this band. I was told when I get older all my fears would shrink. But now I'm insecure and I care what people think. We used to play pretend, give each other different names. We used to build a rocket ship, and then we'd fly it far away. Used to dream of outer space, but now they're laughing at our face, saying, Wake up, you need to make money. saying us to sleep, but now we're stressed out. The band is really singing of the experience of coming of age. And they imagined like every other child longed to be adults, and then when they arrived there, they were stressed out. And now they're thinking back, and there's other lyrics in the song, to building tree forts. And how they would much rather be doing that than what they're doing now. There's something really to that. I was even asking um folks who aren't even teenagers yet, who are aware of this song and they were able to relate to it. There's something that is put in many different songs. No matter what generation you're in, you you know uh Of this experience within human life, of being stressed out and longing to return, of days where the sun was on your face And you had to decide, the only thing to decide was whether or not on Saturday you were going to set up a lemonade stand. We all long, in other words, for happiness. A day without stress, when we talked about rocket ships and played cowboys and Indians and thought about outer space. We looked back to a time without stress, a place of happiness. Elder Rob has already brought this up And it is surprising where you can get into a point where you don't know if you're looking for happiness or not. That actually has happened within our culture. Happiness has become so unrealistic and just a fairy tale that no one's really wondering about it. Or you can find yourself not wondering about it anymore. But I think it's still resonant within the heart. Are you looking for happiness? I think to have someone come up to me afterwards and say I'm not looking for happiness. I I would think you're pretty weird actually. Because I think people are looking for happiness. They're looking to live a blessed life. They're looking for that place. So it almost becomes a silly question, are you looking for happiness? It's universal, which is I believe that this psalm begins with, in some translations, happy is the man. He's appealing to the universal desire of humankind. Everybody wants this. And resident in stating it in beginning this Psalms, he's basically saying you can find it here, which is very surprising because I think everybody looks, whether it's childhood memories or returning to playing games, look every place else for the life of the song. Psalms. But that is what is promised to us this morning. The organizer or organizer of the book of Psalms understands the universal desire for happiness and therefore As a motivational appeal begins verse 1, happy or blessed is the person. So Psalm 1 is placed here on purpose. It is the beginning of the book of Psalms. It is actually a wisdom psalm, so you should recognize by the fact that it says, blessed, this is meant to be motivational material to try to get you to enter into something It's exactly what happened in the book of Proverbs. The Psalms, you perhaps have read them like you eat individual Hershey kisses. Each one is wrapped separately, and you each eat one separately, and you consider them separately. But not so the Psalms. The Psalms are in fact sweet and delicious to the soul, like chocolate. But the Psalms, like the Proverbs, were collected and organized with meaning. The majority of the Psalms were composed by David about 1000 BC. And we know from the content of the Psalms, particularly Psalm 137 and 126, that some psalms were composed as much as 500 years later during the exile and the restoration of Israel. And we know that the final editor of the Psalms arranged the 150 Psalms into five distinct collections. Should remind you of the artistry that went into the book of Proverbs. Book 1 is Psalm 1 through 41. These actually will probably be marked out in your Bible. They are marked out in mine. Mine here says as a title, Book 1, Psalms 1 through 41. Book 2 is Psalms 42 through 72. Book 3 is 73 through 89. Book 4 is 90 through 106. Book 5 is 107 through 150. At the end of every one of those books, it is the same thing said. Amen and amen. So there is an obvious organization to this book. Furthermore, we know that the Psalms written by David are distributed throughout each collection, Psalms from David. Showing that the whole book is saturated with the idea of the Davidic king and the Messiah. I believe, and I have come to this after a little after research, every single psalm is about Jesus. Which is why on the front of your bulletin it says that these are the songs of the king. I believe Jesus had them all memorized and he lived them. We know furthermore that the entire book of Psalms progresses from deep conflict to even deeper despair back up again on a note of joyful victory. There is actual a historic and dramatic movement. Through the entire collection of Psalms that you can follow. The whole book imitates the life of Israel and of Christ. And we'll talk about that as this summer, all the way to September 9th, Lord willing, we'll be going through the Psalms. And you'll see that. You'll actually see that this is the life of Jesus Himself. So for this morning, there's two more things that we know. Psalm 1 and Psalm 2 are not regular parts of the Psalm. By the time you get to Psalm 3, you'll see a superscription, a Psalm of David when he fled from Absalom, his son. If you were to look in the book of Acts, Psalm 2 is also a Psalm of David, but it is not superscripted here, and neither is Psalm 1. These are Psalm 1, I'd like you to think of it this way. Psalm 1 is the front porch of the Psalms, and Psalm 2 is the bright-colored front door of the Psalms. Psalms. Or as the title of the sermon says, these are the gateway into the Psalms. And you remember how the Proverbs did that same kind of thing We're familiar with this. We can handle this because you know wisdom literature from our series on Proverbs Just as Proverbs began with nine chapters of heart preparation and motivation for those coming of age to be able to enter into the book of Proverbs, so too Psalm 1 motivates all believers to enter into the book of Psalms. It is the front porch talking you in to getting in here. And then you'll see the front door. It'll be a kind of conflict, the front door in Psalm 2. The primary motivation, as I've already mentioned, that begins this, the front porch of the Psalms, that you would want to enter in is blessedness or happiness, depending on your translation. Now here's the big idea. If you want a blessed and prosperous life, then you must enter into the life of the Psalms. If you want a blessed and or happy and prosperous life, then you must enter into the life of the Psalms. And that's the way that the Psalm is divided. We have the blessing and then we have the prosperous life. which exceeds this life and goes into the next. And so those are the two parts that we'll look at, the blessed life and the prosperous life. So take a look with me first at the Blessed Life. The author first tells us where the Blessed Life is not found. And this helps us get a nice sharp edge to figure out where in fact it is found. Contrasts are a part of wisdom and teaching practices. And that's how he begins. Here's a contrast. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the path of sinners nor sits in the seat of the scornful. The verse is set up to show intensification. Just as in the Proverbs being wisdom literature, so to the Psalms being wisdom literature, you should expect Hebrew poetics When you're reading your Psalms, remember how it says it tells you what it says. You want to look for those poetic structures. Here there's an intensification that's going on. One wave hits the beach and another wave pushes the wave up higher. That's the form of speech that's being used here. It begins with the counsel of the ungodly. It intensifies to their path or way of life, and finally you're going to sit in their seat And the verse, notice this is very interesting. Go ahead and you can even put your finger as you're going down the verse. It starts with counsel, then it goes to path, and then it goes to seat. There's an intensification, and at the same time, there's a slowing down process. Walks, stands, sits. That in a way is coupled with the intensification meant to show you that this is that the intensification means that there's a greater identification that's happening here. The verse simultaneously shows, in other words, increasing solidarity with sinners. The progression and hardening of sin. In other words, this is saying that happiness is lost as you are hardened more and more into the way of the ungodly. Derek Kidner, an Old Testament scholar, points out that the process is from the realms of thinking, counsel, to behaving, path. To finally belonging yourself to that community, the seat. He further points out that this is all about allegiance and loyalty, which doesn't surprise us. This whole, all the Psalms are really about loyalty. Loyalty to the Messiah. You entertain a new way of thinking from an alternative loyalty or allegiance from Christ. As your thinking is given over, your behavior changes And after a time the loyalty is cemented and you identify with the ungodly, you in fact have become the wicked. That's the process that's going on here. And the only reason why you would deepen, the only reason why you'd go from walking to standing to sitting is because you believe that the wicked hold the key to happiness That's the reason why you're considering their thoughts to begin with. Happiness looks like freedom outside the bounds of God. And here he's saying, in direct contradiction to that, no, it's not. The blessed life is not found in the seat, in the standing, in the way, in the thinking of the ungodly. Like concrete, there is a curing process, but eventually the cement hardens into a definite. form. And if you are in the form of the wicked, you will not find blessing there, nor prosperity. In fact, one Old Testament scholar puts it like this, and I'm going to explain this first part of the quote. He quotes Alexander Pope. Here's a couplet, and he says, Vice is a monster, of so frightful mean as to be hated needs but to be seen. Yet seen too oft, too familiar that face, we may first endure, then pity, then embrace. If you would like that afterwards, you can write this down for my notes here. But this is basically what Alexander Pope is saying. You first begin to tolerate the sin. Then you begin to feel for it, and at last you embrace it. We are old enough to remember, and this is from the Old Testament scholar. We are old enough to remember a Western world when homosexuality was a vice of so frightful mean as to be hated on sight. But then the West pitied that behavior, then treated it as a sickness. And finally, the President led the United States to embrace it as a viable lifestyle, and I believe he's referring to Bill Clinton. The Western nations are becoming hardened in sin and are being cut off from the olive tree of blessing. The Greek god, the Medusa, had a face so hideous that it turned hearts to stone. Many Christians have Medusa's televisions in their living rooms, hardening their hearts to sex and violence. That's the process. And there's many different ways to enter into the thinking, and then to the lifestyle, and then to become one of them As Proverbs told us, despite the persuasive reasoning of the ungodly, despite their way, the blessed life is not found there. Do you remember woman wisdom? and woman folly. Likewise, there are two feasts that are presented in Psalm 1, so to speak. And he's saying it's not found at the Feast of Woman Folly. It's found in the Psalms. The blessed life is found, furthermore, as we continue down these verses, verse 2. After we see this where it's not found, we see where it is found. The blessed life is found in delighting and meditating on the law day and night. Now, I believe I heard somewhere that there is a practice that when the Queen of England is done her dinner, that everyone is done. I think that's true. Everyone likewise must be finished. The problem, and this is what I heard also, is that she's a really fast eater. And I also heard that therefore everyone at the table would only be able to finish half their meal and on to dessert we go. And so they encouraged the queen to slow down. And the same thing really is being said here. The phrase delights and meditates day and night denotes a satisfyingly slow and constant process. Have you ever seen the difference between the little yappy dogs and then like a German shepherd and how they eat? The German Shepherd just kind of engulfs. That's not what we're talking about here. And nor should you be a yappy dog. So we'll just get out of that metaphor. The idea, though, is that it should be a satisfyingly slow and constant process. And I believe that this is meant to connect and interweave with what we just saw within the process of the hardening of sin. Did you see that kind of slow process, the curing process that cements them in ungodliness? Well, there is a process that is the opposite of that, that belongs with the delighting and meditating day and night means constantly. on the law of the Lord. With personal pleasure you walk in the counsel of the law. With enjoyment you slow to stand in the law behavior. And finally with delight, you sit in the law. You identify. You see, there's a process of going from feeling like an outsider within the Christian community to becoming proud to announce yourself as a part. of the community, being a member. Here's the big question though. And we really ask the same kind of question with Proverbs. What is the law? The law here is the word Torah. That can help us a little bit. The law Torah though usually associated in our minds just is limited to time. Ten commandments. But we saw even within the wisdom literature of the book of Proverbs that it's not limited as such. It basically means instruction or commands, so it certainly includes the Ten Commandments at least. But it is much more. It is, in fact, used for all the five first books of Mo the first five books of Moses to be specific to this gateway psalm, taking it seriously as a front porch. And just as we did with Proverbs, and to be as specific as possible to the context, I believe that the primary meaning in this Psalm, and I'm not thinking of Psalm 119 at this point, I'm not saying all psalms that use this word. I'm saying this psalm. I think that the Torah is the Psalms. Here, to be as specific as possible, the law is the book of Psalms. Interestingly, most believe that the five collection of Psalms are meant as an echo to the five books of the Torah of Moses. And in fact, if I were to say that the Torah refers to all of the scriptures, that would be just as true. Martin Luther catches on to something like this when he says The Psalter ought to be a precious and beloved book, if for no other reason than this, it promises Christ's death and resurrection so clearly and pictures his kingdom in the condition and nature of all Christian, that it might well be called a little Bible. In it is comprehended most beautifully and briefly everything that is in the entire Bible. And that is absolutely true. Everything that is in the entire Bible. In fact, there are, in fact, we'll get to songs or psalms from Moses. And of course we know that Christ had Psalms on his lips all the time. And thus tying this all together, the blessed life is found in delightfully participating in the life offered in the Psalms, which is no different than the life offered in the first five books of Moses or the life that is offered throughout the rest of the scriptures. It's just a little Bible for us here. I'm just seeking to be as particular as possible. The blessed life is found in delightfully for participating in the life offered in the psalm Just as a skillful life was offered to you by participating in the Proverbs, so too a blessed life is found by participating in the Psalms. And quite frankly, I think we could also see this about the first point, based on meditating and the delight. And if we take into consideration 1 Corinthians 2, 14. telling us that human nature cannot delight in the things of God, then the front porch to the Psalms is telling you that you must convert or turn and be loyal to Jesus the Messiah in order to have this blessed life. This is what I'm saying by that. In other words, the book of Psalms belongs exclusively to Christians. Christian, this is your book. So now this is what he expects. You're motivated. I would expect conversions to take place at this time that we would see more baptism because you long to enter into this blessedness We are motivated with the promise of blessedness, and now he moves on to the promise of prosperity, and he's going to do that in verse 3 with the picture of the tree. Now the problem though, when we put it this way, I said prosperous because if you look at the end of verse 3, see how he says, he, and whatever he does shall prosper. I just want to stick with the language of the scripture. But the problem in mentioning that is the second main point here is that it reminds everyone of the prosperity gospel. The belief that if you demonstrate enough faith in God, then he will give you all of the future blessings now. Mostly in the form of material possessions, land, cars, money, whatever it is. That is not what is meant here. That's silly. He's speaking about the blessings that are offered and the prosperity that is offered in the Psalms, just as it was set up in the Proverbs You can use the first point, in fact, about blessing, with the picture to discover what the word prosperous means. The picture is found in verse 3. Let me read it to you. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that brings forth its fruit in its season, whose leaf also shall not wither, and whatever he does shall prosper. I think that perhaps this is an olive tree. I'm not sure though. I don't know that that matters. But I do know that it matters if you understand there are different words for water. and different words for sea and river, and it actually makes a pretty big difference. If it's the sea, it usually has the connotation of chaos and your destruction. Wadis are a rush of rain, but then they dry up quickly. But here it says river in your translation, perhaps. You could also say that it's a canal, and I think that gets as close as we possibly can to this agricultural scene. This is the picture. The word here for rivers of water are like canals that run through farmland that you must cut to irrigate and water your land. That's the point, isn't it? That's the point. They bring life-giving water to an otherwise arid and lifeless landscape. The Psalms do. And through your meditating day and night, you're cutting those canals that the life-giving water would flow to your own soul. So when you combine this with the first point. Then our meditation and allegiance to the life of the Psalms makes canals which carry the life-giving water of the Psalms into our very souls. That's the point. If you're entering into a new neighborhood, to just drop the ancient scene, and you're building a house on a new lot, you will need to have your house connected to the main water line. And they will build a canal and place the plumbing in that the life-giving water would be able to arrive at your house and you'd have plumbing and all of that. And the same thing is being said here. Here, you may connect in your meditations day and night, in your delight in the work of the Holy Spirit, and connecting to that main waterline of the Psalms, it will bring prosperity to your life. You will be like a tree. Flourishing. Thus, when in time of drought or plenty, whether you are depressed from your circumstances or you are dehydrated by your own sin The psalmic waters heal and retain all the leaves on the tree of our lives. The whole history of the church. is a history of God's people, even Christ Himself turning to the Psalms to be healed in the midst of their affliction as they journey through life Whether it be depression or whatever it is, they turn to the Psalms: sadness, abandonment, loneliness, sin. Being overcome by those who make fun of you, whatever it is. They turned to the Psalms. They connected to the main waterline We go to the doctor for a prescription of antibiotics. Some of us do. Some of us try to tough it out with essential oils. I'm going to use antibiotics. For this analogy. And so to speak, although this sounds weird, the rivers of penicillin flow into our lives, bringing fruit in season, and so that we would not wither And likewise the Psalms flow like antibiotics for the soul. And the reason why I picked this up is because a gentleman named C. F. Walther, when he was rel he's a Lutheran gentleman uh pastor when he was reliving an experience of being with someone who looked like they were going to faint. They physically looked like they were going to faint. There was no physical or biological problem with them. It was a spiritual affliction. This is what he says. I employed medicines and comforts from the medicine cabinet of Jesus Christ. The Psalms. Those are the Psalms. The Psalms are what allow us to flourish and to prosper. Now, of course, if you're sitting here, you perhaps have at least read one of the Psalms. You've just heard a psalm sung, which was lovely. You've heard Psalms sung. You hear Psalms usually in the call to worship, and yet you're still suffering Some even hear and read the Psalms looking for help and you are disappointed. And we can't solve all of those problems in the first sermon. But let me just by way of entrance and a front porch. We haven't even entered. The house yet, cut me a break. Christ Himself turned to the Psalms when He was most parched, when He was most in need. When he was seeking to be prosperous in the will of his Heavenly Father. Let us learn from Christ So here is the conclusion. This is the motivation. You've arrived on the front porch. You stand on the front porch of the Psalms. You have a choice before you, just as you did with Proverbs. Take this seriously. The choice is loyalty and devotion to what lies in all five collections. If you want a blessed and prosperous life, then you must enter into the life of the Son. This is a difficult thing to swallow. But we'll discover it over the summer. I want you to remember I'm not laying before you a technique to enter into blessedness. We are consumed and obsessive about methodologies. This is not a method that I am presenting to you. Do you remember when we had to have the same conversation when we were in Proverbs and all the prosperity was promised to you in that book? What did you always find at the end of that proverb guaranteeing the prosperity and the blessing? Isn't it Yahweh? The one who upholds the order, the one who says, the reason why this is going to happen is because I'm going to be the one that makes it happen. This is exactly what we see here within this psalm. That's exactly how it ends. I haven't touched on it yet, but in verse 6: For the Lord knows the ways of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. This is a wisdom psalm. We understand that Yahweh would be the one that upholds this universe. He's the one that's inviting us into the Psalms. The universe is not subject to impersonal laws. God Himself upholds history. and guarantees that those who reject the psalm shall perish like a peanut shell at a Texas steakhouse. But those who receive and progressively identify shall be blessed and prosper. Do you think that's true? Register your ex how are you going to tell whether what I'm saying is true or not? Will God uphold this? Can you give your life over to the Psalms? Well yes, I should just accept whatever God says and I believe in the future promise. But is everything here future? Has God not already proven that that's what he would do for those who enter into the life of the Psalms? Is there not a life that has entered into the Psalms? And who has prospered? Here's the question. Have you seen Yahweh prove this to you? Has it been placarded before your very very eyes, a man entering into the Psalms and emerging victorious. Has Yahweh ever discarded someone due to a rejection of the Psalms? Have there been people that have rejected the Psalms and have been discarded like a peanut shell? Has God upheld someone who committed to the life of the Psalms? The answer is yes. This has already taken place to assure you and confirm for you of your future. I want to show you a couple different things. Take a look at Psalm 2 as we're closing here. This is considered our application. I want you to be convinced that you must enter into this book for blessedness. You must do it. You can find it nowhere else. God has already proven this to us through Jesus Christ Let us look at Psalm 2 together. Just at verse 1 very quickly, and then I want to show you the end. Why do the nations rage and the people plot a vain thing? I just want you to see that. And by the way, Psalm 1 and 2 and some of the oldest manuscripts are a single psalm. These are meant to hold hands. And then look at the very end. Kiss the Son lest he be angry. And you perish in the way Has anyone in history rejected this psalm? Have they refused to kiss the sun? You see that in Psalm 12. Now I want you to turn, I know I'm asking you to do a lot of exercise here, but turn to Acts chapter 4. Verses twenty and I want to read to you verses twenty-three through thirty-one and I want you to pay attention to the language. I'm going to read verses 23 through 31. Some of you should have a poetic stanza in the middle of your verse there. And being let go. They went to their own companions and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said to them. So when they heard that, they raised their voices To God with one accord and said, Lord, you are God who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them, who by the mouth of your servant David have said Why did the nations rage, and the people plot vain things? The kings of the earth took their stand, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. For truly, against your holy servant whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and all the people of Israel, were gathered together. To do whatever your hand and your purpose determined beforehand. Now, Lord, look on their threats and grant to your servants that with all boldness they may speak your word by stretching out your hand to heal. And that signs and wonders may be done through the name of your holy servant Jesus, who is known as the Christ. Who in the past has rejected the Psalms? Was it not the religious leaders of Jerusalem and the Gentiles of the time? And let me ask you: if you were to visit the temple in Jerusalem today, what is remaining but a peanut shell? And where is Pilate? And where is Herod? In 70 A. D. , the religious leaders perished like a peanut shell under the Roman army. And the Psalm became true. Because they chose not to enter into the life of Psalm 2, they forgot about the gateway. They never kissed the Son, they just crucified him. But what about blessedness and prosperity? There's another side of the coin. There's not only those who shall perish, there are those who have already been blessed. In fact, the truly blessed and prosperous man of Psalm 1, blessed is he, blessed is the man, is truly Jesus Christ. The one who did not perish is Jesus the Messiah. He probably had the whole book of Psalms memorized. Psalms is the most quoted book amongst his apostles. He used the exact words of Psalms in many places to summarize his own experience as an outlook. The nation stood against him They overwhelmed him as a flood, but in the end, God the Father exalted his Christ to eternal happiness. Blessed is the man who is Jesus Christ, who is eternally prospering. By the strong arm of Yahweh who resurrected or brought him back that he would rise again on the third day. Jesus the Savior reigns. He rules o'er earth and heaven. The keys to death and hell are to our Jesus given And may we too enter into the life of the Psalms. May we enter into the life of Christ. May you enter into his blessedness. And to his prosperity. Rejoice in glorious hope. Our Lord and Judge shall come and take his servants to their eternal and happy home Please pray with me. Oh Lord Jesus Christ, we ask through your Holy Spirit that these songs Would become our songs. That we would enter and participate in your life. You, above all, know how to lead us into this book We thank you for this front porch and we ask that you would give us a time of self-examination. And if that self-examination leads to the fact that we are not Christians, we pray for repentance and faith. That we may truly enter into your life and be united with you. We ask that you would unite us more and more in the sanctification of our being Through this book. We pray that we would set our hopes on the blessedness that you offer here, and even in the deepest affliction, that you would show us how we are prosperous. We ask these things in your name. Amen