Last week we asked a question, which was: Do you take the purity of the church seriously? Are you ready, like Timothy, to live up to the charge of making sure that unrighteous leaven does not leaven the whole lump. That's another image that we see within the letter to the Corinthians. The reason why we asked those questions was because of the main truth that was given to us by the Spirit through the Apostles last week. And it is this. The church is still under the same charge given to Timothy. We are responsible to make sure that we all remain rooted in apostolic teaching. Well, we'll continue here in the first epistle of Paul to Timothy, and I'd like to just kick off with some observations, and then we'll seek to bring it home. The first thing I want you to notice throughout this passage that I have not read yet, is that correct? Yeah. Great. All right. I'm glad we're getting on the same page. So, that being by way of introduction, let's look at verse eight. But we know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully, knowing this. That the law is not made for a righteous person, but for the lawless and insubordinate, for the ungodly and for sinners, for the unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers. for fornicators, for sodomites, for kidnappers, for liars, for perjurers, and if there is any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust. Amen. Well, the first observation I'd like you to see from that set of verses is that the apostles taught that the Mosaic law is good. You can see that here right away, and it's an explicit statement in verse 8, but we know that the law is good. But I'm sure that you notice the comma and then the caveat. The law is good if one uses it lawfully. In other words, Paul is telling us here that the law is good when we use it in line with God's purposes for his law. And so that raises a question that really leads us into the second observation, and is this this is the natural question. What is one? I'm sure that there's many, but what is one main purpose? of God's law. That brings us to our second observation as we continue in the passage, especially verse 9. The apostles teach here that the Mosaic law is used well. It is used in line with its purpose. when it shows the unrighteous God's will for their faith and their life. Take a look at verse 9. Knowing this, that the law is not made for a righteous person, but for the lawless person. and the insubordinate. Now this is a specific pastoral instruction that Paul is giving. Do you remember the specific pastoral instruction that Paul gave in Titus when he mentioned the insubordinate? They were those, the insubordinate, were those who would not submit to the apostolic teaching. And so what did Paul tell Titus to do? Appoint elders Get make sure that the elders can defend the faith. Make sure that they can admonish. That's if you were to look under the hood of what all of that uh looks like you can see here in 1 Timothy, those elders would take God's law to be able to bind the conscience of those who are insubordinate and show them that they need to repent And move in the way that the apostle originally declared. And that's the one main purpose of the law that Paul is giving to Timothy here. This is a specific pastoral instruction that Paul gives to Timothy so that Timothy can deal with this set of false teachers. They were spending all their time with good and righteous citizens of the Eph the Ephesus, the Ephesian church. They were teaching them the law in some new unlawful way, having to do with genealogies and myths and whatever else, just fruitless speculations about the law And Paul's point is that if they recognized God's true intent for the law, they would start using it to give these lawless and insubordinate Christians direction for their kingdom life. So that they could get in line with the apostolic teaching for faith and life. And that's one of the purposes of the law. One of the purposes of the law, handed down to us, Is to help shape and form the conscience of Christians according to God's law, as it is summarized in the Ten Commandment Now I want to make another notice here under this same observation that the Ten Commands are actually in this passage. Did you notice that? If you were to in fact take a look at verses 9 and 10, you can see these ten commands, but they're put in different words. If you look at the end the middle of nine, it says, For murderers of fathers and mothers. Well, that's the fifth command. And that is the way that it's expressed in Exodus 21, in an application to the church, as Moses works out the case laws This is the language that he uses. It's as if Paul is showing Timothy how he too is to apply the law, just like Moses did to the nation of Israel. If you were to go on for kidnappers, for liars, for perjurers, and if there's anything that is contrary to sound doctrine, And you could start from murders of fathers and mothers with the fifth, and you could work back one, profaning the Lord's Day, there, the Sabbath Unholy, sinners, ungodly. And you can get yourself back to the first, and you have one through nine of the commands. The Mosaic Law is summarized in the Ten Commands, and it is used well, this is Paul's point to Timothy, it is used well when directed to disordered new Christians, just like we saw on the island of Crete. And I have a final observation for you. The apostles taught that the Mosaic law finds its ultimate purpose situated within the larger gospel. Notice that in verse 11, whether it is the obvious ten commands as I just listed out for you, I did nine of them. You know the tenth because we just read it together. If it's the obvious ten command commands as listed, or if it's any other thing, any other further inferences from that summary, any further unfolding from that summary. Anything that is in accordance with the healthy and sound doctrine, as Paul puts it here, it must all be in accordance with the glorious gospel. Of the blessed God which was committed to Paul's trust. Now that's a really big point, that the law is meant to act and be used in accordance with the overarching purposes of the larger declaration of God's gospel of His Son and His Spirit. God the Father has decreed to bring us salvation from our sin and misery. He has decided to do so by his son. His son accomplishes the work through the Spirit, working in us a new life. That ends up over time being the embodiment of his law. The law, therefore, must be understood as a tool that God uses in his larger decreed work of redemption. The law must be understood as a part of God's plan in order to use it lawfully. That's Paul's major point. Now, if we were to bind these three observations together into a threefold chord, Then we would end up with the following doctrine. And it's quite simple. The church is called to use the law in accord with God's decreed purposes. The church is called to use the law in accord with God's decreed purposes. Now I want to unfold this by looking at the guiding light of God's purposes. The guiding light of God's purposes, and then I want to look at God's law within God's purposes The guiding light of God's purposes and God's law within God's purposes. Let's take a look first at the guiding light of God's purposes. Now I mentioned this story a while back. I don't remember how long it was, but it was long enough to where I'm going to mention it again. But uh does anyone remember anyone here remember when computers used to have a little button on the side that you could push and a little C D tray would pop out I have a hard time admitting that there are some children here today that may not know what a C D is. I finally feel like I'm in the position of like an eight track situation. You know what an A-track is? No. Okay. Well there used to be these computers, children, where you could push a button and this little Slot came out and you would put the CD in, much like your DVD player if you don't have an entire digital library. You'd push the button, the CD tray would pop out from the side. And if you remember that CD tray the way that it would look, it would be a larger circle. It's like an indentation that you would lay the C D in. So it wouldn't slide off when it went back in the computer. But within that larger indentation was a just a cutout circle. It was just a hole. And it was reported From computer companies, they actually had to put out a notice that this little thing that pops out of the side of your computer is not meant for your coffee mug or your water glass. People were placing they thought, oh how convenient while I'm doing my work it's a place for me to hold my coffee and crack They put the mug on the tray and customers were actually complaining that the computers were cheap junk. Can you imagine trying to explain that as the customer service representative? No, no, no, ma'am, no, sir, that's actually not meant for your coffee. We wouldn't want to encourage coffee near your computer anyway But the criticism wasn't fair. Now you know that, and why wasn't the criticism fair? If they're saying your computers are junk, why is that not a fair criticism of the computer company? Because of this Because the purpose of the CD tray was to hold and to insert CDs. It was not a coffee mug holder. Knowing the purpose of something, this is the whole point. Knowing the purpose of something is not only important here in this computer analogy. Knowing the purpose, in fact, has been important for Christians since time began in order to make sure they stay in step with God and do not twist his intentions. Purpose is a main way to understand what God wants from us. Now, when I say that, I just want to show you that the reason why I'm bringing that up is because that's been going on so far in 1 Timothy from the from the earlier verses. It is, in fact, looking at things by way of their purpose and understanding what God wants by way of his purpose of things has been a major way by which Paul is evaluating what is happening in the church. I want you to think about verse 5. Take a look down at your scriptures. Now, I know we read this last week, but look at what he's doing here. Now, the purpose of the commandment is love from a pure heart. Why does he say that to Timothy? He says that in order to point out to Timothy how wrong the false teachers have become. Now, the word commandment there I take to mean charge. It's a different word than the commandment for the law. So he's saying to Timothy here, now the purpose of your charge is to do this. It's to bring about love. And that happens by the heart purified by faith, by a clear conscience based upon the work of Christ, and these other things But the people that were there who were also trying to be an influence in that congregation, he's showing them to be wrong because they mispurpose the things that God has handed down. Now that's just in verse 5, and Paul's been using that. Paul knew that the false teachers were wasting everyone's time. That's partially what he means when he says vain conversations. This is a waste of time. They did not operate within the purposes of a good church leader. A good church leader, defined here by Paul, edifies or builds up, you see the word edification in our passage. edifies or builds up the church in line with God's blueprints. And that's his point to Timothy. These guys, I don't know what blueprint they're working off of, but it's not God's. Those teachers had alternative purposes. A lot of them were trying to make money, apparently, from what we read in these pastoral epistles. Those teachers had alternative purposes resulting in a confused and a healthy, unhealthy congregation. When you get a chance later Confer over 1 Timothy 6. Look at the fruit of what they do in the church. They create envy and bickering and confusion. Now, again, this morning, moving away from verse 5, we see Paul evaluating this situation again by knowing the purposes. Not just of a good church leader, of what it would look like to be an evangelist, of which Timothy is, but the purposes specifically of the law. The false teachers incorporated the law into their influence, but they did so with some strange myths and discussions of genealogies When what they really needed to do was to use the law to instruct those who didn't know how to be good God-fearing Christian citizens That's just a big sign, and it says this is what the law is supposed to do, and they missed that big sign and were therefore officially unhelpful Now, knowing the purpose of God and the purpose of his instruments in his plan of redemption, this is my main point in this application point. Therefore, when we look at verse 5 and we look at these other verses as to how Paul is operating here, we make this notification or this observation that Paul, when he sees The purposes of God is able to take those purposes to be able to evaluate the life of those over whom he is in leadership and his own life And we too are to be aware of what God's purposes are and to use his purposes as a guiding light for the path that God has given to us. And as a guiding light as to how we use all the things that He has given to us. Now, let me give you an example that is not the law, but it is something that comes up within our culture. of someone or a group of people that have mispurposed something, and if you just understood the purpose, you'd be way better off. Here it is. Here's an example, just so we can get our head around using purpose as a guiding light. Today, many people have joined the Pentecostal and Charismatic churches. Those congregations, some of those congregations, I have no idea what all of them teach But some of those congregations claim that the Holy Spirit gives them extraordinary gifts to speak in angelic languages and to raise the dead from their graves. Those leaders look to the New Testament. They see the leaders speaking in different languages. They see the apostles raising the dead. Healing the blind and the crippled. But here is what they have failed to see. They have failed to acknowledge what they have failed to acknowledge is the purpose of God During that apostolic age and the purposes of God today. And if you were to attend one of their services, you would see that they have taken these extraordinary gifts and decontextualized them from the blueprint of God and inserted them in some other way within their services. The purpose of the Father and the purpose of the Son and the purpose of the Holy Spirit for speaking in different languages was what? Why were they given those extraordinary gifts? Wasn't it because they were standing there with a bunch of people that had different languages and they needed to be able to speak to them so they could understand what God was doing? You could see the purpose within God's plan for that. The purpose of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit for speaking in different languages was in accord with God's desire to give salvation to every nation, no matter the language. And it was a kind of consummate moment so that everyone could see what God was doing. learned teachers of the church in the other nations. That would have to happen. But once it happened and there were people that knew the gospel And were trained theologically, and they understood your language, then why do I need an extraordinary gift to talk to you? And if you were to step into those churches, let me ask you this: what language are they speaking anyway? And does anybody understand what is being said? And that's the problem, isn't it? That is not God's blueprint. God is not an author of confusion The purpose of God's giving the apostles, let's move on to the next one, the purpose of God's giving the apostles the ability to heal and rise from the dead. Was for the fact of establishing the authority of the apostles as the authorized messengers from God. Have you ever had the problem of not knowing whose interpretation to belief? You ever seen that problem within our culture? I know you read it that way. and you're smart, you have 18 degrees from Princeton, and I know you read it that way, and you're smart, and you have 18 degrees from some other place. Which of you am I supposed to believe when you disagree? And the answer was the apostles And to make sure that everyone was clear on that, God endued them with extraordinary gifts so that we know who the authorities were. If you were to read through Acts, look at that for a point. Look at how what is being established is that they would know that they were sent apostle from God. You can see that especially when they go into a foreign city and they see them as messengers from the gods, but they got the wrong God. And I encourage you to look through Acts and see that that, if you were to look at God's blueprint, we look at God's blueprint, He's going to accomplish redemption. Every single part of that blueprint, that of that project that he's built building, is according to God's purposes so that he would accomplish his his goals, which is the redemption of his church and his own glory, or unto his own glory. How do these things fit within the total plan? And I'm telling you right now that the Charismatic Church and the Pentecostal Church does not have it right. And it's the same problem that Timothy is facing here, but it with a different matter. For what purposes do we see Pentecostal churches speaking in tongues, raising people from the dead? What you witness instead is chaos and emotional manipulation. But the point that I'm making here, and I'm just saying some, I haven't gone and investigated every charismatic and Pentecostal churches, but I have seen, I've been in some, and they told me that they were going to heal my knee, and it didn't work. Because I'm still limping right now. And the point that I'm making is that when we know the purposes of God, All I'm doing up here is just knowing the purposes of God, and then I look at those same things and how people are using it, and I say, that's not what God intended for that thing right there. You're not using it according to his purposes. And I think that that is a great way for us to be able to evaluate, and it ends up being a guiding light for us as we are facing false teachers today. And Paul uses it in verse 5 and the other verses. If you don't know the purposes of God And the purpose of the instruments of his kingdom, then you will end up making a mess of the Christian life and you will be undiscerning. And so I encourage you, by way of this passage, to instead of breaking by not knowing the purpose of things That you would know God's purpose and his blueprint and therefore build up in accordance with his project. How sad would you be? When the master of the house shows up to evaluate your stewardship and he says, What project have you been working on? I didn't want any of these things. What you will find is that you would be like a person who puts their coffee mug in the CD tray. And we don't want that. Now that's the first thing I wanted to mention, is just the guiding light of God's purposes. But I now want to look more specifically at God's law within God's purposes, because that's really the focus here, or the main emphasis in this passage. This is an instrument in God's redemptive project or plan, the law As the church, we therefore must use the law in accord with God's design and purpose. Now, I just want to make a note here. that, and you probably should make a note, in fact, that God has three main, there are many more than the main, but I'm going to give you the three main purposes for God's law. One is political, and two are theological. There's one main political use of his law and two theological uses. Now, what do I mean by there is a political use? I mean this. God First gives his law especially to civic and political leaders so that they can know what is right and keep a cap on sin. God gives his law to political leaders to keep a calf on sin. This is what Romans 13 says Romans thirteen says that politicians are administrators of God's justice. How else will they know his justice if they do not know his law? They will know it by it being written upon their heart. Surely they need help also, however, to see it written out. Because things can get confusing with our twisted minds. And so Romans 13 says that politicians are the administers of God's justice, and they are meant to punish evildoers and to reward the righteous. And therefore, God gives them his law that they would keep a general peace across the face of the earth until his return. And it is the church's job to make sure that the state knows his law also. And you should be proud of your PCA denomination. Because we just approved sending to pretty much every major politician across the world, well, within the United States, that we need to sorry, that we need to it felt big It felt I was there and it just felt big. But it was the United States and that's big enough that they would stop with the Child abuse with gender surgeries and sexual reassignment. We are sending a letter pleading with them to stop disobeying God and his intent for his created order We will let you know when we've received the letter that will be going out so that you can read it yourself. But that's that first use of the law. It's our responsibility to make sure they know God's will. So that they can do their job in administering his justice. The harm must stop. Now, there are, besides the political purpose, two theological purposes. And the first theological purpose is to convict humans of their guilt before God as the great king and judge of heaven and earth. I'll say that for you again. The first theological purpose of the law is to convict humans of their guilt before God as the great king and judge of heaven and earth. As you read the scriptures, you should notice how the first step in becoming a child of God as becoming a part of the church. The first step is to recognize your guilt and the penalty for your guilt before God, not before the state Before God. This you could call the condemning use of the law. It shows you that you are without hope except in the sovereign mercy of God. Now that's our first vow, and that's our first vow in this church for a reason Because there is no entrance into the kingdom if there has been no repentance. And there is no repentance if you have nothing to repent of. And so one of the first things in entering into the kingdom of God is that we learn this condemning use. It shows us that we are without hope unless God offers us some kind of sovereign mercy as the judge. And then this the last purpose of the law, the second theological purpose, is that the law, and this one can be missed perhaps more than the others. The last purpose of the law is for Christians to know how to live in a way that is pleasing to God. The last purpose of the law is to know how to live in a way that is pleasing to God for Christians. After you have been convicted of your sin, After you have acknowledged your guilt, and you have had Jesus Christ offered to you in the gospel, and you have by grace embraced him Taking up God's offer of forgiveness through Christ, being set aside and sanctified by the Holy Spirit, God then brings his law to you, not in a condemnatory way The law becomes sweet. It becomes sweet to us, teaching us. That we would know how to live as his new creatures, that we would be able, through making our lives a living sacrifice, show him how thankful we are for his mercy. Finally being able to fulfill that hole in our hearts, being renewed in knowledge and righteousness. Now those are the three purposes of the law, and that keeps us in line with God's blueprint. I want to ask you a few questions. Just as this congregation here was really struggling with knowing the purposes of the law, I wonder if you sometimes abuse the law also. Is it possible that whether you are a non-Christian or a Christian, that you're unlawfully using the law of God? Those of you in the congregation who are not Christians, how do you use the law? The law is before you day and night. You know what is right and what is wrong. You have a basic sense of it. Do you use it to know what is just And what your rights are? Of course you do. Don't you stand up for your rights? Don't treat me that way. I don't deserve that. I have rights. We hear that across our society. And we use God's law that is written upon our hearts to make such declarations. But let me just tell you this, in accordance with the lawful use of the law, non-Christian, do you realize that at any point that you break even that law, the same laws that you have declared to other people to obtain your rights? At any point where you break those laws, you are guilty and you will be judged in perfect justice by God. This is what I want to know. When you stand before God on judgment day, what will you say to him What excuses are you going to come up with to explain every single thought you have ever had as a human being? Every single word that you have ever spoken, and every single deed that you have ever done, I want to know when God brings his lawsuit against you. For degrading his image, I want to know what are you going to say to him that is going to make him say, oh, you are released. There is not an argument that you could come up with. I don't care if it's a million polysyllogisms. The only thing that's going to end up on that day is your condemnation. And I want to know what in the world are you going to do about that? Now that's the first use of the law, non-Christian, and I just told you what that was about. You're supposed to hear that and you're supposed to say God has provided a way for me to receive forgiveness and mercy, and it is in Jesus Christ. So you better run to him You better find out about who he is. You better find out what you need to do to get to that place called relief from the justice of God. Make that your goal. Well, what about you that are Christians? Those of you who are Christians having received that mercy through Jesus Christ. And have been set aside by the sanctification of the Holy Spirit, do you use the law in line with God's purposes? Here is a very serious question. Christian, when you sin, are you still letting the law condemn you? That is the best way to destroy your relationship between you and your Heavenly Father. Imagine it just on an earthly scene, where a son or a daughter is confronted with what is right by the father, but anytime the father speaks. They just think that he's condemning them, that he doesn't have their interests in mind. He's just pointing out what's wrong, rubbing their face in the dirt. How do you think that relationship is going to be This can be difficult for you, and you might need some counsel from other Christians. But Christian, you are no longer condemned by the law. And you say, how can that be? I sin so much. Oh well. Now you get to discover the grace of Jesus Christ. Is the law still condemning you? When you think of your Christian life, do you basically have a picture of the stormy clouds of Mount Sinai? Under God's voice. The author of Hebrews tells us that we're no longer under the stormy cloud of Mount Sinai, that we have gathered at a different mountain. I would encourage you instead to rightly take our Father's justice. as a sweet and caring rebuke with our best interests in mind. Now that is very hard to do. We have a tough time when people tell us what's wrong with us. But he tells you it because he loves you. Remember, we've been talking this whole time about a blueprint and a plan. What is his blueprint and his plan for his church? Is it to leave you in your sins? He is moving you towards glory, and to get you there, he has got to show you some things that are wrong with you. Things that he's working on with you, so that you can be in his express image again In knowledge, in righteousness, and in holiness. And let me ask you finally And this might be in a series of steps. I think it's this. I think these are the steps. Oh Lord, even though I've become a Christian, I've been living under the stormy clouds of Mount Sinai, and I'm done with that. I'm going to embrace truly that Jesus Christ has taken away the condemning effects of the law. And I'm going to move into a time where I realize that as a caring father, you are saying sweet things to me that I can be the best creature. that you intend for me to be. And then there is this next step. Once you begin to stu see the lull is sweet, that you would study it And you would seek to order your families and your churches and your societies by the law because it is so good. It is like taking honeycomb full of honey and chewing on it. That's what it's like for you under Jesus Christ. to study that law, to bring it to your children. It leads to family worship. Now I say all of this because our basic acknowledgment this morning is this. The church is called to use the law in accord With God, God's decreed purposes. May we have a guiding light to our path by understanding that God is a purposeful God And may we, in line with that, make sure that we as Christians are walking in accordance with the lawful use of the law, whether it be political or the two theological senses. Let us pray.