Tonight will be taken from the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 26, verses 17 through 29, beginning in verse 17 Now, on the first day of the feast of the unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus saying to him, Where do you want us to prepare for you to eat the Passover? And he said, Go into the city to a certain man and say to him, The teacher says, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples So the disciples did as Jesus had directed them, and they prepared the Passover. When evening had come, he sat down with the twelve. Now, as they were eating, he said, Assuredly I say to you, one of you will betray me. And they were exceedingly sorrowful, and each of them began to say to him, Lord, is it I? He answered and said, He who dips his hand with me in the dish will betray me. The Son of Man indeed goes just as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed It would have been good for that man if he had not been born. Then Judas, who was betraying him, answered and said, Rabbi, is it I? He said to him, You have said it. And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, blessed, and broke it, and gave it to the disciples and said, Take, eat, this is my body. Then he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink from it, all of you, for this is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. But I say to you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on, until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. And I'll just add And when they had sung a hymn, they went into the mount out to the Mount of Olives. Let us pray. Lord Christ, we know that many have even seen you. And many have heard you. But they could not listen. They could not really see. And that is a possibility tonight. But I pray that it would not be possible. I pray that it would be impossible. I pray that your congregation here and those that you are drawing to yourself for eternal salvation That you would show them yourself. And I pray that they would be transformed from glory to glory. I pray that they would both understand who you are and what you're doing And also what you require of us, who we are. Ask these things in your name. Amen. I'm looking forward to celebrating his supper with you this evening, but I have a short meditation before we come to that. At a farm that my family visits often, each season brings its own beauty. I wonder if you have places that are like that. I have a friend who will travel to West Virginia, for example, during certain seasons to see the foliage. In the colder months on that farm, I love watching the geeks, the geese pitch in and light on what is called Glebe Creek. It's beautiful. Even the sound is lovely, especially at sundown. In the warmer months, I can catch myself standing there and watching the breeze roll through the soybean fields. And I like to be standing because if I'm sitting, it'll make me want to take a nap immediately. It's just so pleasurable. Different seasons. The church has seasons. Did you know that? And each in their own right are beautiful. You have seasons. For the church in the colder months, I really like to sing All Mortal Flesh Keeps Silent. It captures for me, it reminds me of the still falling snow, the mystery of the incarnation, the way the light is in the winter nights In the spring, we remember what Christ does with that body He plants it in death, that by the Spirit he and his bride may be raised to new life. It's a springtime story. It's about life. Framing the life of Christ and especially his death in terms of times and seasons. Is not just a cute literary flourish. I just have no time for cuteness any longer. And I don't have the face for it. It is how Christ himself frames his realities, not a literary flourish Sometimes we can pass over the details of seasons and times within the scriptures, but I don't want to do that tonight. We can do that because we're a 24-7 people. We have shops like 7-Eleven. But it is here that we want to move away from that mode of being, and we want to remember verse 17 to begin with. The whole account of the Lord's Supper, I'm not sure if you even caught it. It just goes by so quickly. The whole account of the Lord's Supper begins with the announcement. That it is the first day of the feast of the unleavened bread. That tends to be meaningless to us, but it was important enough to be included in God's holy word. And then in verse 18, there's still a continuation of focus on time. When Christ says, Tell him that my time is at hand. And those two, the feast of unleavened bread and my time is at hand, they are meant to hold hands. They're meant to feed each other. The Feast of Unleavened Bread was chosen for the time that Christ wanted to reveal the significance of his time. That would be one way to say it. The Feast of Unleavened Bread was chosen for the time that Christ wanted to reveal the significance of his time. It is no wonder, then, that on the feast of unleavened bread, Christ breaks the bread. He blesses it. He gives it to his disciples, and he says, Take eat, this is my body. And this is not the first time that Christ has used unleavened bread to reveal the reality of who he is, what he's doing. the reality of his kingdom and how we fit into it. Can you think of some other talks, some other teaching and instruction that run Like main threads through the scriptures speaking about unleavened bread, helping you to get in touch with what is really real by way of unleavened bread. In this very gospel in chapter 16, there's a really important section on unleavened bread that carries forward into this moment. He warned, Jesus did, he warned the disciples to watch out for the leaven or bread of the Pharisees. Does that sound familiar? Think of the Pharisees. Sometimes we can get this picture wrong. We think of little yeast packets that we get at Food Lion. That's not what's going on. Think of the Pharisees as having a piece of dough that has been around for a long time, been passed down, maybe even from generation to generation. And that would be appropriate for this analogy. From generation to generation. There's a piece of dough that is then cut and is passed down, and they can hand you that dough for you to start your own Bread. They hand the yeast and the sugar filled dough that you can add to yours and you can bake for people. All of the necessary features from the dough of the Pharisees, what it does is it permeates the dough that hadn't touched it. It rises with the energy that came before. And then it is baked for all to consume. Jesus is saying, do not let that happen Start a new batch without their starter batch. And this, of course, is the same point that Paul makes in 1 Corinthians 5, and I'm wondering if some of you have been studying 1 Corinthians Corinthians. I'm wondering if you thought of that as soon as I said it. Paul says in First Corinthians five, in the context of church discipline, where the purity of the church is very important. Paul instructs the church to purge out the old leaven, that you may be a new lump, and as you can see in the image now, of dough. He was speaking of removing a man who had committed a grievous sin. What Paul ends up saying next in that same Corinthians passage. helps to connect the bread to the wine because it wasn't just bread that is broken here as a part of this supper. There's also wine. Paul says this, this is the full quote. Therefore purge out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, since you truly are unleavened. And now catch this, are you ready? For indeed Christ, our Passover, was sacrificed for us. You see the dots he's connecting? This is Christ's point about the wine also. Christ says pretty much the same thing. Christ says, or Paul says what Christ says, really. Christ says that the wine is a sign and seal for his blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. And if you wanted to keep the language from Paul and bread and dough, the blood is for the purging of sins. We are purged. This is what's being revealed here at this supper. There's so much going on. You know, it's uh it's every year there's almost a nervous breakdown preparing for these services. Because Jesus Christ is the consummation, do you realize, of everything? And it is all there. There's a million things to talk about tonight. But here is the one thing that I just want to lay on your lap. Whether it is bread or it is wine, they point to the same reality. Jesus Christ, our Passover, purged his people of all of their sins. In him, if you want to go back to the image, we are a new batch of dough. I'm going to say it one more time because I get a chance to speak with you folks in council or at your homes. And sometimes when you speak, I don't hear that you believe this. The world tricks you into thinking you're something else or that you're rotten and that you're unforgiven. And that's just not true. Whether it is bread or as it is wine, they point to the same reality. Jesus Christ, our Passover, purged his people of all sin. In him, we are a new batch of dough. Now, when you think about the imagery that's going on there and trying to get in touch with this reality, That is so foreign to our world. It's good for us to think a little bit about how they would have thought about this in the ancient world as he continued to use that image. It seems, as I've done research, that they would have, in the ancient world, went starting bread that was new and not from the old. That they would leave that dough in an open room to collect all of the yeast and air. I think that that's correct I want you to imagine this one step further as you start to bring this home into your own experiences. Think about yourself outside of Christ for a moment as a lump of dough. And I just want you to think about all of the things that you have collected. Over the years outside of him that need purging. You know, we are a kind of collecting people You collect a lot of things. Think of all that you've collected over the years. I bet you could come up with more than me. The scripture speaks, for example, in different ways of generational sins. Have you? Heard this? And I wonder, and it can mean many, it can mean several things, but I wonder what has been passed down through the generations to you Maybe when you were just a little baby. What did you collect without even knowing it? What went into you and permeated you? about what you think about this world and how you're to act in it, what's really real. What ways of dealing with life And of relating to God, I wonder, remain from your great-great-grandparents. I wonder if we could time travel you back to their day, if they could recognize you as one of the family members. Hey, you must be a crutchly. I can see it. And all your dumb dad jokes. I wonder if there has been a continuation, if it permeated from generation to generation and it remained in you as the continuation of that loaf. Sometimes our great-great-grandparents pass down the habit of too much booze, for example Sometimes our fathers and our grandfathers pass down how not to treat a woman, how to burden and abuse her instead Sometimes our families pass down laziness. And there's a whole other list. And that's just the family that we collect, things from generation to generation. Besides the family, how much have you collected just from living in this culture? Our culture has things in the air that you don't even know that are entering you. Consumerism is something we talk about around here and try to banish it from our midsts. Personal peace and affluence as the highest priority. We've discussed that too. The new yeast of cancel culture or various ideologies, you try to run away from those, but what if they have had effect? What if they've collected? And that's where everyone gets lost when they attend university and get a sociology degree. Is they can see all of the ways in which human beings are, in some sense, the result and product of their families and their culture. But then we read a message like we hear tonight and see that there is far more to reality than just that The message here tonight, with the table spread before you, is that you are no longer from those lumps of dough. And I challenge you to believe that I challenge you to believe that in light of the feelings that you have about the reality of your existence, when you identify yourself. As still a part of that old lump. It can be difficult to fight against feelings. It can be difficult to fight against what the culture says. But it is my prayer that the Holy Spirit would allow you to believe the Word of God above all of those things. The message here tonight that Jesus Christ is giving to us With the table spread before you is that you are no longer from those lumps of dough. When the time came for it to continue, you can even see within your children that Jesus Christ says, no, these are my My little ones. They will not continue the generational sins. They will not continue to act as the culture acts. And those are signs that we see of this reality. When we were singing the songs together, especially and can it be, the thought kept crossing my mind. That the fact that you could sing and mean those words means that you are no longer a part of that lump of dough. You, my friends, are a new creation. He has purged us of our sin. We are holy in the Lord He continues to sanctify us from the leaven of this world. Here's the full quote again from 1 Corinthians 5, 7 through 8. For indeed Christ, our Passover, was sacrificed for us. Therefore, let us keep the feast. Listen to the language here, and I'm going to read it twice. But do not keep the feast with the old leaven, nor with the leaven of malice and wickedness. But with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. Do you see the underlying reality that's present in the passage? He's calling you to be who Christ has made you. For indeed Christ, our Passover, was sacrificed for us. That's what created it. And now, therefore, we are to keep the feast. And we do not keep the feast with the old leaven. Because Christ has made us new leaven. Nor with the leaven of malice and wickedness. And it's significant that the word there is pornea. But with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. That, my friends, is a summary of your life It is a summary of your existence. It is a summary of what Christ has created. It is part of the meaning of his death. When I would go out to that farm, as I mentioned, I would take great pleasure in each of the seasons, and each of the seasons had their own beauty. Here tonight we have gathered because the church in her seasons has her own beauty too. In the colder months, mortal flesh keeps silent. It's a mystery of the incarnation. And in the spring, we remember what Christ does with his body. Actually What may end up being news to you is that we get to see what Christ does with his body every Sunday at the great feast of the Lord's Day. Whether it is bread or it is wine, they point to the same reality. Jesus Christ, our Passover, has purged his people of all sin. And in him, we are a new batch of doe. Please pray with me