Good to see you all. Let's go ahead and open our service with a word of prayer. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for gathering us again and giving us this sacred rest. It's uh a time where we can reflect and remember uh your great work, Father, in Christ and by your Holy Spirit. We pray, Lord, that the knowledge of you and of what you are doing with this creation and what purposes you have for us, that they would be inspiring. would be uh sometimes sobering, uh all pointing towards uh hope and life and refreshment. Lord, uh walking through this life can sometimes feel like Walking through a desert. And we are encouraged when you offer us a cup of water, especially in your worship and through your word, and through our fellowship with each other. I pray, Lord, that you would be glorified tonight, and that even after our time together, that we would focus on kind words to each other, that we would not steal Each other's joy. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship from Psalm 104, 33 through 35. I will sing to the Lord as long as I live. I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. May my meditation be sweet to him. I will be glad in the Lord. May sinners be consumed from the earth, and the wicked be no more. Bless the Lord, O my soul. Praise the Lord. Let's sing together, Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit. In me, thou shall be all this great life. Holy spiritual life with it, may your joy be seen with you Why not to have an reason is thought that we had to And to the face and not peace. Just love and so please. Turn my start into words to face where I will not show my speed all I do. Oh peace car's birth giving light through all that God has made Show your power once again wander, cause your church to underways. The same of the price being paid for all the world seems to be. Amen. Please remain standing for our scripture reading for the confession of sin from Ephesians 5, 8 through 14. For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness, righteousness, and truth, finding out what is acceptable to the Lord And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them. For it is shameful even to speak of those things which are done by them in secret But all things that are exposed are made manifest by the light. For whatever makes manifest is light. Therefore he says, Awake you who sleep, arise from the dead. And Christ will give you light. Amen. You may be seated. Please join me for a prayer of confession. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that we may enter into your presence through our union in Christ and by His Spirit. We begin by asking that you would lead us during this whole time of confession by your Spirit to know what we should pray for. What is it that we should confess? Lord, we have your word before us, wherein you call us children of light. And then you speak of paths. Paths that we are to travel upon, that you have given to us in Christ, communicated by your word, motivated us by your spirit. And then there are paths that are full of darkness and stumbling. Lord, this past week, and perhaps even today, as we sat at a crossroads, sometimes we are still choosing dark paths. Lord, the trouble with us is those paths seem so good. Lord, it is sin is by nature abhorrent and monstrous. But our little hearts often find sin to be the most comfortable, the most tasty And Lord, we begin in small ways, not knowing that it progresses to more and more until we are overcome in misery and creating misery for others. O Lord Christ, we come before you therefore to confess to you that we are tempted by certain paths. And that we have started going down some of them, or we've been on them for a while and we've refused to come back. We pray, Christ, that you will work with us in the confession. That we give to you in the silence of our hearts, and that you would grant us repentance to that path that you have given to us in the Spirit. Pray now that you hear your saints as they acknowledge the dark paths which they've gone down this past week. Lord, it gives us great strength to know. that you are our shepherd. Sheep are known for falling into ditches and hanging out with wolves. But you are a good shepherd. You always Pull us back into safety. We pray that you would do so through our confession, that it would in fact be a means to our repentance. And we pray, Lord, that You would keep us surrounded by Christian community that will admonish and encourage us when we need it. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Your assurance of pardon tonight is taken from Colossians 1:13 through 14. He has delivered us from the power of darkness. and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. I remember in one membership interview, we asked a couple, uh, do you have any assurance of being forgiven of your sins? And they said yes. And we said, well, what is it? And they say, well, you assure me of my pardon every Sunday. I thought, well, that's great. Well it's being put to good use. So be assured of your pardon. And let us stand and sing all the way my Savior leads me. Okay. They were on the other. And my God is my God. But you know you still are there. Oh glory to the hallway, Jesus moved all things for Yes, be grace for the And to preach the God in the rotate core. All the way my Savior needs me of his love from his breast to me, his darnness. My father's not when my searing will take twice to round up day. Here's my song from the stage, Jesus put me all the way. Here's my song who and his ages. Amen. Let's open our scriptures together to Proverbs chapter four, and I'll read the first nineteen verses just so we can have a refresher. Our focus tonight, however, will be on verses 10 through 19. Proverbs chapter 4. Hear, my children, the instruction of a father, and give attention to no understanding. For I give you good doctrine Do not forsake my law. When I was my father's son, tender and the only one in the sight of my mother, he also taught me and said to me, Let your heart retain my words. Keep my commands and live. Get wisdom, get understanding. Do not forget, nor turn away from the words of my mouth Do not forsake her, and she will preserve you. Love her, and she will keep you. Wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom, and in all you're getting, get understanding. Exalt her, and she will promote you. She will bring you honor when you embrace her. She will place on your head an ornament of grace, a crown of glory, she will deliver to you You. Hear my son and receive my sayings, and the years of your life will be many. I have taught you in the way of wisdom, I have led you in the right paths. When you walk, your steps will not be hindered, and when you run, you will not stumble. Take firm hold of instruction. Do not let go. Keep her, for she is your life Do not enter the path of the wicked, and do not walk in the way of evil. Avoid it. Do not travel on it. Turn away from it and pass on. For they do not sleep unless they have done evil, and their sleep is taken away unless they make someone fall. For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence. And 18 and 19 are really a summary of the whole section. But the path of the just is like the shining sun that shines ever brighter onto the perfect day The way of the wicked is like darkness. They do not know what makes them stumble. Let us pray. Lord Christ, if learning were up to us, we would remain unlearned. You, however, send your Spirit to teach us. We pray, Lord, that you would give us proper instruction this evening. We pray that it would result in fruit, that it would be unto your glory and the good of our neighbor. In Christ's name, amen. You may be seated. Well, the last time we heard from the book of Proverbs, it was fun to think about the generational wisdom passed down from one person to the next. We summarize that by saying that wisdom is a family heritage, and it was neat to see the father bringing up the lessons that he was taught by his father, and so he was giving his children his grandfather's lessons. What a sweet little picture. And it taught us that we are meant to pass down the wisdom of Christ. The wisdom that Christ gives to us, we are to give to the next generation. And this is especially the role of parents and grandparents. But you'll notice a little phrase in the scriptures, too, that you may want to meditate on. We actually passed over it this morning in Ephesians 5. Parents in the Lord. And so your parents may be more than just those whom you live with. It could be other church members. I think we all have those kinds of parents that have helped us uh in the church throughout the years. Well that's our review, and I just want to make a few observations and then a quick application so we have plenty of time for prayer this evening. Let's make sure our phones are off, by the way. I keep hearing alarms. Here's the first observation. In verses 10 through 13, what we're watching is the Father admonishing the Son to walk in the way of wisdom. But the interesting thing here is that he doesn't tell us what the way is. He's just telling you there is a way and you should walk in it. Later, we'll realize it's all of the things that surround these lectures that begin the book of Proverbs. Once we get to chapter 10, we'll see all of the ways. It'll be a whole land full of wisdom that we're meant to walk in. You can see in verse 10 that the Father is speaking to the Son. It's a continuation, just as we saw from the beginning of this chapter. And in verse eleven, the Father reminds the son that the way of wisdom was in fact passed down to him This path, therefore, that the father is teaching the son, and it's fine to have daughter or son, both are applicable here. It's just education within a moral education within a family setting. Their father reminds the son that this path is a well-worn path that has been traveled by many saints prior to you. This is a path that is existent in each era of history, and many saints have walked down it, and the Father is encouraging him on to the same path as all of his forefathers that walked that path would have traveled. This takes us to verse 12. He promises the young man smooth strides. in his life as opposed to an awkward and treacherous slippery path and step. Have you ever tried to cross a stream by way of a fallen tree? And just imagine you're laughing, you must have maybe fallen off that tree. Imagine uh uh a cli uh cliffs uh that are maybe eight feet high and then a tree going across it's the only way to go across You have to take careful steps so as to not fall, especially if the bark has been removed from the tree and it's slippery. The steps are careful. And imagine if the tree were a hundred yards long. How fatigued would you become having to be that careful to not fall for that long? How much anxiety would start to arise? How long would it take before you just turned back and didn't want to walk it anymore at all. That's the picture that the Father is presenting to us here in Proverbs. That the way of wickedness is awkward steps, but the way of righteousness you can stride. It's not full of anxiety. Or grief. Have you in fact seen people when they get to the end of the log? Typically when I watch them, they get to the end of the log, they take a the last few steps are very quick and then they jump off and then they're super excited to be on land. They usually jump off with excitement to be on a smooth path where they can walk normally. And that's also the father's point, is that this path is smooth, where you can take a stride and not get tripped up all the time. I'd encourage you on your own time, look at all of the the verbs and the nouns that talk about paths and walking and striding. and falling. Yeah, and uh even a summary at the very end, it is those who are wicked that stumble. So this whole thing is really about us walking through the path of life to different destinations depending on the path. That is the picture here of the promise of the path of wisdom. It is not a fatiguing and anxiety-producing path, but solid and you can walk with comfort And then finally in this first observation is verse 13, where the father encourages the son to hold on to the instruction with the most motivating words possible. Do not let her go. She is your your life. Doesn't become more valuable than that. That's more valuable than rubies and diamonds. People spend all their money to just hold on to their life. And that's the point here. Don't let her go. Don't let her go. Well that's the first observation with those the first lecture. The proverb, this section, is divided into two, and so the second half is the father encouraging or admonishing the son to stay off the path of the wicked. It's positive and then negative, the whole proverb. And that begins in verses 14 through 17. In verse 14, the father tells the son to not enter this path, and then he's going to double and triple. the admonitions to stay away from this thing. In verse fifteen the fire p the father piles on the directive. Notice it with me in verse fifteen. Look at the the barrage and machine gun fire of warning. Avoid it. Do not travel on it. Turn away from it. Pass on from it. He's telling him every way that he knows how to get away from this thing. In verse 16, the Father introduces the reasons for avoiding the path of the wicked at all costs. And the main reason is that in essence evil has an addictive quality, and if you get a taste, we don't know where it's going to go. The Father focuses on two to show this addictive quality of evil and why you don't want to go down the path because you may not return and you may become evil yourself. He does this by focusing on the biological aspects of life, such as sleeping and eating and drinking, things that are necessary in order for us to continue in our existence They are not able, notice in these verses, verse 16 and following, they are not able to fall asleep unless they have done evil. They can't rest. They eat the bread of wickedness. That's their nutrients. They drink the wine of violence. That's now what keeps them alive. All of those things that keep the body going have become evil things. Wickedness has become their necessary nutrient. This is talking about an addict The point is that minds, their minds race and their stomachs growl until they can feast on brutality and violence. And greed. And this is meant to present a picture to any child who's being raised up with a moral education, and they should look at it and they should say, I want nothing to do with that. I don't want to go down that path. Basically, what the father is doing is painting a picture of what happens on that path and saying, do not go down it. I remember in high school, uh I l I grew up on Kent Island and I went to Queen Anne's County High School, and there would be different, you know, when you're in public school Public high school, you are fully aware of the waves of the different kinds of drugs that come through the air. area. There were waves of this and there were waves of that, and I remember right towards the end of my high school career there was a wave of heroin that hit Kent Island. And one of my friends, not soon afterward, was found dead on the beach. Whenever I hear someone talk about heroin, because I've seen where the path leads, I say, do not go down the path. There are lots of monsters, and the only thing at the end is death. And I'm totally convinced of that The Father does the same here. Don't go down the path. It is a sheer horror as to what you yourself can become I found this nice little quote that actually captures well what the father is getting at in terms of these two different paths with two different destinies. Especially with a focus on the progressive nature of growing in our evil if we go down a certain path. And it's from Alexander Pope on from his essay on man. Have any of you read it? Alright, very good. And it says this, if you'd like this quote afterward to write down, I'll give it to you. It's um not in modern language. Vice, think of sin. Vice is a monster of so frightful mean, meaning it's a frightful, you even look at it, it's frightful. Vice is a monster of so frightful mean as to be hated needs but to be seen Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, we first endure, then pity, then embrace. If you'd like to reflect on this. little poem. I'm happy to give it to you afterwards because it really captures what's going on. I'll read it to you one more time and see if you can puzzle through it. Vice as a monster of so frightful mien as to be hated needs but to be seen. Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, first we first endure Then we pity, then we embrace. It shows our relationship to sin. So what we end up having here is a doctrine for this evening. Is that on the one hand, the substance of the lecture that he's giving here, the substance of the lecture is thus encouragement to obey the directives that are taught elsewhere in the book of Proverbs. Especially after chapter ten. And really the only point that he wants to lay before us in chapter four in these verses is that we should choose the right paths, course by the grace of God and his Spirit. We are to choose the right paths and avoid those evil ones. And we'll discuss the particulars of that later after chapter ten. Choose the right paths by God's grace and avoid the evil ones. It sounds too simple, doesn't it? But that's one of the um it's so basic and so fundamental to the structure and nature of human life. He's actually giving us uh great insight into being able to walk down that walk through our lives in great strides. Choose the right paths and avoid the evil ones. Well, I'd like to just make a quick uh note on something that's going on here in this set of verses relative to one through nine. And then I want to um address the children for a moment, especially as they're getting ready to start back into school, with just a few questions for you to answer. So the first point in application is balance. That's the title of the point. And then emphasis. So balance and emphasis. So here's first balance. This part of Proverbs 4, I want to mention this because it's beginning to be more and more helpful to me as a parent. This part of Proverb 4 helps us to have a balanced view in raising up or having raised up children in the faith. If all we had was last week with the emphasis on generational succession and the parents' responsibility to pass down the tradition from one generation to another of Christian wisdom, then all of the responsibility would be on them, on parent and grandparent. The responsibility would lie on those who pass down the tradition of faith, hope, and love. But here, however, it is balanced back out, and we see that children themselves, you children, yourselves, Have responsibility for the path that you choose. You can catechize and raise up your children, and of course many in this room know this, and they can still choose the wrong path. And that is tragic and difficult. And this is the more balanced view, however. The parents have responsibility, and the children have responsibility It reminds me of experience that I had, which may seem a little silly to you, but these images help me. I'm an image guy. We went out a few months ago on the canoe on Glebe Creek in eastern Maryland. I took Addison and Nora and our dog, our Australian Shepherd Flynn. I told the girls, I noticed that uh Flynn, whenever anything moved on the water or on the land, he was that way and then that way and then that way. You know the old joke with the dogs and squirrel, squirrel, squirrel That's the way that he was. And I knew that in this canoe I was not going to be able to get him to listen. So I said to the girls, as the canoe's doing this every time he sees something new, and Addison's thinking I said whenever he goes left, you lean like this and balance the boat back out, and when he goes right, you lean like this and balance the boat boat back out so that we don't capsize and can have a nice enjoyable. ride together. And as a parent, in the boat of life, we can often place emphasis on our own contribution to our children and stop there. And never think about any other contributions that are a part of the picture. And if we do that, according to this proverb, then your boat is like this. And that's difficult and that's actually dangerous and not what the Lord wants for you. We think of all the ways in which we should have raised them in the Lord differently and better. And surely everyone in this room blunders in raising children, but if that is your only emphasis emphasis then you can capsize into despair, depression, and unbearable guilt. And I'll just mention perhaps one of the greatest maladies of all, unbearable mom guilt. I've noticed And therefore it is good to follow the Lord and keep the boat balanced by acknowledging that your children have responsibility also. grievousness of the situation or your concern or your prayers, but if we can state it as the Lord states it, we can expect help. And better health. Why not say it like he wants to say it? That's just a digressive application I wanted to mention as I think through raising children and the many children I've worked with here since 2008. The second main point of application is emphasis. This week, the emphasis is on the children. Congratulations, children. Students, the book of Proverbs alerts you to the fact that there are two paths. And this is a great grace that Jesus Christ has given to you. This is a fundamental reality that you must acknowledge about life. He's given you the key to be able to walk through it successfully. You could be prepared for almost anything if you just realize that your life will always consist of two paths. I myself use this image many times during the day. This path is a kind of metaphysical reality. within life. When you are talking to me, I'm going to let you in on a little secret. When you are talking to me, I am usually thinking What paths are options for them while they're at their crossroads and which path does the Lord want me to help them to go down? I'm always thinking in terms of paths because I think the Lord has given us these things so that we can navigate our lives. And you children are being handed this this evening on the dawn of the end of your summer. And sorry, that sounded uh portentous. As you think about school starting on Tuesday, and perhaps for some of you, maybe school has already started, I want you to take seriously this question and take paths. Seriously, it's not just a cute illustration. What are some of the paths that await you this year? Think about it. Write down the question. Talk about it with your parents and those that Christians that you respect. What are some of the paths which await you? What are the paths that, as we see in verse 18, shine like the sun and are the paths of wisdom that could await you? What are the paths of the wicked that you will actually face as you enter into your school year? In a sense, you should be wearing a pair of glasses or lenses all the time that cue you into what the paths are right around you. Here are some follow-up questions for you. And if you want these questions, I'm happy to just hand you this piece of paper and you can write it down after the service. Remember when we saw that barrage and machine gun fire of the father saying, make sure you don't go down this path? Turn those into questions. How will you avoid it, the path of the wicked? How will you make sure you do not travel on it? How will you make sure that you turn away from it? How do you make sure that you will pass by it? What is your specific plan? I encourage you to speak with your parents and strong, trusted Christian friends. If you're in a school and there's a kind of mentor program with upperclassmen, I encourage you to find upperclassmen who love Jesus Christ. and ask them to help you to navigate these paths that are present within your school. The main point of the Father's lecture tonight in these verses is that we are to choose the right paths and avoid the evil ones. We need to become serious about thinking about life It will help us to have insight into the nature of reality. May Christ direct us by His Spirit to not eat the bread and wine of wickedness. But to feast upon the wisdom of Christ. Amen. Please join me in prayer. Lord Christ, this is difficult. When we hear these lectures and we hear about a smooth path. Lord, we know from experience that we we really need to think through what you mean by that. No matter how much wisdom you choose. and how full the measure of the spirit we are. Sometimes it surely does not feel smooth. But Lord, the words are true nevertheless. They are true, understood, by intersecting with our experience. And at the end of our days, we will say, surely the path of wisdom is smooth. Surely my stride was right. O Lord Christ, we, however, are creatures that truly love other paths. We either love them or we are ignorant and don't know the path that we're starting to head down. And we have friends that are the same. And family. Lord Christ, we pray that you would shine your light on them, that you would allow them to see the truth and to no longer hide it. We pray that no matter how far down the path they are of wickedness and in the destiny of death and Sheol, that you would bring them back. Lord, you have raised all Christians here in this room. room from the dead. They are in the land of the dead. Raise them. Lord Jesus Christ, we are without hope unless you interven For our children, for our fathers and our mothers, for our friends and extended family. We pray, Lord Christ, that you would have mercy upon us them all, that you would bring them into your well-worn paths, that you have paved with your life and your death and your resurrection and your ascension. We ask, Lord Christ, that you would permit us to conduct our lives to show the world that your paths are good and that they're not tedious or boring. Or useless. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand and we'll respond to the preached word by singing together Psalm 15. All right, well, within your holy place And live upon your holy righteousness Those who are blamelessly and do what's right and speak the truth Where he's never still who never slander for with an evil tongue Nor do the neighbor any wrongful deed Who cast a slur on either friend or foe Rejecting those who want twice in for green The righteous honor those who fear the Lord They keep their routine, spike the herds or pain. No way, it privacy takes for our report Money is land without his honest game. Who Lord may dwell within your holy place? Who live upon your holy righteous hill, those who walk in Yes, rather than do these things will not be moved or shaken from your will Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God the Father and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all.