If you need a Bible, if you raise your hand and we'll have one brought to you. If um you well, we'll be flipping through multiple sections of the book today, so if you need a Bible, please raise your hand. But also on the back of the children's um crossword stuff there is also the passage whatever those word searches whatever they're called This is Hebrews chapter 11, and I'll read verses 30 through 12, too, and we'll begin with a word of prayer. By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they were encircled for seven days. By faith the harlot Rahab did not perish with those who do not believe when she had received the spice. And what more shall I say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephthah, also of David and Samuel and the prophets, who through faith subdued kingdoms, worked righteousness, obtained promises stopped the mouth of li mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, became valiant in battle, turned to flight the armies of the aliens. Women received their dead raised to life again. Others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection. Still others had trial of mockings and scourgings, yes, and of chains and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were stolen in two, were tempted, were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and mountains and dens and caves of the earth And all these, having obtained a good testimony through faith, did not receive the promise. God, having provided something better for us, that they should not be made perfect apart from us. Therefore, we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight. And the sin which so easily ensnares us. And let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking on to Jesus. The author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Please pray with me. Father, you bring us here to the end of the clouds, but we do not leave them. They surround us. We thank you for your ministry. Through this apostle, we thank you for your ministry through your Holy Spirit. And we ask that the words read and the words preached would be The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, according to your inscripturated word, and that it would not go forth void, but that it would create obedience to you, and glory to your name And blessing for your people. We pray these things in the name of Christ. Amen. Do you have photo albums in your home? Do you have photo albums in your home? I hope you do. I don't I hope it's not all digital. That scares me. But whether it's digital on your phone or if it's a photo album and you're flipping through, there's always inevitably a number of questions that'll surface. People want to know, where was it? this? Who's that tall person? When did this happen? They see the portrait, but they need to frame the portrait with the time and the the day and the and the place in order to be able to understand what was going on with the picture. Was this Easter? Was this Christmas? Was this a wedding? We usually recognize those and we basically understand what's going on So really what we see here through all of chapter 11 is a portrait book. It's a picture album. And we can ask the question just as we would with any other picture that we encounter in any other album in our lives, well, what's the meaning of it? Well w why all these pictures of all these people? What were we doing? What were they doing? What was the day that it was taken? We've answered that over the last several weeks. We've answered why the photos? Why the portrait gallery? And if you can't clearly remember the answer, then all you have to do is look at the frames of the picture And you could take, for example, one frame, if you look down in your Bible, is chapter 10, verse 39. That led us into looking at this picture. The Hebrew congregation is in danger of turning back to their Judaism He says that over and over again within this book, a fear of them turning back. The author supplies them with pictures therefore of those who had similar temptations. Similar temptations to draw back, as opposed to continuing to be loyal with Christ. And so he places those who had similar temptations, but who endured by faith before them. as a great picture album that they would be inspired, encouraged, and that they would learn about faith, the one key that for them will allow them to traverse This pilgrimage or this mountain that they have as Christians, every Christian has to run the race. Let's look at some Christians before and see how they ran the race so that we can learn how to do it. It's through faith. And faith is the key to endurance And if that's the case, then it makes sets sense to not just speak about it academically or to have philosophical definitions, but let's look at some people who demonstrated this faith throughout history and the different situations that we're in. Let's Put together an album of their pictures. And that's chapter 11. It's snapshots that we might understand the very thing that God gives us, that we might be preserved into the end. Now last Sunday we studied in particular Moses. What an example, what comfort, and what a vivid reality of what it means to have faith. In fact, we were brought into the heart of faith, I believe, with him We didn't hear exactly completely new information. It's been repeated within each of the examples, each of the pictures. But with Moses, it stood out in maybe just a little bit of a brighter way. And we learned that faith Is faithfulness to God's word. It really boiled down to something that simple. Especially God's promises supported by his commands and his warnings, they all come together in a package for his glory and our benefit. If you remember, Moses believed the promise that God would send the angel of death, and so, like anyone who would believe that, they painted their doorposts. As he instructed them with blood, the blood of the Lamb. Moses believed that God would deliver them from the Egyptians, and so he stayed calm with the army at his back and the Red Sea in front. He raised his hand, his staff, and walked through the Red Sea. All of this is Not because it looked feasible or plausible, but because God said this is what you are to do. And he, Moses, had faith, which meant he followed God's word. That's what we learned in that example. It's really the lesson of all the examples. If you continued in chapter 11, with all of the examples that I've read through here, just in the beginning, you would find the same truth. In fact, if you take a look at verse 30. It'd be the same thing for you. Joshua believed God. It's the only thing that would explain trying to conquer a city by marching around it for seven days and then shouting. I don't think he learned that technique in war school. It's not a legitimate army strategy. Well, why is it that he does it? Because he obeys God. He listens to God's word and he follows it. God made a promise, gave commands, gave threats and warnings. They marched, they shouted, and the walls came down. Because of God's power, they were able to be a part of something by listening By obeying God. Faith in God's word marks each successive example. You could go through the same thing with Rahab, and then he says, I have no time, it would fail me. You wonder if he's saying Not only does he not have time, but is he running out of room on his scroll? He couldn't go to Office Depot to get more paper. Maybe he looked and he saw, I need to come to an end here. I need to close these things But with each successive example, if you were to explore the specifics of them, you would find the same thing. You would find With Samson and Barak and Jepha and David, you would find those tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection, those who are mocked, scourging, those in sheepskins and goatskins, all of them are giving the same message. But once we get to the end, after we can see all of these pictures of faith, we see the author beginning to transition now. And verses 39 and 40 are transitional verses taking us out of the great album that he has constructed diligently. And moving us now and shifting our focus from looking at pictures of those ancients or elders To those who are in the first century house church, and to Christians throughout all time, until the return of Christ. The camera moves from those who were the ancients or the elders, bearing a good testimony and witness by faith, to the Christian church to whom he writes, to Christians down the halls of history. Now you can notice, and I want you to notice with me in verses 39 through 40, the camera shifting. Take a look in verse 39 with me. It says, and all these, referring to the cloud of witnesses. Having obtained a good testimony through faith, the exact same thing he said in verse 2, shows you that there are book ends here showing the meaning that you're supposed to derive out of all of the pictures. They did not receive the promise. God having provided something better for us. Do you see the camera shift? Just notice the pronouns. We go from all of these, the cloud of witnesses, and now by the time you get to verse 40, it moves to for us. Speaking to the original House Church and all Christians down the halls of history, that they should not be made perfect apart from us. The shift has happened. The camera has moved. I've talked enough about the things in the past. I'm now going to apply them to you who are in the present. In fact, if you were to continue in Hebrews chapter 12, notice the pronouns again He does not focus. The focus is not primarily. The camera is not on the ancients any longer. He says, therefore we also Since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which so easily ensnares us, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. There's really no doubt as to where the camera lies now. And who's in the picture? You as a Christian are now seeing that you are being brought and placed in one of the folios You are now being made a part of the Great Family Photo Album. And you will have your race to run. It's time that you have learned from them the lessons that they were to teach you to now take into your future, what he was saying to this original house church and to you. The camera's focused on the house church and Christians in general But it doesn't mean that we forget about the past generation. You can see in 12. 1 that there's still a connection, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses. The cloud of witnesses are still from chapter 11, and although the focus has shifted, the camera has moved, they still surround us. Now, what does that mean? It's important for us to know the meaning of what does it mean for them to surround us, this so this great cloud of witnesses. We don't speak like that if you're hanging out with a bunch of friends or if you're at a pep rally or something like that, if they still have those in high school. You don't say, come on down, there's a whole great cloud of us. There's a whole great cloud at my house. We're going to have a big cloud at my house today That's not what we say, so what does he mean? One option, if you were to search through the commentaries, old and new, one option is that you would really run, no pun intended, with the racing metaphor that you see. I'm giving you an orientation here, so we're looking at some broad strokes. There's a there's a running metaphor there in verse 1 of chapter 12. Take a look at that You could really run with the metaphor, and you could say they surround us just as spectators would surround runners in a stadium. And they're cheering you on. All those clouds of witnesses, all those witnesses who came before you are cheering you on. They're standing and they're encouraging you and they're saying, don't drop out of the race, it's worth it. The promise is real. Endore on. The second option is to not be so fancy. And instead, to just see that the amount of the witnesses or the testimony that was given from so many different people, from all through biblical history, all points to a single thing. That by faith we endure. And that all of those testimonies, one after the other, all through biblical history in every age of the church, should convince us and give us an overwhelming confidence. to continue within the Christian race. That would be another way to understand it. And in the end, I accept both. In the end, I don't think it matters that much. For whether you picture them in a stadium cheering your name or as witnesses in a law court or wherever, their cheering or testimony says the same thing to the people of God. No matter where they are, this is what they say. Don't drop out of the race. Do not turn back. Endure. That's the message. Don't abandon God's promises and Jesus the Messiah. Remain loyal. Now, at this point, we went through several weeks of going through chapter 11. If you just read chapter 11, do you know how long it takes? 15 seconds? Something like that if when it was uh read originally to the house church and and by the time he had taken them perhaps through this this homily of all of these Heroes that they've grown up with, hearing about, seeing the pattern that they lived by faith. By this point, you would expect them to be s expect them to be stirred and inspired to continue within the race if there's any hope for them. And I believe that there is, and I believe the author believes that there's hope. Having been stirred, he now brings them to a precipice. He brings them to a point to tell them very important truths. It's no longer about talking about the ancients, it's about talking about their race and about your race. And so there are two important truths that he communicates to them now as we move into chapter 12, and this is the big idea. The big idea, and we'll continue with this, this will be the teaching for the rest of the time. Everything I've said up to this point has just been introduction and orientation. The big idea is really twofold, and it's all about the Christian life. You could even make an argument that he's trying to emphasize that this is about the normal Christian life. Because when you look through all of the examples, you see the same thing, no matter what age. And no matter which person, and so it's quite normal for you to be thinking like this, that if you're a part of this album, then you should expect your life to unfold similarly to all those in the past. And here it is. Here's the normal Christian life. It's two parts. It's a little different than what you have in your bullets and so you don't want to write this. I made a couple changes. I think it's a little clearer this way. The Christian life, number one, is a race. Number two, the Christian life is dependent on Jesus. And brothers and sisters, there are more truths about the normal Christian life that will come up in chapter 12 later. But let me tell you, these true truths. are very, very important. Don't leave here today not knowing these two truths and their singularity. Significance. It makes all the difference in your race. That's why he gives it to you. And so it's very simple. The first part is the Christian life is a race, and you can see this in verse 1. Therefore, we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which so easily ensnares us, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. And then it moves into verse 2. The Christian life is a race. That's rather obvious there. You don't have to have a Bible degree to get that from this verse. The sports metaphors were common in the first century actually, whether it was Christian or non-Christian speaking. They used many different sports metaphors for you to understand what he was saying. It wouldn't be hard for you to walk down the street and hear, or to be in a synagogue and hear about boxing or wrestling, or in this case racing. The analogy of the race here is obvious. It's meant for Christians and and the the race here, just as we know, so too would they know that there are different kinds of races. And if you in reading the verse had to guess what kind of race this was What kind of race would it be? Would it be the 40-yard dash? It would be a very long race. Why? Because of the language that's used in terms of The endurance. There's marathons and there's sprints. The Christian race is a marathon because we run it with endurance. The word endurance in verse 1 is elsewhere translated perseverance and steadfastness And with that bit of information, you can see how this Schwarz analogy connects quite neatly with the whole message of the book. If you remember the wilderness wanderings, for example. Example. The wilderness wanderings are all about the people of God remaining steadfast and persevering. It has a deep memory within the biblical record, this kind of language, endurance, perseverance, steadfastness, constancy. Hebrews has already introduced the wilderness wanderings of God's people. Their wanderings were plagued with grumbling and disbelief They wanted out of the hot sun and they wanted no more boring meals. They were drawn back to the meals of Egypt. They wanted to return However, what they needed was not leaks or whatever they asked for from Egypt. They needed endurance, perseverance, and steadfastness. And likewise, so did this group of people. In fact, all Christians need to hear this message. We are all in a wilderness of sorts. That's what you're in now, is your wilderness wanderings. The house church, to whom this is originally written, had their wilderness troubles. Take a look again, and I know that I've gone over this before, but it can't hurt. Take a look at Hebrews 10, verse 32. But recall the former days in which, after you were illuminated, you endured a great struggle with sufferings, and it goes into the details of that. This group of people has already been enduring. They've endured a great struggle with sufferings, he said. They had they endured quite a lot, like an exhausted boxer, I picture, like an exhausted boxer in the ring. This congregation is tempted to drop the gloves and to throw in the towel to use another sports image. I don't know all the details. Of their struggles, I don't know all the details of their hardships. We see that some of their possessions were taken I don't know all of the details that are a part of your life. I don't know what you have already endured. But I know that you and I and they, we all have a wilderness, and we as Christians Are all called to endure. We're all called to this race. It's true of you sitting here today. Everyone here in this room, this is true. You run a race, and you must endure like them. That you've already endured some. It's true of all those who have ever been to Severn Run. It's true of all those who will ever come to Severn Run. All of those who have gone off to college, all of those who are coming of age, all of those going into high school or graduating from high school. All of those who are married or unmarried, all of those who are employed or who are retired, you're all in a wilderness wandering, you all have a race to run, and you all must endure, and it is exhausting or can be disheartening at times. Now, in one commentary, by William Lane, its word biblical commentary, he mentions what the first century Christians would have gone through And I'm going to read it to you, and I want you to tell me if there's any difference between what they were going through and what you yourself feel as a Christian in a race now. It's quite heartening to see that there is so much similarity between the two of us. The congregation here at Severn Run and this congregation to whom this letter is written. Listen to this quote from William Lane. They are wearied. From the constant need to maintain their Christian stance in a social setting that is no longer simply unreceptive to their message and lifestyle, but has become increasingly hostile towards their presence. They are thoroughly disheartened. There's so much similarity to what we would say To what they were saying within the first century, and yet the message is the same. The message that he's giving to them and the message that he is giving to us is that there's only one responsibility that we have as Christians. And that is to run the race, to endure. You have no option, really. It's the normal Christian life, no matter what you were taught That's what's taught here. There are different ways in which people will enter into your life to try to trick you and think that it's not a race. They'll try to take you into heavenly glory in different ways. really anticipating or or allowing the end to come more quickly than it's supposed to. There are different movements in the in the Christian life that tell us that the race is almost over, that they relieve some of the pain. I think, for example, some of the elements of the sunshine. Movement or higher life movements. No matter what it is, we have to reject having too full of an end realized now, and we must realize That we have perhaps a long way to go before the Lord returns and we must persevere in the Christian race. And that's the main goal. But he doesn't just tell us that it's a race. That would be helpful For us to know that, especially if we thought this was it required no endurance to be a Christian. After he gives us this main goal, the author pulls you over on the sideline, if you will. I want to stay with this metaphor of race or of a boxer. or of basketball or sports or something and and think of the author of as a as a kind of coach. Have you ever seen in the boxing ring when he's been out there and he gets back to the corner, the coach gets in his face and he says something to him and we don't know what it is and it's probably best that we don't know what he says. Or the basketball coach pulls everybody together and they huddle and he He gives them encouragement, he tells them what to do next, and that's what he's doing here next in this passage after he's told us about the race. He pulls you in as a coach, and he supplies two necessary sub-responsibilities or duties for you if you were going to complete this race. Can you see in the passage what they are? They're quite obvious. The first is let us lay aside every weight. And the second is and the sin which so easily ensnares us. Those are the two things that we have to focus on now as we consider our life as a race. If you accept the fact that you must endure in the Christian life as a race, then you've got to look out for these two things. So let's look at the first thing. Let us lay aside every weight. Interestingly, I don't know if you knew this or not, but this is a historical reference to how ancient athletes have removed their robes before running. You can imagine hav having a heavy toga and that they wouldn't do well in a race with that kind of robe on and so they would remove, actually, if you were to study history, everything We have similarities in our culture, but they don't go all the way. So for example, when you watch on TV swimming, I see these guys coming out of a tunnel and they're wearing winter jackets and heavy robes and headphones that are real big and sneakers and All kinds of stuff, and as they prepare to race, they remove just about everything. In fact, the men even shave their legs. It's the same analogy that he wants to get across here: you would remove everything so that you would do well in the race. And now, interestingly, I can't tell you what is weighing you down. But that's the point that he wants to get across. Whatever it is, whatever keeps you from being loyal and continuing in the pilgrimage and is slowing you down the race, you are to lay it aside. I could guess what some of the things are because I live near you or around you or at least within the same culture. And so what I want to do is it's still just a guess and they're only approximate, but I'm just going to ask you a couple questions. It's really up to you at this point and not me here for you to figure out what you need to lay aside. So you've got some work to do. There's some homework. You can begin now. Let me just ask a couple questions to get you going Are there hobbies or entertainments which weigh you down and hinder your Christian progress? The God gives us many things to do in our life. If you were to look on YouTube, you could find out how to do just about everything. But have hobbies become obsessions. Have you become awkwardly decent at everything and not good at anything? You, in other words, become a dilettante. Well, maybe these things are weighing you down and they're hindering your progress. It's good for you to think through that. What about certain relationships? This could be a little surprising to you. Are there certain relationships that are a weight to you? Do you have some friends that have simply become too heavy to bear and to continue as a Christian? And so sometimes it seems like you would want to pick up a Christian brother or a sister and put them on the shoulder and take them through the finish line. But the scriptures also say this: bad company corrupts good character And so you'll need to find a balance there and to weigh whether or not there are certain relationships that are past due. And they're just a wait. And what about work responsibilities? Obviously God wants us to work, but what about commitments you have that have become just a wait? Hopes and aspirations for your career that are slowing your Christian progress? What about commitments you have made out of the kindness of your heart? Perhaps they've served their purpose in the past, but lately you are realizing they are await slowing you, and they're actually slowing everyone around you in their Christian practice. Progress. Those are important questions for you to consider. As you can see, I can only approximately guess on what those would be. You for good reason don't tell me all the details of your personal life because then I would be able to list them In the sermon. No, I wouldn't. I would never do that. But there's more than just weights here. Those are the two parts. We have a race, and we are to endure through that. You can see as we transition with the camera now on us. You are a runner. You are an athlete, Christian, and there's two main things that you need to do. The first that we've seen is you have to set aside those things that are weighing you down. And I've given you some questions, but there's also the sin which so easily ensnares. I think, just in studying the passage, that he doesn't have exactly a specific sin in mind. I think he's saying that any and all sins are surely a weight in the Christian race. But if I had to guess, I would say, based on the whole message of the letter, that if there is a sin on his mind, it would be double-mindedness. Now, here is a picture of double-mindedness, and it actually makes ridiculous the idea of it also making you a good racer. Double-mindedness is a picture of you sitting on a fence. With one foot on one side and another foot on another side. Devoted to God at one point and loyal to the world at another. That's double-mindedness And I have never seen anyone sit on a fence and do well in a race. I just don't think that's possible. And so I would think that that, based on the message of this letter, is honestly what he would say, is you have to get off the fence if you're actually going to run the So that's the first point. You can see that it's quite clear what he's giving to us, these exhortations that there is this race and there's these two things that we must do as racers. That we have to set aside weights and we have to set aside the sins that ensnare us like fishing line on our feet, causing us to trip up, or like sitting on a fence. That's the first point. The Christian life is a race. It is a race that is completed by laying aside those two things and becoming unensnared. And yet the exhortation continues. It is important to the race, but we also, besides racing, we also must realize that we are dependent. Now that's the second main point. That we see within the passage. And that's where you see verse 2. We see the race, but then he immediately shifts in verse 2, looking on to Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross Despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Now, I don't know exactly how you read this verse in verse 2, but it may not mean what you think it means. What I have I've labeled this in saying that Christians must depend on Jesus. Would you have made that a paraphrase of the passage? If you it were up to you for your teaching? Would active dependence be the way in which you'd summarize verse 2? The literal words I've read to you, looking on to Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith Sat down at the right hand of the throne. The reason why I chose active dependence is because the context says, I think, something a little different than what most people thing. You've already been through chapter 11 and you've seen example after example after example after example. And then you're turning and you're you're being inspired again in verse 1 by the example of the cloud of witnesses and you would expect that in verse 2 we have yet another example. But I don't really think that that's justified or warranted based on the way that he phrases verse 2. We do not have another example here. The emphasis is not on our imitation of Jesus so much as our dependence on Jesus. And I want to tell you why I think this, so that you can uh accept this intelligently or debate with me later. Looking in the scripture, which you see in the head of verse 2. When it respects God or Christ, denotes an act of faith or trust with hope and expectation. We look on to our God for our salvation. We don't look on to him throughout the scriptures as an example. We look on to him as our hope, our anticipated joy after the hope. For example, Isaiah 45, verse 22. Look to me and be saved, all you ends of the earth, for I am God and there is no other. He's not saying, look to me as an example, and by exemplifying me you will be saved He's saying, Look to me, I am your salvation. I will conquer. In Micah 7:7, which many quotes of Micah here in this letter to the Hebrews, therefore I will look to the Lord, I will wait for the God of my salvation. Because my God will hear me. And there are many examples that can be multiplied of the word look referring when referring to God or Christ, denoting an act of faith or trust with hope and expectation. Now I want you to notice something else. Look at the description of Jesus. There are descriptions that could possibly be examples to you. But note the main description that he emphasizes, and that is that he is the author and the perfector of our faith. And I believe this to be a classic statement of Jesus as the good shepherd who loses none of his sheep but protects and supports. And that this is further supported in the end of the verse when it says that he is sitting at the right hand of the throne of God, that all authority had been given to him. It only strengthens our confidence and our comfort in Jesus that he actually has the power and the position to aid and assist us in our Christian traversing or race. And so, therefore, we would look on to him for our perseverance, the great perseverance of the saints. So, this is why I say that we, the second thing that we must do. To live the normal Christian life is to depend on Jesus. Clearly, the truth here is that the Christian life is a life of active dependence on the ascension ministry of Jesus the Messiah. If Jesus were not the author of your faith, in other words, then you would not believe in God's promises. If Jesus were not the finisher of your faith, then you would turn back and you would become apostate. The natural question becomes, though, how in the world am I supposed to look to Jesus? That is a key aspect. If I'm supposed to race And I'm supposed to set aside things? I get that. I see all the imagery. I understand. I remember watching swimming. Take off the robe. I get it. But how am I supposed to look at Jesus? The answer is not this. It's not through statues. It is not through paintings. It is not through joy. That is not the answer. Moses, if you take a look in chapter 11, verse 27, Moses gives us a clue. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. And I've spoken to this before. to see him who is invisible while Jesus is only present by his spirit and his ascended glory, then we too must see him who is invisible. And this is done primarily through the ministry of the Word, but it may also be done in recognizing God's providences in your life, and it is certainly done in prayer. There's a most special promise for you, Christian. And so I want to look at each of those now. When you look to Jesus, which is a key aspect for you to be able to endure in your life as the camera is on you, there's the ministry of the word. There's daily devotional reading. There is serious study. There is diligent hearing of the preached word. And I think most specifically to this context There is focused reading of Christ's promises to strengthen you in the specific race that you're running right now, or the specific lap that you're taking. What promises are given to you in Scripture? What does God promise to you as a mother and as a father? What does he promise to you as a widow? What does he promise to you as a worker? And can you lean on those promises? Can you meditate on the scriptures until those promises are memorized within your heart that you are attached to them and that you truly believe them? That's the ministry of the Word. It should be, if you are going to run the race, if you're going to endure, then you should have a regular ministry of the Word within your life. It should be daily, I would think, knowing how difficult the race is that it would be daily. Second is the careful listening of the church's experience, Christ's providential care among the church. In other words, Christ is in his ascended glory, and although is not physically with you now, but only with you by his spirit, or gloriously by his spirit He's still acting within your life as the ascended Christ, comforting you, strengthening you, working out all of the details of your life that you would grow in his image, that you'd be protected, aided, and assisted. And there are some in this room that have been around as Christians running the race much longer than you. And you could simply ask them, as opposed to just the feelings of your own experience, you could speak with those who are trustworthy Who have been under the ministry of the Word and reading their Bibles and running the race and have taken off the baggage and the sin that so easily ensnared them that have actually some experience in their life, and you could say How has the ascended Lord worked within your life that I could look to him for strength? How do you look to him for strength now, knowing how he has worked throughout your life? How has Jesus strengthened you throughout your life? And I guarantee that the saints here, the mature saints, will have stories that will knock your sock. Stories of God actively working with them as they held the hand of their spouses on their deathbed. I personally have been blessed in the remembrance of Doug Johnson. Doug Johnson was one of our elders. And is now in glory with his Lord. And I remember just before his death, as he approached the end of his race, enduring He told me that like never before, Jesus was actively working in his life through the hymns of our church That he was seeing each word on the page of all of the hymns as if they were glowing and speaking to him about the gospel of grace. And about the love of Jesus Christ presented to us out of the love of the Father and our illumination through the Spirit. He heard all of these glorious truths, and it moved him to an assurance. I watched him, he'd sit right over there. He was assured Even facing death, he was assured, he endured, and he was careful because it was becoming that much more meaningful. Doug did not become weak in his faith toward the end of his race, but he got stronger than I had ever seen him, more resolute than I had ever seen him Him, more comfortable with the love of Jesus Christ, and more satisfied with it than I had ever seen him. Jesus Christ Was actively working within his life. And I'm telling you that as I observed him, I learned what it means to look to Jesus I watched Doug look to Jesus through hymns and through singing. You know, there's an important truth here. Sometimes you want to put down the Bible and stop reading. And you want to start singing. You want to have a song life as a Christian. You want to sing the words of Scripture. In fact, why not just sing the Scriptures? Sing the Psalms, learn the tunes. If you told Brad, Brad, I'd like to learn some tunes so that myself or me and my family we could sing the Psalms, he would glow. There would be lights beaming out of his face. It would make his day at least. He would feel like Jesus is ministering to him at that moment. Well, there's not only the ministry of the word that we have to turn to in looking to Jesus, there's not only the providential signs of his activity amongst us, but there's also prayer. And here I want you to turn to Hebrews chapter 4 And if there was a paragraph for you to remember as a Christian who is seeking to endure the race, then this would be it. So turn to Hebrews 4, and I'll read to you verses 14 through 16. And I want to emphasize the very last verse. And we're talking about prayer. Seeing then that we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. It's focused on endurance even here. For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. Here it is. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help us in time of need. It is the great lesson that all Christians must learn is that Jesus Christ in his ascended glory is sympathetic towards you And he wants you to come to him in prayer in your time of need, that he would give you aid and assistance in your race. He expects that as the author and the perfector of your faith that you would come to him, that you might persevere That you wouldn't, when you feel like dropping the gloves and throwing in the towel, that instead you would drop to your knees and you would cry out to him, that he would strengthen your faith That He would give you endurance that you could go through another day holding on to your loyalty to Christ when it becomes that difficult, and that you would do so for others. That you would intercede for those who are around you. That's the message here. As we move the camera from those of the past to those in the present, you can begin to see That the normal Christian life is quite active, but it is also quite dependent. The normal Christian life is dependent on Jesus Christ. Christ. It's going to require endurance. It's going to require you, therefore, if you have a long way to go to drop everything that's weighing you down, to take it off, and the and the things that are ensnaring and causing you to trip, those sins. It's time for them to go because you're a racer. Do you see? What he stirred you up toward, now it's your turn to run. It's not their turn to run. They've ran the race. It's your turn to run the race. Now I want to close and I want to observe a few passages with you. Just to bring this home so that you can see this emphasis. Now we're going to flip through our Bibles a little bit. I want you to look, as we close the sermon, at Hebrews chapter 2, verse 1. And I have a few questions for you. As the great athletes of this congregation. This is Hebrews 2, verse 1. Therefore, we must give the more earnest heed to the things we have heard in case we drift away. Have you been drifting? Now turn to Hebrews chapter 3, verse 12. Beware, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief. In departing from the living God. Have you been departing from God? Are there things that have been weighing you down And causing you to drift and to be like a leaky bucket? Are there things in your life that are causing you to have less seriousness and loyalty to God? Are you beginning to depart from Him? Has the departure happened for quite some time now? Certain hobbies and relationships, when you look back now, once you entered into them, you're perhaps miles from Christ. And now we have Hebrews chapter 10, verse 35, perhaps the worst warning of all. Therefore, do not cast away your confidence which has great reward. As you're going through this life, have you cast away your confidence? confidence in Jesus Christ and the great covenant God Yahweh. Have you begun to throw the promises and your expectations for Christian life and the promises through Jesus Christ? Have you throw them in the track Are you drifting? Are you casting these away? Are you leaking? The author here is pleading with you to consider all of those witnesses that surround you who have crossed the finish line. And this is what they're saying to you. Quite simply, it's it's it's not me. Did you notice that the Bible is between me and you? It's what this is saying to you. I I don't matter up here. What matters is what God is saying to you. He He says, consider them and run the race with renewed perseverance. That's what your Christian life is. That's your normal calling. Throw off everything that's weighing you down. That's the exhortation to you this morning. That's part one. Part two is to take heart as you look to Jesus for care and for strength. Get on your knees. Read your Bible Sit under the diligently attend to the priest's word and talk to the veteran saints about God's providences in their life. Embrace the Christian life, run the race, depend on Jesus Father, these are great truths that you have given to us. You've given us these from a pastor's heart. Lord Christ, you know how to feed your flock, and you have fed us with a great, great amount of testimony and witness from all these clouds of witnesses, and now you are bringing it home. most pertinently into our own hearts, and you place before us the decision to endure, the decision to depend, the decision to take off those things that you've told us for so long are ensnaring us or just weighing us down. Oh Father, I pray that through your Holy Spirit you would work through your word this morning in your congregation here at Severn Run, and that you would not allow them to just be mere hearers of your word here. but that they would be doers. And I pray these things for your glory. Amen. Let's stand and we're going to praise our God