The times when Jesus is proving his credentials, as we will discuss. So Matthew 8, verses 14 through 22, if you will turn to that, as that is the passage we will be considering. Now, when Jesus had come into Peter's house, he saw his wife's mother lying sick with a fever. So he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she rose and served them. When the evening had come, they brought to him many who were demon-possessed, and he cast out the spirits with a word. And healed all who were sick, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, He himself took our infirmities and bore our sicknesses. And when Jesus saw great multitudes about him, he gave a command to depart to the other side. And then a certain scribe came to him and said to him, Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes and birds have the air, have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. And then another of his disciples said to him, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. And Jesus said to him, Follow me, and let the dead bury their own dead. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. How old were you when you first had it made ex excruciatingly, if you will, clear or emphatically clear to you just how heartbreaking it is to live in this world Recently, more than at any other time in my life, tragedy has hit my family in me. And the effects have taken its toll in some ways. Some of the joy has been sucked out of living in some areas. And the reality of pain and suffering and death has become even more intense in my own experience. But there's an interesting thing here. This is not new to me. This is not something I am just becoming aware of. It's just a increase in intensity, if you will. Because I was fairly young when the reality of suffering first made itself known to me in all of its forms. How old are you when someone That you really loved, took sick, became deathly ill, perhaps died. Or that you first experience someone that you know being killed, perhaps in a battle. When was it that you first saw death up close and personal? And your life was changed by it On the whole, health care of this country is pretty good. A lot better than it was 50 years ago when I was getting my throat mopped by Dr. Bassey. You don't even know what having your throat mopped is, do you? Well, let me tell you, it's not fun. But on the whole, health care today is a lot better than it was then. We have smallpox vaccinations. We fight the flu bugs and colds and sometimes pneumonia, even as we talked about earlier. But we do that with antibiotics, and to a great extent, those things are not fearful. Polio killed a lot of children when I was growing up And polio has been virtually removed from our existence here in the United States and possibly worldwide. Kids don't grow up that often these days with people getting sick and dying. And even in our families As we live in the world about us, the generations are not mixed as much. There's a fragmentation of our society so that Young families tend to hang out with other young families, and old people and their age group tend to mature together, and so all the suffering of advancing age is kind of contained in this thermos model of old people hanging together And the young people are not experiencing it so much. And so even in the the maturity of the younger families with the uh decrease in infant mortality, you really have A delayed time in which the experience of death and suffering comes into the lives of younger people We live oftentimes in a protective cocoon, shielded from much of the misery in this world. But that was not the way it was in Jesus' day. The people who lived in Jesus' day knew about suffering and misery and death, and they knew it in spades. They lived in a world where the average lifespan was about 40 years old. If you live past 40, you considered that a great blessing from God. There was no birth control, and in their lives a young mother might conceive ten or eleven times maybe more before she reached the age of infertility. And of those 10 or 11 or more children Perhaps two, three, four might survive to adulthood. Her own chance of surviving birth, of giving childbirth, especially if it was something like a breached baby, was really not all of that positive. Stop and think about it. In those days there was very little sanitation. Even kings and queens did not have hot showers and the baths that we take for example for granted today And if you remember that then the large cities also had sewers. I mean Rome had a very extensive sewer system, but you didn't have that in the villages. There were no sewers Not where most people lived. Rats, mosquitoes, fleas, these were part of everyday life And so, therefore, the risk of infection in the ordinary life from injury or battle wound or disease or whatever often went directly to death in a very substantial and quick-moving fashion. Medical procedures were almost unknown comparatively to what we have today. Pagan Romans, during the times of Jesus, still took their sick to the temple of Aeschylus. I think I have pronounced that correctly. And let Gina tell me if I'm wrong. There they slept in this temple with snakes slithering around them on the floor, because pagan Romans thought that snakes had healing powers. Today, the symbol of the medical profession is a, and I can't pronounce it, caduceus, is that right? Is that correct? The caduceus has snakes around it. That comes from that old uh pagan thought about snakes having healing power. That's what we're dealing with. That's what they were dealing with. And think of the impact then when those things just didn't work And the world that these people faced was a world of heartbreak. Large numbers of people were always suffering They were undernourished. Their defense mechanisms did not have the strength to fight off disease. Death was always hiding in the shadows It was very much the reality of their existence, and it was the burden of their life. Heartache, suffering was everywhere. And what kind of effect would it have on you if you were transported back to that day and that was now to be your life? What effect would it have on your soul? Would you be broken? Would you be hopeless? The greatest number of them, I believe, were. Life was a burden. It was something they had to endure, like the bumper sticker, life is hard, and then you die. Now given that reality, the reality of their existence at that day, imagine the reaction that must have swelled up among them when this man, Jesus, came into their life preaching and teaching the kingdom of God. Preaching and teaching about a God who loved them in the midst of their suffering, a God who was interested in giving them joy in the midst of their suffering, and He comes into doing all of this And he demonstrates the authority or demonstrates his credentials for proclaiming this by healing people by doing something about the pain and suffering which was the warp and woof of the fabric of their life. He came healing people left and right. That's what Matthew is going at pains to show us. Bang, he heals a leper. Bang, he heals a centurion. Bang, he heals Peter's mother-in-law. How do you think that affected them? Deep down in their souls Particularly when they saw that these healings were not some kind of TV stunt. This was real. He heals a man with leprosy, hideous leprosy, right there in front of their eyes. It's gone This interior servant speaks at a distance, and what do they hear that even as he spoke the words at a distance, this servant was healed? And he goes into Peter's house and he finds Peter's wife's mother sick with fever. Now we might think that was, well, you know, kids get fever every day. 104 degrees fever. Yeah, we get worried about it. But That's the kind of fever fever that even today we wind up in an emergency room with that kid to see a doctor. If worse comes to worse, we might even have to leave the child in the hospital for a day or two And even today, when they're having that degree of fever and its associated effects, the child has concerns about going into pneumonia. In those days, brothers and sisters, it was more often the case that it did than it is now. But when Jesus walks into that room and he touches that woman, she gets better right away. And like a good Jewish mother, she jumps up and starts cooking supper. Imagine how that would have affected those people who saw it. Among the people where suffering was suffering and heartache and death was their whole life, here was a man who was healing people Healing all of the worst kinds of illnesses and doing it with a power that seems to demonstrate incredible ease If that had been you and you saw that, what would you have done Would you have gotten excited? Would you have come running to this man? Would you bring all of those you love with you, especially the sick ones? That precious baby that you love so much, would you push and shove through the crowd to get that child to the spin? How about your relatives? The ones with severe rheumatoid arthritis. They can barely walk Would you haul them, even if you had to bring them on a stretcher? Would you bring your mother who had fallen and broken her hip Would you do that? If that was your world and Jesus brought healing into it, would you run to him? Would you begin to think that maybe after all death and suffering was not the end all of the whole world? Would you want to talk to him and perhaps even follow him wherever he might go Well, that's exactly what we see happening in these verses. We see Jesus healing a leper, the centurion servant, and Peter's mother-in-law, and what is the effects? The next thing that we are told is that great multitudes flocked to see Jesus. And then we see men coming to see Jesus and saying, We want to go with you. Is that not what we would expect? Is that not what we would do? Well, brothers and sisters, that is exactly why Jesus did these things. Jesus did these things. He demonstrated these healings. to show us that this world that is so full of death and dying, of heartbreak as it is, he did this to show us that that is not the whole truth about this world that there is more to life than simply enduring it to the end. Jesus came to give these people their life back. He came to give them their joy back. He came to give them, and he came to give us hope. Matthew is showing us in this healing what Jesus is doing, that what Jesus is doing is not an end unto itself That Jesus, in fact, did heal people because he had compassion and love for them. Yes, he does, and we lift up in our intercessory prayer people that we love and we want Jesus to love and have compassion on them. But even in the healings he is doing today, brothers and sisters, it is to a larger purpose than simply to relieve suffering There is more to these healings than the curing of disease. Matthew makes it clear to us in the way he has structured this chapter, and that's what I've been building up to. He quotes Isaiah 53. Go ahead and turn to that book, that chapter in Isaiah. He quotes 53, chapter 53, and like a laser, he hones in on a specific A pair of statements. He homes in on verse 17 of Isaiah 53 and he says, He himself took our infirmities and he bore our sicknesses. The whole setup of this saying, this whole passage on both sides of that saying Is that this is the hinge point, this is the key to understanding what Jesus is doing. There is something going on that is more wonderful And these healings are a sign pointing toward that. As an overview, Jesus' healings were signs that In him, we are to see God's answer for all the sufferings in this world. Because in Jesus, God was striking a blow at sin, which is the root of death and all misery And that blow that God was going to give death and misery was a blow that would fall on this man, Jesus himself. He would bear our infirmities. He would bear our sicknesses. And brothers and sisters, he would bear our sin. And it's that which I wish to focus on. Matthew is emphasizing how the authority for healing is vested in Jesus himself. We saw that when Jesus, specifically when Jesus healed the centurion servant, but now notice in the specific healing of Peter's mother-in-law. Matthew doesn't give us a lot of details. He gives us even less than Mark or Luke gives us about this healing. All Matthew tells us is Jesus went into the house, touched the mother-in-law, she got up and started cooking supper. You see, what Matthew is hammering home to us with these stories is that we're to focus on Jesus, not the healings. The central truth, the center of the story is the man, not what he's doing as the centerpiece. The miracles are not the thing ultimately that Matthew wants us to get our mind around. What Matthew wants is for us to get excited about Jesus. And what these healings tell us about him as a man and as a person, and that he is the one who has come with healing in his wings. These healings are a sign pointing toward a greater reality, a reality that the prophet Isaiah told us about hundreds of years before. A reality that a man would come. The focus is on the individual. Isaiah tells us that a man would grow up as a tender plant. There would be no beauty in him that we would desire of him. A man would live to see our griefs and would bear our griefs and he would carry our sorrows. A man would be, we would view as being afflicted by God. A man would be wounded for our transgressions. A man would be bruised for our iniquities. He would be chastised so that we might have peace. A man would be equipped, uh would be whipped with a lash, but by his stripes we would be healed. Brothers and sisters, by this verse, these verses here, Matthew is telling us that this man, Jesus is the one that though we have all, like sheep, gone astray and turned ourselves to our own way, to our own sin, yet God has been pleased to lay on this man, Jesus, The iniquity of us all. These healings, as Matthew here precisely teaches us. were to demonstrate Jesus as the promised Messiah who would come and take on our infirmities and bear our sicknesses. And if he was the one who came to do that, to take away our illnesses from us, then he was, by definition, also the one who would heal our deepest need. He was the one who would heal us of the sickness of sin that is in all of us. He is the one who will take away the sting of death and sorrow. And misery forever. That's what Matthew is putting this here together for us to understand. But Matthew does it in such a way that he makes sure, he makes it clear to us. That this was not something easy for Jesus. That in healing others, he actually did in his own body, in some mysterious degree, take on their infirmities to his very own person. Here we're getting into mystery, and we can't understand it uh precisely But when Jesus healed, it wore him out When Jesus heals someone, as we learn from another verse, he could sense power going out of him. There was a sense in which healing exhausted some reservoir of himself. It drained him of more than just physical stamina. It drained him spiritually also. What we see is the exhaustion of healing. And so it's easy to see why Jesus, seeing the crowd around him, said, come on guys, let's get out of here. He needed some rest. Brothers and sisters, this is the suffering servant of Isaiah 53. We see Jesus suffering under the weight of sin before the cross. The burden that he carried was not just the guilt of sin. He carried the effects of sin, the misery that sin brings in his body also. We feel the effects of sin, the misery of sin, and every pain that comes upon us. If there were no sin in this world, there would be no death, there would be no suffering, there would be no pain. But sin is in the world, and therefore we suffer, we feel pain, and we experience heartache. When Jesus took upon himself the guilt of our sin, he also took upon himself the misery of our sin. Matthew is careful to repeat this. He bore our illnesses. Every illness he cured in some deep and mysterious way Took something from the man who was healed or the person who was healed and transferred it to Jesus. This is Jesus' role as sin bearer. That began when he was baptized by John. From that point on, from the point of his baptism, see he was going through all of these things. The increasing weight of our sin, the misery of our sin, the heartache of our sin was increasingly upon him. He was a man of sorrows and burdened with what? Grief. That's the way Jesus waged war against sin, against darkness, and against death. It was to take it upon himself and to render it null and void in the lives of his people. And by taking it on himself, through his own divine eternal power, he could absorb it and overcome it. In his life, he bore the misery of our sin, and in his death, he bore the penalty of our sin. And that's exactly what Isaiah said the Messiah would do. Matthew makes this clear upon us, because he bore our sin, we don't have to. One day, brothers and sisters, because of Jesus doing this, he will come back into this world no longer to bear sin's misery, but to banish it forever. For that is what the Messiah was sent to do. And knowing that Knowing that that is the case, that he was the Messiah, the promised Messiah. If he is Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, the one who has come with healing in his wings, and has reconciled us to God our Father in heaven, should we not flock to him also? Will we run to Him? Will we come to Him knowing that it is not just the healing of our bodies that He came to accomplish, but the healing of our souls? Will we come to him as these others came to him? Will we come to him with hypocritical intent? Will we come to him with reservations. Will we come to him with with one foot still on the other side of the fence to hold on to something of our other life, like even our family, let me go bury the dead or I'll follow you anywhere, but I don't want to sleep on rocks. Will we come wholeheartedly not holding anything back with no reservations Well, we come to him knowing that to follow him is in some sense committing to be a force for healing in this world, unto the end of showing forth the glory of Christ. Even as Jesus was a force for healing in this world, unto the end of showing forth his glory and the glory of God the Father. That's a tough challenge. Challenge and don't take it lightly. But that's the response that Matthew teaches us here that Jesus is expecting. Brothers and sisters, will we come knowing that the power of healing is the grace of God, but that its ministry is costly Will you come? Let's pray