Turn, if you will, to Matthew. We will start up today in chapter 23, 30, verse 37, and we will do an extended reading all the way down to twenty four verse forty-four. So this is a long reading. Uh it is a unified uh discourse, and so therefore we are treating it as a whole. But what I would like you to do today, it's hard sometimes with So I'm going to ask you to try to clear your minds and to just focus and imagine the Lord Jesus Christ himself speaking these words to you. Put yourself in the mind. Here is our Christ talking to us and here is what he's saying. And it's one big thing that has to hold together. So instead of looking at it part by part and getting caught up in one phrase here or there, make sure you stay and listen to the whole thing as it comes through to you. Our Lord Jesus Christ, standing on the steps of the temple Speaking to his people, looking out at the city of Jerusalem around him, and he says, Jerusalem, Jerusalem. Her. How often I wanted to gather your children together as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you were not willing. See, your house is left to you. Desolate. But I say to you, you shall see me no more till you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Lord. Then Jesus went out and departed from the temple, and his disciples came up to show him the buildings of the temple, and Jesus said to them, Do you not see all these things? Assuredly, I say to you, not one stone shall be left here upon another that shall not be cast down. Now, as he said on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign of your coming in the end of the age? And Jesus answered and said, said to them, Take heed that no one deceives you, for many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and will deceive many. And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines and pestilences and earthquakes in various places. All these things are the beginning of sorrows. Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and kill you. And you will be hated by all the nations for my name's sake. And then many will be offended, will betray one another, and will hate one another. another. Then many false prophets will rise up and deceive many. And because lawlessness will abound, the love of money will grow cold, the love of many will grow cold, but he who endures to the end shall be saved And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in all the world as a witness to all the nations, and then the end will come. Therefore, when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel, the prophet, standing in the holy place, whoever reads Let him understand. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let him who is in the housetop not go down to take anything out of his house, but let him who is in the field not go back to get his clothes. But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days. And pray that your flight may not be in winter or on the Sabbath, for then there will be great tribulation, which such as has not been And unless those days were shortened, no flesh would be saved. But for the elect's sake Those days will be shortened. Then if anyone says to you, Look, here is the Christ, or there, do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will rise and show great signs and wonders to deceive, if possible East and flashes to the west, so also will be the the so also will the coming of the Son of Man be. For whoever for wherever the carcass is, there the uh e Eagles were gathered together. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give us light, the stars will fail from fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he will send his angels with great with a The great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of the heaven to the other. Now learn this parable from the fig tree, when its branches already become tender and And put forth leaves, you know that the summer is near. So you also, when you see all these things, know that it is near at the doors. Assuredly I say to you, this generation will by no means pass away till Will all these things take place? Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away. But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, but my Father only But as the days of Noah were, so also will the coming of the Son of Man be. For as in the days before the flood, they were eating and drinking Mary and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark, and did not know until the flood came and took them away, so also will the coming of the Son of Man be That two men will be in the field, one will be taken, and the other left. Two women will be grinding at the mill, one will be taken and the other left. Watch, therefore. For you do not know what hour your Lord is coming. But know this that if the master of the house had known what hour the thief will come, he would have watched out and not allowed his house to be broken Therefore also be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour that you do not expect. Blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Chapter 23 of Matthew is one of the most anti-Jewish sex sections of the Bible. Perhaps channel chapter 24 is in the running for perhaps being the most controversial. If we accept that Jesus is the Son of God, and I hope that everyone in this room does so, if we believe that He is God in the flesh, That he said these words, then when we read these words, it ought to pretty much take our breath away. The hairs on the back of our neck should stand up. These words are scary. That's why the chapter is so controversial. There are some people who deny that Jesus ever said these words. Because they are they are just in their their mind. so precise particularly about the fall of Jerusalem that obviously he couldn't have said those things. Some say it's just a mishmash of apocalyptic sayings that were put together by Jewish people at one time in the church took them over and they just kind of read it back into Jesus' life. There are some people who say that Jesus is only speaking here of the fall of Jerusalem in A. D. 70. Others say no. There's more to what he is saying here than just predicting the fall of Israel. at Jerusalem. I fall into this latter category. I believe Jesus did say these things, and my challenge today is to fix them in our minds so that the over Overall impact of this extended teachings, extended passage will sink deep. If the Lord so wills, that's what I hope to accomplish. Now here are two things that I believe this passage clearly teaches. Two things I believe this passage clearly teaches God is, Jesus says, God is bringing judgment on the people of the Jews for the sin of high treason. High treason against their rightful king, and he is going to do so within the lifespan of some of the people standing there And then secondly, God is going to bring judgment upon the whole world for high treason against their rightful king, and he will do so after the entire world has had an opportunity to hear the gospel so that they will have no excuses. Yeah those are the two main things I believe that Jesus is teaching. And I think these two points are the best summary of these verses. I will not go into all of the particulars of it. I simply don't have time to. And there are those who see this differently and I ex I recognize that they're concerned About this passage are not trivial. But here's an overview of why I see this passage teaching these two things. Let's set the overall context. For Jesus. He's there in the temple and he's been talking to those Pharisees and those scribes. And he's been saying, Woe to you. He's been pronouncing judgment. He's been speaking Very harshly to them. Having silenced all of their questions, he has turned it around and is heaping all kinds of s of scary things on their head And before he leaves the temple, then having just said that, while he's there on the temple steps, he looks out, it's a beautiful city of Jerusalem, and you could just hear the pathos in his voice. As he says, Jerusalem, Jerusalem. The one who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her How often I wanted to gather you, your children together as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings. But you were not willing. Now there's the high treason. You were not willing. Your house is left to you desolate. There's the verdict. For I say to you You shall see me no more till you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Now note that last statement. But because it's important. Jesus is here speaking to Jerusalem, but he is speaking through Jerusalem to the people whom Jerusalem represents. It is Jerusalem's children that he wants to gather. Under his wings. He is speaking to the people of Israel, the ancient Israelite culture, the people of God at Sinai, the people who Moses led into the promised land Those who for hundreds of years have been a special people on earth. Now these people, this is Jerusalem's house. And they are the ones who will be left desolate. Why? Because they did not welcome him as their true king. He's speaking to them because though there were some there on Palm Sunday who sang Hosanna, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. The people as a whole did not say that. They didn't say it from their hearts. And that's why it is so important here to see in that last verse that Jesus says, you're not going to see me again till you do sing that and mean it. Now, brothers and sisters, there's only one way to take this in my mind. Jesus says in these verses that Jerusalem is going to be left desolate. The people of Israel are going to be left a desert. That's what the word means. Devoid of desert And he says something else. He says that after this desolation has occurred, there will come a time when When as a nation, though they refuse to acknowledge him in his first advent, yet they will sing those words at his second coming Whether it is ripped from their lips unwillingly or whether they sing it from the heart is not spoken. But they will. sing it when they see him next. Now if you were a disciple standing there that day and you just heard that, would you not have a few questions? You might have a couple of questions even now. Well the disciples certainly did. And then Jesus gives another opportunity to ask the questions. They've walked out of the temple, they walked a little ways away from it, and you've got to imagine how impressive that temple complex must have been. The disciples are standing And then they're looking up at it and they're saying, Wow, you know, Jesus said some tough stuff there. And they say, Lord, do you see how big and how beautiful these places are? This place is Jesus says, Do you not? Do you see all these things? Yeah, you're looking at them. I say to you, not one stone shall be left here upon another. They'll all be thrown down. Now he is plainly expanding in that statement on his first point that Jerusalem Is going to be left desolate. He's talking about the extent of physical devastation that is going to come upon the city and spiritually upon the entire people. of Israel. Now it is figure it is taken figuratively that not one stone will stand uh after this because of course we know that the wall of Jerusalem Is still there, the wall of the temple. So it's not to be taken as virtually every stone, literally every stone. But the desolation is going to be complete. The point is that Jerusalem and the people of Israel will be reduced to a pile of rubble, and the Jewish nation as the people of God will cease to exist. Now that then sets the tone for the disciples to ask the next question. Okay When verse three. Tell us when will these things be And what will be the sign of your coming, your coming and of the end of the age? Your coming and of the end of the age. So they are asking two questions. First, when is Jerusalem going to be set apart in desolation? When will Israel be cut off from its country? Covenant relationship to God of Abraham and become a spiritual desert even as the city becomes a physical desert. That's the first question. The second question is directed to Jesus' second point that they will in fact sing Hosanna to him when they see him again. And that question is the spiritual Jerusalem will see the Lord return in glory and they will cry out, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And they say, what is going to be the sign that this is going to happen? That this is Now the end of the age. Now everything that Jesus answers for the rest of those extended passages is directed towards those two questions. About two distinct events, the fall of Jerusalem and of the people of God, of Israel as the people of God, and the next coming of Christ. Christ. Now Jesus takes up the second question first. When are you, the Christ, going to come again? Verse 4 through 14. No one deceive you. Many will come and say they are the Christ. They will come speaking to you. They will come to speaking to my church which follows after you. And there's going to be persecutions like you don't believe. There's going to be years of persecution. There are going to be centuries of persecution. There's going to be warfare. But the end is Not yet. You see, because it's not the troubles that are going to bring me back. It is not the persecution of my people that is going to cause me to appear again in glory No. I'll come back when the gospel has been preached to the ends of the earth. Then I will return. For that is what I came to initiate. That is the day of the Lord that I have started. And that's what the Holy Spirit must accomplish. The gospel will be preached to the end of the earth, and then the end will come. Now, brothers and sisters, think of the whole world as being the city of Nineveh. And think of the Church of Jesus Christ as being Jonah. And Jesus says that God has a plan of salvation for the whole world, even for those cities like Nineveh. That are evil to the core. He has a plan of salvation for the whole world, but not for every person in it. Do not for a moment think that you Jesus Christ is teaching and preaching universal salvation. God intends every nation, even Nineveh in its day, even The United States of America in its day, and for however long it goes on after the United States of America may be reduced to a pile of rubble, for the nation That follows after that. Every nation is to yield a harvest and to bear fruit for the kingdom. That has been his plan. And all the wars, the rumors of wars, the pestilences, the sorrows, the false uh prophets, and and all of that stuff That is going on. The false teachers, the heresies that afflict God's church, they will not deter him from his plan. God will have his harvest. Thus our Lord proclaims. God will be glorified in his creation in all of it. He will bring judgment and he will bring Mercy on every nation and every tribe. You can't hide from them, folks. Every people group will have to make a choice Every people group will have to choose to follow Israel and their example into devastation. Or to embrace Christ as He came in His first Advent and declare that He He is Messiah, and that there is no other. That is God's plan for all of history. And history as we know it Will not end until it is accomplished. But never doubt this, brothers and sisters, no matter what you believe about this passage, it is unequivocal In this passage, Jesus says, then the end will come. History as we know it does not go on On forever. Our Lord has spoken, and there will be a point in time when God the Father and Jesus Christ His Son say, This far and no further And then when the witness to the nations has been accomplished, the end will come. That is Jesus his overall answer to the second question. He does come back to it later, as we'll see in a moment. But then he shifts to the first question. When will these stones be torn down? Verses fifteen through twenty-six. Therefore, when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel the prophet standing in the holy place, notice the interpolation. reads this, let it understand. That's not our Lord's word. That's Matthew adding a gloss. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Now this is very important. We need to understand. Where is this coming from? I wish I had time to develop it fully. We could do a week's teaching on this. Here's what's happening: Jesus is making a deliberate reference to the Maccabean Revolt. that happened two hundred years before. He's speaking into the culture of his people. Now if you want to read about that, you can read it in that s uh set of books called the uh uh apocrypha in first Maccabees chapter two. Just remember that every Jew, virtually every Jew to whom Jesus was speaking was very Very familiar with that history. What it went on in the Maccabean Revolt and how it was set up, and what was the cause of it. independence is to us as a nation. So Jesus is referring to two things here that would be immediately important to those people. That's why the gloss is let the reader understand. Matthew is speaking, hey folks, notice what Jesus said. Pay attention to this. The abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel was the cause of the Jewish revolt in that Maccabean time, 200 years before. And secondly, the fleeing to the hills Is what the leader of the revolt that established the Palestinian people, a fellow by the name of Matathias. He was the George Washington of his day. And when that abomination shows up, what he did was flee with his people to the hills. It's kind of like George Washington going to Valley Forge to prepare for battle. He said, come on, we're out of here. This is done And he fled to the hills to do that. So what Jesus is saying here would have had great cultural impact if people would have said, Hey, listen to what he's saying. He's saying, he's saying that Jerusalem, this city, the capital of the Jews Is in the same position now as what Jerusalem was under that dreaded Antiochus, who was king back then. and who who set up the abomination of desolation. He's saying that Jerusalem is filled with idolatry, that Jerusalem is filled with heresy, and that it's filled with perverse practices as it was then and he's saying that there's going to be a culmination of this and that an abomination of desolation another defiling of the temple is going to be happening And when it happens, the true people of God, like they did under Mattathias, they should flee to the hills. Not out of fear, but in order to establish themselves as that army that is Is going to take, if you will, Jerusalem back as a means of preserving the remnant so that the true people of God can continue. There's a time to fight, brothers and sisters, and there's a time to flee. There's a time to preserve the treasure in the impending Holocaust. There's a time in which life And his family have to get out of Dodge. Sodom and Gomorrah as it existed. And Jesus is telling the true church, the true people of the What signs they are to expect when that is to be their response. He says, Watch for the abomination of destruction, of desolation. You know what I'm talking about, Matthew. You know what he's talking about, Matthew says. Let the reader understand. Luke adds to this and he says, when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, in other words, there's not going to be any question in your mind. When this is happening, Jesus is making that clear. Then flee, because the judgment on Jerusalem Is unavoidable. Judgment on the nation of Israel is irreversible. Don't believe those other false False messiahs as they have come throughout the years who proclaim a different message. Do not procla believe those who proclaim peace when there will be no peace. Peace. I will not come again as a man like I came the first time. My next coming is not to be in that way. So therefore don't believe Verse 27. The next time the Son of Man comes, it's going to be with the like the Lightning flashing from east to west. So don't believe all of those mere mortals, mere men who are preaching peace with God when peace Jerusalem will be judged, and the people whom she represents will be judged, and it will be so terrible that only a remnant, Will be saved to preserve even a core of the people that are the promised seed of Abraham in a physical sense. But no longer will they be called the children of God. For they have been weighed in the balance, and they have been found Wanting and Jerusalem is a cause of weeping. Brothers and sisters, let the teaching of this passage As Paul tells us in Romans that when God brings his word to a nation, to the Gentiles, He is bringing it in the same way he first brought it to the Jews. They were the natural branch, the first fruits of the gospel, but the They were cut off for their apostasy. They were cut off because they did not worship the true God. And Paul tells us that when the gospel comes to a nation That it should learn from the destruction of Jerusalem. And therefore, we, to whom the gospel has come, should pause and consider. If he cut off his first people, when they denied the Christ, what will he do to us if we follow his example? Judgment begins with the household of God, and in every age, the people of God must pause and consider. But it's interesting that in this development now he speaks of how, you know, the truth don't be f uh uh don't be fooled by those false Christs. Rather when I come it's going to be like the lightning flashing from the east of the west. And so He takes up that subject again. He says he speaks now again of his coming back on that day when he returns. And he says, the sign of the Son of Man will appear. And then he makes a crucial statement, one that I believe seals the interpretation I'm giving you as being the true one. He says, all the tribes of the earth will mourn when they see it. And when he says, all the tribes of the earth will mourn, which ones did he leave out? Anybody still listening out there if I put you all to sleep? Okay. There aren't any, right? That means that no nation is going to be devoid of seeing this It's not going to be a secret. It's not going to be a sign that only appears to one particular nation, like the Jews. In my mind, Jesus here clearly separates the event from the the fall of Israel. One, it's a different sign. It's a sign in the heavens instead of a sign in the temple Two, it's not a sign given so that people may flee. Jesus doesn't talk about how you should respond when that sign appears, because when that sign appears, it's too late. You're done. You're sealed. There is no question of what you should do when that sign appears. Third, all the nations, not just Jerusalem, Will mourn. And fourth, it's a day of gathering as well as judging. For on that day God will gather his elect. The ends of the earth. Now here we see the great culminating plan for all of history. As Christ has sent his gospel out into the world to bring fruit from every tribe and nation, so Jesus is here saying that each nation and tribe will be held responsible for having received it. All the tribes of the earth will mourn. Why would they mourn when Jesus appears? Because it's bad news. It's bad news. Here's the teaching. The gospel is good news for all But brothers and sisters, the gospel is the smell of death for those who are perishing. For God will judge them. God is glorified in saving sinners and damning sinners. Sinners. God is glorified in showing mercy and in showing judgment. Both. And he will not be denied is glory in both. To hear the gospel, brothers and sisters, to all of you who are here today, to hear the gospel is to be accountable for what you have heard. It is to be accountable for how you respond to it. And Jesus plainly teaches here that every nation will move Mourn, not just the Jews. And that every nation therefore should look to what happened at Jerusalem and learn from it that this is their future. Because what What he did then he will do again. And therefore, all people are to repent and to embrace the Christ. We are to kiss the son lest he be angry, so that we may find mercy in the day of wrath. That, brothers and sisters, is the gospel of Jesus Christ. There will be no sign given for this last judgment. There will be no fleeing to the the hills. No last moment of grace, so we say, oh yes, I was wrong. Thank you, Lord Jesus, for giving me a few more minutes to repent. That day will be the end of history. And therefore Jesus in these verse. Verse thirty-six says, You ask what sign will be given? There won't be any. It will just happen. Two women will be grinding at a mill. One will be taken up in the sky to greet Jesus, as Paul tells us in 1 Thessalonians 4. The other one. She's going to be one of the ones that mourns. All over the world. Something similar will happen. There will be no sign given. There will be no earthly prophet that will give you a way to figure out through mathematical calculation down to the middle What day it's gonna be. Defeats the whole purpose. For the Son of Man is coming at an hour we will not expect. How much more explicit Can we be? Can he be? Verse 44. Now, brothers and sisters, to my mind, this is the overall application we should take from this passage. Are you making yourself ready? Are you eating your meals with your staff in your hand, your garment Garments tucked in your waist, ready to go, as the Israelites were at the first Passover meal. We have a congregational meeting coming up We're going to be making plans for this coming year. We're going to be making plans for years after that Brothers and sisters, are we planning on the Lord coming back before we get to do anything we uh like we're talking about doing? Are we making plans to be ready? If his plan is different than ours, are we taking into account that we are not guaranteed one more Or year or years. This is nothing more More than asking, how seriously are we taking what Jesus teaches us in this passage? These are the words that the Lord Jesus Christ spoke. And are we putting them into a cubbyhole and acting as if he really didn't mean it? And that they don't apply to us, even if they are true. I ask you, where are we? I ask you, where are you in your preparation for the day that the Lord returns? If we simply ponder that, I think we will know how the Lord wants us to apply this passage. Let's pray.