Beginning in verse one. Then Jerubal, that is Gideon, and all the people who were with him rose early and encamped beside the well of Herod. So that the camp of the Midianites was on the north side of them by the hill of Morah, in the valley. And the Lord said to Gideon, The people who are with you are too many. For me to give the Midianites into their hands, lest Israel claim glory for itself against me, saying, My own hand has saved me. Now, therefore, proclaim in the hearing of the people, saying, Whoever is fearful and afraid, let him turn and depart at once from Mount Gilead. And twenty two thousand of the people returned, and ten thousand remained. But the Lord said to Gideon, The people are still too many. Bring them down to the water, and I will test or refine them for you there. Then I will be, that I then it will be that of whom I say to you, this one shall go with you, the same shall go with you. And of whom of whomever I say to you, this one shall not go with you, the same shall not go. So he brought the people down to the water, and the Lord said to Gideon Everyone who laps from the water with his tongue, as a dog laps, you shall set apart by himself. Likewise everyone who gets down on his knees to drink And the number of those who laughed, putting their hand to their mouth, was three hundred men. But all the rest of the people got down on their knees to drink water Then the Lord said to Gideon, By the three hundred men who left, I will save you, and deliver the Midianites into your hand. Let all the other people go, every man to his place So the people took provisions and their trumpets in their hands, and he sent away all the rest of Israel, every man to his tent, and retained those three hundred men. Now the camp of Vidian was below him in the valley. It happened on the same night that the Lord said to him, Arise, go down against the camp, for I have delivered it into your hand. But if you are afraid to go down, go down to the camp with Turah, your servant. And you shall hear what they say, and afterward your hands shall be strengthened to go down against the camp. Then he went down in Purah, his servant, to the outpost of the armed men who were in the camp Now the Midianites and Amelekites, all the people of the east, were lying in the valley as numerous as locusts, and their camels were without number as the sand by the seashore in multitude And when Gideon had come, there was a man telling a dream to his companion. He said, I've had a dream. To my surprise, a loaf of barley bread tumbled into the camp of Midian. It came to a tent and struck it, so that it fell and overturned, and the tent collapsed. Then his companion answered and said, This is nothing else but the sword of Gideon, the son of Joash, a man of Israel. Into his hand God has delivered Midian in the whole camp. And so it was when Gideon heard the telling of the dream and its interpretation that he worshipped. He returned to the camp of Israel and said, Arise, for the Lord has delivered the camp of Midian into your hand. Then he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he put a trumpet in each man's hand with empty pitchers and torches inside the pitchers. And he said to them, Look at me and do likewise. Watch, and when I come to the edge of the camp you shall do as I do. When I blow the trumpets, I and all who are with me, then you also will blow the trumpets on every side of the whole camp. And say, the sword of the Lord and of Gideon. So Gideon and the hundred men who were with him came up to the outpost of the camp at the beginning of the middle watch. just as they had posted the watch. And they blew the trumpets and broke the pitchers that were in their hands. Then the three companies blew the trumpets and broke the pitchers. They held the torches in their left hands and the trumpets in their right hands for blowing, and they cried, The sword of the Lord and of Gideon. And every man stood in his place all around the camp, and the whole army ran and cried out and fled When the three hundred blew the trumpets, the Lord set every man's sword against his companions throughout the whole camp. And the army fled to Beth. Akesha, toward Zerara, and as far as the border of Abel Mehaloha by Tabath. Amen. Let us pray Father, we thank you for this Gine cycle, and we pray that our church today would learn from your hand on the church in the past. Our utmost prayer, Lord, is that we would not steal any glory from you. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Last week where we We're still in the midst of learning from the cycle of Gideon as we are this morning. But there are different lessons depending on the episodes, and there's far more lessons that I have brought out in the sermon series But one thing we acknowledged last week was that another symptom of the canonization of the church is unbelief, or lack of trust or faith in God. The cry of the church is this: I believe, Lord, but help my unbelief. That's the cry of the church in every age. I believe, Lord, but let please help me in my unbelief. Well, we've hit a new episode now. This is a pretty famous passage, right? We've heard of this. We've heard a famous passage last week with the fleece, and we have a famous battle here this morning. So let's make just a few observations about it. We'll notice a few things And then we'll we'll try to apply those same things. Well, here's the first thing that I want you to notice. Please notice first That as you've guessed with how this entire order of worship is put together, verse number two of our passage really holds the lens and the key, doesn't it? It is the key to our understanding why everything else is done within this Gideon cycle He says this, and the Lord said to Gideon, The people who are with you are too many for me to give the Mideonites into their hands. We didn't expect him to say that. But then we get his reasoning when he says, Lest Israel claim glory for itself against me, saying, My own hand has saved me. This explains the refining of the army down to 300, and it explains the method of warfare that we see with the breaking of the pot and the torch and the blowing of the temp uh of the trumpets. That's the first thing I want you to notice is that everything's really going to fall under this heading of what God is doing. He's keeping them from the temptation of claiming glory for themselves. The second thing I want you to notice is that the word that I use is not test like we see in the NKJV, but it's refine. And that's the image that because that's the image that we have here, is there is a refining down to those articles that will be used wholly unto the Lord for the accomplishment of this victory. And what you see then is a refining process. Just as you would refine the dross off of gold, so too do we see the refining down of the army to a place where they could certainly not claim glory for themselves. The Lord tears them down, if you want to change the metaphor to You know, working with fruit where you pare something down with your knife, a pairing knife. The Lord pares down first by dismissing those who are fearful in verse 3. They're just going to head back to the camp where all the tents are. That accounted for about two-thirds of the army, and you know Gideon by now. You know that his jaw is dropping and he's shaking in his boots as this happens Well, imagine what he was like on the second paring down. He dismisses all of those who drink water in a certain way in verses 4 and 5. And now Gideon is definitely terrified He's thinking, why did I ever start associating with this God? And this leaves verse 6, 300 men for the map the battle against the Midianites. And then you can see the contrast that's uh that's uh they take special care to mention to make sure Gideon is really scared in verse twelve. They are like locusts and they are as numerous as the sand on the seashore. Now that's quite the contrast between them and the 300 men. And this is just a further evidence of God arranging it this way. He arranges it so that Israel would not claim glory for itself against him, and also at the same time for Gideon to actually have to move out and trust. Well, the third thing I want you to notice is verse 9. Verse 9: the Lord does not even wait for Gideon to say a word. He already knows his heart, and he's going to seek to strengthen Gideon by sending him on a special task. So Gideon and his servant head down to the Midianite camp, and there they hear two Midianite soldiers recounting a portentous dream and its interpretation. And it's at this moment that we see the riddle solved. That's the way that this passage, by the way. puts it, it's at the same time that they understood the dream, the same time that the riddle of the dream was broken, so too was the cowardice broken in Gideon. Gideon must have seen the sovereign hand of the Lord even amongst his enemies in controlling their dreams. There must have been a series of other things, but it's at this moment That all comes together for Gideon. Think about all of the moments that Gideon has had that should have accumulated to this point. What about the visitation from the angel of the Lord in the very beginning? What about the change in heart of those who wanted to execute him who then rallied behind him as their leader? What about the soaking and the drying of the fleece? All of those should have inspired faith and manifested in courage, but that does not happen till now, and we see a very sweet moment when Gideon finally believes that the Lord is with him. And that is evidenced in verse number 15. And I heard some of you respond when I said, Gideon worships. Now, that is the only time that that word is used in the book of Judges, except when it's used for the worship of false gods. So it's significant that that happens right here. Which brings us to our fourth observation. We return to the concern about glory Gideon leads his army with an absurd military strategy. They take, I mean are you catching this? They've got a they've got three articles, a trumpet, a pot, and a torch. So they're going to take the torch and stick it in the pot, and then they're going to have the a series of things that they do just at the right moment with only three companies of men divided into 100. That's 300 men. And then they're going to scream the sword of the Lord and of Gideon. At this, what we see, though, is that the military strategy doesn't really matter. Because it's not the sword of Gideon that's going to do anything. It's the sword of the Lord. And he turns all the swords of all of those locusts like people against themselves. And then the remainder flee. The Lord acts, saying, When the three hundred men blew the trumpets The Lord set every man's sword against his companion throughout the whole camp, and the army fled. Verse 22 So whether it's the deliverer himself, being Gideon, or it's the 300 men, or it's the war strategies that God calls him to use. One thing at this point within the Gideon cycle should be crystal clear for you. He who glories should glory in the Lord. And that is the same with Israel. Now, because they said the sword of the Lord and the sword of Gideon, it's also the story of the church, so they're going to take that second part of the phrase. And they're going to think more about the sword of Gideon. Gideon's going to lead the whole nation into idolatry in the next chapter, just to prepare your blessed hearts. But here, just with the verses that have been given to us and how we can see this narrative arranged, he who glories should glory in the Lord. God conducts himself among the church in a certain way. Because the church and humans generally are tempted to glory in themselves. And so we can pull that together with an, I think, an even crisper or more crisp doctrine this morning. Another symptom of the canonization of the church. is to give the glory that really belongs to God, to give it to ourselves or others Another symptom of the canonization of the church is to give the glory that really belongs to God to ourselves or others. Now I want to seek to bring this home together to really unfold this idea through three main application points, and it's this. Those of you who are taking sermon notes It's the good of the church, the nature of the church, and a warning for the church. The good of the church, the nature of the church, and a warning for the church. So though those of you who get candy for keeping a sermon outline, I'm making it easy for you today. You can share your candy with me after the service. All right, let's start with the good of the church, because this is another way to talk about what's going on here within this passage. God is continually seeking to teach the church and mankind in general that he alone is their supreme good. You just sang it. It is from whom? It is from him that all blessings flow. As we were just, if you were in the Sunday school class this morning, you heard another way of phrasing the same thing: my heart is restless until it finds its rest in you. We sang, Praise God, from whom all blessings flow. Praise Him all here below. Praise Him above, ye heavenly hosts. Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. Think of the lessons which the Lord had taught the generations prior to Gideon, where he's seeking to get across the same sentiment. It says this in Deuteronomy 8, verse 3. So he humbled you, he allowed you to hunger, and he fed you with manna, which you did not know, nor did your fathers know. Why? Why did he feed him the way that he did? And it says this, there's a purpose clause, that he might make you know that man shall not live by bread alone But man lives by every word that proceeds from the mouth of the Lord. Everything comes from him that is good. He is good and he does good. You can't just look at the bread that is on your plate and give thanks to it. You must acknowledge that it is from your Maker. The whole church was fed in such a way whereby they could see that all blessings flow from God. And if you were to just search through the scriptures with this theme You would see it is the drumbeat lesson throughout the whole history of the church where we must acknowledge and learn the same thing over and over and over again. If you're going to glory, glory in the Lord. We have pretty hard heads. And so he has to keep tapping us on the shoulder. You know, when we think about this, there are some things that can get in the way of us really grasping this truth and acknowledging it. For example, it could be confusing Because we still see out in the human world that we are doing a lot of work. We put a lot of effort into things. But even our work, even the things that we have trained for a really long time to be able to do, think about 1 Corinthians 3:5-7 and how the Apostle Paul organizes his thinking. He says, I planted. Think of how difficult the plantings were for Paul. Apollos watered. Imagine how difficult it was to water. But he still says God gave the increase. So then neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the increase. That's how Paul thinks about the same situation. But we don't, on the other hand, want to commit the error Of not giving any esteem to those who are working hard to serve the community and to glorify God. We read in Proverbs 4, chapter 3, verse 4, for example. And so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man. An actual community standing of dignity and reputation and glory is appropriate when thought of correctly. Yet even when you are esteemed that way and are honored in the community, you are gloried in the community. Even then, if you have true glory, you will acknowledge. That everything is from the Lord. That's exactly what Paul is doing there. He was esteemed in his community And yet he acknowledges that everything is from the Lord. Truly, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit is the supreme good of creation. It is from him that all blessings flow. We acknowledge that, do we not? We do. Now I want to move into the second point because when we start to see that things are structured this way, and this is how we should be talking as the church, God being our supreme good. We can have more insight into the nature of who we are as the church. And that's our second point, the nature of the church. We are given the real essence and the nature of what it means to be the church. And boy, do we need that these days. We can get really confused on what is important and what should be a priority for us. Should it be a priority that we have the best-looking coffee mugs in Andoronto County to hand out to new visitors? Those are the things that can happen to a church. They can think that that's their purpose. Now, there's nothing wrong with coffee mugs, but this can help us to prioritize. Let me ask you a question. What is it that makes the church united? Are we a church community? What makes you a church community? Is it not at the essence of us to be a body with one head who is Jesus Christ? What is it that makes us united as a body? I wonder what you would say. Let me let me ask you this. Would you say our love for one another? Would that be your answer? Now that's not entirely incorrect, for the bond of perfection is love. But love for each other is a secondary quality of the church. We are united first and foremost by our common acknowledgement that the triune God alone is good and does good. And it is within that umbrella or under that umbrella in which we love each other. We love God first. We acknowledge Him to be the source of all goodness first. And it is from him that we love each other. So then you can even take a step further in discovering the nature, the real essence of the church. Surely you have heard that the church is to be a witness to the nations. Is that correct? A witness to what? It's good for us to get our heads around that also. These are the kind of lessons that God hands down to us in His scriptures. And we see a very unfamiliar phrase within the scriptures, Haggai chapter 2, verse 6 through 8, to help us. See how all of this is connected. He says this once more, it is a little while, I will shake heaven and earth, the sea and dry land, and I will shake all nations. And here's the key phrase. All nations shall come to the to the desire of all nations. Think about that phrase: the desire of all nations relative to what we're saying. The essence of the church is that we all acknowledge that God is our supreme good. That all blessings flow from Him. And now we see that we are to be a witness to the desire of nations. The church, in other words, witnesses to the fact That Jesus Christ, first and foremost, is the desire of all nations. And this allows us to acknowledge that the nations themselves are thirsty under sin and misery, and it is our job To point them to Christ from whom all blessings flow. That is our basic posture. As the world screams at the top of their lungs, what must I do to stop the misery? What must I do to stop my own sin? We point and we say, there's only one who has good. There's only one from whom all blessings flow, and that is meant to be evidenced among us. That's what it means to be the church It means to be, whether really or just in our actions symbolically, with our faces and our arms, always turned toward heaven, acknowledging where all goodness flows from. Where our thirst is quenched. And that can be surprising. Let me ask you one last question in this point Who in this world right now is struggling and thinking that Jesus Christ has any good to offer? Wouldn't you say that it is a mark of the human race that they run to that which they think is good? If you think that you can get a piece of it, wouldn't you stand in line? And what does it say to us as a church? And even globally, what does it say to us as a Christian people that there's no one in line to meet Jesus Christ? It can't be because Jesus Christ is not good, because he is the good. It could be the corruption of man's heart and that they're blinded by the God of this age. And it can also be that the church is not doing a great job of witnessing just how good Jesus Christ is. That's the nature of the church. It's to show how good Jesus Christ is. In our thoughts, in our words, in our deeds. And that brings us to the warning for the church. That was the nature of the church, and now we have a warning for the church. You can see with the way that this is framed That the church in every age must be very careful to not take away from the Lord's goodness Because the church is prone to wander, the church itself, which is meant to be a beacon to him from whom all blessings flow, even our salvation. The church, even herself, is prone to wander and to act as if other objects Or other things are the true source of life and blessing. Are you beginning to get the sense of how serious it is if we enter into idolatry? What will the world see? Where would they turn for salvation if we ourselves have wandered away from God as the source of all goodness, the source of all salvation? Now to drive this home a little bit, and since we're on the heels here of the 4th of July, I want you to just think a little bit about our founding documents and then 9-11. Our founding documents, I don't do this often, but I had the opportunity to look up the Declaration of Independence. I haven't memorized it. I think some of you may have. I don't know. But the literature is filled with references to God as the supreme good. There's an acknowledgement that any good that comes to any nation is going to be from Him, and it is memorialized within the documents themselves. Speaking about his providence, speaking about his sovereignty. If you read the Declaration of Independence, you would notice how they could only conceive of starting a new nation In light of or with reference to God and whether he would permit it. They saw him as the supreme good and the sovereign ruler of all nations. That's a snapshot Of the people of this nation and how they were united in who they believed to be the supreme good. That was a snapshot in time of our nation. Now I'm not saying that well, I'll just stop there. Now what I want you to do is that snapshot in time, I want you to compare that to the attacks that happened on 9-11. Do you remember what the terrorists attacked that day? They attacked the World Trade Center or the Twin Towers. They attacked the Pentagon, and it is largely believed, but for hypothesized, that the other flight was heading to the Capitol building Let me ask you, why did they choose these locations? Was it because if they hit those locations it would devastate us? No one believes that. It is because these locations were symbolic for what that group of people perceived to truly unite us as our common goods. They wanted that's and that is that ends up being why there was a terrorist attack, because the Twin Towers were the centerpieces of the World Trade Center and it symbolized globalization and America's economic power and primary. Prosperity. And they viewed that we as a people have rallied around that as our common good. They attacked the Pentagon as the headquarters for the U. S. Department of Defense. Because it serves as a symbol of American military power. And it is thought that Flight 93 was headed to the Capitol building because it was Again, another symbolic act striking at American legislative government. And here's an interesting question when you get to see that their attacks Though tragic, was primarily meant for symbolic purposes. Why did they not attack some well-known church or national cathedral? Is it possible that they recognize that is no longer the nation's common good? For example, if you were to look in the scriptures at invading armies like Babylon going into Jerusalem or whatever, you know one of the first things that they sought to attack, even symbolically? The temple. Because that was the center of their life. That was their devotion. Their heart was restless until it found their rest and going into the sanctuary with their God. That was a symbolic act for them. And perhaps this tells us if there's any truth, if there were any rational thoughts or true perception or insight that another group of people from another nation saw about our nation, if they had any light in their thinking, then what this perhaps tells us is that from that snapshot in the Declaration of Independence until now, the United States Has Canaanized. And if we have, and if those symbolic locations are meaningful, then we ascribe to our wealth We ascribe to our military and we ascribe to our human laws what alone belongs to God. And insofar as the church has tagged along, then we have moved into idolatry. Now, I haven't said that you have done any of these things. I'm just framing a picture for you so that you can begin to think through the lessons. That Christ, the eternal Christ, has given his church throughout all of the ages. This is a warning. We have to be very careful that we do not substitute something that does not deserve God's glory and give it Glory than only God deserves. Our interests this morning are not with the United States. Our interest is with the church. But I do want you to ask yourself in light of that's just an illustration. Ask yourself. Do others see across the world and even in our area that God is our good? Is that what they see? When they look at our children, do they see children that are learning and growing in the knowledge that God is their Savior in everything? Are we a witness that Christ alone fulfills the desire of the nations? Or Have we been Americanized? That's the devastating question of discernment. Well, it's not devastating, it's just, I need you to take this seriously Have we been Americanized? And I've just given you some examples. If we are Americanized, then we are making economic wealth Military power and human laws, the common objects of our love. And that is why we are united as a community to help us all gain personal peace and affluence. And it doesn't really have that much to do with God anymore I don't believe that about our community. I would have believed it more about myself and about all of us before COVID and social unrest. But the Lord has been shaking heaven and earth and removing us from idolatry. But we still must consider these questions. Wealth? Military laws, they are to be appreciated. They have a place. But you know what place they have? They have a place in looking at those things as blessings from God. And it's the same thing with our technology, it is the same thing with our healthcare system, etc. God alone remains the common object of our love. For those things are blessings from Him to the praise of His glory. Be careful. A symptom of the canonization of the church is to give glory to the creature rather than the creator who was forever blessed Or as Christ warns, we must not lose sight of our first love. And Jeremiah says this in chapter 9, verse 23 through 24. Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, let not the mighty man glory in his might, let not the rich man glory in his riches, but let him who glories glory in this. That he understands and knows me. Amen. Let us pray