Please open your scriptures with me to the letter to the Philippians. We're still in chapter one, and our reading this morning is from verses 19 through 26. I believe you can find reading in the bulletin. Through twenty-six of chapter one of Philippians. For I know that this will turn out for my deliverance through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. According to my earnest expectation and hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed. But with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life or by death For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain. But if I live on in the flesh, this will mean fruit from my labor. Yet what I shall choose, I cannot tell, for I am hard-pressed between the two, having a desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better Nevertheless, to remain in the flesh is more needful for you. And being confident of this, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy of faith. That your rejoicing for me may be more abundant in Jesus Christ by my coming to you again. Amen. Let us pray Oh Christ, you have taken a man like Saul and made him Paul. We know that you are able to do all your sovereign will. And we pray that your will would be done here on earth as it is in heaven. I pray that this would be done in this congregation, that you would not leave them unchanged today. That you would move them closer to glory. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I wonder if this letter has turned out to be a bit surprising to some of you. Imagine that you've read Philippians or at least heard the word or uh have heard different parts of it and I wonder if there's some things that were unexpected. It's not a philosophical dissertation that is abstract, though the main questions of life are present within the letter. This is a letter that is perhaps the most surprising part. It is a Paul's personal sharing if you're ever going to get Paul to personally share. His heart is really on the table. He has shared with you his private prayers, and he has shared with you his private thoughts. At least the Spirit has, and he shared them with the Philippians. He really has put his heart out there. And the Spirit has preserved this for us that you'd hear Paul's heart. And that's good to hear. Now you hear the word heart a lot within Christianity. If you were to walk into a Christian bookstore if there is such a thing anymore, I wonder how many times you could find the word heart in that place. You'd probably find it on the mints that they call testament Or you might find it as uh the title of a Thomas Kincaid painting, or you'd find a carved wooden heart that you're supposed to paint on your mantle next to your precious moment figurines. Whatever it is, but the nice thing is, contrary to all of those examples, when Paul shares his heart here in this letter, it is not Sopy or just sentimentalism Instead, here, Paul, in his limited capacity, is strengthening the Philippians by filling them with joy by sharing his heart, which is still full of joy. And that's amazing when you think of his circumstances. His circumstances, as you remember, that he is at least in house arrest at this point. And he has, we've been learning from him and his example in exactly how we are to benefit from this life of the apostle. So far it's been with two C's. Can you think of the two C's that we've learned from the Apostle Paul? It would be the circumstances and criticism. And that's all related to this being the epistle of joy. His heart being full of joy, we ask the question, how could he, in these circumstances, and under this kind of criticism, be filled with joy? And we're learning a lot from him, as the Spirit intends. You all know that in the seas of life you can be tossed and you can be turned, but as a maturing Christian, more and more we're even keeled. For no matter the circumstances we recognize and it is it is it is baked into us, it becomes a part of our very soul When joy arrives, it's because what has become a part of our very soul is despite the circumstances, we know that our God is the great chemist. We know that our God is the great alchemist, that he can take something that is base like lead or a difficult situation and he can turn it into gold. That all of us, in some sense, have taken up the narrative of Joseph. That though many things and many people around us intend things for evil, God intends them for good And there's a certain joy that is a part of our lives because of that. Now, as far as criticism, the second seed, the arrows of others' words strike. And they sing. Oh, but they don't devastate. Not anymore. Because the point of our lives is no longer the advancement of ourselves, but the advancement of Christ. And oftentimes, though those arrows hit us and our reputation, they touch not Christ and his, was Paul's point. Those words therefore lose power. We can stand for longer Though they sting, whether it's in circumstances or in criticism, Jesus Christ, as his handiwork, is making us people where our joy is not stolen very easily. We, as it said at the end of our passage from last week, it says, Christ is preached, and in this I rejoice, yes, and I will rejoice. You hear the determination and his voice? Determination. I will rejoice, and for good reason. And we talked about those things. Now this week we have a different lesson for us to be able to take home, for you to seek to start to weld to your very heart, and it is this. It's another lesson on joy. This is part three of the joy series. The source of your joy is the hope of your future. Christian, the source of your joy is the hope of your future. Now, how many times have you heard the word hope today in the service? You were picking up on it. Some of you thought in your head, well, the word hope's being used a lot today. That must be the theme. Well, that's true, because that's our lesson. That Christian, the source of your joy, is the hope of your future. Now, I want us to learn from Paul first, and then we'll move in to taking this and seeing how it can help us to live in hope today. So learning from Paul and living in hope today is really how we're going to divide our time up together this morning. So let's take a look at this passage together. Have your scriptures out in one way or another. And let's take a look at each of these verses, even the verses from last week, just a tiny bit, and let's learn from Paul that we might grow in our joy by growing in our hope. Now, our passage begins in verse 19, and I read that all the way down to 26, but you can see that in the very first word, at least in the NKJV, in verse 19 is the word for. Now that tells you that there's some connection that goes back to the previous paragraph. And so we've got to talk about that just for a second. When we looked at verse 18, Paul lets out a rousing demonstration of And determination that he will rejoice and that he will have joy. And now in verse 19, we find a further basis for the position that he is given. That whether in criticism or in circumstances he finds joy, well now we find a further basis for doing so. Though Paul is under house arrest and has a possible execution hanging over his head Verse number 19, this starts to get us into the basis. Verse number 19, he shall be delivered. Do you see that? For I know that this will turn out for my if you were to look, you'd be surprised perhaps if you looked in the Greek, and it's for my salvation. He will be saved or he will be delivered. And you can see that he is delivered here in this way in two main ways. through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Christ Jesus. In other words, if he continues on in his ministry Then his deliverance will be empowered through the prayers and the supply of the Spirit of Christ. And you can already hear the foreshadowing of the Apostle Paul running through a couple different options as to what his future holds. Well, if I were to continue in the ministry, I know that there will be a deliverance and salvation. I'll be empowered through your prayers and the supply of the Spirit of Christ. And that keeps me rejoicing. And then the second is that even if he is headed off to death, verse number twenty, he does not lose hope, because whether he is in life or he is in death Christ in fact will be magnified, no matter what. There's a situation here where you cannot lose, no matter which part of the decision tree you go down. Paul is rejoicing and he will rejoice, going back to that verse 18. Why? Because he has hope. Whether it is in life or whether it is in death. You really could say it this way, all his problems are solved. And that's quite the statement. So you can see why he would say what he says in verse 18, and then he provides a further basis for you here in seeing that whether in life or in death, there's nothing that can keep me. From that which has been promised to me from Christ. He has hope on the ground Now or with Christ later. Now, here's the main question that you have to ask as we keep on the same point of learning from Paul. The question for you is when you I read all of the scripture already, I read the whole paragraph to you, you know what's getting ready to come where he's going to talk about this life and death thing. Right? The question that you need to consider now is do you see the dynamic wherein the hope of Paul is that thing which maintains the joy in Paul? It's one thing to talk about hope and it's another thing to talk about joy, but the the advanced level for you as Christians is for you to be able to connect and to see how one leads to the next. And I'm calling that a dynamic. There's some kind of relationship between them to where the hope that Paul has is the source of the joy that Paul has, which explains why I told you our lesson is what it is today. Well, he unfolds this as so we keep going on seeking to answer that question. He unfolds this interplay in a kind of soliloquy Or almost playful back and forth in conversation with himself. Remember, he's writing a letter. They're not there. He's perhaps speaking to an emanuensis or that person which writes down that which he dictates. He enters into this kind of soliloquy with himself, this playful back and forth of possibilities. And he says in a kind of um decision tree or flow chart, if you work for north of Grumman, you tend to like those things. On the one hand, I could be killed. On the one hand, I could depart through the door of death, and I could be with Christ. And you know what? In my paraphrase today in my translation, that would be the best. That would be great. On the one hand. And you could see that in verse 23, where he's going through that option. On the one hand, he could depart through the door of death, and he could be with Christ. He uses that word depart there, just a signal. What I'm talking about. Or in verse number 22, he could stay. And now what would his reasons be for staying? I want to really enjoy the Mediterranean coast. There's this olive crop that I really wanted to try and this this cheese. That's not what he's focused on He wants to stay because he could, he sees that he could continue to be fruitful in his ministry, particularly for the Philippians, and he could keep strengthening them and increasing their joy. in the kingdom of Jesus Christ. And that choice, whether it's on the one hand or it's the other hand, that was not an easy choice for him as he traced down his mind map or his decision tree or his flowchart. As he worked through his soliloquy, he says here in this passage that he is hard-pressed between the two. He's hard-pressed between the two. And yet, as you can see, his choice would be to stay, and he would keep working. Can you imagine making that choice? That he would stay and he would keep working. And in a sense, he is saying, I think, in the name of Jesus Christ, I would like to accomplish a few more things. That's kind of the sentiment. If you were having coffee with him, I think I'd like to accomplish a few more things. And you see this in verses 25 and 26, he says, and being confident of this, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all for your progress and your joy of faith. And joy of faith, that your rejoicing for me may be more abundant in Jesus Christ by my coming to you again. What a sweet fellowship they have. And what you see then is that Paul would have greater joy by far being with Christ, but instead he keeps his time with Christ as a great hope. giving him joy now and bringing joy to the Philippians. Let me restate that because I took a little step there forward in the reasoning, and I want you to catch that. What you see then is that Paul would have greater joy by far being with Christ. But instead, he keeps his time with Christ as a great hope. Giving him joy now and bringing joy to the Philippians. You begin to see the dynamic? Is that he keeps that hope that is going to allow him to continue to serve in joy as he brings joy. Paul's hope in his future gave him joy to keep bringing others joy today. Now, there is an old saying that starts to work against what I'm saying here, so I'm just going to say it and make sure that you don't fall off this side of the cliff. You can be so heavenly minded that you are no earthly good. Anyone ever heard that? If you've been accused of it, I'm sorry. But if you can tell here in this passage, Paul would not put it that way. He would say something like: When you are truly heavenly minded, you are the most motivated to do good on earth. When you are truly heavenly minded, you're the most motivated to serve in joy and to bring joy. That's really what it looks like. For you to contemplate the hope that lies before you. Now, I'm sure that some of you do not see exactly what Paul is saying, that maybe you get a hint of, wait a second, I think that That the pastor is on to something this morning, but it seems a little opaque. It seems like I'm he's sh he he has a window, but it's frosted And or is like the blind man in the scriptures where he sees people but they look like trees because he really needs a pair of readers. at that point. And so I want to keep going on this a little a little bit longer and make sure that you understand this dynamic as to why is it and what's going on with Paul where his hope is making him a person who is filled with joy in his service for the Lord. And this is the way that I want to do this. And we've had different pieces in the bulletin because of this. If you look around at the letters which Paul wrote, you will find that Jesus Christ was extremely generous to him. And gave Paul visions and revelations that Jesus Christ has not given to you. I find it very interesting, you know. I'm always asking the question why. That's my problem. When you read the scripture that was in there with the Damascus road, it is very interesting, for example, that the person who is with Paul Paul says, saw the light, but could not hear the voice of Jesus Christ. Did anybody else catch that? That's very interesting. And that's going to be a continuation of the kind of features Of the Apostle Paul's ministry is that we will gain from the Apostle Paul's ministry, but you will always know that the Apostle Paul went further in than you did. That Jesus Christ revealed more to him than Jesus Christ has revealed to you. Now you can see that very clearly in 2 Corinthians chapter 12. I'd encourage you to go ahead and take a look. He talks about it in 13 also in different ways. But in second, in 1 Corinthians 13, excuse me, 1 Corinthians, uh 2 Corinthians 12 Paul goes on, and he talks about being brought, he speaks about himself in the third person, being brought into the third heaven, even paradise, and Christ reveals things to him Things that should not be uttered, he says. Now we forget this about Paul. We remember this about Isaiah. Where his lips are touched, and the visions that he sees. We remember this about Daniel We remember this about the minor prophets and all that they saw that was revealed about the warfare that would go on over God's people. We even remember this especially about the prophet John in his gospel in 1, 2nd, and 3 John, and then especially in the book of Revelation. We remember that these people went further in than you and I have been allowed. But we sometimes forget that Paul was allowed further in. That he had prophetic visions. And this is key to your understanding of what is going on here with Paul and hope and joy, whatever Paul saw. Whatever Paul saw, he sealed to his own soul the great life that awaits him after he dies. Revelation 5. 12, for example, could be maybe he saw something like this. Now I read this verse at Ron Crabb's funeral. It says this, there's finally one who's found who's worthy to open the scroll. It's Jesus Christ, so, and to open its seals, which is is another way of looking at who will be capable of making sure that God's will is done on earth as it is in heaven. There's no one found. John weeps, but then one steps forward. It is a lamb who has been killed And it is Jesus Christ, Jesus of Nazareth. And in Revelation 5. 12, they say, they begin a song, you are worthy to take the scroll and open its seals. For you were slain and have redeemed us to God by your blood out of every tribe out of every tongue and people and nation. And then in verse 10, this is key, and you have made us kings and priests to our God, and we shall reign on the earth. Now, I'm entering into a moment of speculation and an imagination here, but specifically, but not generally Paul perhaps Paul saw what the rain would look like and that it would go on forever Certainly he saw that the Messiah would reign. Certainly he saw and heard in the third heaven that Christ would conquer all nations. Certainly, Paul had enough scriptures to undergird and underwrite that that he'd have some sense of what this is going to look like from the pictures that have been given in the past. Of wine and milk and honey flowing. And it wasn't a lesson that was outside of him, it was a lesson that's being spoken to him, saying, This is what is intended for all those who come under the new Adam. And Paul was able to see that in a way that you're not able to see it. In essence, then, Paul had so much in the age to come, that which he saw, the riches that were in store for him, the inheritance. That which is continually appealed to in the scriptures, our inheritance, he had so much that in that moment, in the soliloquy He was able to say, I have so much. Certainly I could stick around a little bit longer and I could do a couple more things. That's the sentiment and that's the notion that's going on in Paul here. That's what he learned, and we're calling that the effect of hope on the joy that we have. That's the lesson that we take. I've got plenty of time. My time, if you look at it, in the expanse of all that is planned for me in the inheritance of Jesus Christ, my time has not really even begun. I mean measure your life right now. Who's the oldest person in here? Just kidding. Just kidding. Don't raise your hand. You might need someone to help you raise it. No, just kidding. You can smack me afterward. You feel like it's been a long time. It's nothing. It is a drop in the bucket to eternal life in all that is before you. And Paul, in a way that you're not able to see, is able to see that. But he's able to come back and he's able to tell you about it. He went through the wardrobe and he came back to tell you this is what it looks like. And I'm telling you, he says, you have every reason to be hopeful, and you have so much you certainly could spare some today. That's what's going on within his spirit and how he is thinking about things. Now, let me give you a silly example. Let's just be silly for a second. Sometimes when I watch families eat, like if I decided that I was rich and I took you out to five guys because they're expensive And I took your whole family out. And I said, get what you want. Inevitably what I would see is the same thing that I see in my family. One of the older siblings is going to steal the fries of the younger siblings and from the mother. And somebody is going to freak out Five guys isn't the greatest example because for some reason they fill up the entire bag. And everyone's a little bit more relaxed because of that. So maybe use a different example. But a fight breaks out, and the reason being is because there's just only so many fries. Let's say we're coming from soccer practice and we're super hungry and somebody decides to lay a hand On one of your fries. Or let's say that you're a mom and you haven't been having carbs all week long, but on Fridays it's carbs. And somebody decides to touch one of your fries. You're working from a place where there is a limitation on the amount of fries that you have, so there's a kind of rage that builds up, and there have been murders over fries But I want you to imagine as we're beginning to see here within this scripture, and again this is silly, but imagine that you had buckets of fries. I mean Home Depot orange buckets. Five gallons apiece and you're just surrounded by fries and they never get cold. And they're always crisp. Now if that's the case and someone comes up, no matter if you've had carbs or you've been in soccer practice, it doesn't matter, if someone lays their hand on your fries, you really could care less because there's just so much to go around. There's nothing that threatens your joy. And that's a silly example, but it is analogous to Paul's mentality. His hope for the good life in Jesus Christ is so full That he is able to serve in great joy now. And that is the lesson for you. But the difficulty is Is that you could be, you're in this very difficult human situation where you literally could be surrounded by buckets of fries and you can't see it. Someone said, There's no fries. And you said, oh, there's no fries. And you've forgotten all that is in store for you. It is another way to say that we need to shift from just learning lessons from Paul into the next point. We see the dynamic. I hope you see it now. I hope at least we've We've cleared off that fog on the mirror, and it's not as frosted on the glass as it was. I hope you can see the dynamic on how hope brings joy. But there's still a difficulty in that we not only need to learn lessons from Paul, it needs to take root in our everyday life. So I get you that you hear the words that I'm saying, but how is it that this can become Living in hope today, which is our next point. Paul's cup is meant to spill over into your mentality. You are to be taking it up like him. But that ends up being difficult for you as a Christian. And it's primarily for this main reason. I find this within myself, I find this within you. It's not talked about very often, so I think this should be very helpful to you this morning. As a Christian, you oftentimes do not have a clear vision of your future. You forget, like Chase talked about. You have not fanned the flame of your hope. And I wonder if it's because of a partial misreading of 1 Corinthians 3, in 1 Corinthians 3. Chapter 13. In 1 Corinthians chapter 13, the Apostle Paul going on about what it looks like to be a contributing member of society says that there is faith and there is hope and there is love, and the greatest of these is love. And we think, yes, love. That's what I want to focus on, is love. But I have a close friend who reminded me, he said, uh in meditating on this verse. a a close friend who's far uh closer to Christ than I am. He says, yes, love is the greatest. But you want to know what is the most neglected? It is hope. Love is the greatest, but hope is the most neglected of the Christian virtues. We often settle for some vague feeling or impulse of optimism. When instead Christ has given us objective truths and realities that we might really believe and have faith in the hope that has been given to us. In the real world, if you have vague feelings or an impulse of optimism, in the real world, I'm telling you right now that it will not cut it. You must really believe the things that you hope for are true. That they will really happen, that there will come a time and there will come a day when you will touch and you will feel and you will squeeze and you'll slide down or whatever it is. That hope that you talk about. If it is just a vague sentimentality or impulse, it will have no real effect on your life today. That which is in the future must be as real as the very things before you today. And that's where Paul is going to get at another time, where he says, we do not live by sight, but we live by faith. Especially when we're talking about that inheritance. You must have a full body conviction and an objective hope for your future. It must in fact be welded to your soul. Now who here knows much about welding? I know there's one person that does. He out welds us all. Jack and I needed to weld something the other day and uh so he put it uh he put a a bead on this trying to join one piece of metal to another piece of metal in a very serious situation where if it fails, the car is going to fly off the side of the road. And the very first weld, he's dialing in the temperature, it's not the right word, welders, I know, but the temperature, and he uses the weld, and then we mess with it a little bit and it pops. And that ends up being a picture of how oftentimes we settle for thinking we have hope, but we just have a kind of vague sense or impulse. But what he did was he didn't leave it that way, but he readjusted the welder again to where it was hotter, and the new metal that was going to be welded to the old metal. is now going to go down into. They're going to join each other, strike below the surface, get down into the roots, to where they become one. And that is the same kind of thing that must happen within the Christian life over time, in your development, in your maturation, that you would not neglect hope, but that you would fan and you would flame it to such a pitch of heat. To where the inheritance that is spoken of objectively in the scriptures, that is revealed to you, even if general, you really believe that that is yours in Jesus Christ. That you will reign. That you shall be glorious, that there shall be no more tears, that you shall live in the city of everlasting life. We often settle for a vague feeling, but we must have a full-bodied conviction in the objective hope for our future, and we find such a hope in the scriptures. God has spoken through his prophets and apostles, revealing to us that our eternal life is to come, and that it is one in which we shall restore the earth and give each a rich and rewarding life for eternity. The song that they sing in Revelation is that they shall reign in Christ and because of Christ on the earth. Now I've always said, maybe some of you have caught me when I'm feeling funny, but I've always said that right now, God has certainly called me to work with you people. But that in the future I would like to take a break and I'd like to just work with some animals. Though some of you are close no, just kidding. God has called me to work with people, but in the future I plan to take a break and to work with animals. And now here's the thing. This has been since I was four years old I've had these desires to be a natural. So when the rest of you watch arachnophobia and you freak out about the spiders in the small town, I'm thinking, I would love to be on that expedition to the Amazon. I would like jars that have bugs in them And one of my hopes, so to speak, I'll change this in a minute because it doesn't get this specific in Scripture. I'm just trying to be imaginative with you for a moment is to be a naturalist in the new world, discovering a new species of spider in the renewed rainforests Maybe I'll do that for a little while. I don't know, like seven hundred years or something. It's just like a blip. And then I'll move into something else. I'm going to I think work with preachers in the farthest depths of the ocean. Or maybe I'll find interesting uses for plants in my botanical studies at year 2000. Whatever I do, I know that I will do it all. And I know that I'm going to do it forever. There will be no end to my contributions to the reign of the human race under King Jesus. And now this is imaginative. This is all imagination. There's not a drop of what I just said in Scripture, because Scripture does not become that specific about the ocean floor and working with plants. But there's no such thing as us moving into a new realm of existence and there not being specific things that we do. So all I'm trying to do is just give you a flavor of the kind of thing Maybe Christ has something else in mind, but the general truth hits the target. I will reign with Christ forever, and I will work under him as my new Adam. And here's the truth. Here's the truth. Boy, does this get you. When we failed to exercise dominion over the earth in the beginning, God did not scrap the plan. He raised a new Adam, according to Psalm 8, to lead us in the original endeavor. And I'm just letting you know, I'm being imaginative, but I'm giving you the specifics of a kind of endeavor. That I shall do forever and be pleased. Now, all I'm trying to do at this point, just so you can get the spirit of what I'm saying, is I'm trying to engage your imagination as to your inheritance in Jesus Christ, that you could begin to see the buckets of fries that you have. That you could see that you have so much in Christ there's no use now in grasping for straws The vision, this vision is what helps me keep going every single day. Now, I've been taking liberties with this letter in sharing very personal things with you, because that's what Paul does to the congregation at Philippi. And so I'll do this again. There is no way, if I lost my hope in the inheritance that is mine in Jesus Christ, there is no way that I would remain a pastor. There's no way that I would continue to serve day in and day out because it is primarily hope that motivates me to keep going. Do you think that it is enjoyable to hold another congregant's hand as they die? Someone you shared special time with, that you had connections to Do you think that I enjoy the ride to the hospital? What allows you to keep going in a situation like that? It's the same thing that Paul says. I have so much in Christ today, I'll do two more things. I'll hold the hand again. He uses it to keep me working. He uses it to keep me comforting another widow, though for a long time they'll be inconsolable. He uses it to keep me working and laboring for the health of your marriages, though you keep making decisions that go against your marriage. And so do I. Keep waking up every day seeking to try to get the truth to a hard-headed sixteen-year-old. And every day, when you're a new pastor, those things are exciting. But after a while, they're not exciting anymore. The novelty has worn off. So then you do eventually have to ask the question. One morning you wake up and you say, Why am I going to go ahead and put my shoes on and do this again? It would be a little bit easier to just go back and work with houses. Because wood doesn't talk back. But that's not what I want at all. Because there's been something placed in my heart by Jesus Christ. I remember the moment I had in my own kind of Damascus Road experience. Where Christ made Himself known to me through His Word, and I realize there's no one else but Christ. And whatever He wants me to do, that's what I must do. But there can be periods of time where I can forget all that. I can forget all of the good things that are to come, and that's when I want to quit. But it's when hope rushes back in. That my bones no longer fail. I am reassured in joy that God will turn all works done in his name into gold and in the future, so I don't fret over my mistakes that often any longer. I move on, I press towards the goal. I will be so good at whatever I do in heaven that I will be a monument declaring the glory of God. And I look forward to the day, and I don't get stuck in the past. Now that's just me sharing my heart with you in order for your heart to be engaged about you and those around you. Not to have a Jesse Fest. How about you? Let me ask a couple questions. Have you grown cynical? Are you now a newfound skeptic? You read Skeptic Magazine. Are you depressed? Are you bitter? Do you lack joy? Here's a big one. Do you have FOMO? Fear of missing out? Fear of missing out is directly connected to not having hope in the future inheritance that Christ has for you. It means that you realize somewhere in your 40s That you're missing out on it all, and you better do something to make sure you have a great time because there's only a little bit of time left. Which is contrary to the Christian message. And that this time is a time that has just begun. Your whole career, all that is good for you, all of the exciting endeavors are still in the future. And so you don't get FOMO. You can look around and you can see that there are particular people that have a status that are able to get the 65-foot sailboat And you decide you're not going to do it because in heaven your sailboat will be two hundred and sixty flat When we look at reality, we sometimes say, look at all that I'm missing out on. That's called a midlife crisis, by the way. I've done my time. I deserve a motorcycle. And at the root of that problem, or anything, whether it's a motorcycle or anything else, Is that you don't really believe that all things are yours in Jesus Christ? Because if you did, you would not be scrambling to try to make it all up right now. Oh Christian, we all have a desire to depart to be with Christ. And it is in fact far better. But until that day, it is my prayer that this sermon will make some dent in you That you would be joyful in your service here. And that the basis for your joy in that service would be the hope that lies ahead. I just ask if you could, and I'll end on this. Could you just look at the future that has been revealed to you in the scriptures and you could say I think I've got a couple more things that I'd like to do around here. And I'm going to do them in joy. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, we thank you for this vision that you have given to us. You have given more to Paul and others, but you have helped us to see through a glass darkly. That's how Paul put it. We thank you for that. And we do look forward to seeing clearly. But we know that we have many things for which to be hopeful. And I pray for your congregation, Lord, that you would help them to see that more and more. We at Severn Run would be es catalogical, seeing the end while in the present. And Lord, that we'd set our sights on it, that we'd set our hearts on it, that we'd set our hopes on it And I pray, Lord, that that would affect how we are with each other today. How we can let a loose word go and not hold everybody accountable for everything. In other words, that we can undergo criticism, that we can deal with the present circumstances because they pale in consideration of eternal glory. And that, Lord, we could serve enjoy, that we can give, and that we can know that it is better to give than to receive. Because we have so much. We don't need to just take and scrounge. I pray, Lord, against a miserly heart amongst your people. May none of us follow the narrative of Scrooge. I ask these things in your name. Amen.