One, ten through twelve. Who can find a virtuous wife? For her worth is far above rubies. The heart of her husband safely trusts her, so he will lack so he will have no lack of gain. She does him good and not evil all the days of her life. Let us pray. Oh Father, I pray that you would make this word effective. Even the preached word, that we would be not just hearers, but doers of your word. And Lord, that you would give your congregation great hope in how you are molding and shaping them as the bride of Christ. I ask these things in Jesus' name. If we were to take some time to look through the Bible We would m notice that there are different genres throughout the readings. For example, you could turn to some books and you'd be reading history You could turn to other books and it would be a letter. And there are other genres besides that One of the genres or the way of writing that the Holy Spirit has chosen to really pinpoint and to emphasize something that He really wants us to pay attention to are poems. Especially if the poem is in the midst of a history or something along those lines. So I just wonder if you can think of some times where Uh we have uh an account, for example, of something and then it breaks into a poem. I wonder if you could think of some examples of that. One of the examples that I think of always because it so has impressed me is from Genesis chapter two. We see the creation account, and then we see that the man, it was not good for him to be alone, and when he was finally able to see his wife and to see woman. We read in Genesis chapter 2, 23, that he breaks out actually into song and writes her a poem. And writes God a poem, and Adam says, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. It's uh something about her and about what the Lord had done had so impressed him that he had to write it in verse. Now it's interesting to me that that happens today. If there's a young man that wants to win the love of his love It wouldn't be unusual for him to write a poem or a song. Show off out underneath her window at eleven PM and play that song. You get the picture. Those are some of the stories. Well, I bring that up because what we've done is we have through going through the whole book of Proverbs, we've seen all these individual Proverbs. But right here at the end, we land ourselves in a poem. And it's not just any old poem, it's actually considered a crosstic I'm not sure if you know what an acrostic is, but that is where this poem is set up, where each of the stanzas of the poem are another Hebrew letter until it goes all the way through the alphabet. So in many ways, what we see here in different ways that the Holy Spirit is emphasizing this, he's saying, hey, this is a poem. You really need to pay attention. I'm showing you that this has great emphasis within the book of Proverbs and the fact that I have marked it with the A to Z basically. What you have here presented before you with this final poem about this woman is of the utmost importance if you want to understand what it would actually look like. If you were to live out and understand and walk in the fear of the Lord as is taught in the book of Proverbs. One of the things I worry about is there's so many different Proverbs, it can be hard to keep track of all the wisdom. And here what we see is God being gracious to us by pulling all of those things together and presenting it for us in a model. And we'll talk about exactly this model is pointing to who? Is it a real woman? Who's the reference? We'll talk about that in a middle a minute. But that's what we have in front of us here. is this memorable summary and model of what all of wisdom looks like and walking in the fear of the Lord. And it is given to us in the picture of a wife. Now what I want to do is I want to um look at the just the introduction to this poem, which is verses ten through twelve. The body is next week. It's like uh seventeen down into the the tw uh some of the twenties there, I think the twenty-third. maybe a little further, 27. 13 to 27 will be the body of it, but we're just going to start with the introduction. And I just want to look at four main points about this. I want to draw out four things for us to observe and to benefit from that the Holy Spirit has given to us here within Proverbs 31. The very first thing that we're to benefit from is the description that is given of this wife. Now, uh this I'm kind of nerding out on this. I don't know that you're going to nerd out on this as much as I am, but this all of these descriptions and the language of this poem just gets better and better the more that I study it. The description of the wife is given to us in the form of a question in verse number 10. You can see it there, and it says in your English version, who can find a virtuous wife? Now, if you were reading this in the Hebrew, it actually the ordering of the word is the words are a little bit different in order for you to see that the main topic of this whole poem is the wife. And it would read, Virtuous Wife Who Can Find? Something along those lines. I'm still scrambling up the Hebrew a little bit to make it recognizable in English language But it starts with the word virtuous wife. And the description that I wanted to focus on first was not wife. Wife refers to wife. We saw that in the first nine verses of this section of Proverb 31, with King Lemuel's mother saying that it's very important for you, young man, to make sure you find the right woman. The wrong woman can ruin you very quickly. And I drew out some of the implications of that beyond just King Lemuel's mother's immediate teachings. Here we're moving forward. Wife means wife, but that adjective in front of it, virtuous, is a really interesting word, and it helps us to understand the wife in this description. The word it here, my translation says virtuous. I wonder if you have a different translation than mine, and it says something different. Some of the possible ways for us to look at this is that it is the wife with competent strength Another way to look at this is it this word virtuous or that is used here, it's a Hebrew word translated virtuous. It is also translated to mean someone who is wealthy. It is also in other places translated to mean that it is a person that has membership in an elite group. It also can mean that it is a person who is in a warrior class. And because of that The foremost scholar on Proverbs, at least within the evangelical world, ends up saying that this is a poem about woman warrior. woman warrior. And there's other reasons that he says that also. He also will give a translation of the valiant wife. The valiant wife. And you'll start to see how that is the case as we unfold here. So the very first thing we're seeing just within this first point of the description of the wife is that she is a virtuous wife and that means that it's we're talking about someone who has competent strength. Someone who is a member within a select group or an elite group of people. She has set herself apart. And this word is even used for those who are in a warrior class. And so you really could be s you could really start to talk about her as the heroine of the story. She is the there's the description in verse number seventeen, if you want to scan your eyes down, which we'll get to next week She girds up her loins with strength and strengthens her arms for the task. Now, if you go ahead and you look at that language, that's more your language. And he, even here, with the word virtue, the virtue is from Latin, and it means manly strength So what's being what's what's uh being presented to you here, and I'll develop this in just a moment, this description of this wife is that She is the virtuous wife. She is the heroine. She is a person who has set herself apart in excellence. She has competent strength, and she is a kind of warrior. She's a kind of warrior. And I hope that immediately starts to take away the picture that women are just supposed to sit around knitting doilies. That's not the picture that we get at all. There's nothing wrong with knitting a doily. But the picture that we get here with this description and the language that's used, wow. There's a lot of lot lot that's added in this description by just understanding that first word. Hayel Hasset Now, if we were to look at this and we were to ask, okay, well we can see the description of this wife, but but to whom does it refer? Well I think three different it could refer to three different people actually. Uh number one, I think it refers to a woman that if you're a wise man, you would seek to marry somebody like this. That's number one. Number two, and that comes from the first nine verses, right? King Lemuel's mother is trying to show him, this is the kind of woman that I want for you, my son. Another is that just by way of this description being borne out and embodied by women throughout the scriptures, take Ruth for example This is also refers to a woman or a wife that daughters would aspire to be like her, or other women would aspire to be like her. And thirdly, because all of this is connected, and I'll show this at the very end of the sermon, because all of this is connected to how the Holy Spirit puts women in the scriptures. All of us as a congregation, as the bride of Christ, ought to seek to incarnate the wisdom that she embodies. In fact, I think That this is a great way to look at what it would mean for us to be salt and light in the world. If we we're going to see in 17 through 27, there's quite a bit of salt and light there. Salt and light in the world. It's one of the ways in which the church should embody wisdom. So this is the description of the wife. And that is to whom I believe this can refer. Lots of different applications there. Wise men seek to marry her, wise daughters aspire to be like her. and a wise people or congregation will aim to incarnate the wisdom that she embodies. Now that's the first point. That's the description and the reference to the wife. Woman, warrior, valiant woman, virtuous woman, virtuous wife. Now here's the second point. The second point is picked up uh with that same um that same verse, but it's about how precious she is. What is her value? How valuable is she and why is she so valuable? Well we're just in the introduction, so we'll get into the details later, but The preciousness of the wife in general is brought out to us in the rhetorical question, who can find a virtuous wife? The answer is, well, hardly anybody. Because of the next phrase that comes within our proverb, who can find a virtuous wife? Take a look at verse number 10. And then he goes on, he says, For her worth is far above rubies. The whole idea is that it's rare. And that if you have it, it's a gift from God. And it came by way of prayer, and probably prayers from a lot of people. But this is the beginning of seeing that she is precious. And precious things are rare. The rhetorical question, who can find, aims to awaken within us the desire to find such a wife or to be like her Because we would like to be like a precious thing also, something treasured. And the implied answer, hardly no one, because she is as rare as a precious jewel. Now that's the preciousness of the wife in general. But then my third point that I wanted to bring out, so we've looked at the description of the wife, the preciousness of the wife in general. The third point I wanted you to see is just the preciousness of the wife specifically. He starts to get in now to some of the details. And the main thing listed here in verse number 11 is that she is precious, she is more valuable than rare jewels. Because she is trustworthy. That's what it says. It says in verse number 11, the heart of her husband safely trusts her. We're asking the question, well, what why does the husband find her so valuable? The husband, we're supposed to be looking through his eyes. He has the right way to look at things in this poem. He's the one who evaluates things from God's perspective for us here. And when he's the Holy Spirit is showing us that when he looks at her, part of her value is that she is trustworthy. And that's one of the things that makes her more precious than rare jewels. The heart of her husband safely trusts her. Now, You know, um this is a pretty rare thing for the Bible to say. If you look at eleven again The heart of her husband safely trusts her. This is a pretty rare thing to find in the scriptures. Usually you find this kind of statement where it says that you should trust in the Lord. And in fact, there's only one other place in Scripture that talks about trusting a person. And that's in Judges. I could show that to you another time. All the other times, the emphasis is always placing your trust in the Lord. And this verse isn't trying to contradict that. It's not saying you trust in your wife more than you trust in the Lord. But by way of using this language, The Holy Spirit really is pointing out to us the intimacy of this relationship and how reliant the man is on her trustworthiness. And you'll see why as we go through the poem This statement that his heart trusts in her is showing that he depends for his well-being. upon her being reliable. Outside of, one commentator says, outside of this text and Judges 20, verse 36, Scripture condemns trust in anyone or anything apart from the got apart from God. One other commentator has said, one can successfully place confidence only in Yahweh, no other one can be an ultimate object of trust. And yet the commentators go on and they say, this present exception elevates the valiant wife. Who herself fears the Lord, and it elevates her to the highest level of spiritual and physical competence. In fact, if you were to think about this with reference going back into Genesis chapter 2, verse 23, and you were to read that passage through the lens, and Adam said, This is now bone of my bones. And this is flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. You could begin to ask yourself, based on this verse, what would happen if a man lost his bones? What would happen if a man lost his flesh? And you know there's an interesting thread here if you were to turn to Job and you were to see what he begged the Lord not to take away from him. It was his wife. It says flesh there, so some people think, Don't take away my health. Well he already took away his health. I really think when you read that it's a plea. You've taken away all these things, but don't take away my wife. And that same thing is showing up here. You're bone of my bones. Maybe now we can begin to see how intimate that kind of relationship is. You're flesh of my flesh, and I rely upon you. And you're so precious to me because I can rely on you. Now that's the third uh point, and that's the first part of it. There's a second part of this third point. Which is why does he trust her? What has he seen that makes her so trustworthy? And we'll get into more of those details in the body of the poem too, but the cause of the trust that he has is seen in the second part of verse 11. It says, he will have no lack of gain. Now this is it you could think of it as him reflecting on his past and saying, sh I can see that I can rely on her, and boy do I rely on her. And I can see that because look at all of the things that she has brought into my life and the life of our children. We have no lack because of her. And if it weren't for her, we would have lack Now I want to draw this out a little bit so that you can see how important this is, that he trusts her for this reason He says he does not lack anything necessary. He looks back and he sees that she is trustworthy. Now when you look at that passage, look at it again. So he will have no lack of gain. That word gain is really important. This is a very surprising word. This word is used 75 times in the Old Testament. And every single time the word is used, it is used in a military context for the spoils of war. You see the theme continuing? Woman warrior. This is a one commentator says this is a surprising object because it's the word salal is spoils. It's a military metaphor. It implies, another person writes, that the woman has to win the essentials like food and clothing through military strategy, timely strength, and risk in this fallen world. And that again starts to bring out for us a clearer picture as to the standard that God has for femininity. I've watched different movies at different times or I've read different books from different eras. And boy, depending on the era, have you noticed that they cast a different vision for femininity? I brought up Pride and Prejudice earlier. When I watched the BBC version, I have not taken the opportunity to read it. But when I watch the BBC version, a lot of the time I see that the picture of femininity is sitting on a chair waiting for people to call upon you while your mother keeps exclaiming how vexed she is. And here we see that well maybe there's parts of that are appropriate. But the vision for femininity and for wife and for woman is much bigger. It involves all kinds of things, not just sitting on a chair waiting for people to call on you And you know, I was really surprised. There was a gentleman who's pretty conservative in his readings on what is permitted in the vocation of women. And he ended up putting out a documentary documentary and I thought, oh great, I'm going to watch this documentary about how how he sees the feminine, and all I'm going to see is another episode of Pride and Prejudice. But I didn't. Within the first five minutes, one of the wives was hanging drywall. And that would be consistent with Proverbs 31. Yeah, we can get into that in seven in the in the next set of verses, but it's already starting to unfold. The picture is already starting to unfold for us with this word gain. It implies that the woman has to win the essentials like food and clothing through strategy, timely strength, and risk in the fallen world. And I think if you were to look at all of the wives and the women throughout scriptures, you'd see. That things are not just handed to them, that they had to work for it, and they had to be wise and they had to be strong in order to accomplish things for their families. I'll give you one example, and that is from the New Testament, and it's Lydia. Lydia from Acts 16, 14 through 15, it says this about her cottage industry. She's a small businesswoman. Which is brought up in the rest of this poem, which we'll get to next week. You'll notice that she's buying and selling land in the upcoming verses. So there's a cottage industry here in Acts 16, 14 through 15. It says, Now a certain woman named Lydia heard us. She was a seller of purple from the city of Thyrotira, who worshipped God. The Lord opened her heart to heed the things spoken by Paul. And when she and her household were baptized, she begged us, saying If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay. And so she persuaded us. Well, the story goes on. They get thrown in prison. They're released from prison. And then she, later in Acts chapter 16, verse 40 She shows the timeliness and the strength and the risks that she is willing to take. They leave the prison and they enter and are invited to stay in the house of Lydia and listen to this closely. And when they had seen the brethren. So everybody's meeting there. She's opened up her house to the converted community to Jesus Christ for a house church there in town. And they encouraged them and they departed. Now that I wanted you to see there that she has a cottage industry that she started. She's doing what is necessary in order to she has strategy in order to secure things that her family would not want. And in that way she's meeting the descriptions of Proverbs 31. But in addition there's a timely strength and a risk that is involved in her actions. And we can actually, by way of just historical studies, say that she has actually gone to great lengths in order to make sure that her family is taken care of. Because do you know what it takes to make cloth purple in the ancient world? It was called Tyrion Purple. And it was a die that was given to fabrics that did not fade. And it was meant for royalty. And do you know how that die was made? It was made by collecting thousands of sea snails and gathering mucus out of them and then dyeing the fabric. So I mean you gotta be a warrior to do that. And if that were the situation and we were to transport it back into Proverbs thirty-one You'd see the husband reflecting back on the tens of thousands of sea snails that she has gone through in order to make these purple claws so that she could be a solar purple to provide for her family. And he would look back and he would say, you know She's precious to me because the family and I never lack. And you want to know why we don't lack? Look at what she does. Look at the kind of life that she leads. And boy is there going to be a longer list when we go through the rest of the poem. Now that's the third point. lays out for us. Then we saw just in general how precious she is, that she's m more precious than rare jewels, and then we started to get into the specifics of how she is precious and that is that she is trustworthy. And I gave you some examples to see the how sh how he's able to trust her. He relies on her and relying on her is a good thing because she always comes through. And then finally we have in the fourth point a summary of her value. Now this is a perfect transition into the body of the poem, which we'll get into next week. But the summary of her value is given in two ways, the extent and then the duration. And you can see that here in verse number twelve. She does him good and not evil. Now that's the extent. So if uh what I mean by that is if you were to ask the qu question like, well what do you mean by she does them good? Well, not evil is the opposite, right? It's a figure of speech. Well, what does it mean she does him good? Well, would you please do me a favor and just look at verse number 13? We're going to get into this next week. It's really calling for us. And then go all the way down to verse 27, and everything between 13 and 27, those are representative of the good things that she does. That's the extent that she goes. That's the extent that she goes. Those are the good things. The extent of what she does and how is and how precious she is is seen there within the body of this poem. And it prepares us, this verse number 12 is preparing us to now move into that which lists all of those good things. And they're there are kind of figures of speech also to where we can begin to see what is that that she's What is she uh really embodying there? The second part of this though, and just the summary of her value is the doration. And you see that in the second part of verse 12, and she does so Uh, not just for a little bit, but all the days of her life. All the days of her life means that at each point one person writes, along the continuum of her relationship to her husband, she never fails. Her commitment to her husband's well-being is true, it's not false. It is constant, it is not temperamental, it is reliable, not fickle, and it is discerning. And those are the four points here with the introduction to the valiant woman and wife. Who can find a virtuous wife? Now I've told you, I almost had to give you a warning when we were going into Proverbs 31, because in my experience, any time I mention Proverb 31, all of the women in my life roll their eyes and say, great, as if I didn't feel bad enough. But I'd really like to turn that on its head and say that this is meant to be a passage of hope. You know, if I just preached this to you and I said, go and do likewise, after you defrock me You would find that you would not be able to do this. Now I gave you three different ways three different references here. Who who is he talking about? Who is he referring to? Well, I said it could be that wise men should learn a lot about who they should seek to marry. But you know, young men you're never gonna find a woman that m matches this description Not on her own. And I also said that, well, this refers to what daughters should aspire to be and what women and wives should aspire to be. But you know, women and wives, you're not going to be able to accomplish this on your own. And I also said that all wise people, the whole congregation, the whole church should aim to incarnate the wisdom that she embodies. But you know what? There's no congregation on its own that's going to be able to do that. And that's why I say that this is a passage of hope, because really what we're seeing here is a picture of what Jesus Christ as your Savior is doing with you as a woman and as a Christian wife, as a Christian woman and as a Christian wife. and what Jesus Christ is doing with his total congregation across the globe. You want to look at this? You want to have hope? Look at what Jesus Christ will accomplish That's how we have hope, and it will progressively happen a little bit at a time. And then all of a sudden we'll be glorified. And I want to say a couple words about that. A lot of the times we go to Ephesians 5. 25 and we think that the basic message is, hey wives, this is how you should treat your husbands, and hey husbands, this is how you should treat your wives But at the very end we forget that it says, this is all really about Jesus Christ and the church. Now you can do both. Both are applicable in that domain, but in Ephesians 5, 25 through 27, I want you to listen to this. Listen to what Jesus Christ is doing with us individually and us corporately. to where we can begin to not roll our eyes when I mentioned Proverbs 31. Husbands, love your wives just as Christ now here's the point. Christ loved The church. And he gave himself for her. Why? So that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word that he might present her to himself a glorious church, not having any spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and she's without blemish. There's the end right there. You see the hope, the picture that's being painted You can even see our justification in there, our continued being sanctified onto the Lord there. But you know what? The passage keeps going. Not just the one-time act of being righteous by the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Not being um there's a kind of total sanctification that happens when God consecrates us to himself by way of his son But then there is an ongoing sanctification that the Son is doing that is also brought up in this passage in Ephesians 5, 28 through 32. Listen to this. So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies He who loves his wife loves himself, for no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes it and cherishes it just as the Lord does the church. The Lord right now is nourishing and cherishing you as individuals, you as a church. Raising you up in his nurture and his admonition that you might become all that he has planned for you to be. And you'll notice there that reference back into Genesis chapter 2, 223, this being quoted here, for we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. That's Ephesians. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church. You see what he's up to? You see what he's doing with you? And I think it's right for me, therefore, to say this is a passage of hope, not because we can accomplish these things by ourselves, but because Jesus Christ is accomplishing them And therefore we can give him great praise that this is a picture of our future. Now, you know this is guaranteed also. Do you think God is going to take back Revelation chapter 21? Take a look at there with me real quick and then we'll close together. I know you know all know this and you just heard a sermon on it last Sunday morning. But in Revelation twenty-one, it looks to me Like Jesus Christ has taken for himself a bride. And I bet you through his work, she looks just like what we saw in the passage. It says here in verse number two of 21 of Revelation, then I, John, saw the holy city, the New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, no more sorrow, no more crying. There's going to be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. Then he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said to me, Write, for these words are true, and they are faithful. Oh, brothers and sisters, do you see the hope of Jesus Christ in Proverbs 31? And not only has he justified you, but he's progressively working these things out and his nurture and admonition in your life. So when we read these things together, you know I got a a few more sermons on this and I don't want to see any more rolling eyes about it. When we get into the body of this, I want us to be encouraged that this is what Jesus Christ is doing in us. That we can become fruitful for our communities and trustworthy for our families, that we can become light and salt. To the whole world and the witness of his goodness and his grace. So please join me now in a word of prayer