Please turn with me uh to our scripture verse today is John chapter sixteen And I'll ask that you'd stand as I read the first seven verses. John 16, 1 through 7. These things I have spoken to you that you should not be made to stumble. They will put you out of the synagogues. Yes, the time is coming that whoever kills you will think that he offers God's service. And these things they will do to you, because they have not known the Father, nor me. But these things I have told you, that when the time comes, you may remember that I told you of them. And these things I do not say to you at the beginning because I was with you. But now I go away to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, where are you going? But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I depart, I will send him to you. Let's pray Helper, you are with us now. And we ask that you would illuminate our minds and our hearts. Amen. Please be seated There may be only two shows that don't bother my conscience when I watch them. And they're uh on Maryland Public Television. And there's one with this guy who has a real thick northeastern eastern accent who does woodworking. And the other one is this old house, which is also a kind of woodworking. Have any of you ever watched this old house? Oh, I love it. It just makes me feel good. They have a segment called What Is It? The host places a strange tool or object on the table, and you have to try to guess the function of the object. It just be some weird tool that you didn't know existed for some weird task that some plumber out there has to do. The last one that I saw was a circular piece of wood. If you can imagine a disc of three-quarter inch plywood that's cut into a circle. And then on the perimeter there were so many dowts that were about an inch high. What is it? One of the guys jokingly was saying it's a back scratcher and then a coffee and then you can hold your coffee cup Well, come to find out, it's actually what I've been looking for for some time, and I I plan on making one, uh, is if you have ever had an orbital sander. It's a sander. An orbital sander is the one that's circular. And on the bottom of it you'll see holes. And those holes are meant to suck up the dust into a little bag that's on the orbital sander to keep your workspace. Clear. Well, if you ever try to put the sandpaper that you buy on, it's very difficult to line up the holes. The sandpaper that they sell. Has the holes and you keep trying to line it up and if you get two out of five you feel great about yourself. Well this this little thing that he made is you put the sandpaper upside down on it And then you place the dowels and the holes on the orbital sander, and then you push the sandpaper on, and all the lines are all the holes are lined up perfectly. to keep the dust off of your work. I think that the segment on the show is popular and I'm on the edge of my seat literally when these kind of things come on TV. Am I the only one? I think I'm looking at your faces. I think it's popular because as human beings, we by nature long to know the purpose and the design or the function of something. It's intriguing when you don't know what is that thing made for, and you really want to guess, and that's a lot of fun. That's really what we have been doing with our series, if you have noticed. Our series is Quorum Deo, where We're not looking at tools. We're looking at our faith, and we're trying to determine the purpose of the things that are going on. In fact, have you ever asked, what is God's purpose? And revealing himself. What is his purpose in all the different things we hear him doing in the songs that we sing or in the scriptures that we read? He's always doing something. Why is he doing it? What's the purpose or what's the function? Well, in the Quorum Deo series, as we seek to live before God, that's a great question to ask. What are his designs? What are his purposes? So that we can live with him in his purposes and his design. Living before God, quorum Deo, is really knowing about what his designs and purposes are. Consider the sermons that I've given so far just in the series. The world is aware by nature that God the Father is more powerful, and he will hold the whole world accountable for their sin. They know him as a wrathful God. Throughout all the Old Testament. Yet what has been shouted from the rooftops is that the Father is showing his love. It's a new discovery of him. They're publishing it For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. What is the Father doing? What is this What is his purpose? We read in the scriptures that the love of the Father is for the sake of reconciliation. Why does he send the Son, and why does the Son volunteer? Because the Son designs to purchase the reconciliation And so we have the love of the Father, and we have the grace, the personal grace, and the purchasing grace of the Son. But these past few sermons we've been speaking about the Spirit. Have you ever asked the question, what is the purpose of the Spirit? Some people think it's to provide healing right now. Some people think it's to provide a mark that you're in the church through speaking in tongues Some people think it means that you would be overcome emotional emotionally and slain to the ground, being slain by the Spirit. Is that what you see on the pages of Scripture? That that's the purpose of the Spirit? The Spirit wants us to know Him and He wants us to know His design and His purpose. The first answer that we saw within the scriptures is that the Spirit is a regenesis. That he's regenerating those who by nature are bent away from God. He's giving them new thoughts, a new mind, a new heart, a new will, new emotions. And then last week we saw that his second purpose was progressive sanctification, that he has placed us on a new path with a new destination, and the destination is called holiness. It's called being in the image of Jesus Christ. Well, today we look at his third purpose or design, and this is consolation or comfort. Consolation or comfort. His purpose is consolation or comfort, but as you'll see, if you look at the sermon notes, I'm relating the main point of this passage. He's relating also to the purpose of the Son, because the Son, Jesus, is speaking. So we're not just looking at the purpose of the Holy Spirit at first, but we're looking at his purpose in relation to the purpose of Jesus, the Son And consequently, listen to the big idea of this passage. This is the main thing that you're being taught this morning. At this time The presence of the Holy Spirit as our consolation is of greater advantage to the church than Christ's bodily presence. Now that is a profound statement And that's what this passage teaches. Let me say it one more time. At this time, the presence of the Holy Spirit as our consolation is of greater advantage to the church than Christ's bodily presence. And I want to look at this under bodily presence. spiritual presence and then I want to look at some advantages of his consolation. And you can take notes under those same headings there in the bulletin. Christ must end his bodily presence with his church. Consider verse 5 with me, please. But now I go away to him who sent me. It will just stop there. But now I go away to him who sent me. Jesus expressly tells his disciples that he must return to his Father. And you can see why Jesus needed to explain this to them. In verses 1 through 4, if you look up just one paragraph in 16, 1 through 4, Jesus is very concerned for his disciples Jesus warns them that the entire religious establishment would excommunicate them, they would be removed from the synagogue, and that they would seek to kill them. You can think of the Saul here turning into the Apostle Paul. It fits fits him perfectly. And this becomes really, really dangerous because those who seek to kill these apostles and disciples of Jesus Christ They do so with an invincible motivation. Do you see verse 4 there? Look at the motivation that they have. That kind of person is scary. It says they think they will be serving God. You're not going to be able to stop them You can think of Saul before he's Paul, thinking that he's squashing out some heretical sect that is rising up, thinking that he's serving God. In the past, Jesus being present with them bodily, his knowledge, his wisdom, and his power, Which were all above measure, he would elude the religious leaders. Can you think of some specific examples of when Jesus was in a tight spot with his disciples, all of a sudden he just walked through the crowd? And they'd be free. Well, he's leaving now, so he's concerned about their safety, and he's warning them. Partially he's trying to give them a sense of his omniscience and his power Because what he's predicting now, they'll see it later, and they'll see who he is as the Son of God. However, now Jesus must return to his Father, and consequently he has to prepare his disciples for his bodily absence. And this can seem really strange, and it probably has seemed strange to you for some time, and you have asked the question, why didn't Jesus just stay with me? Why is he just not bodily present with us? It's a good question. And it's one that he seeks to answer here in this passage. The answer is implied in verse 5 And if you think of all the sermons that we've given us for some time now, you should really see what's going on here. It says in verse 5 again, the Father sent Jesus. Now there are volumes of a narrative that go behind the Father sent Jesus It really starts to answer why Jesus can't stay, why he's not bodily present with them after his resurrection after the 40 days. And why he's not bodily present with us now. The implication or the story beneath that statement is actually a very familiar story. The eternal Son of God in the fullness of time became man. And we'll be celebrating that very soon this Christmas. The Lord Jesus, by his perfect obedience and sacrifice of himself, Which he through the eternal Spirit once offered up unto God has fully satisfied the justice of his Father. Do you see the justice of the Father being poured out on the head of Jesus? There's a full satisfaction of his justice. Now we're to Easter. He purchased not only reconciliation for us in satisfaction of this justice. But an everlasting inheritance in the kingdom of heaven for all those whom the Father has given unto him. Or, if we just wanted to sing it, what wondrous love is this? O my soul, O my soul, what wondrous love is this, O my soul? What wondrous love is this that caused the Lord of bliss? To bear the dreadful curse for my soul. To bear the dreadful curse for my soul. When I was sinking down, sinking down, sinking down, when I was sinking down. When I was thinking down, now listen to this statement. Beneath God's righteous frown, Christ laid aside his crown for my soul. Do you see? Speaking of him laying aside the crown, the incarnation, the work that he must do, with his personal grace purchasing us Christ laid aside his crown for my soul. These are the sermons that we've heard already. The love of the Father and the grace of the Son. That's the narrative that's behind that. Jesus is recalling to them the whole story of the gospel. After this After Jesus lays down his crown and he purchases us and he's resurrected and exalted after this, after his incarnate purposes. were complete, his purpose after completion of his work, he must return to his father because that's his work now Jesus the Christ was resurrected. He ascended and he is exalted in heaven in intercession for his church. So listen to this carefully. Because this is his work now, which is why he's not here. This is not his work to be here. The intercession of Jesus is this. Jesus appears in heaven before God the Father and says, I have completed the mission of redeeming my people and earning all the gifts of the new covenant. Consider my merit. I now ask for their first gift, the Holy Spirit. Can you see it taking place before the throne of God? Him offering himself in perfection, the perfect sacrifice He fulfilled the covenant that he made with the Father, and now he gets to receive all the benefits of the covenant, and they're not just for him, they're for him and all his people. And now he sends the first, which is his Holy Spirit. There is a most profitable answer to the question, why did Jesus leave? Because his work was now in heaven. What work is he doing in heaven? He is collecting gifts from the Father to give to his church. And what is his first gift? It is the Holy Spirit. Listen to Acts chapter 1, and being assembled together with them, he commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father. Which he said, You have heard from me, for John truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now Therefore, when they had come together, they asked him, saying, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom of Israel? And he said to them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father has put in his own authority. But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. You see that? It's that first gift that He sends there on Pentecost. And this is the teaching from verse 5, both which is expressly stated and also which is implied. Jesus must end his bodily presence with his church for now. He must ascend and intercede and send his ascension gifts, the first of which is the Holy Spirit. And that is why Jesus and that is why Jesus is that is what is he is saying here. But the reason ends up going deep deeper. It is not just that Jesus can't stay or that he's being forced away, although he'd love to be with you, but you know, the Father said so. That's not the picture here. Jesus must go with an even more profound reason because it is of greater advantage to you that he would leave and that he would send his spirit Which is really at the heart of this sermon. It is, and at this, at this passage, at this time, the presence of the Holy Spirit is of greater advantage to the church. And that's the second point. At this time, the presence of the Holy Spirit is of greater advantage to the Church. And I say at this time, based upon God's plan. Before it was the time of the Spirit, which is now It was of greater advantage for Jesus to be bodily present because he needed to do his redemptive and purchasing work. After his humiliation or humiliating work was done, it is now time for the Spirit. But in the future Christ will be bodily present again to judge the living and the dead. So that's why I say at this time. During this time, at this time, it is the time of the Spirit. The greater advantage of the Spirit is expressed by Jesus in this passage quite expressly if you look in verse 7 with me. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth. It is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper will not come. But if I depart, I will send him to you. Then he talks about what he will do with the world. The comparison is between Jesus staying and the Spirit arriving. Do you see the comparison? That's a text of comparison between Jesus and the Spirit. If Jesus stays, what will happen? If the Spirit arrives, then that means he must leave. And which is of greater advantage, according to Jesus? Well, it's obvious in the text. That Jesus says it is better for him to go. It's of greater advantage that the Spirit would be able to arrive for now. And now we have to ask the question, why is it of greater advantage? And it is because it is the Spirit who can accomplish the next stage in the plan of the Trinity. The Spirit has unique tasks. Tasks that Jesus Himself does not do. Can you think of some unique tasks of the Spirit that are never said of the Son? For instance, do you ever hear of Jesus that Jesus regenerates? That he's the regenesis, that he's effectually calling. In some sense, because the Trinity is unified in all their work, you may substitute one name for the n the other, but most properly speaking, the Spirit has specific tasks like regeneration or in the end of days making our bodies incorruptible, giving us new bodies in the twinkling of an eye That is the sp the task of the spirit. Maybe it'd be helpful if you think of it this way, of what's going on here amongst the persons of the Trinity and their divine unity. In building a house, if I remember correctly, because it's been Eight years now, lost my touch. The general contractor sends in the excavation team. Then the masonry team, then the framing team, then the roofing team, then the HVAC team, then the plumbing team, then the electrical team. You get the you get the cabinet team, you get the picture. All of these taking their roles and their tasks successively one after the other. If you're able to imagine each successing contractor building on the work of the preceding one, you excavate the ground and you create the footer, you pour the concrete in the footer, the Mason comes in and he puts the block on the footer, the framers put the top plate on the block and then they frame the floor and then they frame the walls. And it goes from there, each one building on the other's work. Each completes the purpose of the subcontractor based upon or built upon the other subcontractor that came before. And this is similar to the work of the Trinity. You don't see the excavator around when the roofers there. That's the point. The sun completed his work, his initial incarnate work. The spirit now builds on that work by regenerating. sanctifying and now consoling the church while we are heal here pilgrim being pilgrims on earth And the church needs the Spirit in his consolation, but also in his sanctification. Two main reasons you see in the passage here. If you take a look, for instance, look over on chapter 15 real quick in verse 26. This is a long discourse that Jesus gives. About what he's doing, the work that he's doing with the Father, and now he'll be sending the Spirit. I'd encourage you to read 14 all the way through 17 when you get home today. And look at the Trinity in there doing all of their work, building on each other's works. If you see in verse 1526, you can see the kind of help that the Spirit intends for Christ to bring And that the Spirit Himself will bring. The helper comes, verse 26, whom I shall send to you from the Father. You see the sending? From the Father, the Spirit of Truth, who proceeds from the Father. He will testify of me, and you also will bear witness because you have been with me from the beginning. Here he's speaking about the witnessing aspect of the Holy Spirit, which I spoke about last Advent. And that is one way in which the Spirit is to help the church. He is seen as an advocate. You know, the word behind all this for the spirit is pericole, has two main meanings, advocate or comforter. And you have to decide according to the context which he's speaking of. And I think obviously here when they're being brought before judges or kicked out of synagogues. That they are very concerned about being able to witness to the gospel, to the truth of it, to stand up for the truth. And he brings that out here. You can also see it in verse 8. of our passage. Chapter 16, verse 8. Look at what's going on here. It's not in relationship to the church primarily that the Spirit is given. But it's to the church for the sake of the world, verse 8. And when he comes, he will convict the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. And then he explains those things. So the one way in which we see here in this passage is that the Spirit helps the church. is being able to convict the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. He works with the church to have a witnessing and prophetic voice to the culture, particularly when they're under persecution. But it's not that is not our focus this morning. I just wanted to highlight that for you. What we're focused on is the other aspect that we see here in this passage, and that is the spirit of consolation. Christ must go, his bodily presence must leave, but he sends the Spirit not only to help us as witnesses, but to help the church in her sorrow. That's the focus that you see primarily of Jesus being concerned in 5, 6, and 7. Verse 6, but because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. You see the tenderness of the Savior? Sorrow has filled your heart. I will send someone to help you with your sorrow. And so it is the spirit of consolation. It's confirmed. The word helper has two meanings: comforter or advocate. He obviously means comforter here in this one specific location Jesus tells them about the Spirit as a remedy to their sorrow in verse 6, as I've showed you. And Jesus chose the remedy in chapter 14, if you want to flip to it In chapter 14, verses 25 through 27, he's concerned about their sorrow again. He who does not love me does not keep my words, and the word which you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. These things I have spoken to you while being present with you, but the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to remembrance all things that I said to you. Peace I leave with you My peace I give to you. You see that? See that comfort, that peace that Jesus is sending to us with his spirit? I think this can be difficult for us to perhaps find significant as a church. We see the significance of Jesus being present. We can feel that. Some people express it this way. I'd just like to give him a hug I'd just like to see his face. And one day, Christian, you will see him face to face. But when I say Jesus must leave, and it's of greater advantage for the Spirit to come to you, you scratch your head. How could that be? And then I say, because he gives you consolation, he helps you in your sorrow, and you say, I'm still listening, because that doesn't seem very significant to me. I've heard someone say recently, however, that life is more severe than I had anticipated. Have you ever said that statement? Maybe not even consciously Life is more severe than I anticipated it. Do you agree with that? If someone asked you, how should I make it through this severe life, what would you say to them? Popcorn and Netflix? How do you get through this severe life? Chocolate and coffee? Trust in God. Trust in God? Would you think to tell them That they should be seeking comfort or consolation from the Holy Spirit. That's not usually the first answer that we give because the advantages of his consolation are often overlooked. And I think that's in part because we console ourselves in something else before he even has a chance So, what I want to do in the last point is I just want to show you some advantages of his consolation. And you can see on your list there that the first one is afflictions or chastenings. And I bring this up because of the obvious affliction in the context in verses 1 through 4 of chapter 16. They're obviously he's prophesying and saying, you will come under affliction. You will come under chastenings. James says, consider the trial. We see in the book of Hebrews the trial of an entire congregation. There are obvious afflictions that will go on until Christ's bodily return And we are to be turning. Jesus says, I send him in your sorrow, in your affliction. And so if you have affliction, if you have trials in your life, he's given to you for that. Now if you want, you can flip to Hebrews chapter twelve verse five. If you don't want, I'm just going to read it to you anyway. Here it's speaking about affliction and chastening in Hebrews 12:5. And it points something out that's really important for us for diagnosis this morning as we seek to know the advantages of his consolation. And you have forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as sons. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him. Now there are two things that are listed there that can happen in affliction, therefore. You could either despise God because of what you were going through. And despise him means that you feel contempt, you feel anger, or you feel deep revulsion at his governance of you in your life. And this is what it looks like. Or you may collapse. That was the other option in Hebrews 12. 5. You may lose hope often in self-pity, and you would buckle in your knees You will fall to the ground. You will give up. And the answer to both of these is the consolation of the Spirit Particularly when we understand how the Spirit consoles. The Spirit will always take from God's word and seal it upon your heart. And then it ends up being the remedy or solution to these two problems and any other problem that would arise for us. You can see this particularly in our text. I still have many things to say to you, verse 12, but you cannot bear them now. However, when he, the Spirit of truth, has come, he will guide you into all truth. For he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will tell you things to come. He will glorify me, for he will take of what is mine and he will declare it to you. Bringing the word to your mind, illuminating your mind, convicting your heart and sealing it upon you. And what is it that he must seal upon you in a time of affliction, in a time of chastening, in a time of raising your fist or the buckling of your knees? It's that the Father loves you. The problem with both the buckling of the knees and the raising of the fist is you have become convinced that God does not really love you. You do not believe the love of the Father. And when you begin to doubt His love, when the things start to creep in on your mind You have these lenses on it, and everything that you look at, it either makes you more angry, and it's another evidence of his incompetence, or it makes you more sad, and nothing will ever go right, and you drown in self-pity The waves crash over your head and you can't get abreast. All because you don't think that the Father loves you, that He's uncaring. What the Spirit does is he takes the Word of God and he applies them to your heart. He says this, he says, but God demonstrates And he takes Romans 5. 8 and he says, but God demonstrates, God the Father demonstrates his own love towards you, and that while you were a sinner, Christ died for you. Will you consider Christ again and that he was sent by the love of the Father? Can you really say that the Father doesn't love you when you see him? And you say, well, I'm wrestling with that. I don't really get it. It's not dawning on me. That's why you need the spirit of consolation. It is only He that can write the words of God upon your heart. You must cry out to him, console me. I know the Father loves me, but I don't know. I believe, but help me in my unbelief. And then we will say, How precious is your loving kindness, O God! And therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of your way. That's a psalm. That's from Psalm 36:7. Don't you want to be like that human being? Then you need a spirit of consolation. He consoles you to understand the love of the Father in a way that changes everything. You can palpably and tangibly feel and taste it. You taste that the Lord is good. That's the first action that He takes in our afflictions and our chastenings. There are so many things that we could say about that. I love this the picture recently given to me by a preacher named Joan Novison. He was saying that he's always struggled, particularly in affliction. He had his hand mangled and he was a classical guitarist and now he can't play anymore. It's really changed his life. And the first thing that he went to in this affliction was he despised the Father, and then he would go into self-pity and he would go in and out and he didn't he didn't know what to do to how to keep the love of the Father. And so he just He learned from the Psalms, Psalm 40 through 43, that he has to pile-drive the love of the Father into his heart by the power of the Spirit in worship. And he would come up with these images. And originally it would just be the father frowning on him, the father being on vacation, and then the image turned into this. When waves like sea billows roll, and we feel like we can't catch our breath. He remembers an image of going to the beach, going to the ocean, and his father saying, go play. And he's just a little guy and he sees the waves. And they're terrifying to him. And he says, Go play with you crazy. I think I'll stay up here in the sand. But the father knows all all the the benefit that he's missing. And so the father takes him. And you see this beautiful picture now of how he truly believes about the father because the father in love picks picks him up as the young child. And he swings them into the waves so that he can enjoy it in perfect rest, in the perfect presence and disciplined presence of God. And that's the picture that he has now when he's in affliction. Not that God has left him, but that God swings him into the waves of suffering and love. And then he quoted Charles Spurgeon and he said, Don't you ever despise the wave that crashes you against the rock of ages. And that is very powerful. Do you see what he's doing there? He's saying these words, he's quoting Psalms, he's worshiping, and he's praying, Spirit, seal it to my heart that the Father loves me in my afflictions and in my chastenings. Don't let me despise him. Don't let my knees buckle. Let me stand up. You can also see this in sin, not just affliction. Another Psalm, Psalm 414, the Psalmist In verse 4 says, Lord, be merciful to me, heal my soul, for I have sinned against you. Have you ever said that? Have you ever felt sin on your soul? Have you ever said this to yourself? You watch yourself sin and you say, How did I start doing this? Or you say this, how did I ever start this again? I thought this was gone. Or you say, how could I have been doing this for so long? The presence of sin And then we see the spirit of consolation come in at this very moment. And this is what he says in Romans 8, 15 through 16. For you did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the spirit of adoption, by whom we cry out. By his power of consolation, being convinced of the love of the Father, we say, Abba, Father. And it goes on. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. Although we sin, although we are pushed down by our sin, although we are discouraged because Of the difficulty that we're having with this besetting sin, the Spirit comes in and he souls and he consoles and he says, You are my son. You are my daughter. We will fight this together. We'll raise the knife together. Do you see the consoling effect that is present there? Not only for affliction, but also for sin. And then lastly, let me end with this one and uh creature comforts. Oh, this is a difficult one. Because America offers you everything. You know how easy it is for you to be comforted by creature comforts? You could see all the things that distract you and comfort you before the Spirit could actually comfort you. How will you ever recover from your distractions and truly delight in God as the greatest of all goods? We have in the bottom of our heart a desire to love God above all, to see Him as more glorious and beautiful than all. And yet the moment that we say it, Something distracts us out of the corner of our eyes, and now that is our love. Well, I could be comforted by the Spirit, but I think I will just choose this. Whatever it is. I'll rest in my own competence or whatever it might be. I'll rest that I'm not as bad as my neighbor. I'll rest that I'm going on vacation in two weeks, this affliction will eventually end But here the Spirit consoles you here too, and he makes you into a person that would say something like this from Psalm 42, 1 and 2, As the deer pants for the water brook, so pants my soul for you. O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. St. Augustine gives an example of a man walking on a path to the celestial city. And he's walking along and he's very excited. He can see the towering the towering castle where the king resides. But then he notices a glare on the bottom, and there's these beautiful gem stones on the side. that just flicker in light. And so he stops and he plays with the stones. And I think in the story he actually dies there. Never making it to the city. And that's the picture that we should have with our creature comforts and the consoling work of the Holy Spirit. This is what He's seeking to do in you right now, specifically as an American. He wants you to value Jesus Christ and God the Father and the Holy Spirit more than anything this world would ever offer to you. More than your father or your mother or your wife or your husband or your cousins or your children, more than anything in the world. He wants you to say this. Jesus Christ, the Trinity, is of incomparable excellence to me, and I would give up everything but that. I'd give up with Moses all the treasures of Egypt just to be with Jesus Christ. And that is what the Spirit is working in you also. He's consoling you, and this is what it means. He means he's consoling you with the remedies of Jesus Christ and not the remedies of the world, and he will work with you until you love Jesus more than the world, and Jesus is consolation more than the consolations of this world Now, can you please somebody tell me those aren't some advantages? These are the advantages that are given to you. Jesus must leave. Do you see why? You see why Jesus must, his bodily presence must go, and he must send his spirit to be with us to console us? At this time, the presence of the Holy Spirit is our consolation. Is of greater advantage to the church than Christ's bodily presence. That's the big idea Anybody ever dine with Quakers? It doesn't count if you just had Quaker oatmeal. That's not dining with a real Quaker. Although you can see the guy with the hat, that's a Quaker. Right? Yeah. The Quakers were really into the Spirit. But what they did was they said that the Spirit can be separated from His Word. They believed there was a divine inner light that would expand revelation, and that we could receive further words from the Spirit. But I want you to notice something. I want you to notice that the Spirit always accompanies his word. And notice the words that he has accompanied in this sermon. Notice all of the advantages again. Think of them: the affliction, the sin, the creature comforts. What's the bottom line in all of them? What's the word that He always brings to you? It's the sermon series. Do you see it? It's the benediction that we give every Sunday. He says, I'm going to teach you about the love of the Father. Because you've forgotten. Or he says, you need to know about the grace of the Sun today, because you've forgotten. And he seals it to your heart and he renews it to your mind. Now here is a song I'll end with, and then we'll stand and we'll sing our final song. Listen to this. This is actually a prayer, and I'm going to pray this for you right now. And I'd ask that you would keep the prayer going. Do you need consolation? Pray that the spirit of consolation would enter into your life and console you in these areas. Have you forgotten the love of the Father or the grace of the Son in a specific domain of your life? Pray that the Holy Spirit would console you in those things. Stop accepting cheap counterfeits. Holy Ghost, here is my prayer for you, for us. Holy Ghost, dispel our sadness. Pierce the clouds of sinful night. Come thou source of sweetest gladness. Breathe thy life and spread thy light. Loving Spirit, God of peace, great distributor of grace. Rest upon this congregation. Hear, oh, hear, our supplication. Please pray with me Father, through Jesus Christ and by the power of the Spirit, we lift up prayers to you and we ask for the consolation of the Spirit. That we would find your love, Father, the greatest love in all the heavens and all the earth. That we would find your grace, Lord Jesus Christ, and the gifts that you give us as your church, the greatest treasure, and that we would sell everything. Holy Spirit, work in our hearts a greater faith. Seal to us the love of God and the grace of the Son. We ask these things for His glory. Amen.