N start at the beginning, but our focus is on one part of verse eleven this evening Jude, a bond servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those who are called sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ. Mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you. Beloved, while I was very diligent to write to you concerning concerning our common salvation, I found it necessary to write to you exhorting you to contend earnestly for the faith which was once for all delivered to the saints. For certain men have crept in unnoticed, who long ago were marked out for this condemnation. Ungodly men. who turn the grace of our God into lewdness and deny the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. But I want to remind you, though you once knew this, that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe. And the angels who did not keep their proper domain, but left their own abode, he has reserved an everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment of the great day. As Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them in a similar manner to these, having given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh, are set forth as an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Likewise also, these dreamers defile the flesh, reject authority, and speak evil of dignitaries. Yet Michael the Archangel, in contending with the devil, when he disputed about the body of Moses, dared not bring against him a reviling accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke you. But these speak evil of whatever they do not know, and whatever they know naturally, like brute beasts, in these things they corrupt themselves. Woe to them. For they have gone in the way of Cain, have run greedily in the era of Balaam or Balaam for prophet and perished in the rebellion of Korah. Let us pray. Father, I pray that You would use these paradigms that you have given to your people for so long now that you would use them likewise with us, that you would strengthen us. In the face of deception, in the face of smooth words and likable personalities. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Over the last several weeks, we have sat under Jude's wisdom. His goal is for us to contend for the faith. He wants us to run the race entirely And he wants us to run the race well. And this means that we must be on guard against those who, in the name of freedom and liberty, set aside God's law and order. Last week we observed that the enemies of the kingdom are like three roots which support an evil tree. The first root was Cain. And Cain is a heretic in thought and deed, but to support his false ways, he does not turn to the truth as some other heretics try to do, but instead to cruelty and to violence. In each generation, Cain rises and persecutes Christ's followers. There are many Cains that have risen this day in Afghanistan itself. We nevertheless, including our brothers and sisters in that land, have hope because Christ will interrupt even temporarily. providing relief to his bride and eventually putting an end to the line of Cain upon his return. Our prayer time for All of really the ables in Afghanistan, if you will, who are under threat of murder and cruelty will be at the end and will dedicate the whole time to that under the petitions of the Lord's Prayer. Tonight we turn to the second root of evil, which is Balaam. This is another paradigm. And by remembering his history Noticing the description in this passage and in a few other passages, you should get a pretty good picture of who this paradigm is. Part of the purpose of having paradigms in the church is so that you'd be able to recognize different people in your own life. You notice that there are certain gifts that God has given to us where we can kind of recognize what is dangerous and what is safe? And that happens in human culture also, or within the culture of the scriptures. If you were to look at early Jewish literature, this gentleman was known as Balaam the villain. Everyone would have known it. All the kids would have known it. And it's good for us to know it now and for our kids to know a bad character. Or a villain. And so let's do so through the history, through the noticing of the description in this passage, and some other passages that are talking about the same Scenario. The Elm was a prophet who became willing to curse God's people for money. That's what you saw there with the conversation between the donkey and him. You can read his full story in Numbers as well as some other scattered portions of scriptures. He also, if you do sort through all that is said about him, He also taught another nation run by Balak how to lead Israel straight into sin. He seemed to be the cause of the sexual immorality into which Israel fell at a certain time. And here seems to be the main point amongst it all that separates him from Cain. Balaam is doing all of this for his lust of money, wealth, and riches, profit. Perhaps its personal standing also amongst the nations. You know, we can see this even just by considering his history by way of Peter. Peter 2, verse 15 through 16 uses this paradigm also. to describe this this kind of heretic or apostate. They have forsaken the right way and gone astray. So picture a path and these folks have gone to the left or they have gone to the right. You notice that kind of language, for example, in the Balaam story itself, that he cannot go to the left or to the right at that moment. And Peter continues saying, They have forsaken the right way and gone astray, following the way of Balaam, the son of Baar, who love the wages of unrighteousness. But he was rebuked for his iniquity. A dumb donkey, speaking with a man's voice, restrained the madness of the prophet. Of course, you see the same kind of language with the same causes and the same villainy with not only within history but within our passage. Jude speaks the same way, saying, Those who are causing trouble in the church overflow, or run greedily, overflow with greed in the error of Balaam. for ungodly prophet. You see that present there also. And then in other passages this is going to be picked up. I'll just give you two. For example, Paul in 1 Timothy. Listen to his description of these kinds. of villains. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and harmful lusts Which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil You can see why he's one of the three main roots here to the evil tree, just by that statement, for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness. And pierced themselves through with many sorrows. I'm wondering, in fact, I'm pretty certain that's a almost veiled reference to Absalom being pierced for the way he ran astray against his father David. You can see how the lust for something takes over a person whether it's a lust for money or a lust for this or a lust for that. And here is one more from Romans chapter 16, verses 17 through 18. Now I urge you, brethren, note those who cause divisions and offenses. Now we're starting to get into apostates and heretics and how they act in the church Contrary to the doctrine which you learned, and avoid them. Avoid them. For those who are such do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ but their own appetites. You see the cravings and the lust, says their own bellies, and by smooth words and flattering speech deceive the hearts of the simple So these are villains that are paradigms given to us. And here in Jude specifically, it is a group of teachers that have entered the church. We've learned already about them that they are rearranging the true mosaic of God's Word. What are we to believe concerning God? And what does God require of us? They're shuffling that all around. Perhaps even in the name of God. They are leading people into a disordered way of living. If you want to use our image, they're destroying Dalton Abbey. Now, why are they doing this? What is their motivation? It is not seeking to obey the Lord Jesus Christ in truth. They instead are trying to make money or a name for themselves, or the list goes on with the kinds of lusts that bait men and women away from the truth. They are taking advantage of God's word and God's people for worldly gain or ungodly profit. These are the kind of villains that have always been set before the church, and I would encourage you this evening with that one word: avoid, or two, avoid them. And so taking all of those things into consideration, as well as the earlier teaching that we've already received from Jude, I'd like you to hear this statement. Do not be arrogant by putting yourself under false teaching, thinking you can resist their deception. Avoid them. And simply entrust yourself to the faith once for all committed to the saints. And I'll say that to you one more time because it's a it's kind of a doctrinal charge that is a summary of what we're hearing so far from Jude, including a little bit later on in his letter. Don't be arrogant by putting yourself under false teaching, thinking you can resist their deception. Avoid them and simply entrust yourself to the faith once for all committed to the saints. What I'd like to do is just share with you a little bit of personal experience and then lessons learned on this. I have watched some people start down the road of teaching against the pattern of sound words and the faith. And as I watched more and more closely, God in His grace gave me the eyes to see that their real motivation was not truth or in honoring Christ. The real motivation was for prestige or honor. And I wonder if you have experiences like this. Sometimes God will just give us a kind of basic intuition as to the real motives of human beings On the outside, these people make it look like truth is their only concern. And you're the one that doesn't actually care about truth. And they are quite convincing. And yet underneath is a raging lust for something that is not truth at all. It is something beyond it that is just a selfish ambition for respect, for example. If God were to make the hearts plain, and he does, but when he does, what you would see is that this group of people Would want you to worship them, to bow down and tell them how great and honored they are in your eyes. That they are the esteem and the glittering gold of the community And that we owe them everything. Oh, we would be so confused without you. We wouldn't understand the scriptures unless you were in our midst. And oh, the the tangled fishing knots of our lives on how we're supposed to run our families, you have cut all the knots and given us liberty and freedom. That's what they would wish to hear from us. And here's the interesting thing though, though we can see this within individuals When I watch the same group of people or a person sit down with people who have been trained in the faith for much time. They would start admitting that this person is making several good points in their argument. I would watch one person after another not really be able to refute what they're saying. I would watch one person after another start to have doubts about their own orthodox position. Maybe I've got it wrong. And those who are unstable or those who are overconfident, especially you who are young You will engage in conversation thinking that you can handle the heretic. But you know I watch you time and time again. And I watched the words of the proverb come true. The words of a slanderer are like tasty tidbits, and they go down into the deepest parts of our soul. Among those people who thought they could avoid the contagion, they began to be people who were spreading the disease. Now that's a personal anecdote, and it starts to show you just even within real time and my experience within the church the truth of the instruction that we have already received in the the scriptures that this is dangerous and you need to avoid folks that are like this. And so I'll share with you some lessons learned. And that basic lesson I've already given to you. And is this: I'll put it just a little bit of a different way. We should not be arrogant. Entertaining heretical thinking, thinking that we are strong enough to resist the deception. Oh, I'll straighten them out. Oh, I know my scriptures. Oh, I can't wait to debate. Oh, I'll have them in my home. We should not be so arrogant. As to what we are capable of. You know, they're called deceivers, not try-to-deceivers. They're called deceivers for a reason. They have a real knack at it. I want to commend to you a proverb in support of this main proposition I'm giving you tonight about not being arrogant, not entertaining heretical thinking, and avoiding them. Proverbs 26, 26, though his hatred is covered by deceit, his wickedness will be revealed before the assembly. Now I've read that to you before. And there's all kinds of parts to this section of the Proverbs, Proverbs 26. I'd encourage you to read that section. But 26, 26, though his hatred is covered by deceit. Here we have a wolf in sheep's clothing, but nevertheless his wickedness will be revealed before the assembly There is a community of people that God has given to this earth that will recognize the error, tell you that they are a villain, and they will show you the established truth Wickedness is revealed before the assembly. What this means, especially in the context of Jude, is that the church already has the truth. to acknowledge who is the villain and then they can point you to orthodoxy. We don't need any new thoughts. One of my professors said, Jesse, if you are ever I think it's a a well-known statement, so he's not the only one that said it, but he says, if you're ever novel in your teaching, you are officially a heretic. I thought, great, that's really comforting as I enter into the pastorate. But it is. We don't need to reconsider the fundamentals of the Christian religion. And this is really Jude's whole point, all the way up to this time, is that we have folks that are bringing novel things into the church for nefarious reasons. They are grumblers, complainers, walking according to their own lusts. That will problem is always present in the description of the heretic. And they mouth great swelling words, flattering people to gain advantage. But you, beloved, remember the words which were spoken before by the apostles. of our Lord Jesus Christ. It's just that simple. That's Jude, verses 16 and 17. But you, beloved Just remember the words which were already spoken before by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. He doesn't say give them a hearing. He doesn't say be polite and see if they have something new to add. Maybe the entire church over the last 2,000 years missed something. Doesn't say that. Doesn't say work through every argument with them. It doesn't say, well, we'll both submit to logic and see who wins. He just says, you already have the truth. Stick with it. Stick with what the church has always had. Judas again giving us his wisdom here, and it ends up being far more stable and simple than we could ever imagine. He's not really asking much of you except to just obey what God has given. Not to be super smart or have PhDs in order to be able to figure these things out, but to just commit yourself to the scriptures as the apostles teach. We have lessons learned and seeing even in our own my own experience that these things come true that Jude is worried about. And then we have lessons learned mostly from the Proverbs, but also from Jude himself. And it's really just the same thing that we started off with. It was a kind of doctrinal charge to you all. I beg you to not be arrogant, especially those of you who are young. Don't be conceited. Don't be arrogant by putting yourself under false teaching, thinking that you can resist their deception. Instead, avoid them and just be content in trusting yourself to the faith once for all committed to the saints. Please join me in a brief prayer