19. We're going to be looking at the Het stanza today. It starts in verse 57. Go ahead and open your copy of God's Word. God's word to God's people, Psalm 119, starting in verse 57, ending at verse 64. You are my portion, O Lord. I have said that I would keep your words. I entreated your favor with my whole heart. Be merciful to me according to your word. I thought about my ways and turned my feet to your testimonies. I made haste and did not delay to keep your commandments. The cords of the wicked have bound me, but I have not forgotten your law. At midnight I will rise to give thanks to you, because of your righteous judgments. I am a companion of all who fear you, and of those who keep your precepts. The earth, O Lord, is full of your mercy. Teach me your statutes. Let us pray. Our God in heaven, Lord, thank you for this word. Thank you for inspiring it. Thank you for preserving it. Thank you for giving it to us. And ordaining that tonight this is what we would study and learn from together. We pray, Father, that you will enlighten our minds in the knowledge of Christ through this scripture. We pray it in his name. Amen. Please be seated. So have you ever had a friend or maybe a spouse who was engaged in a really strange kind of diet? Maybe a new kind of diet. They had uh raw Brussels sprouts, kale, bean sprouts, salad, and they're trying to convince you how good it is. And they take a bite And their face twists up and they go, It's great, you want to try it. Does that make you want to try it? Or how about uh you ever have any of those friends who try to convince you that The apple cider vinegar thing is what you should do. Chug eight ounces of apple cider vinegar every morning, afternoon, and night. And you go, oh, I'll think about that. And then you watch somebody do it. Doesn't make you want to do it, does it? Well when I was in college, I studied music performance. I played an instrument called the euphonium, like a small tuba. And my professor, his name was Tyrone Breuniger, he was amazing. He could play anything that was written for any instrument on the euphonium. Didn't matter if it was written for it or not. And uh I played with him in a brass band and This brass band would sight-read some really great music. And we would do this about every season. We'd read through about 10 pieces. Well, one of these practices We got ten pieces of music, and I started looking at the first one, and oh, this is fun. I noticed Tyrone flip, flip, flip, flip, and then I saw him sit up straight. And I looked at him, and as he's looking at this piece of music, I see his eyes go wide, and he starts going, stretching out his ombudshare, getting himself ready. And as I looked at this part, and I looked at Tyrone, I said, if this man can play anything, and he's getting himself really prepared, he was he was girding up his musical loins, if Tyrone's gonna be like this, maybe I should too. And the point I'm trying to get across, brothers and sisters, is that the example that's set before us really impacts us, doesn't it? The example, especially of somebody that we look up to, can really influence how we choose to be, how we choose to behave. Now, the previous stanzas that we've looked at, have examined, that we've examined together, have all been examples of how we should pray, how we should entreat the Lord and seek his blessing through his word. Well, this stanza, the stanza, is just a little bit different. And though it is still an example for us, it is a prayer of commitment that shows us how we too can show our commitment to God. This prayer of commitment helps us to understand what God has done for us and what he is accomplishing through his sovereign will. Brothers and sisters, in this stanza tonight from Psalm 119, we will see that God blesses his people with a commitment to his word, which leads to a life of blessed contentment. Psalm 119, verses 57 through 64, will teach us tonight that God blesses his people with a commitment to his word, which leads to a life of blessed contentment. We're going to see how this works out, and you may have guessed what the two divisions might be. We're going to first look at verses 57 to 60 and see a commitment to God's Word. And then from the example of the psalmist, we'll look at verses 61 and 64, and we will see the life of blessed contentment. So, first, look with me at verses 57 to 60, and we will see that God blesses his people. With a commitment to his word. This commitment to God's word is a commitment to God Himself. See what it says there in verse 57. The psalmist says, you are my portion, O Lord. I have said that I would keep your words. God is our portion. We've already heard this several times tonight in the service. What does it mean? Well, the portion means that God is our inheritance. He is our possessions. He is our future. He is our security. The Hebrew, because of how the language works, can be a little challenging to translate. And there's many multiple valid ways that you can translate what's there in the original. The NKJV divides it in a perfectly adequate way for us. It makes two statements that have a cause-effect relationship. God is the portion of the psalmist. And so the psalmist is committed to keeping his words. If you're reading from the ESV, you'll see that it says, it says it just a little differently. It says, the Lord is my portion, I promise to keep your words. Well, there's another valid translation, and this is the one that I prefer because it keeps track of what's actually in the language there, and we can talk more about that if you're inclined to do that over dinner. But this translation that I like is, my portion, O Lord, I have said is to keep your words. This means that the emphasis is on the Lord as the sole source of our present and future security, and true believers show such a belief by their commitment to his word. The portion, the Lord is their portion, and that portion is keeping God's word. This is what distinguishes the people of God from all other people in all ages. The Lord Jesus Himself says, my sheep hear my voice. And I know them, and they follow me, and I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall anyone snatch them out of my hand. This is John chapter 10. He says in John chapter 14, if you love me, what does he say? Keep my commandments. For the sheep to know the Savior's voice, for the sheep to keep the Savior's commandments, they have to hear it, right? And that takes a commitment to God's word Now, many generations before Jesus, Moses gave it to us like this. He says in Deuteronomy 11, therefore You shall love the Lord your God and keep his charge, his statutes, his judgments, and his commandments always. This is not something new that the psalmist is delivering to us. The people of God are committed to God, and that means that they are committed to his word. Well, such a commitment to God's word produces in his people a sincere humility. And we see that it is sincere by the psalmist's example of his wholehearted prayer. Look there at the first part of verse 58. He says, I entreated your favor with my whole heart. It's a recognition with every fiber of our being that what we most need is God to intervene. in our lives and to show us his favor. Now favor is an important word. It's literally God's face Maybe you'll remember the benediction that Pastor Jesse gave us this morning. It's the ironic benediction from Numbers chapter 6. The Lord bless you and keep you, the Lord make his face shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. Having God's face turned to us, his favor shown to us, is so vitally important that in his word, our Lord commands it. commands that, God turning his face to them. He commands that to be the way that the priests bless God's people. That's pretty important. Now, some may think that they seek God's favor, but they don't follow the example from the psalmist. Exactly, do they? Sometimes they hedge their bets. It's not a wholehearted entreating of God. And some people do this, they hedge their bets in prayer because they don't actually believe that what they most need. is God's determined favor for God to determine how to bless you. Perhaps they trust so much in themselves that they They don't really pray this way. They pray maybe sort of like Lord, I I know I can take care of everything you've put before me if you could just give me a little more money. So Lord, bless me with money. Or maybe you've prayed a prayer similar to this, which in my younger days I certainly have. Lord, if you would just send this person to me, I have the words that can change their mind. I have the argument that can change them from their ways. Brothers and sisters, what we most need, what every human being most needs. eight as the psalmist praise and shows us is God's unmerited favor This is what we need. And to pray this way is to know absolutely that you are wholly inadequate to the task of being so perfect in your obedience that God would have to bless you. It is God's unmerited favor that the psalmist shows us we need. That's the sincerity of it, the wholehearted prayer. But there's also a humility, a true humility. We see in the second part of verse 58 that the psalmist entreats the Lord with his whole heart for his gracious mercy. Be merciful to me according to your word. He's sure of his unfitness to receive God's grace, which is why he bases his plea on that to which he has committed himself, God's word. The Lord promises to show mercy unto the thousands of generations of them who love him and keep his commandments. He promises to forget the sins of his people. He promises to bury them in the depths of the sea. To remember them no more. This is amazing grace and mercy, and it is fulfilled in Christ Jesus. To entreat God with our whole hearts for Him to be merciful to us according to His Word is to trust. the entirety of the Holy Scriptures and their singular message, God's revealed plan of redemption for his people. To pray this way is to show yourself committed to God's word And this commitment to God's Word, a commitment to God's plan, His sovereign plan, then empowers us to true self-examination and swift action. Take a look at verse uh 59, where we first see that self-examination. I thought about my ways, and I turned my feet to your testimony. testimonies. In God's word we are shown our true nature and the nature of every human being on the planet. Psalm fourteen, verses two to three says, The Lord looks down from heaven upon the children of men to see if there are any who understand who seek God. They have all turned aside. They have together become corrupt. There is none who does good. Not one. In Psalm 130, as we already prayed together, he says, if you, Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? Being committed to God's word, we are unable to tolerate our own delusions of goodness and holiness and purity. And we're unable to tolerate these delusions because we know that we are held to a higher standard than the best of what mankind can give. We are held to the standard of God's word. We are held to the standard of God's testimony. And so we turn our feet. We turn our way. We take our path and we put God's path over it to see where we should go and how we should be. Now, this testimony, the word here that's translated testimony, is a crucial word in the Old Testament. It's the same word for the tent of the testimony or the ark of the testimony. In Exodus chapter 25, verse 16, God says, And you shall put into the ark the testimony. Same word, which I will give you. God's testimony is the standard he expects of his people, the standard that he has set for all of mankind. Only the Son of God, clothing himself in humanity, could live up to that standard. Only the Son of God can be a perfect human free of sin and corruption. Only Jesus Christ's perfect obedience and perfect sacrifice in our place can result in the perfection of body and soul that all Christians will experience. The man or woman who's committed to God's Word, upon examining themselves and comparing their ways with the perfect standard set forth in God's Word Should they find any variance, their commitment to God's word urges them on to swift action, which we see in verse 60. Look there together He says, I made haste and did not delay to keep your commandments. When we find that we are out of accord with God's word, we must not let it go. We must not give it some time, as though it's just going to fix itself. Once the Spirit of God convicts us of sin, we must confess it. And repent of it. We must, out of a true sense of our sin and an apprehension of the mercy of God in Jesus Christ. Christ, with grief and hatred of our sin, turn from it unto God, with full purpose of and endeavor after new obedience. That's the shorter catechism's definition of repentance unto life. Most often, brothers and sisters, and get really pay attention to this. Most often in your life, true repentance is going to look like obedience because true repentance is obedience. Do you get that? Most often in your life, true repentance from your sin will look like obedience to God's testimonies and God's laws. This is the swift action of one who is committed to God's Word. Because to be committed to God is to be committed to His Word. And that commitment produces a sincere humility. That moves us to examine ourselves, to see where we are wanting, and to turn to Christ according to God's word in repentance and new obedience. Isn't that amazing? Is that not amazing that our God can take worthless sinners? He can expose us to his words, his voice, and give us new life by his spirit, convincing us of our sin and our misery The Holy Spirit shows us Christ magnified throughout the scriptures, and with the seed of faith, he plants in us new life. Justified before the Father, forgiven of all our sin and counted righteous because of Jesus, of what then can we be afraid? What can threaten us? What is dangerous to us? Well, if we're honest with ourselves, sometimes it can seem like a great many things threaten us, and there's a great many dangers to the Christian. Life can feel like it's out of our control. It can sometimes feel like it's us, Contramundi, against the whole world. Well, this is where we begin to see the immensely practical value that a commitment to God's Word can have for the Christian life. Brothers and sisters, let's look at verses 61 and 64. the second half of this stanza, and we will see that it pleases God through his commitment to his word to produce in his people a blessed contentment. Now, this blessed contentment is first seen in verse 61, and it's seen in the perseverance and endurance of God's people. In their commitment to his word, despite suffering afflictions and persecutions. See it there? It says that the cords of the wicked have bound me, but I have not forgotten your law The bonds or the cords or this word most often is translated as the pains. It's translated in many other psalms of the pains of death, the pains of hell, the pains of evil and suffering. These chords, these are things that that restrict us, that restrict our freedom. Perhaps it's the pressure of the surrounding peoples who are not committed to God's word, and they pressure God's people to conform to their view of reality. It could even be the persecution that these unbelieving societies inflict on God's people by legislating heinous policies. Even legalizing and encouraging evil actions and activities that are directly contrary to God's word. Yet the blessed contentment of God's people is evident in that their commitment to His word endures. They persevere. They know that there is no fault in God's word which needs to be corrected by the collective wisdom of the ungodly society in which they live. They know that there is no other source of truth and wisdom except God's revelation of himself. Being blessed by God with a commitment to his word, God's people are blessed with contentment in his word. And in his way, needing no guidance or advice from the world around him. Brothers and sisters, The scriptures tell us what we are to believe about God and what duty He requires of us. We do not need any document from any other source, from any other place, to tell us what we're to believe and tell us how we are to run our lives. It's God's word alone that has been given to us for this purpose. And a commitment to it really does produce a blessed contentment. We'll see this again. It becomes evident In the constant thankfulness and praise of God's people. Look at verse 62. At midnight I will rise to give thanks to you because of your righteous judgments. This is a constant feature in the life of those committed to God's Word. There is no time that is inappropriate to worship the living God. Every second of every day is the perfect opportunity to praise God and to give Him thanks. I mean this seriously. No matter the occasion. Are you on vacation? Praise God. You can worship and praise the Lord. Are you in an airplane stuck on a tarmac? You can worship and you can praise the Lord. Are you at a funeral? You can praise the Lord. You can give him thanks. Are you having an operation? Have you had a very difficult diagnosis? Have you not spoken to your son or daughter in 30 years? Every opportunity, you can still pray. Praise and thank God. Now, what is the reason for this thankfulness and praise? God's word, his righteous judgments God is our portion, our security. He's our God. We are his people. He has decreed this to be so. It's his righteous judgment that makes this true. Even being awoken in the middle of the night can be cause to praise God and give him thanks for that amazing reality. Now I don't I don't say that lightly. I know that for a great many people, a full night's sleep is just a dream. I know that a lot of people suffer from insomnia, and that there can be many different causes for that. But when sleep eludes you, it's not an opportunity to curse God. It's not an opportunity to be angry. And whoever it is that kept you up, or the work that God's put before you that makes you think about it, or the anxieties that are before you because of your life. It's an opportunity to praise God for his righteous judgments. To praise him and thank him for his unmerited grace and mercy. It can also be the occasion to entreat him with your whole heart for his favor, for yourselves, for those whom you love. Every opportunity is the perfect opportunity to praise God The blessed contentment of those committed to God's word is then made evident by their true sense of identity and kinship with God's people. Do you see that in verse 63? I am a companion of all who fear you, and of those who keep your precepts. Brothers and sisters, we are not alone in receiving the mercy God promises in His Word. We are saved into a great host of believers, into the great family of God. We are adopted. All those who fear the Lord, all those who are committed to his word, these are our companions, these are our friends. The blessed contentment is seen in embracing this reality. True believers are not ashamed to be part of the church. They are not ashamed to fear God's judgment rather than man's. They are not willing to disobey God's word in order to be made acceptable in the eyes of God. This is what characterizes us And this is who we should be considering our peers. This is our family. These are our friends, those who have this commitment to God's Word. The true believer, the human transformed into a Christian, is committed to God's word, and so he is a keeper of God's precepts and is unashamed to be found obeying God's laws and commandments. Do you proudly identify yourself with God's people? What is the most important aspect of who you are as an individual? Is being a Christian. Integral to who you are as a person? Or does your life have more in common with unbelievers? I'll put it this way: if Christianity became illegal in the United States, Would there be enough evidence to convict you of the crime? Would your co-workers and your colleagues and students where you study Would they say, hmm, maybe they're one of those illegal Christians? Or does your life so resemble that of an unbeliever that the claim could be thrown out of court? Could your defense attorney use your internet search history as evidence of your defense? Could your attorney use your bank statements? and how you use the resources God gave you as evidence in your defense that you're not guilty of this crime. Could you be convicted of the crime of being committed to God's Word? In other words, if they started rounding up your Bibles and it was illegal to buy another one, would that have an impact on your daily life? These are tough things to think about. But they're important and necessary. God has put them in His Word for us to be thinking about it And lastly, brothers and sisters, I want us to look at verse 64 to see that the blessed contentment of those committed to God's Word is evident in their awareness of God's abiding love. That presses them back to his word. Do you see that in verse 64? The earth, O Lord, is full of your mercy. Teach me your statutes The word is full of God's Chesed. Do you remember Chesed? This is the covenantal loving kindness and faithfulness of God. This is his mercy. The true believer, committed to God's Word, cannot look at the cosmos around us and not see God at work. Every aspect of creation. Points us to the all-powerful, all-wise, all-knowing, wholly good God who has made us and takes care of us. God's word tells us that this is the ultimate end of all things. From Habakkuk 2, verse 14: For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. And God has done it. What part of this planet does not have someone that is that is sharing the gospel? Through Christ, the Lord has called to Himself from every tribe, from every tongue, from every nation, from every group of people He has given them a commitment to his word from all the different groups of human beings on this planet. Well, knowing that the Lord has fulfilled this promise, That promise in Havakkuk, just as the psalmist remembers God's testimonies and remembers the utterances that He's made, it brings us back full circle to the beginning of this stanza. We need God to be our portion. We need God to continually teach us his statutes, giving us a commitment to his word. The Lord Jehovah is the one we must fear, and His precepts we must keep. They are His righteous judgments that move us to constant praise and thanksgiving. It is his law we must not forget. His commandments we must keep. His testimonies we must heed. It is because of his word that we can entreat him with our whole hearts to show us grace and mercy. God is our portion. God is your security and your future. This is because of his word. Can you imagine, brothers and sisters, what God's people having this kind of commitment to his word and that kind of blessed contentment that comes from it Can you imagine what that would do for the people around you? We saw in Matthew 5, 16 That the Lord says, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Whenever I see that, I can't help but think about good works in these postmodern categories that the world assigns to them. Good works are giving money, giving charity, giving generously. If we submit to these categories alone, this is why a lot of church deacons end up being relegated only to the task of mercy ministers. Which obviously is not a bad thing. It's not a bad thing to be merciful and to give to give mercy gifts to people. But let me ask you this. What do you think is the proportion of people who call churches because all they want is to talk to someone about their life and about Jesus? What's the proportion of those people to the people that call churches randomly asking for money for this or that bill or this or that situation? Should I ask Pastor Jesse how many times a day he gets a phone call from somebody who just wants to talk about Jesus? Total stranger. And then you should ask the Diaconate how many times they get calls from people who are looking for a bill, help with a bill or something like that. It's not bad to do those kinds of things. Don't get me wrong. I'm just saying that what it is is not a commitment to God that drives people into the church. Strangers is what I mean. Like uh the unchurched. It's not because they want to talk about the Bible. And we pray for our diakonate to have extraordinary discipline and extraordinary intuition So that they will be able to really discern whether or not those who are coming to us for these mercy gifts really need them. But we should not just be thinking about good works in terms of what we can give people or how we can help people Now, I'm going to try to challenge you about good works for a second. And it might sound kind of obvious. Is being committed to God's Word a good work? Is being committed to God's Word one of those good works that we can let our light shine before men, and they will turn and glorify God the Father. Now it might sound unnecessary. You might be thinking to yourself, of course churches are committed to God's Word. But is it a commitment like the psalmist has set an example for us in this stanza? Does the society around us look at the church and see people whose portion is the Lord? Do they see churches resting on God's unmerited favor as their source of security and future? Hope? Do they see church leaders entreating God with their whole heart for His mercy to be shown on themselves and on their churches and on their church members? What would the world think about our God if they saw churches urging their members to conform their lives to God's testimony, the Ten Commandments? It always surprises me when we have lots of candidates coming into the Presbytery, because inevitably the conversation will focus around the second commandment and the fourth commandment. For some reason, it seems like a lot of men training for ministry find it harmless for there to be images of God. Or they find that the Lord's Day is largely like every other day, except we go to church. All of you are aware of the cultural impact that Chick-fil-A has on the world around us, aren't you? At least once a month there's some news article or outlet that says something about Chick-fil-A not opening for some major sporting event. Kanye West wrote a song about it. What would it be like? If the church honored the Lord's Day in that way, what kind of impact would that have? Because when God's people follow God against the world, the world notices. What if all Christians didn't just refrain from Chick-fil-A on Sundays? Do you think other industries would notice? What if all Christians set aside the Lord's Day in such a noticeable way? That entire professional sports teams weren't able to play on Sunday. Think the world would notice that? What if all Christians pulled their children from any organization that was trying to convince them that evil was good and good was evil? Do you think the world would notice? Even more, what if the penalty for doing this is that the world despises you and mocks you? That the world ridicules you and tries to relegate you to some dark corner of society. What if that's what happens? And yet God's people and their commitment to his word do not give in. Do not allow these policies and these ideas to infect their children. What might that cause the world to think about the God that we profess to be our portion, if we could stand up to their persecution willingly, contentedly May our sincere and our constant and our humble prayer be that God would teach us his statutes. That he would give us that commitment to his word that leads to a life of blessed contentment. And may he do this to bring glory to his name and to call many sinners to repentance And that he would grant forgiveness to them in Jesus Christ. Please pray with me. Father in heaven, Thank you. Thank you for your word. Thank you for your scriptures and for the single message of them all. That there is reconciliation for the sinner in Christ. Jesus. We can be redeemed. We can be cleansed and purified and able to come into the presence of the Almighty God. What a beautiful and mighty and awesome picture that is. And Father, what a great example that the psalmist has given us for how we are to be committed to your word and what that produces. Lord, what would our life be like if that kind of commitment were the most important part of our lives? What kind of example would we as a church be to the world around us if they've described us so accurately? Lord, I don't know what we're doing when we try to do anything. But bring people your word It's the only thing that saves. It's the only thing that has the power to save. I pray, Father, that you will give us such a commitment to your word. We here at Seven Run and throughout the PCA, throughout all of your faithful churches, that the world will notice That we really believe that your word is true. We really believe that you are real and have given us that word. And we really believe that our duty and our joy and our privilege is to obey you in all things Father, we pray that you will show us how we can first do this in our own lives, that we may then be an example to others. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.