Together to the book of Judges. We have hit chapter four today with the Deborah Deborah Barak cycle. And so I'll be reading verses one through thirty-one. You'll need your scriptures out. I'll be referencing quite a bit today in terms of argumentation. So four one through thirty I'm sorry. When Ehud was dead, the children of E Israel again did evil in the sight of the Lord. So the Lord sold them into the hand of Jabon, king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor. The commander of his army was Sisera. who dwelt in Herosheth Hagoim. And the children of Israel cried out to the Lord, for Javan had nine hundred chariots of iron. And for twenty years he had harshly oppressed the children of Israel. Now Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, was judging Israel at that time. And she would sit under the palm tree of Deborah between Ramah and Bethel in the mountains of Ephraim. And the children of Israel came up to her for judgment Then she sent and called for Barak, the son of Abinoin, from Kadesh, in Naphtali, and said to him Has not the Lord God of Israel commanded, Go and deploy troops at Mount Tabor. Take with you ten thousand men of the sons of Naphtali and of the sons of Zebulun And against you I will deploy Sisera, the commander of Jaban's army, with his chariots and his multitude at the river Kishon, and I will deliver him into your hand. And Barak said to her, If you will go with me, then I will go, but if you will not go with me, I will not go. So she said, I will surely go with you. Nevertheless, there will be no glory for you in the journey you are taking, for the Lord will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. Then Deborah arose and went with Barak to Kadesh, and Barak called Zebulon and Naphtali to Kadesh, and he went with ten thousand men under his command, and Deborah went up with him. Now Haber, the Kenite of the children of Hobab, the father-in-law of Moses, had separated himself from the Kenites and pitched his tent near the Terebinth tree at Za'a-Naim. which is beside Kadesh. And they reported to Sisera that Barak, the son of Abinoan, had gone up to Mount Tabor So Sisera gathered together all his chariots, 900 chariots of iron, and all the people who were with him, from Herosheth Hagoyim to the river Kishon. Then Deborah said to Barak, Up, for this is the day in which the Lord has delivered Sisera into your hands. Has not the Lord gone out before you? So Barak went down from Mount Tabor with ten thousand men following him, and the Lord routed Sisera and all his chariots and all his army with the edge of the sword before Barak. And Sisera alighted from his chariot and fled away on foot. But Barak pursued the chariots, and the army as far as Herasheth Hagoyim And all the army of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword. Not a man was left. However, Sisera had fled on foot to the tent of Jel, the wife of Heber, or Heber the Kenite, for there was peace between Jabon, king of Hazor, and the house of Heber the Kenite And Jael went out to meet Sisera and said to him, Turn aside, my lord, turn aside to me. Do not fear. And when he had turned aside with her into the tent, she covered him with a blanket Then he said to her, Please give me a little water to drink, for I'm thirsty. So she opened up a jug of milk, gave him a drink, and covered him. And he said to her, Stand at the door of the tent, and if any man comes and inquires of you and says, Is there a man in here? You say no. Then Jael, Heber's wife, took a tent peg, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly to him. and drove the peg into his temple, and it went down into the ground, for he was fast asleep and weary, and so he died. And then, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him and said to him, Come, I'll show you the man whom you seek. And when he went into her tent, there lay Sisera, dead with the peg in his temple. So on that day God subdued Jabin king of Canaan in the presence of children of Israel, and the hand of the children of Israel grew stronger and stronger against Jabin, king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin, king of Canaan. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this cycle. You hear this narrative. And we ask that as the teacher of teachers, that you would teach your people by your spirit. Help us to see our calling and help us rise to our vocations. In the name of Christ, Amen. I don't know how anybody could say that the Bible is boring after that one. I mean Woo. Man Well last week we acknowledged that the loss of native leadership in the church represents one more symptom of the canonization of God's people. I'm going to say that one more time because we're actually just going to look at a specific example of this general truth today with Deborah. The loss of native leadership in the church represents one more symptom of the canonization of God's people. Now let's go ahead and make a few observations and then we'll seek to drive this home like a tent pig. Sorry, that just came to me. That was great. Okay, observation number one. Despite God's grace through Shamgar, son of Anath, you can see that God's people return to their paganism The cycle continues, as I told you from the beginning. And we should therefore expect some of those formulaic sayings to happen through this Deborah Barak JL cycle. And you do see it. You see that they sin in the eyes of the Lord, and then he sells them over to the oppressor. That's that second stage of that cycle. And he's named in verse 2 as Javen, king of Canaan. His main arm of power is named also, who is Sisera, and he's commander of the army. And then it names a specific kind of technology to let you know what they're up against. It's going to be impossible for man to overcome them. God would have to intervene, and of course he does. The technology that Sisera has is 900 chariots of iron. They harshly enslaved God's people for twenty years, and then therefore what do you expect? For them to groan under the harsh treatment and oppression. and then the Lord to deliver them. This cycle should remind you, by the way, of Egypt. It's the same kind of language used for Pharaoh and how he treated the people. There are pharaohs that happen throughout cycles in in the history of our lives. And here we see that again with observation number one. Now observation number two, when we observe the introduction of Deborah and Barak We gained some insight into the state of the church at this time. So now what we can do is we can begin to see the specific ways in which the leadership is failing. I want you to notice that in verse 5, the people of Israel, this is a technical term here, go up. The people of Israel go up to Deborah for judgment. The people are going up to Deborah to learn how God will answer their groans. That's what makes sense of her being a judge in this specific context. and the kind of judgments that she offers as a prophetess. She is, they are the people, it says the sons of Israel. That means the whole nation is going out to her seeking an answer to a question. And the question has already been asked in the previous verses, when will you save me? That's why they're groaning. When will you deliver us? How long, O Lord? They go up to her because she's the only one left that could possibly answer their groans. And that is significant Because it has already been established in multiple places in the scriptures that you want to go to the priesthood who hold the Ark of the Covenant if you want to know the will of God. If there is something too difficult for local judges to answer, then you go to the priests and they will give the answer. This is outlined for you in the Pentateuch, by the way. You can read it on your own, and I can point that to you later. So the fact that they have to go up to her is a red flag that you have to notice in the narrative. It's like hearing the suspenseful music kick in when you're watching a movie, and as a Westerner, you know what that means. Well, that's what's going on here when you see this kind of language. That's there's a kind of suspenseful or uh I don't know what kind of music it would be. It would be we're getting ready to move into trouble or there's been trouble. They go up to her. And that is a red flag. Let's turn off all our phones. That's another red flag. What it means then is that the priestly leadership has collapsed in terms of being able to do any good for the people. Now you've seen this before. I'd encourage you to read Samuel in light of this. Look at the state of the priesthood. And then go ahead and read Luke and look at the state of the priesthood. The people can't go to them any longer Because they're not even making any sense. Look in Isaiah and you will find that all the priests are drunk, and when they go to try to tell people the Word of God, people can't understand them because they're slurring their speech so bad. And there's a similar kind of situation going on here. That's the first thing I want you to notice is there's a red flag. They should not have to go up as a nation to Deborah for judgment. They should have been able to go to the priesthood, and it shows a collapse in leadership, specifically male leadership. Now notice second that this is not just the weakness of priests. But males in general that are a problem in the nation. Now this is brought out by the way that we see this call scene. This is a call scene with Barak, by the way. You'll see call scenes throughout the scriptures. Isaiah is a really famous one. Isaiah chapter 6, remember the Lord calling him. That's a call scene or a call narrative. We see here a call narrative with Barak, but we see cowardice in the call narrative. Deborah answers the question of the people. She renders judgment to them as a prophetess should, and she lets everyone know that God has raised Barak as the deliverer. And then in verse eight, however, Barak refuses the call unless Deborah holds his hand through the situation. Now there is a sense in which that's legitimate because she represents the presence of God and he wants God to go with him, but there's another sense in which he should have never placed conditions on the call. So wanting the presence of Deborah was not wrong in itself, but he should have accepted that call without condition. There's something going on here. You'll see this in Gideon also, and he'll repent of it. You'll see it also in John the Baptist's father, and he's made to where he can't speak for a period of time because of his rejection of a call. That's the second observation. Now here's observation number three. Once uh Deborah convinces him to go, Barak in verse 14 raises up ten thousand militia or soldiers. They destroyed Javan's army and they put the commander Sisera on the run. Barak in verse 22 pursues Sisera, but we know from the editorial comment in verse 9 that Barak has lost any chance of war glory. He's not going to be pinned as the five star general or anything like that because of how he accepted the call to begin with That is the earlier prophecy that Deborah has given, and it is fulfilled when do we see Barak meet Jael? Are you following me? Jael is not a native Israelite. She is very much like Shamgar, and she's listed with him actually in the next chapter. Her family holds political associations with the Canaanites. They have made covenant treaties with them, which is why Sisera ran to her tent and to that area. But nevertheless, as Yahweh acted through Shamgar, so too will Yahweh act through this woman, taking the tools within her power. She covers Sisera and probably come to find out, it's probably goat fur, it's probably a goat fur blanket, Jeremiah. I'm sure you were just tying that in for me today. Thank you. It's probably a goat fur blanket. She lulls him. He asks for water, but then he is lulled to sleep with milk. As a mother would do, or as she had learned as a mother to do with a child, but then not as a mother, she drives a tent peg through Cisera's skull. And then Barak arrives and finds the enemy dead, and that's where the fulfillment takes place, where he can't receive any war glory because she's already taken him. See that's a perfect ending. It's a beautiful little Hebrew story that has the climax, boom, and everything is rounded out. And that brings us to observation number five. Chapter 5. If you take a look, chapter 5 is a retelling of the same story, but in a victory song or ode. So we'll look at that next week, but I just wanted to make sure you know that it's really interesting place here in Scripture because you can see one way of writing and then another way of writing about the exact same event. It's pretty fascinating actually. And so that's what we'll do next week. But I want you to notice in the song in chapter 5, this is important for you to see how these women are viewed, Deborah and JL that are given great honor in the song. It says in verse chapter 5, verse 1, that Deborah and Barak, the son of Abinoam, sang on that day, That's fine, but you're not going to find the same kind of honor given to Barak that you do Deborah and Jael. Look at verse 7, for example. This is going to be key for our argument today. Village life ceased. It ceased in Israel until I, Deborah, arose, arose a mother in Israel. All right, there's a this is this is a pretty big deal that she's bringing order back to society. And then the reason why we put in the bulletin this week that section on Mary was because of verse twenty-four in chapter five. Most blessed among women is Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite. Blessed is she among women in tents You see that? That's really interesting. So you can see the kind of work that's being done here and how they express the kind of honor for these two women. and the work that they have done in reordering society under the disorder that the male sh leadership had allowed. That's the narrative of Deborah and Barak and Jael. And what it provides for us is a more specific example of the doctrine that we learned last week. Last week we acknowledged that the loss of native leadership in the church represents one more symptom of the canonization of God's people. And I hope that you can see now with the case I'm building in this narrative That this week we acknowledge a more specific example of that. We acknowledge that the loss of male leadership represents one more symptom of the canonization of God's people. That's the focus of the passage here, and the way that the characters are set up. The loss of male leadership represents one more symptom of the canonization of God's people. Now, what I want to do is I want to work on some applications with this doctrine that we have this morning about the loss of male leadership. And the first thing I want to do is I want to untwist the scriptures that have been twisted. And then we'll move really into just some questions. I'm going to spend an unusual amount of time for me just beginning an argument against the twisting of this passage. Untwisting the scripture. We need to begin this morning when we look at this Deborah and Barack cycle, acknowledging the culture in which we live. And how they would read this passage, and how in fact they do, and how they publish it in theological journals and magazines. Our culture has spun the Devra narrative. Our culture tells us the best way to describe the ordered nature of reality is that there is absolute equality between genders and sexes, if you want to put it that way. And one school of thought which fights for that view of describing reality and living out as if reality was that way, they are called feminists. In fact, if you were to look up in the Oxford English Dictionary the definition of feminism, it is this: it is the advocacy of women's rights on the basis of the equality of the sexes. From that perspective, feminist theologians view themselves as the daughters of Deborah. They consider themselves the fiery women, with a retranslation that they have done of this part of this passage where it says the wife of Lapidoff, Deborah, and they're translating that as fiery woman. Some in that school, some, I'm not saying every feminist that's ever been will is or will be, I'm just saying some in that school picture Deborah as the prototype of the modern militant feminist who challenged the forces of an oppressive patriarchy as she delivered Israel from the Canaanites. That's a pretty good summary if you look at a bibliography of feminist literature with the passage. So let me say it to you again. They see Deborah as a prototype of the modern militant feminist who challenged the forces of an oppressive patriarchy as she delivered Israel from the Canaanites. It could go something like this: finally. In the scriptures, which we find largely promoting of male abuse, we have two strong women, Deborah and JayL rise up to dis to displace men in a male-dominated world. So that's the picture. I think that's pretty accurate. I think that's pretty fair. I was trying to you know, put on the shoes of a feminist, so to speak, and articulate it the way that they would articulate it. I didn't like the way those shoes fit, by the way. But the basic question that we have to ask, and I don't want you to be bored by this because I think this is really important, but the basic uh question that you have to ask Is what is going on here? This isn't really rocket science. We just have different people that are trying to describe what the narrative is actually saying that's in front of you So what is it saying? Is that the story? Is it about two women who rise up to rid the world of evil patriarchy? Is that what's going on? Is that the narrative in judges? Now, before I even attempt to answer that, I don't want you to mislabel me, because I talk sometimes about equality and women and men up here. And then I talk to you afterwards, or I see you at a party or at the food line or whatever, and you're angry with me, and I and you misunderstood me So let me just say I don't want you to dislabel me to mislabel me when I'm talking like this about equality. I do, in fact, believe that we should fight for the rights of women And if there's anybody that should be fighting for the rights of women, I believe it should be men. And if it's anybody that doesn't take away the rights of women, it should be men. Please do not mislabel me and get angry with me about something I never said. But that, however, I do not believe the scriptures tell us To do that or to fight that fight upon the foundation or basis of the equality of sexes. I think it's a modern idea, and it's not at the heart of what God is doing I do not think equality describes the created order between male and female. That's all that I'm saying. I'm not really angry up here. I'm just trying to describe what God says accurately. And I don't think equality does it I think if you want to see a better description of what's going on between male and female, it will be the concept of harmony. So if we can place that aside for a minute and you can just turn just put your anger on pause, wait till I see you in the food lion, let me have it. Throw a can good at me Placing that aside, does the Deborah narrative support a feminist reading? Now what I want to do is I want to look at verse 5, because verse 5 is the main part of the story which tends to be twisted. And it says this, verses four and five. Now Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lapadoth, was judging Israel at that time. And she would sit under the palm tree of Deborah between Ramah and Bethel in the mountains of Ephraim. And the children of Israel came up to her for judgment. One way to view this is that Deborah has become the next judge in the exact same sense as you have seen all of the other judges. That would mean that she has become a soldier and is wielding a sword and has her armor or her arrow or her knife. However you you want to work that out, and therefore she will be like other feminine figures that we see throughout history. Joan of Arc, for example, or more modernly, isn't there a Wonder Woman movie where she basically is doing the same thing? Like Joan of Ark with a sword in her hand, she shall displace the role of men in the military and save her people. But I'm just asking the basic question and asking you to use your own eyes and brain. Is that the story? When the people came to her to judge, is that what they wanted her to accomplish? Is that what she sets out to do? What sword is she holding? Does she put armor on? Does she have any weapon? Verse 6 answers the question. Then she sent and called for Barak, the son of Abinoam, from Kadesh and Aftali, and said to him, Has not the Lord God of Israel commanded, Go and deploy troops amount Tabor, take with you ten thousand men of the sons of Naphtali and the sons of Zebulon. Deborah never displaces a male in the story. She acts within her role as a prophetess, very much within the line of Miriam, for example both of which wrote songs, and she calls Barak to gather troops and head into battle. She never had any illusion that she was going to be in the front on the horse with the sword charging with all the men following her. If you want to look at another example, in my mind it just seals the deal. Look at verse 14. Then Deborah says to Barak, up! Welcome to the sermon, folks. Up! For this is the day in which the Lord has delivered Sisera into your hand. Has not the Lord gone out before you? And so Barak went down from Maint Tabor with 10,000 men following him. Do you see the picture? Deborah does not subvert the role of Barak by taking over his role. She stays in her wheelhouse. She instead stays within her role, calling Barak to rise up and to be the man that God had called him to be, and for the 10,000 other men to be the men they're supposed to be. Deborah is not a woman taking the place of men. She is a woman calling men to be men. Now that is a valuable asset to any community. That is Really, all the time I want to spend on untwisting it because I think it's not complicated. Just look at the story and how it flows and put the pieces together. She obviously is not taking a man's role. She's not displacing the patriarchy. She stays in her wheelhouse, encourages men to be men. And I hope that you can see that Deborah is not subversive. In the name of equality. She's not even asking that question. Actually, what we end up seeing is that Deborah is establishing our doctrine this morning. Did you notice that? This week, we acknowledge that the loss of male leadership represents one more symptom of the canonization of God's people. Deborah does not want to subvert male leadership. She is in fact doing the opposite. She works diligently to establish it She calls for Barak to rise up and to lead. When he is cowardly, she agrees to accompany him that he would be strengthened and get on with the work. This is why in the next chapter, Deborah is called the mother of Israel. She's not the father of Israel. She's not the person of Israel She is the mother of Israel, taking a feminine role. Generally speaking, in her feminine role, she, like her mother Eve, brings life. To her community. Her whole body is set up to show that she is life. But more specifically, as a mother She does not seek to bring her sons down, but to raise them up in their proper callings like any good mother would do She knows that a loss of male leadership is a tragedy, and then as a good mother, she fights for her sons. like Barack and his ten thousand to get out there and do the work and be strong and stop being afraid and pick up the slack She believes our doctrine, perhaps more than we do. And it raises a series of questions. Men, whether you are old or you are middle-aged or you are young, are you walking worthy of the calling to which God has called you? Do the children have to go up to their mother because you have no time or wisdom to talk to them? And there are a thousand other ways to ask that same question, but are you walking worthy of the calling? We notice from the book of Proverbs and throughout Scriptures that there tend to be main causes of male leadership failure. The first has been brought out within our passage, and it is cowardice. But there is another one that is throughout the Proverbs, for example, and it is laziness. The things that were handed to you by diligent men and women, you let them sit and grow thorns, and the building falls apart. What about you? Don't you know that when you abdicate your role that we all suffer? Have you not realized that yet? It's like trying to learn how to walk when you have an injured leg. Did you notice that other muscles start to compensate and then you open yourself up to more injury? A person will hurt their leg, let's say they tear their hamstring, for example. Just a random random illustration, which I did last week. Because of the overcompensation, you'll start to notice that they complain of their back next or whatever it is. I'm sure you have those experiences. And I just wonder How many other muscles in the body of Christ are you injuring because you refuse to take on your vocation? I would add a third, which I think is a form of laziness, which is a distraction or procrastination, being involved in doing things that don't really make any difference to what God has called you to do. So think about that. Think about yourself as a male and what this says in the great tragedy if you neglect your vocation. And then I have a question for you, ladies. Women, do not answer this out loud. Do you have men in your life who don't take their calling seriously? And if so Have you responded by belittling them? Like every TV show. Have you noticed on TV that man's the stupidest person in the room? Have you responded by degrading them? Have you treated them like they are unnecessary? You know, there's been a philosophical question among the human race for a long time, and it it goes back and forth between two separate ones. Why do we need women? I don't know why people ask that question Why women? And the one that's more often asked in our culture is why men? Like what are they doing? Has that been your attitude when you see that they're not taking their calling seriously, that they are unnecessary? Maybe they just get in the way. It would actually be easier if they weren't around Do you respond to them like we see in the movies where they're just dumb oofs? They're your little special person you have to take care of till you die. That is not the biblical example that is placed before you today with Deborah. She was dealing with major national male leadership failure. And she did not belittle. She also was not stuck in her house with a dress in a dress where she couldn't move, just focused on sewing. Christ shows you his heart in the actions of Deborah. She might actually be the only truly positive example in the book. Christ in her calls you, no matter what your age is, to be mothers of your community. You therefore are generally speaking called to bring life and not death. You must raise us up as your children in strength. And this includes men. They must be your sons whom you stir up to good works. If you don't like the mother image because of your stage in life, if you're a sister, this is your job for your brothers. I know you see that they're not taking their vocation seriously. You are to stir them up to be the men God has called them to be. In whatever ways sisters find power to do that that are lawful. I think in all we need to remember Deborah's cry. Then Deborah said to Barak, Up. And I think the same thing needs to be going on here at Severn Run, with the Severn Run women saying to men, up. And I wonder if you would ever give such a cry, ladies. And now that you know that that's your role, since you've seen Deborah, who is the heart of Christ, perhaps it is time for you to cry up. Get on with the work. Let me ask you one last question. Ladies, men, but ladies especially, why would you ever give such a cry? Why would you, with all your heart, say to the men, Up? The answer has been with us from the beginning. Because we acknowledge that the loss of male leadership represents one more symptom of the canonization of God's people. And we are not Canaanites. We are sons and daughters of the Lord God, the new creation, heaven and earth. Ladies, I know that it is difficult. You can see in the fall that you're going to have a hard time with men. But I ask you to take up your call. Make our men rise to the occasion. And may the Lord Jesus Christ be with you. And may you be blessed among women Amen. Let us pray