God's Word for God's people. And he said, The kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground. and should sleep by night and rise by day, and the seed should sprout and grow, he himself does not know how. For the earth yields crops by itself first the blade, then the head, after that the full grain in the head. But when the grain ripens, immediately he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come. Let's pray together. O great God, we thank you that you have not left us in darkness, but you enlighten our minds in the knowledge of Christ, and by His very own words, these parables. Lord, you have given great light to your church throughout the ages. We pray, Lord, that your light would shine on us tonight, that your spirit Would move in us, revealing your truth. And we pray, God, that as that truth transforms our heart and makes us more like Christ, we would not walk out of this room the same We would not go about our lives as though nothing is different. Please, God, help us to be doers of the Word and not hearers only. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. It's in Christ's name that we prayed. Amen. Please be seated. I don't know about you guys, but when I was a child I uh I was forced to eat these disgusting things. They were called vegetables. You ever eaten those things called vegetables? They're pretty gross, aren't they? Well some of them are, I should say. When I got to college, I discovered that I loved vegetables. You know how I discovered it? In the cafeteria at college, basically it was like an old country buffet There was just all different kinds of food. And I discovered that vegetables were my favorite food as long as I slathered it with nacho cheese sauce. Well, I'm grateful that my parents didn't give me cheese sauce for my vegetables when I was a child. If they had, I would have gone my whole life thinking that I loved vegetables. When in reality I'm not a person who loves vegetables. I would have gone my whole life believing that I'm something that I'm not And sadly, there are people who think that the gospel, the good news about Jesus Christ, needs some help. They think it needs some cheese sauce. Or some honey, or some syrup, or some sugar, something that will make the good news about Jesus Christ easier to swallow. And it is not good for those they share that altered gospel with. Why? Because those people will go through their life believing that they believe. They'll believe that they are believers when in reality they're not believing the gospel. They simply like cheese sauce or honey or sugar. Mark has been giving us the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. He's been showing us that Jesus Christ is the Messiah, the Son of God, through his teaching. He's been teaching with great power and authority as no one ever had ever taught before. He had been performing these amazing miracles, doing things that only God can do. You remember what they were? He forgave the sins of the paralyzed man, but as if And if that wasn't enough, he healed the man's body in front of everyone. He cleansed and healed the leper, something that has always been something only God can do. He accepted a tax collector, a pariah of society whose life was reformed Now he's been teaching with parables. You guys remember what parables are? It's been a couple weeks, so I just want to remind us a parable is an earthly story with a heavenly meaning. There's a common sense to the story Jesus gives that everybody can understand, but then there's a special sense, a hidden sense. Heavenly meaning, which is there only for his people. We've gone through the parable of the soils. We saw that God's word is the seed that is cast into the soils, and the seed The Word of God will only take root in a soul that's been blessed to be made a good soil, a fitting home for the seed for the Word of God. There, do you remember what will happen? It'll grow. It'll produce fruit 30, 60, 100fold. We've gone through the parable of the lamps. This was a few weeks ago. This is the last parable that we looked at, and we learned that Christ has lit us with his fire. He's lit us as lamps for his purpose. And do you remember what that purpose is? It's so that we would shine to the world. We would shine into the darkness And spread the gospel, the good news, for all to see, that they would see our good works, and they would glorify our Father in heaven. That's why He saves us So that we can be a blessing to the darkness of this world by shining the light of Christ in it. Well, tonight we're going to look together at the parable of the seed. as it's been called through generations. And we get another lesson from our Lord Christ. The lesson we're going to see tonight. And Mark chapter 4, verses 26 through 29 is that Christians must spread the gospel, patiently trusting God to grow his kingdom. Brothers and sisters, you must spread the gospel, patiently trusting God to grow his kingdom And we're going to look at this in two parts tonight. We're going to look first at our part, which is verses 26 and 27, and we're going to examine God's part. Verses 28 and 29. So first, we'll look at verses 26 to 27, and we'll see our part. And what we're going to see when we look at this is that our part Has two parts. Our part is to cast and to trust. We cast That's verse 26. Look at what it says right there. It says, And he said, The kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground. That word for scatter is the very same word cast The same word that would have been used about Jesus casting out demons. So that's why I say we cast. Basically, we sow, we spread, we share. Our part is that we must spread the gospel. The seed is the word of God. Jesus taught us this in the parable of the soils, and he's returning to this image here. That word is the gospel. Remember in our first sermon in Mark, we were talking about what is the gospel? It's the good news. And it is the gospel of the kingdom of God. The good news is that the kingdom of God is at hand. The King of Kings has come. That's the good news. The great high priest, our great high priest, has come. He has come to take away the sins of his people. And there are three aspects to the kingdom of God, and I believe that this parable is only dealing with one of these aspects. So I just want to point them out so that we're all on the same page. Because other parables are going to deal with these other aspects of the kingdom of God. First, there's the kingdom of God in heaven And this is where the angels live and they serve him when we pray, Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. We're talking about the kingdom of God in heaven. Where he is reigning and ruling. That's where his throne is. That's where the saints who have been gathered to him in their death are with him. Around the sea. They are watching and praying. They are awaiting the consummation of all the universe when Christ returns to earth and when he makes all things one in him. And that brings us to the second aspect of the kingdom of God, which is the kingdom of God on earth. Which I think we can understand simply as the church. The kingdom of God on earth has been the church. In the Old Testament age, it was the nation of the Jewish people of Israel. And now it is the Church of Jesus Christ. And in Ephesians 1. 10, we are being told that these two kingdoms are being united in Christ. He says that in the dispensation of the fullness of the times, he, Jesus Christ, might gather together in one all things. In Himself, both which are in heaven and which are on earth in him. God the Father is uniting the kingdom of heaven and the kingdom of earth in Christ. And at the end of days, there won't be a distinction It'll be just as perfect on earth as it is in heaven. It'll be marvelous. But there is a third aspect to the kingdom of God, and that's the kingdom of God in you That's the personal aspect of the kingdom of God, which is Christ, your King, reigning in your life, leading you, guiding you, being the Lord of your soul. And that's what I believe this parable is speaking to. It's speaking to the way that God's word works in an individual who is blessed to be that good soil, where that seed, the word of God, finds a happy home. Next week, Lord willing, we'll look at a parable that speaks to the kingdom of God on earth. But this one is showing us the kingdom of God in the human heart. So in spreading the gospel, showing the word of God, That's our part. We must cast. We must spread the Word of God far and wide so that it may find a home in the good soil But that's not all. There's something else which is our part, which is being spoken of here tonight. And we'll see that if we look together at verse 27. The first part we have is to cast. The second part we play is to trust. And so look at verse 27 with me. It says I'll just start with the phrase of what he's saying. The kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground and should sleep by night. And rise by day, and the seed should sprout and grow. He himself does not know how. He sleeps. He rises. What's going on here Well, there's two aspects that we should notice. First, the man, having done his part, having cast the seed, sown the seed, he goes on about the regular order of life. Do you see that? He goes to sleep. He wakes up. He goes back to life in its ordinary way, the way that God has made it be, set it to be. He goes about life because he's already done his part. But there's a second aspect to this, because the way that Mark puts this in the Greek, he uses a very specific sense of the verb. In which we we could probably translate it as he might sleep or he might rise. And this gives us a second aspect. The aspect that there is nothing that this man can do to affect whether or not the seed grows. He's done his part. He's cast the seed and sown it. It doesn't matter what he does. He might rise, he might sleep. It might have said to us, he might never sleep again until he sees the fields growing with plants. Well, that's not a good idea, but it wouldn't have changed anything What he does cannot affect the seed. Notice this isn't an illustration of the farmer being lazy, not at all. Laziness is not being illustrated here. What's being illustrated here is patience. Patience. He is patiently trusting. He knows he can't do anything. He doesn't know how the seed grows. Something else, some other power needs to be at work on the seed for it to grow. And boy, this man really needs it to grow. Do you know why? Because if this seed doesn't grow, his family doesn't eat. He's a farmer. He needs this seed to grow. He needs this other power to be at work in the seed. And so he patiently trusts. He doesn't know how this the seed sprouts and grows. Yet what does he do? Does he say, well, I don't know how it's going to work or if it's going to work, so I might as well not do anything. You ever found yourself in that position? I know I can't get the whole garage cleaned out this weekend, so I'm not even going to try. Not even going to do any of it. This man doesn't think that way. This man says, I know. That I have no clue how the seed grows, but I will sow. Because that's my part. And so he sows patiently, trusting. And this is the same for us, brothers and sisters. We don't know who Or when the seed that we cast will find its home in good soil. We don't know how long it will take for faith to show itself alive. In the life of someone that we've shared the gospel with. And just like that farmer, we cast and then we trust. We spread the gospel, and then we must patiently trust God. When we trust God, to do his part. And that's our second division tonight. Looking at verses 28 and 29, we see that we cast, we spread the gospel, and we patiently trust God to do his part. So now let's look at God's part. In verses twenty-eight to twenty-nine. He says, For the earth yields crop by itself, first the blade Then the head, after that, the full grain in the head, but when the grain ripens, immediately he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come. We see God's part in three ways. We see what He has already done, we see what He is doing, and we see what He will surely do. We see what he's already done, what he is doing, and what he surely will do. So let's look just first at what God has already done, and this is in that very first part of verse 28 that says, For the earth yields crops by itself. This is what God has already done. He has designed the earth to bring forth plants. This is how it's been since the third day of creation. When God filled the earth with plants, He He designed the seed, the miraculous seed. That contains every single bit of information that's necessary to grow up into a full plant God knows what he's doing. And he has designed his universe to work according to his plan, to bring about his will. And the same is true for the gospel. God knows who are his, and he knows what they particularly need to hear in order that they would be saved. He has designed his word to have exactly what Christians need to hear. He has designed his word to contain the glorious truth of the good news of the gospel. And he knows that it will only, only take root in the heart that belongs to him, that is the good soil. Christ is the shepherd. The sheep of his flock know his voice, and when he calls, they come a running. Because they love their shepherd. God has designed his gospel to do this, to go forth into his elect and to call them unto him. That's what God has already done of his part. He has chosen who are the good soil that will accept his word, and he has designed the gospel To work in that soil. If you look at the rest of verse 28, you'll see what God is doing. Look there. He is progressing, the living plant, along the necessary path that it would grow into what it needs to be, that it would fulfill God's will for it. Do you see the progression there? First the blade, then the head, after that the full grain in the head. You see how it moves from one stage to the next. The seed grows according to God's plan and order, the one that He has already designed. And it is He who sustains it, who moves it along from one phase to the next. Can you see that this is true of the gospel also? It's true in you and in me. The seed is sown and it takes root in the heart of someone who is his child. But what comes next? Well, it sprouts. There's going to be a blade, this little tiny seedling of faith. Parents, you you may have seen this in your children at some point. Kids, you might might have seen it in some one of your peers, one of your friends. If we have our eyes open, we'll see it all around where there's a seedling of faith starting to burst out. And then what happens? It grows, it matures, it gets bigger, it gets stronger. It goes through all these different prophecies by which it will then be able to support the fruit that God is going to grow on it. And it's the same path for every single Christian. We start as babes with the milk, and we grow up into the old men who can appreciate the stake of faith, the stake of the gospel. And though it's the same progressive path, it's not always on the same timeline, is it? Sometimes we stay a little bit longer as a blade before we become the head. Or sometimes we may feel like our whole life we've just been ahead, ready and waiting for God to bring fruit from us. And it's just not coming. Until all of a sudden, until all of a sudden he decides because it's his and his purpose, his will. God is growing us in grace. He is bringing us along through faith, making us stronger and more capable of serving and glorifying Him. God is the one who's doing this. He's the one doing this for the plant, not the sower. And it is God who is doing this in his people, not you, not me It's God doing this. It's not Paul who's doing it. It's not Apollos who's doing it. It's not Pastor Arch or Pastor Jesse. It's no one but God Himself working through His Word In your heart. It is God's part, not our part. And then finally, verse 29 shows us what God will surely do. He will bring that fruit to its final end. It will fulfill his purposes. He will bring it to a harvest And for the plant, God has given it the purpose of feeding people and feeding animals. Once it's done growing and it's ripened, it's time to get to work. All that fruit needs to be brought out of the field to the place where it can fulfill its purpose, into the barn or the storehouse. Ultimately, where does it end up? It ends up in bellies. It ends up turning into bread, turning into flour, turning into oats, turning into things that we will eat that will strengthen us. And ultimately, it will turn into acts of service, energy being used to glorify God. And this is the same thing that's happening with his gospel. God is growing it in the heart of his child until one day. One day it will have reached its final purpose. It's will have reached its full rightness. And then what will he do? He will harvest. He will gather you in to him. He will gather you to where you belong at his side forever and ever. When the Christian dies, we are being cut down But we're being cut down for such a wondrous reason to be gathered into the storehouse of God, to be used by Him for His purposes. forever, to enjoy him forever, to glorify him forever. Is this not the most wonderful, the the most goodest news that there could ever be? This is why we have been saved, that we would share this message, this good news about Jesus, that we would spread his gospel. And when we do spread his gospel, we must patiently trust that he will do his part and grow his kingdom. And that's exactly what he's doing. God is growing his kingdom one saved sinner at a time, and he's doing this through the good news of Jesus Christ. And so there's just a few applications I'd like to point out for us before we close. We must be sure that we are spreading the true seed. The true word of God, the true gospel. Have you ever heard the phrase, what you win them with is what you will win them to? If we are spreading a gospel that is slathered in cheese sauce, people will not know the true gospel. I am so very grateful to my parents because I would have been so embarrassed. Could you imagine, children? If I had been on a date with a pretty girl, and I'm telling her, I love my vegetables. I'm a vegetable eater. I will order a plate of vegetables. And then when it comes out to the table, I'm all upset. I'm gonna send it back to the chef. This pardon me, these vegetables are missing the cheese sauce. How embarrassed would I have been? And I would have been rightfully ashamed because I was thinking I was one way. I thought of myself as being a vegetable lover, and it wasn't true. So we can't do this with the gospel. Do not alter the gospel in any way, because somebody may say, Oh yes, I'm a believer. I believe in Jesus. But if you haven't told them and shown them the real Jesus, what good is that for them? Only the gospel will make sense of all of life. A false gospel cannot do. It will not save. And so what can we do? We've got to spread the gospel, the real gospel. And so we've got to do it as by living the gospel. Little ways of living the gospel can have big results. Kids, let me ask you. I know it may seem strange. If somebody said, hey, share the gospel, you may not know what to say. Right? You may not know what to do. You may not know what seed you need to cast. But I can tell you one thing for sure. I bet you know that God wants you to tell the truth, don't you? You know that God says He doesn't want you to bear false witness and He doesn't want you to lie. So if you want to sow a seed in your friends, or sow a seed in the people around you, Simple way, a little way. Just tell the truth. Be an honest person. Don't make up stories so that people think you're more special than you are. Don't lie to them Tell the truth. And it'll sow a little seed that'll have big results because even though they might get mad at you because you're telling them the truth. And you're speaking truly, at some point in life, they're gonna want somebody who's gonna speak truly to them. At some point in life, your friends are going to want someone who will give it to them straight. And though they may have gotten mad at you, they might remember, hey, when when she was seven, she told the truth. She's the truth teller. So I can go to her. That's just one example of how we can start sowing seeds. Us older kids, we've got all kinds of ways that we can do this. We can sow the seed in the lives of our friends by going to church. And not just going to church. We don't hold it in front of them and go, look at me, I go to church. But when they say, Hey, could you come to my tournament? Can you come to my game? Can you come to my play? And we say, I'm sorry, I can't, on Sunday morning. Because I have to go to church. Because I want to go to church. Because I need to be with God's people and to be praising him and worshiping him and to be fed by him. So we can live the gospel, but also we should love the gospel. We need to know it You need to understand it. If you love it, brothers and sisters, you won't be able to keep it contained. It will spill out. From your life. It'll spill out in your words. If you actually love the good news that Jesus Christ is saving people from their sins, Is transforming them into his image and moving them into the joyous future that is the heavens and the earth united How will that not spill out? When you look at wars raging all around us, will that not give you hope? And then they'll ask you, hey, how is it that how is it that you've got hope in all this? And then you get an get a chance to give an answer. You get a chance to cast that seed. We must trust God. He has given his word and his gospel the power. He will work through it, and so we've got to patiently trust him. We need to be patient. And the first person we need to be patient with is who? Ourselves. You've got to be patient with you. God has been sowing seeds into your soil and into your soul since the day you were born, if you belong to Him. You've been hearing it, a lot of us have been hearing the gospel since Gosh, since the since we could hear. Some of us heard the gospel in utero, in the womb. We must be patient with ourselves, and we must watch. We must watch God progress our faith and grow us in grace. We must recognize in ourself the seed. And a lot of times the seed shows up as first the conviction of sin. And so I'd encourage all of you, if you're not sure, if a seed has been sown into your life, are you convicted of your sin? Do you hate sin? Are there things that you have done that you are ashamed of You don't know why you're ashamed of it. You just wish no one ever finds out. It's a good sign. There may be a seed of the gospel that's been planted in your soil that is starting to stir. Starting to wiggle, starting to get that little tendril out into the soil. And then think about what God is doing in your life. Has he allowed you to grow to the point where you burst forth out of that darkness, just being downcast because of your sin into light? Like a plant that's come out of the soil and is now reaching its arms up to the sun. Has he done this for you in your life? Given you The light of Christ enlightened your mind in the knowledge of Christ and had you reached toward him for salvation. Are you watching him? Do you want to know more about Jesus? Rejoice. You may be a blade that's been growing. Do you want to understand the Bible more and understand how the church is and why the church is and why God is doing all that He does? You might be a blade that he's grown and you're now sticking out of the ground. And you must be patient with yourself. Don't rush then. You don't go from, oh, I'm convicted of sin to now let me administer the Lord's Supper. This isn't how it works. God progresses us through these phases. And so if you've seen the blade in your own life, be patient with yourself. God will move you. To become the head and then the full grain in the head. He will move you along it. Don't rush him in it. Don't rush him along. Let him work and do what his power does. And so we're first patient with ourselves, and we must then be patient with who else? Others. Everybody else. Especially those that we'll be sharing the gospel with. We are all on this path. Every Christian somewhere on this journey from seed to harvested fruit. And when we see the seed take root, we must rejoice. We must be so happy that it's happening. And I just want to warn us because sometimes we let things get in the way of our joy, don't we? Parents, this may be really hard for us. But we've been telling these kids the gospel since the day we found out that pregnancy test said positive. We've been shouting it at her belly and we've been praying for it. But it may not be until they're twenty-seven, and one other person says one thing to them that finally, finally, it makes sense. Can you imagine? Don't let jealousy get in the way of joy. Don't be jealous that God used someone else to sow the seed. Don't say, no, no, no, they're of this person. I'm the one who's been working on them so long. I should get the credit. We can't get the credit. That's what this parable tells us. Only God gets the credit. when the plant grows. Only God gets the credit when a Christian life is made. We rejoice as we see these things happening. We expect God to be moving them through as we see a child start to become one. who loves the Lord as we see young men and women start to love the Lord. I've seen this in our own church. I've seen them go from just attending the youth group To now they're married and thinking about children. They're using their resources for God's glory. We have watched it, and I pray that you would have eyes that are open, watching God at work in our church, moving people through these phases. We must complete God. We must trust God to complete the work that He's begun. We've been saying this a lot in the last few months, but it's the truth. God is the author and the finisher of our faith. What he has begun, the good work he's begun, he will surely bring it to completion in the day of Christ Jesus He will gather you to himself. And this is the harvest. Brothers and sisters, this is what gives us joy. We know that Christ is coming again. to bring us to be with him. He has gone to make mansions for us, and where he is we will be also. And he is bringing us to ripeness, ready to be harvested for him. This is a good thing. This is the good news. May God bless us, all of us, each of us, as He progresses us in our faith. May He give us the courage to share the true gospel, to spread the true seed. Patiently trusting Him to grow His kingdom. Please pray with me