It was uh as we started a couple of Sundays back, uh I have called you to prayer prior to reading the passage and commencing in our sermon. So I'm Going to ask again today that you bow your head, pray just quietly for just a few moments before we start the sermon. Pray that the Lord will open your heart and your mind to hear the word of God. of God as it is uh enscripturated in his Bible and also as it's proclaimed from his pulpit. Please pray for yourself to hear and pray, Lord, for Pray for the uh power for me uh in proclaiming God's word. Please pray. Amen. The passage today is uh continuing on in the Gospel of Matthew. We are up to chapter three 13 verses 47 through 58. I would uh ask that you turn to that passage in your scripture. Read along with me as I read from God's Word. What we read from here is the New King James Version, and that is what we see recorded in Matthew 13, verses 47 through 58. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a dragnet that was cast into the sea and gathered some of every kind, which When it was full, they drew to shore, and they sat down and gathered the good into vessels, but threw the bad away. So it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come forth, separate the wicked from among the just, and cast them into the fi And Jesus said to them, Have you understood all these things? They said to him, Yes, Lord. And then he said to them, Therefore every scribe instructed concerning the kingdom of heaven is like a householder Now it came to pass when Jesus had finished these parables that he departed from there. And when he had come into his own country, he taught them in their synagogue So that they were astonished and said, Where did this man get this wisdom and these mighty works? Is this not the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary? And his brothers, James, Joseph, Simon, and Judas, and his sisters, are they not all with us? Where then did this man get all these things? And so they were offended at him. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country and in his own house. Now he did not do many mighty works there because of their unbelief. And may the Lord add his blessings to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. When we first begin to Pay attention to scripture whether we've been doing it for a while or or not. However, when we start taking it seriously, we discover there's some tensions in it that come to our come to uh our understanding very quickly. Things that make us scratch our head as we read from God's Word and say, How does that work? Take the example or the issue of God's sovereignty and man's free will, for example. Scripture teaches us God is sovereign in everything. What are God's decrees? The confession asks us. How many can answer it? Whatsoever comes to pass. That is God's decree. God is absolutely sovereign. If it comes to pass, he has decreed it. God is absolutely sovereign over us. Man makes his plans, but God determines his steps, right? As Proverbs teaches us. And yet the scriptures equally proclaim with just as much intensity that man has free will. God is not the author of sin. When a man sins, it is because he He chooses to do so, and he cannot sit and say the devil made me do it. God is not the author of sin. We are not robots. We are not puppets on a string. We make ch Choices. And because our will is free, we are fully accountable for those choices that we make. How does that work out? How does that fit together? Well, God knows, and we live in the tension that is between those two points. Our passage today poses another That we have to live in. Matthew tells us down in verse 58 that Jesus did not do Many great works, or even any great works, in Galilee, because of their unbelief. Somehow or another, the unbelief that was present in the Galileans, the demonic mind-boggling stupidity of the people, prevented Jesus. us from doing any great works while he was among them. Mark in his recounting of this particular passage and another the gospel puts it even more forcefully. He says that Jesus could not do any great works. And that he was astonished At them because of the depth of their unbelief. Jesus was astonished at their arrogance. It was so bad. That he could not do any great works. Now we know, we know absolutely, because the Bible absolutely tells us Teaches that no one is greater and stronger and more powerful than God, and we know that Jesus is God in the flesh. Daniel 4. 35 says, All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. God, He does according to His will. In the army of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth, no one can restrain his hand. No one can say to him, What have you done? And what Nebuchadnezzar declares there in Daniel is echoed in thousands Rhetorically speaking, of other places in Scripture. Now that tension between God's all-powerful being and Jesus being the Son of God and the Galileans is In their uh blind uh a uh unbelief, being able to prevent him from doing any good works, that tension has been where I've been living all this week. And that's what I was would like to talk about with you today. Let's think about Jesus in the midst of that. The Son of God. The Son of God. In his Relation with his father. When Jesus left, well actually, when Christ left, his home in glory in order to be born, Jesus of Nazareth. Son of Mary is son of God. When he did that, he humbled himself to become a man. A man who, in a sense that we must understand And a special sense, a man who had to live by faith, just like we do. Jesus had to learn obedience. He had to deal with temptation. He had to enter into man's creaturely experience and know what it is like to live as we do. In other words, as we say often, Jesus gave up or he put away some of his divine prerogatives. He put away elements of his divine power for a while. For a while. Now he could have taken them back up at any time. He tells uh others that if he wanted to, he could summon thousands of legions of angels to come and help him. But he didn't do that. Jesus did not take up his ability, his Powers, it's a mystery. We don't know exactly how that works, but he did not undertake that while he was in his earthly walk because he came to be Like us, fully human. He had to taste our weakness, our frailty, so that he could live without sin in the middle of Midst of that weakness and frailty, and be our sin bearer on our behalf. And therefore, Jesus had to experience man's predicament In every way. Part of that predicament included the frustration, the exasperation of Of not being able to overcome ignorance. He had to face the obstacle of man's willfulness Unbelief and the damper it places upon the Spirit. Now we're talking here about deep theological issues. Well, brother and sister, I ask you, I bet you off the top of your head you've had that experience of speaking or trying to listen lead someone to an understanding of the magnificence of Christ, and you just can't get through it Jesus had to experience that. Jesus himself speaks of this and the limitations on his power in John five These words he says there, most assuredly I tell you, the Son can do nothing of himself. But what he sees the Father doing, whatever the Father does, the Son does in like manner. For the Father loves the Son And shows him all things that he himself does. For as the Father raises the dead and gives life to them, even so the Son gives life to whom he will. In that passage, we see that whatever works Jesus did while he was here in his earthly life among us was because he saw the Father already at work. And he basically joined in the Father's work as part of the Trinity, as part of his union with God, doing it. God and Jesus were so close. So intimate, so perfectly aligned in their understanding that Jesus, above all men, could see God's hand at work around him. And Jesus' power to heal. To cast out demons and to raise from the dead was because he saw God the Father already there to do that work. But on his own By his own words, Jesus could do nothing. And with that comes the other side of the coin, brothers and sisters. That's what we need to ponder here today. If Jesus didn't see the Father's hand at work in someone, if he didn't see The Father preparing the people before him for some great demonstration of God's power And Jesus couldn't do anything about that. And what's more, Jesus didn't want to do anything about that. His will was so intimately tied to the Father that where the Father was working, he wanted to be there working. Father was not working. He was not desiring to do works. Therefore, I think this passage teaches us something very important. This passage teaches us that where unbelief is, Where unbelief is the cultural characteristic of a nation or a community or a family. Family or a church, then God's hand for a power is not present In that nation, in that community, in that family, or in that church Mark tells us that Jesus did some minor works of healing while he was there. So it was not like there were no works at all that God was doing amongst the So there was some element of faith there. But it must have been few and far between. For our Lord did not do any mighty Works there. On the whole, the character of the people of that place where Jesus was, that group, their character Character was unbelief. That was the demonstration of who they were. And that very unbelief, and now I'm using Using the words of Augustine, that unbelief became a stopper in their mouth that kept God from pouring, if you will, a bottle of his blessing Down their throat. Those are the words of Augustine, and I don't think I can improve on them. Think about it. Think about the nature of unbelief in this regard These people had seen Jesus grow up among them. They knew his mother. They knew her other children. In the face of all of those teachings out there where you hear about the ever Virgin Mary, okay, who didn't have any other children They knew her other children. They knew the ones she bore to Joseph. To them, this Jesus was just one more carpenter's son. And here he was putting on spiritual heirs. Who is he, they thought, to do these mighty works that we have heard about Who is he that he should have such wisdom and such authority in his teaching and demonstrate such learning? We saw this kid grow up. There's no synagogue in Nazareth. There's no rabbinical teaching center in Nazareth. Nazareth. It's a poor little backwater town. I grew up in Mississippi, just north of Mississippi was a place of in a in just north of Mississippi The town of Hattiesburg where I grew up was a uh little stopover in the railroad track. Um and for the life of me, it just went out of my mind what the name of it is. I don't remember what it was. Uh it starts with a knee. It'll come to me. But anyway, once I heard a man from that area once say that I'm from wherever it was. And then he said you spell that N O W H E R E. So in in effect, that wasn't it, but he he said you spell it nowhere. Well, that's That's what Nazareth was. There was no way that Jesus growing up in this little town could have been educated without these people knowing it. They knew everybody. So how did he get to be so knowledgeable Where did the training come from? Where did the study? My brothers and sisters, learn what this teaches us about Unbelief. Why? They know he did mighty works, they knew he taught with great authority, they knew that his teaching came He says that he came in the power of God and was there to demonstrate the word of God, the evidence of their The fact that he was a carpenter would not detract from this the prophet Amos was a herdsman a keeper of goats reminded of the commercial you see it on TV every once in a while where the horse says you got Got a goat and no one wants a goat. Herdmen, goat keepers were at the very lowest part of the uh social packing order, down there right along with Sherman And yet Amos, as with these Galileans, that these Galileans would have to admit Was a great prophet. He spoke with authority. He spoke with power. He spoke the word of God. And therefore, these Galileans are Are being condemned by their own mouths because there was more than enough evidence for them to see that his this man is at least a great prophet. So what if he grew up among us Who else could speak as he speaks? Who else among them had cast out demons? Who had cured the sick? Who had raised the dead. Jesus was at least a prophet. And if he was a prophet, He was speaking by the power of God. And they should have humbled themselves and heard what he said. They should have been generous in their hearts and pondered what he was proclaiming to see what God was doing among them. They should have been open to his message that the kingdom of God of God had come. And that should have brought hope springing up in their hearts and excitement building in their minds. Jesus was proclaiming good news. He was not just proclaiming, like Amos, that you better duck, because God's wrath is coming. And there's no stopping it. He was proclaiming good news. And yet they treated him as if he was some carnival host Trying to convince them that cough syrup would cure cancer. Brothers and sisters, that is the deadly power. The power of unbelief. Unbelief makes us insane. It strips us of our power to reason correctly, to judge rightly, to see clearly, and to hear what is actually said. You who have experience with young children. Try to convince a young child that the doctor who is holding that big needle in his hand that it's not Going to hurt. Try to convince that child that he shouldn't struggle and shouldn't resist and shouldn't scream at the top of his lungs. Use your your best arguments to tell them that it'll only be a little prick and that they will feel better afterwards. Because he doesn't believe you, he tenses up And sure enough, because he's fighting the whole time, the needle hurts worse than it should. That is unbelief. It deprives us Of our ability to reason, it deprives us of the ability to see and hear rightly. And what does it bring? It brings heartache, it brings misery, it brings suffering. Jesus' message was that the kingdom of God has come and it is open to all who will enter into it. It is present in the world, and all the nations of the earth will stream into it In this kingdom there is peace and hope and love and joy, and that hope and love and joy will continue for eternity. And yet these Galileans did not believe Jesus, and in a sense, for them the kingdom had not come. In a sense, the door to joy and peace and hope was closed to them. Their unbelief had slammed the door in Jesus' face And though he knocked, yet they did not open the door so that Jesus might come in and feast with them. Brothers and sisters, that is the deadly power of unbelief, and it traps us in our misery. We cannot exist in this world if we have our eyes At all open and our ears open, we cannot exist in this world unless uh without wanting the world to change. We see the pain and the death and the misery that is in it. And we wish it was not like that. We want it to go away. And yet at the same time, those with unbelief, though they desire Desire that, they say no to Jesus. They say no to the very one who came into the world to deal with those things. And therefore the world goes on as it is, as it was, and as it will be until the Lord returns. Why? Why does it continue in misery? Because of unbelief. If we believed We would stop sinning as much as we do. And the less sin that is in the world, the less pain and less misery. As we reach that point in our exposition and thought about this passage, we have to notice as bad as it is. This is how the gospel works. And here is that tension again. Unbelief is horrible. It is insanity. And yet it is the Work of the gospel to prove that men would rather choose unbelief and its horrible consequences than to choose Christ and his kingdom That he came to bring. The gospel proves, the work of the gospel is to prove that Men would rather choose unbelief than belief. And to understand that, let's look at the parable of the dragnet that Jesus here Has taught us. The parable of the dragnet teaches us that the gospel both saves and condemns. The gospel of the kingdom is the fragrance of Christ to all men, as Paul teaches. To those who are being saved, it is the aroma leading leading aroma of life leading to life. But to those who are perishing, it is the stench of death. We're talking about the gospel To those who are saved, it is the aroma of life. To those who are perishing, it is The stench of death. Same thing. It is their own death they smell. How many of you have ever seen a shrimping trawler At work. Okay. Shrimping trawler, it's for those of you who may not have ever been to a coastal city, is a fairly large boat, and if you notice it's got two arms that stretch up on either side. Well when it's out at sea, those arms come down. And there's a net attached to them, and the trawler drags that net held out there by these long arms behind it. And while it is trawling through the water, it is taking all kinds of stuff into that net, anything that is larger than the holes in the Then they lift that net out of the water and when they do so all of that all of the things that are caught in that net are dumped out on the deck and the deck hens there run and they what they do is that if they see something they don't want they flip it over the side of the boat, throw it back into the water. But all the things that are things of the whether it's shrimp or fish or whatever it is they're after, uh those things that are kept either go into their evening meal or else it goes into the hole for their for their prophet for going out. The gospel of the kingdom. The gospel of the kingdom is God's dragnet. It's going through all the world. The shrimping trawler is the church. It is the people of God going through all the world, through space and time, dragging God's gospel. Dragnet with it. All the while continuing to move, and on a given day, a day that is yet in our future, God will say That's enough. And God's shrimp boat, God's church, will stop. They will lift the gospel net out of the waters of the earth, out of the waters of history. And all of mankind will be dumped out of that net. And here Jesus says at that point the angels will go to work, picking out those for whom the gospel was the sweet aroma Of life and casting all of those for whom it was the stench of death into the furnace of fire. Great tragedy is this. By choosing unbelief, those who rejected Christ lived in misery of one type or another throughout their life on effort. on earth. They cut themselves off from true joy, from true hope, from peace, from true love. Why? Because they rejected the gospel when it came to them They cut themselves off from the very thing they wanted most in their heart. And then on the last day, They will discover to their horror that God's judgment is present and the misery that they saw on earth was only a down payment for that which was in their future And as Jesus says here, then there will be wailing and gnashing of truth. Does this convince you? Out of the great tragedy of unbelief, does it make you see how horrible it really is? I heard a young woman talking on the cell phone as I was going into the Navy Exchange yesterday to to pick up the stuff that we're going to be drinking here shortly. As I went into that uh Navy exchange, there was a young woman out front. She was talking on the phone, and she was talking so loudly that I could not help but hear her. I didn't stay and listen. But as I was walking by, she was saying this. I know that he thinks it's the truth. Everybody has truth. Everybody has their own version of the truth. And if that's what he thinks Brothers and sisters, that is unbelief. That is tolerating unbelief. That is saying it's okay if you You believe this to be true, and another person believes this to be true, and that there is no such thing as a single truth, and that single truth itself must govern every human being's existence We live in a world that is governed by unbelief. We see how it grips the heart and governs our our emotions, our will, and everything about us. If it is that great and powerful, do you see them Brothers and sisters, how it takes the power of God Himself to overcome it. And that brings us to the last point I want us to consider today. It is from unbelief and all that it does to us and all of its horrifying power that Jesus has saved us. All sin, all wickedness, everything that separates from God, separates us from God, is rooted in unbelief. When our children, when our friends, when our Our relatives, when our co-workers do things that cause us to grieve, we must realize that at the root of those things is unbelief. It flows from a heart's that has been hardened. It flows from a heart that is like these Galileans who were offended at Jesus. They were offended Offended at Jesus. They were put off by Jesus. To him, he was like Donald Trump is to the Democrats They can't stand the thought of him. I'm not endorsing Donald Trump by any stretch of the imagination. Don't think that. It's just that he's very much in the news and the most the people that are calling him the worst names are on the other side of the aisle, but that's the only reason for the example. And brothers and sisters, as long as any person remains in this mindset, no great work. Even if a man was to raise from the dead is going to change their mind. Because they have cut themselves off from hope. It grieves us and we want to be different. We want it to be different. We want to be we want to have the power to be able to speak to a person, an unbelieving relative or something and and to talk with them with such logic and with such power and with such authority in our voice that they can't help but believe we want that And when we find that that doesn't happen, it might cause us to wonder. It may even cause us to begin to doubt whether Jesus and his kingdom are true. It all. And it is that doubt that we have to guard against that I wish to speak to now. To guard ourselves against doubt in the Jesus could not do any great work in the days of his flesh where he did not first see the Father at work. But Jesus, remember this, did many great works. He did lots of great works. He just couldn't do them jet there in Galilee because God was going to teach us something about those Galileans. And therefore, just because Jesus and God are not at work in a given individual does not mean that he is not working at all. And the proof of that is very close. It is as close as your very own heart. You had a heart of unbelief once. You were born a sinner, an unbeliever. You were by nature a child of wrath, just like the worst sinner out there. And God worked on your heart, and he Changed you. The evidence is your own life. Even in the face of your own doubts, go back to what God has done for you. And something inside of you, like it was with Job, will say that though he slay me, yet I will never Reject him. I will not deny him. Even when Satan's doing his best work at raising doubts in your mind Look and see. You cannot deny your Christ. Jesus is Lord. He is Lord of all things. He is Lord of my life. By that confession, brothers and sisters, you can form confirm that you are among those for whom Christ is the fragrance of life and not the aroma of death. Unbelief is a terrible thing. Where it is raining in the general culture, there you will see many. There you will not Not see many great works of God. In a world that is given over to unbelief, expect to see depravity and horror unfolding before your eyes. Expect Expect to see abortion called health care for women and have it celebrated as a wonderful thing. Expect to see Wars and rumors of wars, both in foreign countries and in the streets of our cities. Expect to see the land given over to corrupt leaders and people seemingly powerless to change it. Expect to see that stuff. But do not despair. If Jesus is not doing any great work. works among us. Jesus did many great works in the days of his flesh, among those in whom God was working for salvation And the evidence of your own life and your own faith teaches you that though many are perishing, yet there is a remnant. There are the 7,000 who have not bowed their knee to Baal. And therefore there is hope. And where there's hope, brothers and sisters, there's a job to do because the shrimp trawler that is God's church is still carrying the gospel wherever God sends it. And it is going to haul in that net, and there's going to be good fish. Amongst those that are not. Our job is to keep throwing out the net, to keep casting the gospel into the trouble sea Knowing that many will hear and because of their unbelief will reject what you say. But there will be those for whom the word of God, the gospel of Christ in his kingdom, will be the sweetest sound they've ever heard. Let's pray.