I've made it this far and I haven't ran out. Starting verse eleven. For this is the message that you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of the wicked one, and murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his works were evil and his brothers righteous. Do not marvel, my brethren, if the world hates you. We know that we have passed from death to life because we love the brethren. He who does not love his brother abides in death. Whoever hates his brother is a murderer, and ye know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. By this we know love, because He laid down His life for us, and we also ought to lay down our lives for the brethren But whoever has his world's goods and sees his brother in need and shuts up his heart from him, how does the love of God abide in him? My little children, let us not love in word or in tongue, but in deed and in truth. God's word for God's people. Let's pray. God in heaven, we are so grateful that you have preserved your word for all these generations, that we can study it, that we can learn more about who you are. and what you're doing in this world and what it is that you require of us. I pray this evening that I will get out of the way. My nerves will get out of the way, and that we will just be able to learn and glean from the text that you have preserved all these ages. And that we can grow in love of you and love for one another. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. So before we dive directly into the text, I think that it's important that we understand the context of which the letter was written. So throughout throughout this letter what we'll see or the whole context of the letter is this that there are three different themes that appear consistently throughout. It's not John's not writing really in a linear argumentation, right? He's m moving more in a circular fashion. Right, where these three themes of sin, love, and really Christological precision keep popping up, right? Like you think of it as a thread, right, or seam that's going through a blanket, right, that it pops up and then it goes back under and it pops back up. He's repeating these things throughout the letter. And we see that his audience is some people that are dear to him. Right? We can find this by the language that he uses when he's addressing those whom he's sending this letter. He uses language such as my children, children, right? Showing his tone is very pastoral and caring to those whom he's sending this letter. And what he's doing is not merely correcting error, though he is, but what he's doing is he's protecting as a good shepherd does, as a pastor does, and he's caring for the souls. of the people. Pastor Jesse had mentioned, I believe it was in uh the morning uh morning service in his sermon last Lord's Day, but it was A growing false teaching during this time of a denial of the flesh and blood of Jesus Christ, a denial of the incarnation. Right, this this uh heresy is known as docetism, which is denying that Christ was truly human Right, that what what the apostles saw, what they saw was just like this phantom appearance. Right, and then there's a l a lot of danger that is going that goes along with such a heresy. Is that in John is really addressing that throughout his letter? Right, and what he is doing is that he is consistently reassuring that the apostolic message that was given to them is true. And what he's doing is making sure that the people know that those who are coming against Christ and proclaiming this false teaching, they don't love them. They are in fact walking in the dark, right, and that they are against them. They are against God and against his people. Our passage this evening marks what is the second emphasis on the theme of love in this letter. In chapter 2, John connects love with obedience to God's commandments. Right, and with loving fellow believers. He writes in chapter 2, verse 10, whoever loves his brother abides in light. Well in verse 11 of chapter 2, he says, whoever hates his brother is in the darkness. And when we come to our passage, he kind of expands and builds on that foundation that he's already laid in chapter 2. He deepens the contrast between what it is And who are the people that walk in light and those who walk in the darkness? He not only shows us and teaches us what love is, but what love reveals about God's people. Love is not merely a command, right? It is evidence of whether one is walking in light or is remaining in the darkness In other words, we can say it this way that love is evidence that one has passed from death to life. Therefore, our main teaching or proposition this evening or doctrine is this. It's simple The evidence of life is love. We're going to look at this teaching through three different headings of the passage. The command, verses eleven and twelve, the evidence, verses thirteen through fifteen, and the example, verses sixteen and eighteen. So this began back in verse eleven. He writes, For this is the message that you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. Right? John brings the remembrance something, right? Something that has been taught since he says the beginning. Right? That he We are to love one another. But what's important here is this beginning word in verse 11, which is 4. What this word does is it connects it directly to the previous verse in verse 10. And it says this. In this the children of God and the children of the devil are manifest. Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is he who does not love his brother. I think there are really two clear observations that we can make with that verse. And John makes a sobering distinction between two groups of people, the children of God. And the children of the devil. Right? And secondly, whoever does not practice righteousness or love his brother is not of God and therefore is a child of the devil. There's no neutrality here. There are two families There's the family of God and the family of Satan. There are those who walk in light, who are God's children, and those who walk in darkness, who belong to the family of Satan. So this means, as we continue in verse 11, that love is not optional, it's not secondary. It's really the finding mark. of our spiritual identity. The lack of love is not merely a weakness. It's a contradiction of what it means to belong to God. So I don't know if you're like me or if you've had similar c conversations or some experiences. with people maybe I don't know over Thanksgiving holiday with some extended family. Right, maybe you've heard people say, Ah, you know, you're you're a Christian, you go to church. Yeah, you know, I I love God but I don't really I don't really love the church or I don't like the church or even stronger language, I I hate the church. Right. The church is just is just filled with hypocritical people that you can't trust because they're always going against the things that they teach. I don't want anything to do with the church. Well I think that there's a lot of layers between behind those those words that people are saying, different experiences and each case. Deserves careful attention and discretion and further conversation. Um Because I think in some of those cases, right, you have people that have been um their sin has been addressed and they get offended. And they call it church hurt. They label it as church hurt. Right? Or there are certain cases where people have been abused. in the church and that has distorted their view of who God really is and they're struggling with that. Two very different cases Right, so that's why I say we have to glean and kind of understand on a case-by-case basis what what is happening in that situation. But there is one underlying principle that I really want us to understand is that you cannot say that you love God and you don't love his people You cannot say that you love God and hate his people. You cannot claim to love Christ while rejecting his bride. Whoever does not love his brother directly violates the teachings of Scripture. Here are some words of Jesus in the Gospel according to John. John 13, 34 says, A new commandment I give to you that you love one another just as I have loved you, that you love one another. John 15 Verse 12. This is my commandment that you love one another as I have loved you. Further down, John 15, 17, these things I command you. Right? And Jesus is talking to his disciples in the upper room. That you love one another. Love is not a mere suggestion, but it's a command of God's people. Right, we know how Jesus summed up the law, right, that we already love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. And to love our neighbor as ourselves. The whole law hinges on love of God and love of people. So this isn't anything new that John is bringing to the people of God. Now let's continue to examine the text. Let's go to verse twelve. He brings out what I call the counter example of love. And he says, I'll back it up a little bit, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of the wicked one, and murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his works were evil and his brothers righteous. So To continue and further expand what it means to love one another, it's interesting that John does so by first giving us what not to do. He gives us a negative example or counter example to what love is. He says not to love one another or to love one another, but not like Cain. For Cain did not love, right? That is mistakenly clear by unmistakably clear by what he did. He carried out murder. And we have to ask the question, why is John bringing Cain into this discourse about about love. Why bringing in this person? Well, I think that it really has to do with The context of this whole passage, this whole letter. What John is doing is he's linking Cain to belonging to the family of Satan. Cain's hatred for his brother was it was not hidden. He outwardly murdered his brother. That revealed his true identity, his true spiritual identity. And we if we remember what it is that John is who John is writing to and what is happening, especially in regards to the false teaching that is being spread in that context in that day. What we can we can make the connection here that there were once people who were in the church, right? They had the outward appearance of brothers, right? Cain and Abel were brothers, right? There are those who were brothers in the faith, professed faith, and then they veered off to the left field, completely denying the truth of the apostolic teaching. Right. What John is doing is he's making the connection of those people that are leaving the faith and teaching these false doctrines, teaching these false things about who Christ is. They are like Cain. What they are trying to do is commit spiritual murder. And John is making it clear that those who operate in this manner they are not of God Those people that are teaching these things, they belong to the family of Satan or the family of Satan, like Cain. Let's continue on in the next heading, verses thirteen through fifteen, which is the evidence. I think what's interesting here is that John interjects here. In verse 13, he says, Do you not marvel, my brethren? If the world hates you. He's reminding his readers of the true relationships that Christians have with the world. Cain is representative of the family of Satan, which is representative of the kingdom of the world. And Cain hated Abel, as we read, because of his righteousness, his righteous deeds. So too So too does the world hate those who seek to live in obedience to God. And as I was studying, I came across one commentator who who put it this way. He said, Cain's motive for killing his brother reveals a foundational spiritual principle about life in this world. Those who do not know what is right hate those who do. Say that again. Cain's motive for killing his brother reveals a foundational spiritual principle about life in this world. Those who do not do what is right. Hate those who do. I don't think you have to look very far to see that the world resents those who try to obey God through living out biblical principles and values Because what does righteous living do? It exposes sin. The world doesn't deny that there's sin It denies that they are responsible before God. They don't even believe in a God. So we see that manifest in different ways that You stand up and you say, No, there are two genders. There are two sexes. There's male and female. Right? And then you get screened at and you get things thrown at you and argued with, right, when you're standing on biblical values and biblical principles and truths that there is a God who created man, male, and female. You don't have to look very far that the world hates those who are living in accordance to God's word. And John is echoing what Jesus had already said to his disciples in the upper room. Right in John 15, verses 18 and 19, Jesus says, if the world hates you, You know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love its own. Yet because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you So brothers and sisters, don't marvel that when you're living for godly principles and truths, that you're gonna receive opposition to that. Let's continue in verse fourteen. John tells us with the evidence Or it tells us that the evidence that someone has truly been given you life is that they have passed from death to life because we love the brethren. He who does not love his brother abides in death. John here gives a very clear Test of assurance. I wonder if you caught it. He says, we know. In other words, we can have confidence in knowing this. That we have passed from death to life, right? A spiritual death to life. Because we love the brethren. In other words, the evidence of spiritual life is love for God's people. Let's not get it mixed up. Our love for others is not the cause of our salvation. It is the evidence. It is the fruit. We are saved by God's grace alone through faith alone in Jesus Christ. And the fruits of that, the evidence that we have been saved. Is love for the brethren. Again, we see that John is drawing a line in the sand in this passage. That line is the mark of two different families. Right? On one side, you have people who are marked by love. And on the other, you have people that are marked. By a lack of love. He says, We know that we have passed from death to life because we love the brethren. And then he continues and says, He who does not love his brother abides. in death. Again, there's no middle ground, there's no neutrality. There are two families of this world, two kingdoms. Right, there's two types of people, right? Those who belong to Satan and those who belong to God. And love for God and love for neighbor, they go hand in hand with each other. And that love for our neighbor is proof that a person has passed from death to life. We can title it this way, as I titled the sermon, that the hallmark of God's children is love. The hallmark, right? The distinguishing marker of a Christian is this. It is love. So the question then becomes really unavoidable when you're reading through it. Do you see this love in your life? Right, not perfectly. We can't express a perfect love. Right, but a true, genuine love for God's people, for each other. Not something that appears occasionally, right, maybe through random acts of kindness, but something that is consistently showing up throughout your life. Think about that. John continues and further drives home his point. He just continues driving the nail in. He says this, whoever hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. He is he's not speaking hyperbolically, but he's speaking in a spiritual sense That hatred and eternal life, they don't coexist. They don't hold hands with one another. It's impossible If we remember, right, those who hate are likened to Cain as murderers. Right, Cain hated his brother because he was living rightly before God. And instead of following Abel's example, where Cain could have repented and turned to God. And brought the correct sacrifice to him. Instead, he allowed that anger to harbor and then manifest by the way of murder. And if we look back into the context, again, we know that there is a battle that is raging. A battle of truth, right, and a battle of lies. The battle is against the heresy that is rising within the church. And if we look at the etymology of this word here in verse 15, where he says whoever hates his brother is a murderer. If we look at that word in the Greek, it's really a compound word of two words here. Person And killer. And what's interesting is that Jesus used the same word in John chapter 8, verse 44. Where he says, you are your father, you are of your father, the devil, and the desires of your father you want to do. He was a murderer. There's that word. He's a murderer from the beginning. It does not stand in truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own resources, for he is a liar, and the father of it Right, Jesus is ascribing this word to Satan, and John is ascribing it to Cain, who is then ascribing it to those who are coming against the correct teaching of who Christ is. Do you see that link? That those who are rising against and teaching falsely, they are murderers. They belong, again, to the family of Satan. Because heresy by its nature, what it does is it pulls people away from God. Those who are trying to lead people down this path, they are person killers or people killers, as the literal translation of the text would be. Now I know most of you aren't going around uh spreading heretical teachings, so you might think, well, how does this apply To me, right? Most of you or most of us here are are reformed. We ascribe to the Westminster Confession of Faith, the larger and shorter catechism. I near theology is good But I wonder how it is that you relate with others who are outside the Reformed tradition. Right, I'm I'm speaking in a narrow sense, not in a broad sense, I'm speaking in a narrow sense with under the umbrella of Protestantism, right, those who also are Protestants. Right, I wonder when you are engaged in dialogue with these folks who differ on secondary and tertiary doctrines. what how how you are, what your motive is behind them. Right a lot of times we we like to correct people, right? And we engage in a manner that Maybe isn't still loving and caring. We just are engaging with them because we have this knowledge and we want to Bang them in the head with it. We want to have a spiritual or a theological right knockout Where we pull the card and say, Ha, gotcha. Right like when we first become reformed and we learn about the glorious doctrines of election and we w walk around and they call it the cage stage. Right? Anyone familiar with the the cage stage? I wonder when you're having these conversations with those who are in the faith or in the Protestant faith. What's your motive is behind getting into these conversations where you're discussing uh different areas, different doctrines. Is your motive love? Or is your motive pride? Are you seeking to fill yourself up? Right to say, hey, I gotcha. Or do you actually care for the person? Who, though they might be in a different denomination, we're still all professing faith in the one Savior, Jesus Christ. I'm reminded of what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 13. Right? Those of you who who know it, it goes like something like this. I'm paraphrasing. But if you do not love, right? If I could speak with tongues of angels, but I do not love, I am like a clashing symbol. You can have, you can put it this way, I can memorize the entire Westminster Confession of Faith, larger and shorter catechism. I can memorize all the Calvinist Institutes. I can have all the correct doctrine, all the right wording, all the right definitions. But if I do not love, just a clashing symbol So next time you're in a conversation with someone who might be outside of the PCA or outside of the Reformed tradition. Check your motives. Think about why it is you're engaging in in that conversation. So far we've gone through the text. And we've seen that g John has given us a command. He's given us a counterexample of of what love is not. And he's given us the truth that love is the evidence of life. Naturally, I think that this leads us to ask the question, well What do I do with that, John? What am I supposed to do? What does that how am I supposed to live this love out that that I'm commanded to do? Well he gives us the ultimate example, who is Jesus Christ. Here in verse 16, he says, By this we know love, because he laid down his life for us. And we also ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. First we know we know love. Why? Because he first loved us Christ is the very standard. You could title him the paradigm of love. And his followers were called to model our lives after him. Now is John teaching that we need to go seek this ultimate sacrifice for our brothers and sisters? No, not necessarily, though there may be rare cases where the ultimate sacrifice is meant But that's not the normative. I think at the heart of what John is teaching us, by way of the Spirit, is that he's telling his audience that loving the brethren And loving them well is going to require sacrifice. I found I found a definition of love that I found to be very helpful. to me to really categorize it because there are many definitions out there um that completely miss the mark. The world's definition is Completely wrong. They say that love is the love uh kindness. You just gotta be kind to everybody, accept them for who they are. But I think this gives us a pretty good biblical definition of what love is Love is a self-sacrificing, caring commitment that shows itself in seeking the highest good of the one loved. A self-sacrificing, caring commitment that shows itself in seeking the highest good of the one loved. To love each other well, church, it's gonna cost. It's gonna cost us something. It's gonna cost us our time, our resources, our comfort, our preferences. It's not just this emotional feeling. Yeah, I I love you guys. No, it's a commitment to serve each other, to care for one another. And it's going to require different sacrifices. We can look at verse seventeen. Where John writes, but whoever has this world's goods and sees his brother in need and shuts up his heart from him, how does the love of God abide in him? It doesn't. That's what he wants you that's how he wants you to answer. Right? He's giving you all these steps of what love is and You know, what Christ has done and the sacrifice that he did and that he's calling us to sacrifice for one another. It reminds me of the Good Samaritan. Maybe it did you too when you were reading it. Right, we see that there was one who was left destitute on the side of the road, and that there were three who walked across. the other way. Right, there were two who turned the other way and ignored this traveler. But there was one, the Good Samaritan, who stopped and made sacrifices. We don't know where he was heading to or what he was doing. We don't we don't know that. Well we know that what he did do is he lost a couple. It cost him some money. He lost some wages. But yet he still stopped and he saw this person in need. And served him. Love requires us to meet the life-sustaining needs of those in our community. If we can help Yeah we put up those blinders and we close up our hearts And we look the other way. When we know that there are those in need in our community, we need to take a look in the mirror and examine our lives and examine our priorities. If our schedules are so filled that we can't stop to serve a meal for somebody who's in need Maybe it's time to start stripping back some things in our schedule. I think we can see a wonderful example of what a loving community is in Acts chapter two. So if you will turn with me there. Acts chapter two, beginning in verse forty two. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship in the breaking of bread, and in prayers. Then fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done through the apostles. Now all who believed were together and had all things in common, and sold their possessions and goods, and divided them among all as any one. had need. So continue daily with one accord in the temple and breaking bread from house to house, they ate their food with gladness and simplicity of heart. praising God and having favor with all people. And the Lord added to the church daily those who were being saved. We see here in verse forty five That they divided them among all as any one had need. They loved each other so well that there was none who went without need. And if we think about what they left behind, right, this is the beginning of the church. They left Judaism. Right? They left their home places. They were rejected by the community that they had grown up in. The follow Christ and the teachings of the apostles. Peter comes out and he gives the first sermon and he says, You Jews, you were the ones who Committed murder of the Messiah. And then you have those who are repenting and believing and being baptized, and this community is forming and they're being rejected by those whom they grew up. And they're being rejected by the synagogues, by those who are in the temple, the religious leaders are being rejected. But guess what? God sustained them. And how did God sustain his people? The primary means, by the way, God cares for his people. Do you know how he does so? Through people. God primarily cares and loves for his people is through other people. And we see that here in an example. of the first church, or the beginning of the church. Let's come to the conclusion of our passage. Verse 18, John says, My little children, let us not love in word or in tongue, but in deed and in truth. Loving others in acts consistent with the gospel is how the believer returns to love. That they have received from God in Christ. Love, y'all. Love requires action. It's not just in word, but it's also in deed. And it's also in truth and sharing the truth of who Christ is. It's being Christologically precise. But is doing so in love and in deed. All of those go hand in hand with each other. That gives us a full circle, a full understanding of what it means to love one another. So by way of application, I just want to ask a couple of questions. Love requires sacrifice. That's clearly stated by the way Christ loved us. Husbands, I wonder when you get home from work, what's the first thing you do? What's the first thing you do? Do you go and take your shoes off and put your feet up? Or are you going to your wife and asking where she needs help? Though you're tired, you've spent all day at work. Are you coming home to serve or are you coming home to be served? Wives. You all do so much. You serve so faithfully. But do you constantly have a honeydew list for your husband? All the time, it's never ending. Children, what's your attitude when mom or dad asks you to do something? Do you jump and joy? Or do you eye roll and grumble? Say, man, if they ask me to do one more thing. Love requires sacrifice. It's going to cost you something. It's going to cost you comfort. It's going to cost you sleep. It's going to cost you resources. Church, let's examine ourselves as a whole, at Seven Runs specifically. How how are we serving each other? I see many ways in which we are serving each other good and and well. I wonder what your initial thought is when the hands of grace email goes out and an idiot occurs. Are you thinking I don't have time for this? Are you thinking someone else ah someone else will step in and meet that need? Is it put off to the wayside? I wonder how we are with connecting with one another outside of official capacities, right? Outside of morning worship, evening worship. Bible studies. Are you guys connecting? Are we connecting with one another beyond those areas? Do we actually have genuine relationship and care and love for one another? Remember that love is a sacrificing, caring commitment that shows itself in seeking the highest good of the one loved. The hallmark of God's children is just that, is love. May we not just be hearers of the word, but doers. Amen. Let's pray.