Amen. Let us turn together to the book of Deuteronomy, as we hear from our God this morning. It's Deuteronomy chapter 6, and we'll stand for the reading of his word. I'll be reading to you this morning verses four through nine. Deuteronomy chapter six, verses four through nine. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and you shall talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. Please pray with me Lord Christ, we ask that you directly would teach us these words. We ask that you would write them upon our hearts, that we would truly grow as your disciples. We ask these things. In your name, Amen. You may be seated. No, I'm saying no. Well, maybe this will wake you up a little bit. I want you to use your imagination with me just for a moment I want you to imagine that a young couple asks you out for coffee. You could be their same age or you could be older. But they're young. They're just setting out on the voyage of life And this is what they want to ask you in the meeting. What is the essence? What is the key? What are the three most important things in order for us to be successful in our upcoming marriage? What would you say? How would you boil it down? How would you reduce it? Or imagine another scenario. Imagine that a young adult has just graduated from college or high school. school or wherever they are in their life, but they're entering in on their career and they want to meet with you and they want to ask you and they ask you what are the three basic things that I need to be successful in business or in my occupation or within my trade Let's say you knew something about that trade. What are the three things you would tell them? How would you reduce it or boil it down? What is the essence that you would distill with them? You only have ten minutes. They're very busy people and they're distracted by their phone because they're millennials. What would you say? How would you boil it down for them? You know, in this passage, something similar is happening. Moses is boiling down in verses 4 through 9 and following, really, but we're just going to look through 4 through 9 today. Moses is boiling down the essence. Of how to relate to the God of the universe. Now that's a question that anybody would ask How is it that we should relate to the God of the universe? We're very concerned about our relationships. How are you supposed to if you boil it down? What's the key to relating to God? Now, Moses has been doing this really the whole time. The word Deuteronomy, which is the book that we're in, people have mistaken it as a book of just laws. You can understand why they would, because there's some laws in here But really, it's a second word, it's instructions as we begin to understand what's going on here. Moses is really giving three motivational speeches and a song. That's really the book. We're in the second motivational speech in this chapter. It roughly began in chapter five. And the substance of this speech has been defining the covenant relationship between In chapter 5, verse 1, that's the context of the relationship. It's a context of grace, really, despite what many modern people say And in chapter 5, verses 6 through 22, we then move from the context of the relationship to the content of the relationship. There are ten ways, summarily considered, to relate to God. We just went through the Ten Commandments. And then last week we studied the response to this relationship in verses 523 through 6. 3. And that relationship was not that they were afraid of their God. But they did fear him. And God emphasized and capitalized on that point. The result of that fear is that they wanted a mediator, a middleman. Do you remember that? A middleman to to bring and to explain to them what God had to say to them. They asked for a mediator Moses himself said that God has a greater mediator in store for his people. And we are on the other side of Moses. We've talked about the mediator already many times within the The service today, around 2,000 years ago, the person was revealed to be Jesus of Nazareth As the great mediator, Jesus alone, as you saw within the passage within your bulletin. Could God have made it any clearer that your mediator is Jesus alone? The book of Hebrews captures this well, and Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, but Christ as a son over his own house. You see, Moses was a servant in the house. Jesus owned the house. There's a big difference. So don't be misled. Jesus and Moses are not enemies. They do not contradict one another. And how can you be sure of this? Because both are mediating to us the plans and desires of God the Father. Remember, they're mediators. That's a common mistake. Jesus did not come to destroy Deuteronomy and Moses. He didn't come to destroy these motivational speeches. He came to fulfill them in all of their purity. And so, as we go through these passages, we have to look at the way in what in the way that Moses says is the same thing that Jesus says about these exact same issues. And today's issue is about the heart and essence of relating to God. If Moses had to boil it down, what are the three things he would say on relating to God? It's this. You should relate with loyalty or endeavor to do so. You should relate entirely or endeavor to do so, and you should endeavor to relate intentionally to your God. It's those three things that mark out the relationship. And Jesus says these same things loyalty, entirely, intentionally. Those are obviously the three points of the sermon. I hope you read those down. That's how we should relate. So let's begin in verse 4. As we see how we are to relate to our God, we relate with loyalty. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. Have you ever heard this before? This is a famous verse. It's known as the Shema. Does anybody know why it's called the Shema? Because it's a Hebrew, that's the Hebrew word for here. Shema. Shema means here. It's here. Oh Israel. So they're taking that first word. It is famous even to this day. Orthodox Jews recite verses 4 and 5 twice daily as a covenant recommitment even to this day. And it is important. It's important amongst them, and it is important amongst us. Jesus is not reciting to us a philosophical statement about God, however. I need you to understand that. It says that he is one, and you can immediately move into a philosophical state of mind when you read that word. He is not saying that God is three persons but one God. That is, in fact, true. God is three persons, but one in substance, equal in power and glory. However, Moses is reminding Israel and us that the Lord is not several gods He is not one among many, and we could serve multiple ones. We can't be committed to Yahweh and committed to other gods, which would have been common within their culture. This is the main point. He alone is their Lord. There is no other. He alone is their God. There is no other. And this has been the emphasis for some time. This sounds familiar, doesn't it? Deuteronomy chapter 4, verse 39. Therefore, know this day and consider it in your heart that the Lord Himself is God in heaven and above, on the earth and on the earth beneath. There is no other. Same emphasis here. Deuteronomy 5, verses 6 through 7. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. It's a recapitulation of the first commandment. And that's how Jesus treats it even within the New Testament. Jesus, our mediator, does not destroy this truth. He reaffirms it. Consider Mark 12, verses 28 through 32. Then one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning together, perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him, Which is the first commandment of all? Jesus answered him The first of all the commandments is, now listen to this, this is very interesting. The first of all the commandments is, hear, O Israel The Lord our God, the Lord is one. And then he goes in, Jesus goes into a summary of all of the Ten Commandments. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength This is the first commandment, and the second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these. So the scribe said to him, Well said, teacher, you have spoken the truth, for there is one God, and there is no other But he. You see that? Both testaments just collapsed into each other, didn't they? Jesus is not contradicting Moses, he is fulfilling it. Just as he stated within the Sermon on the Mount. Christians, in other words, this is the truth that rolls out of this. Jesus reaffirms that we should relate to God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit with exclusive loyalty and commitment. It is spoken by Moses as he relays what God the Father spoke to him, and it is spoken by Jesus as Jesus has heard the very words of the Father. Christians, are you a Christian? Christians endeavor to make God the center of their lives. That's how the culture around you should be should know you. Christians endeavor to make God the center of their lives. They are loyal to God the Father, they are loyal to God the Son, and they are loyal to God the Holy Spirit. Christians have tons of relationships. Think of all of the different relationships that have been exercised already this morning, maybe with force because you were tired and you didn't feel like doing any relating at all. But think of all the relationships that you have. There is one relationship that takes top priority over every single one of those, and that is your relationship. To the Trinity. That is what you as a Christian endeavor to do. And that's the first point that he makes here. That's the first essence: that we are loyal and committed exclusively to our God. It sounds exactly like the first commandment. If you picked up on that, you were listening well. The first command and the Shema, verse 4, focus on our devotion and loyalty to God. Now, here is the question, though. Broadly, that's reasonable and it makes sense whether you're a Christian or not that Christians would be committed to their God in exclusive loyalty. Duh. Okay. What does it look like for that devotion to happen? What does it look like to have exclusive loyalty? That's the question that we have to ask. You could answer that by referring back to chapter 5 and saying, well, the Ten Commandments, obviously. Or you could say, well, let's summarize the Ten Commandments into two parts: love God, love neighbor. That would be what the devotion looks like. But there's another way in which he unfolds the same matter in our next point. That is, in verse 5, he shows us what this devotion should look like, and I have titled it that we are to relate entirely to God. Him. Take a look at verse 5 with me. This is a very famous one. I bet you some of you have it memorized. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. A paraphrase, if you were to tie this verse into the surrounding context, this could be a potential paraphrase. Since the Lord alone is your God. Since the Lord alone delivered you from slavery, whether from Exodus or from Egypt or from sin, since the Lord saved and rescued you Since the Lord has proven not only his grace but his exceptional power, since the Lord is your only God, you should love him with all of your heart, with all of your soul. And with all of your strength. That's how you should relate to him. Now, to do that, however, we need to understand those three words. Heart and soul were very popular words within Greek culture. Which then are adopted by Roman culture, which are then adopted by American culture, because that's where our education comes from. Do does Moses mean by heart, soul, and strength the exact same mean that gr the exact same thing that the Greek culture means? In other words, let me put it this way. When you read those terms in verse 5, is Moses giving you a trifold psychological profile of humanity? What's the difference between the heart and the soul? And if you were to read the way it's summarized within the New Testament, what's the difference between the heart and the soul and the mind? Are those three interior parts of your psychology? Is that what he's trying to get into with you? Are they standing there in the desert with goats in the background, and he's trying to give the essence of a person's psychology? I think you know what I think based on the way I put that. I don't believe he's giving us a psychological division He's not saying that with our hearts, one part of our psychology, with our souls, one part of our psychology, with our strength or with our mind, another part of psychology. I think he's saying something very different here. I think there's concentric circles that are working out to say this one thing. You are to love God with your entire life Being and life. It's really that simple. It wasn't meant to be complicated. It was meant to appeal to to even the children that were sitting there or Standing there listening to him, they would be able to understand that whoever you are, and whatever you do, and whatever you own, all should be for the love of God. Now, there's a way in which we can look at this particular to understand those concentric circles. As I've gotten the opportunity to study this, this is my understanding of these words. The first word, heart. It's something that is mentioned throughout the scriptures, and one scholar puts it this way. It's something that needs to be brought out all the time Is that in the Bible, the word heart does not really have the same meaning it tends to have in the English. In the English, what does the word heart mean? It usually refers to our emotions. You wear your heart on your sleeve. The heart is something that is opposed to the head in our culture. And that's the reason. Why a person could say, my head tells me one thing, but my heart tells me that this is what I really want to do. The heart and the head are put against one another. In the Bible, the word heart is the seat of the entire soul. It's not just the emotions. It is all-encompassing of every way in which you think of yourself as a psychological being. That means that you can think with your heart, and that you can will with your heart, and that you can feel with your heart. For example, How do you deal with this one as an American? As a person thinks in his heart, so are they. See, it's a very Different view way of viewing things and viewing the anthropology of man. The heart is the seat of the mind, it is the seat of the will, it is the seat of the emotions. So whatever is going on within you, your desires, your motivations, your thoughts, those interior actions, those are for God. And they are meant for love for God. But there's a second word. It's the word soul. I'm going to say the Hebrew just because it's a fun word, nafesh. The word soul is sometimes translated life. Now here, a picture is worth a thousand words. This is from 1 Kings 17. And this is speaking of Elijah. Elijah stretched himself out on the child three times. Do you remember the story where the child died? Elijah stretched himself out on the child three times, and he cried out to the Lord, and he said, O Lord my God, I pray, let this child's Nefesh come back to him. Then the Lord heard the voice of Elijah, and the Nefesh of the child came back to him, and he revived. It is used this way in many, many examples. The point of the picture is that the sun went from being inanimate, of course, no revival, to animate, moving, able to Move his toes. I wonder what the sun did first. Did did the sun open his eyes first? Did you hear like a Hollywood movie Did he see his chest move first? Did the sun just pop right up? What did the sun do? Whatever he did, the soul entered back in. The animating part of him, the thing that you could see and know that a person is not a corpse But that is a person is a living being. That the person has a soul, that the person has in the flesh. That's the whole point here. He wiggles his toes That is to say, he is revived. The soul is the outward animating action of the person. And then there's the strength. This this word strength, the final word in verse 5, it could simply just be an intensifier. Everything that is inside of you and all of your animating actions, do them to the utmost. Utmost love to God. That is a common way in which this word is used throughout the scriptures, but it is also used in one other way. And scholars keep bringing this up. You're going to have to think through this yourself, and I am becoming more and more convinced of this. In fact, I would consider myself convinced of this now, that scholars keep bringing up examples of this word meaning substance or possessions And so you have three concentric circles, if we look at it this way. We love God in the center by devoting our motivations, our thoughts, and emotions to Him. Second concentric circle. We love God by devoting all of our actions to Him, everything, every wiggle of a toe. is love for God. Every animating action, everything that makes you not a corpse is for the love of God. And then the third is with all of your property, everything that you own, and all of your possessions. You know, I saw a great example of these three concentric circles when I was being a good boy and emptying the dishwasher and putting all the dishes away. There was this one wooden spoon that I pulled out of the dishwasher, and at some point it used to look like a But now the the I wish I should have brought the spoon. The spoon is has like a a a slanted edge on one side of it. It was supposed to be an oblong spoon, but now there's a slanted edge on one side of the spoon. Do you know Know why the spoon looks like that? And it's burnt. Do you know why the spoon looks like that? Because years after years of my wife in obedience to her God, taking care of her family has stirred and offering and offering hospitality to so many people has stirred so many pots of Annie's mac and cheese and soup and buffalo chicken dip That the spoon is now slanted on one side. If you ever claim that my wife doesn't serve the Lord Jesus Christ, Christ, I'm gonna bring that spoon out and I'm gonna spank you with it. And you will always remember. That's a great way to see that not only the heart, not only the animating actions, but the very possessions themselves are dedicated to the love of God. of God. And I know that you're hard on yourself, Christian. I know that you see all your flaws, but I guarantee, and if you need me to come over your house and show you, I will, I bet you you have possessions in your life that are evident That you love God. And I know that because Jesus Christ is good, and those are the kind of things that He does inside of you. You are the fruit of His hands. Thank God. He is your great shepherd. He's your mediator with that kind of power. Christians are loyal to God, in other words. In every sphere of life. That's their endeavor. Whether it's inside or outside, Christians are loyal entirely. Not all at once, but that's their trajectory. That's the compass. That's the path. That's the destiny. That's their endeavor of their life And so far, the essence of relating to God, therefore, is loyalty. And now we can add a second thing. What does that look like? It looks like in every sphere of life. Does that happen automatically? That's my next question for you. I remember reading in a book somewhere that someone told me, growing in your love from God, I take this very personal, I hear them. Speaking to me. I I call all authors by their first name. This guy's name was Brian. You probably don't know him. And he said, Growing in your love from God happens automatically like a turtle falling off of a log. That could not be farther from my own experience. Or from what I see within the scriptures. So how does it happen? We see this in our next set of verses, verses six through nine, and that is You have to relate intentionally to him. Doesn't that sound familiar to you? Isn't that true for all of your relationships? What happens if you just put your relationship on Autopilot? Does it go well? How's that working for those of you who are married and are doing that? How's it going? Not going well Yeah, we have to relate intentionally. This is common sense. But Moses plays it out for us and he explains our relationship to God in verses 6 through 5. nine. And these words which I command you today, they should be in your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children. You shall talk of them when you're sitting in your house, when you're walking by, when you lie down. in your house, when you rise up in your house, and you should bind them as a sign on your hand. You shall they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. And you should write them on the doorposts of your house, and you should even out in society write them on the gates of the city City. You can see what he's doing here. And I want you to notice first that in order for the relationship to be healthy, the word of God must be present in our hearts. It clearly says that in verse 6. And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. And we know there will be much more explanation with these words, an expounding of these words. We are to hide his word within our hearts. It can sound strange to say that, but this is what he means. He means what God says. What God thinks, what God's plans and desires are, who God is, what He has done, what He is doing, what He has promised to do, He has communicated those things to us. Not only is God there, but he is not silent. And these things that he has spoken, they have been recorded, and we are to hide them in our heart as a constant influencer. It must be present within us to shape our motivations, to shape our thoughts, to shape our emotions. It must be present within us, the word, to shape our animate actions. It must be present within us to show us what we do with our possessions and our property. The Word of God saturates and permeates all of the concentric circles. That's his point. Now you have to remember, and I'll just ask you, if you do not have the Word of God hiding within your heart, Does it mean that there are no words present in your life? If you don't have the voice of God hiding within your heart, does that mean that there are no voices present? There are so many voices bouncing around in our world and in our own heads that if his voice is not present, then there are a thousand other voices. Self-talk. What are the things that you say to yourself? Talk from our culture. Talk from our friends and our family. You know your former experiences can be so powerful that they can become kind of verbal and they can communicate. To you? What do they say to you? Those difficult experiences that you had. In other words, at any given day, in any given moment, what is your guiding light? What is speaking to you and telling you what you should do and what you should not do, what you should be motivated by, what you should love and what you should hate? What are the voices that you listen to? He's saying here, it should always be the voice of God as recorded within his scriptures. Our goal is for God alone to have that place. There can be other voices. We can listen to other human beings, but they have no authority whatsoever if they contradict them. God. Our goal is to think God's thoughts after Him and to speak those thoughts so that they're legitimate legitimate verbalizations, something to add to this world. If anything contradicts what he says, they're actually an unreality. They are negative zero, negative one. Now that's the first thing that he says, and that spreads across 7, 8, and 9 in these verses. Hide the word within your heart. And it's repeated in multiple books of the Scripture, including the New Testament. Now, here's the second. The second thing that I want you to notice in verses 6 through 9. Not only hide the word within your heart, that's the way in which you must be intentional. You will not have the Lord's voice ordinarily as a guiding light if you are not intentionally sticking it into your heart. Get it in there. Number two, notice Christians should be intentional in every part of their home It says by the way, you notice that there in verse uh seven? You shall teach them diligently to your children, and you shall talk of them when you sit in your house. And when you walk by the way, that seems to throw us all of a sudden out of the house. I still think it's focused on the home that you sit in your house, you when you walk by the house, when you lie down in the house, when you rise up in the house. It has to do with you and your family. That culture that is present there, that you need to be intentional in every part of your home. Your children and relatives Will not come to love God at all or progressively, automatically. How would they hear without a preacher? And how will there be a preacher without the Word of God? That's what Paul says. You have a responsibility in this. Ultimately, it is up to Christ, as he is the great gatherer. But you do have a role to play in the same way that Jesus multiplied the bread and the loaves, but the disciples passed them out. So that people could eat. If they weren't passed out, they wouldn't eat. It is the same thing with you. We are to teach the words of God to our children. Whether they are biologically or blood related to you or not. What I mean is if there's little ones running around here and they're not a part of your family, you still have a responsibility to them, which is why we have the vow as covenant children. Talk to them when you sit around on your couches. this these verses say. If you get a new sectional from Costco because it was on sale, you better be talking about God's word on that sectional. In your lazy boy, do more than play video games or sleep or have potato chips all over it from watching the football game Talk about God's word. On your screen porches and in your living room. When you go to bed, there should be some kind of conversation and intentionality of hiding God's word, scattering the seeds as many times as you can you can. When you wake up, you're to speak God's word. You're to have it there for yourself and you're to have it there for other people. One practice I've started to notice that we have taken up as a church here is that when people leave, we send them away with a piece of scripture framed that is entirely In a line with this verse. And I've noticed that when I walk into your homes, you have scripture framed. That's entirely in line with this verse. When you rise up, you can see those scriptures Now, third, verse 8. Notice that we are not only intentional with getting the word into our own hearts and into the hearts of our families, our relatives, but we are intentional in public. That's the point of these different images that you see here. The frontlets between the eyes, the writing on the hand, the door, the doorpost, and the gate. You can actually, if you were to uh Google this idea, you will see within still within Jewish communities on some of their doorposts will be a Torah scroll screwed onto their doorposts, and inside will be the words that are written here Now, whether you take that literally or not, the whole point is that there should be a public testimony and witness to who you are in your identity in relationship to God. That you must be intentional about that, that you do not leave your Christian identity in your home and you don't leave it here in this sanctuary for Sundays, but rather it is a public and civic part of who you are as a person. God is right before their eyes anywhere that you go, in the workplace or whatever it is. And verse 9, interestingly, extends this to community policy and law. You know where I get that in verse 9. It says that it should be written on the gates. That's where the law court was. That's where arbitration took place for any business disputes within the community. And the fact that he says here that it should be written there, it shows that that word that has been hidden in our heart and that has spread through the community of our relatives should also show up in the way that we arbitrate and make Decisions in public policy, especially within the church. So the point is clear. We must keep our relationship with God as our focus personally We must keep our relationship with God intentionally in our families, and we must do so in public. And we do this by keeping what God thinks, what God does, and what God will do all recorded within his scripture. Present before us and hiding within our hearts, kneading it in like a piece of dough. And the Lord Jesus Christ raises up teachers to be able to do that kind of thing, but he makes us in one way or another, all of us teachers. This obviously carried forward in the New Testament teaching. I told you that we have a mediator here explaining what God has said. His name is Moses, but that Jesus alone is our mediator. And so we need to see what he taught his apostles in the New Testament to see that he again is not contradicting Moses, but teaches the same thing. He says, through his apostles, the inspiration. 2 Timothy 3. 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. That the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work. And by the way, when he says all scripture, to what was he referring? New Testament hadn't been written yet. He's speaking of all of that which has been inspired by God and enscripturated for us. The apostles Taking him seriously on the role of the word within the lives of the people, the apostles often brought the word to each sphere of human existence in those concentric circles. They focused in their letters on the on human motivations and thoughts and emotions. They focused on actions and they focused on possessions and property. You can't read a New Testament letter and not also find Paul or Peter or James focused on the family and focused on their public witness. It all comes forward. It's the same word being mediated to you by Jesus alone. We know that Moses is acting as the middleman In this particular context, he's taking what God tells him and relaying and explaining it to God's people. We are God's people. You are God's people. And now Jesus is our mediator on the other side of things. But he does not contradict Moses, rather, he upholds him, for both are mediators of God. Both, therefore, teach us the essence of relating to God. Now, if you had to give three different ways that you are to relate to God, I hope that you would turn to these passages. We relate with loyalty, and that loyalty covers every sphere of our existence in these concentric circles. We live entirely, in other words. And this kind of life is not like a turtle falling off a log. It's not autopilot. It is a life of supreme intentionality in dependence upon the grace of the Holy Spirit. And to this end, we must keep God's word before us in our private lives, in our family life, and in our public life. I wonder which ways you are enacting that at present. Jesus Christ, we all know. Maybe you don't know, maybe this is the first time that you've heard this. Jesus Christ saves people through his life and his death Through the guilt, he saves them from the punishment and the guilt of sin. Have you ever heard that before? But do you know he also rescues you from much more? He, as your mediator, as your teacher, is writing things upon your little forgiven heart so that you would become the kind of person that we read about in these verses. You will be the embodiment in your glory of these verses. When someone says, What does it mean to love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your mind, and all your strength? Somebody in heaven, when you have arrived in glory, will say It looks exactly like them. That is what Jesus Christ is doing. It's part of his saving work. It's what it means for him to be your sanctifier. Something Moses could have never done. And so even Moses himself falls and bows in worship to the Lord Jesus Christ because he is Lord of all. And so let me leave you with this. Galatians 5, 25. I just preach grace to you, but remember, you're not a turtle that falls automatically off the log. Galatians 5. 25. If we live in the Spirit that Jesus Christ has given to us, let us also walk in the Spirit. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for teaching us through your mediator, Jesus alone, on how to relate to you. But it's more than that. We thank you that you are teaching us how you are showing and molding and shaping us to relate to you. You're revealing to us what Jesus Christ Himself is accomplishing. in us. We pray that you would give us loyalty. We pray that you would allow us to give our lives over to you entirely. And we pray, Lord Jesus Christ. That you would be our King, that you would be our Lord of Lords in all of the areas of our life, and that it would be so in Intentionally. You have given us your spirit. Maybe walk in your spirit. Amen.