Proverbs thirty-one, twenty-eight through thirty-one. Her children rise up and call her blessed. Her husband also, and he praises her. Many daughters have done well, but you excel them all. Charm is deceitful, and beauty is passing. But a woman who fears the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you have given us to be salt and light of the earth as your sacred congregation. I pray that your preached word would mold and shape your congregation here this evening, and that we would be a witness to the world on what it looks like to treat women honorably. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. You may be seated. So I have a serious question for you, and I expect somewhat of a mixed answer. Uh it'll be good. Maybe we can keep talking about this over dinner actually. What do you think? Do you think that it is that Jesus is pleased with a desire you may have for being famous. Is Jesus pleased if you desire fame? Well, I think if you took some time to think about it, you'd see that there is a distinction that we should make. And we should make a distinction between unlawful and lawful fame, or if you want to, that's one distinction that one author has Written of or around the Civil War era. And another distinction would just be a godly or an ungodly fame. Right off of the bat, though, I wonder what your answer was A lot of the times as Christians we would immediately say, no fame bad. And yet, when we look at the scriptures, we see that there is a social esteem or fame that is appropriate. Consider this, for example, from Proverbs 22, verse 1. A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches. That means that your name is known. It's famous throughout the community, but it's not famous for the wrong intentions or the wrong ends. It's famous because you're known as a person who serves the Lord and who brings good into people's homes and into their community. And it's that kind of esteem that is commended, in fact, in Scripture. You can see it throughout many examples. And so I think that is a good way for us to look at it. And it actually sets us up to be able to understand what's going on here within this passage. Here we see right at the end of the whole poem on the valiant wife that it ends not in what she is doing for others, but the praise that she receives. From those that she has served. The great reputation that she has earned within the community, and the blessing that she receives from it. She has received a good And an honored name, and she is a great blessing, and therefore is blessed, and she is praised within that community. It's just another example of a kind of godly theme that is appropriate. Now, we've been stepping through this poem for some time now. You focused on the second part of the poem, which is on the valiant wife or the woman warrior, as I have mentioned If you look back at chapter 31, verse 12, you can see where we really started to launch. It says, she does good and not evil all the days of her life. And then the rest of the poem, all the way up to this verse 28, is an itemization of the kinds of goods that she has done. And why it is that her husband and her children and the community at large trust her. It's what it says there in verse 12. I'm sorry, in verse 11, the heart of her husband safely trusts her. So he will have no lack of gain. She does she does him good and not evil all the days of her life. And then we've already been through these verses, but she contributes to the life of the larger community. She contributes to the life of her own household. She contributes to the life of her husband, and she even contributes to her own life. That's really how the poem has unfolded. Now, when we get into this final section, all that she put into others. Now as a natural social reward, it comes back to her. And it comes back to her in the acknowledgement and praise of the people that she has helped. And so that's what I want to look at here this evening, is I want to look at the praise that is from the household. You could the first point could just be household praise. And then the second part of this final piece of the poem is community praise. So there is a household praise and a community praise. And so let's step through the 28 through 31 with the household praise and the community praise. Take a look at verse number 28. We see this, see what's happening here. It says, her children rise up and call her blessed. And I'll continue in just a moment on that. But this is really tying back in to give a contrast to what's been happening in the poem all along. Things are really switching here. If you look at Proverbs 31, verse 15, it says, she rises. while it is yet night. And now the switch has come where she's been doing all of the rising. It's been a constant flurry of activity in her serving one domain of society after another And now when we get to 28, we see that others are rising for her. And they're rising to give her praise and to bless her. You can see that the first group that gives her praise right there in verse 28 is just right in your face. It says, Her children rise up and call her blessed. And then it goes on, and you can see in the very next verse, it says, her husband also, and he praises her. So now we see it it isolated here within the household where they're rising up and they're giving praise to this woman and we can see all of the good that she has done. and why they would stand when she enters the room, so to speak. Now when it says that they rise up, I think you pretty much know what that means. Some of you have experiences of that just with different activities that you have done at school. I remember when Ellie was going through high school. that they had uh I don't remember the name of the event that they had, but they l uh learned how to have uh godly etiquette. And when the women would enter the room, the young men who uh had taken them to dinner would stand when they would enter the room And it was a sign of honor and they were learning that kind of etiquette. I'm sure you've seen those kind of things in your life before. But we also see it within the scriptures. I actually included it in the bulletin to you for you. I just wonder if you caught that from Job chapter 29. Take a look at it again in the bulletin. And you know, it makes me wonder if just standing to honor those uh in our lives if it comes from this passage in the scriptures. It says, when I went out to the gate by the city When I took my seat in the open square, the young men saw me and hid. And that's a little confusing, but it's better. It's understood if we keep reading, and it says, and the aged arose and stood. You see that? That's what's happening here with Job. It continues then and it says, the princes refrained from talking and put their hand on their mouth. The voice of nobles was hushed and their tongue stuck to the roof of their mouth. When the and and why is that? Why is it that if this person entered the room Those who are honored in the community stood in honor of this person. Why is it that when this person spoke, everybody else became quiet? It's because of the honor that they had received. And how did they receive the honor within the community? Look at the itemization of these good deeds. When the ear heard me speaking, then it blessed me, and when the eye saw, then it approved. Why? Because I delivered the poor who cried out, the fatherless, and the one who had no helper And if you keep reading in that passage, I'm not sure how this far this one goes because I see it. Okay. The blessing of a perishing man came upon me, and I caused the widows heart to sing for joy. You can keep reading that passage and it says, I put on righteousness and it clothed me. My justice was like a robe and a turban. I was eyes to the blind and I was feet to the lame. I was a father to the poor And I searched out the case that I did not know. I broke the fangs of the wicked and plucked the victim from his teeth. And the passage begins where because of all of those things Because of their reputation and their record in the works that they did through Jesus Christ in their community, when they entered the room, people stood. When they spoke, people got quiet. And that same picture that we see there in Job with this man is the picture that is being painted for this woman. And the people that are standing so far are in verse 28, and it is her children who rise up, and it is her husband who rise up, and they call her blessed, and they praise her. And they praise her. Now that's serious business. Usually we use that word only with reference to God. We're not saying that the wife is a God. It just goes to show how commendable, and the way that God thinks about this, is that when a woman works in a community and shows forth his image in society, that she, by the hand of God, deserves praise. That's something for us to keep in mind. I know, children, um If I asked you, what is the fifth command, I know you could tell me that, right? You could at least give me some kind of paraphrase version. What is the fifth command? And you would say, well you're to honor your father and your mother, and there's some stuff after that about it going well with us or something like that. Well what does it look like to honor your father and your mother? This passage starts to show you This passage starts to show you what it would look like, children, to honor your mother. Is that you would see all of the things that she does for you. All of the things that she does for the larger family, and you would not remain silent, you would figure out ways to give her honor in your speech and in your actions. Maybe you would literally rise when she enters the room, or you see her coming over to the dinner table, and you stand and you wait for her to be seated. Maybe it would be something like that. Maybe it would be something else. Maybe it would just be able to acknowledge what she's doing and to say thank you. You know how much a mom would give for you to just acknowledge that they have just served you for the last four years? Or whatever it is. It's something for you to think about. We have here a specific picture of God pushing us towards the fifth commandment with our mothers Let me just ask you, whether you're a child here or whoever you are, do you have a culture of praising and blessing the women of your life for the good deeds that they do in Jesus Christ? Is that the culture that you have cultivated and that you're supporting? I know that we all have a lot of work to do there. The women in our life tends to get the short end of the stick I wonder how we could begin though. I know some of us would say, well, they do have a whole day. It's called Mother's Day. But I just wonder if there could be other days too. I think Mother's Day is great. Some people are hard on Mother's Day because it was invented by Hallmark. But I'm okay with it. I like it. I wish we had more Mother's Days. And and I'm supported in that by this passage that there would be day after day of honoring our mothers and the women in our life that are serving Christ and his people and the community I just wonder what else could we do at other times of the year for the women in our life to know that we see their efforts and we are thankful to them? I'll just state that again. I really think it would make a big difference. I don't think moms and sisters or grandmas or what I don't actually think they ask for much. But I do, so far in my experience, I've been on the earth for a little bit now, but they do seem to really appreciate it if you see what they have done and you acknowledge it. I don't think they'd ever ask for that. But I think it makes a difference. So what is it that we could do? How is it that we could begin to see their efforts? And to give thanks to them, to bless them, and to praise them. Now before I leave off of this point, you know, I've mentioned uh several practical things that we could do. But you know how easy it is to just list things and then never have anything get done? To just go through like all of 2026 and never honor the women in your life. You know how easy that would be to do Is there anybody that could hold us accountable to that? That could really help us stick to it? I think there is, and it's actually in the passage. This is this final application I want to give you on the first point. Look at verse number 29. In verse 28, it is the children that rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praises her. And then you see the quotations in verse number 29? That's the husband. The husband is taking the lead in making sure that she receives the honor that she deserves. It says right here, he's the one that speaks up at the dinner table or whatever. Many daughters have done well, but you excel them all. So who's going to help us to get this started in 2026? I'd say we're going to go ahead and lay that right on the head of the head of the household. However, that ends up looking. And of course the application could be broader, but I'm just giving you that specific because of the way that this passage is laid out. And so please be praying for us husbands. That we would s we would stir up this kind of culture within our homes and even within our churches. Okay, that's the very first thing I wanted to see in the passage, which is that the household praises. The household praises. Now we're going to move and it becomes broader and the whole community is called to praise this godly woman, the valiant wife. What you end up seeing here in verse number 30 is that the poet is going to take over. The poet is an authoritative voice here. It's his poem. And it's inspired by God. So the poet is going to tell us how we should be thinking about these things, and he's going to be dropping wisdom on us so that we can better understand what is before us and being able to serve the Lord in this manner and honoring the women of our life. And he does. He actually hands down a very important piece of wisdom that would hold you up from honoring the right woman. Notice verse number thirty. It says, charm is deceitful and beauty is passing, but a woman who fears the Lord, she's the one that should be or shall be praised. Notice the definitions that are being worked out here. What is the definition of charm? And what is the definition of beauty in this context and in this passage? Beauty has a place. A charming woman has a place. You can read Proverbs chapter 5, uh even about the kind of How beauty can be used within a marriage, for example. But here, how are they defined? Charm and beauty are defined specifically here as that woman who does not have the fear of the Lord. That's number one. All she has is the charm and the beauty. She does not fear the Lord. That's the contrast that's happening. And then specifically the charm and the beauty are defined as passing. A puff of smoke that you could see for a moment and then is taken away Now, here is where the wisdom really starts to be helpful to us, and it's actually a warning. It is a warning that if you have staked all of your happiness on charm and beauty, and you did not Give yourself over to looking for a wife who actually feared the Lord. All she had was charm and beauty. In the end, what you will find is that you will be miserable. Because those things will disappear. It is very important and it and it stirs up in us the contrast between what the church is doing and what the surrounding culture is doing. If you look at the surrounding culture, what are the kind of women that people stand up for and give honor to and praise Is it the kind of woman that fears the Lord? Maybe sometimes. But most of the time it's something else. It has more to do with only her outward appearance. And her clothing. And here the Saul the Proverbist is saying that's not wisdom. That's not wisdom. Wisdom is where you would give praise to the right kind of woman. And it's all of those women who have day in and day out, by the power of Jesus Christ and his Holy Spirit, who have been serving their families and have serving their surrounding communities in the name of Jesus Christ. Those are the ones who actually deserve praise. But the problem that we end up seeing is that our daughters grow up and they want to be like such and such instead of like their godly mother. So, what a great instruction that we receive here, and what a great warning to make sure that we're honoring the right people. You know, our children might even notice that dad pays more attention to the beautiful women on the television or that they see rather than the beauty that they see in the godly heart of their mother. And boy do we need to make sure we don't establish that kind of a culture I can see it in my parents. Maybe what's really important is just how I look. Because there's really no praise being given to a person who actually lives for Christ. but only those who know how to look a certain way. We've really got to watch out for that. We have to be a community that praises the right things, that gives honor to the right things. Setting the standard by way of the scriptures for the whole world to see what is really light and what is really darkness That's one of the lessons that is given here. That's what he starts off doing. The poet takes over and he hands down important wisdom. And the wisdom is that we are to be praising a woman who fears the Lord. That's what it says specifically. A woman who fears the Lord is the one who is to be praised. Boy, would that take some work to make sure that we're upholding that? Now, let me just ask to go along with the main point here where it's community praise. When we look at the passage, who does the praising here? We've already seen the children praising. We saw the husband praising. We even saw a quote from the husband. We see the poet praising. But then what does the poet call us, or who does the poet call to praise? In verse number 31 It's a little tricky, but what he's doing here in verse number 31 is he's calling out to the whole community to give godly women praise. Give her of the fruit of her hands and let her own works praise her in the gates, the same gates where that husband sat. The larger community and the society, the poet in a kind of imperative, calls forth for the community to give her public fame and honor in verse number 31. It is her rightful reward to be acknowledged for the good deeds that she has done in Jesus Christ. And we see examples of this. One of our favorite examples is from the book of Ruth. It's such a great book, isn't it? It's so lovely to see that picture of Christ and his church. And we see in Ruth chapter 3, verse 11, that there is a public acknowledgement of the of the virtue of Ruth. It says in Ruth 3, verse 11, And now, my daughter, do not fear. I will do for you all that you request. For all of the people of my town know that you are a valiant woman. That's a great example for what we see here within this particular proverb. And of course, you know that Tabbit is one of my favorite examples from Acts chapter 9. Verse thirty nine. And I'll read that to you again. Perhaps you can see it in a new light based on this teaching here of what they're doing and how they're following the biblical wisdom that was handed down in Proverbs thirty-one. It says, Then Peter arose and went with them When he had come, they brought him to the upper room, and all the widows stood by him weeping, showing the tunics and garments which Dorcas had made while she was with them. What are they doing when they're showing the garments? It's a kind of praise and a giving and honor to her for all that she had given to the community. It was a kind of mourning over the great loss of such a life-giver And can you be more honored than that, that actually when you die, people miss you? They actually don't want you to die, they want you to stick around? I can't think of a better celebration of life than that And that's what they're doing there. The whole community we see in Proverbs is being called to praise by way of the poet. And then we see these specific examples within Scripture, whether it's Boaz or whether it's Whether it's Luke giving us this account of Peter in Acts, we see that women are honored not just in the household but throughout the whole community. There is household praise in this passage, and there is community praise. Now you know one of the worst things that could happen? Is that a woman could work in her life by way of the power of the Holy Spirit And never be acknowledged. If you look there, it's a real shame on what would happen. It looks to me like it it's tied to the curse. Because it says in verse number 31 Give her of the fruit of her hands. Do you see that? Is that when her hands are making and shaping these things that bring life? The fruit of her hands, if you look at the next verse, and let her own works, that's the fruit of her hands, that's the parallelism, the fruit of her hands or her own works. What's the fruit of her hands? It's to praise her in the gates There's to be an acknowledgement at the end and a thanksgiving that she is to receive a kind of social esteem and fame. And one of the worst things, one of the greatest curses that could be given, is that a woman gives and never receives. That she would sow and never reap. That she would just pick away at the hard dirt and nothing ever would grow up. In giving her praise. Now, this reminds me of different experiences that I have had where I have been more frustrated than I'm supposed to be. But I I'm just going to tell you, I planted peach trees several years ago. And those things have grown up, and I see in the beginning of the season that even after a strong wind or whatever, at the end of the year, I should have probably 150 peaches That's probably hyperbole. Let's say 50 peaches. But you know how many I get? I was just talking to Holly about this. I said, I'm ripping up those peach trees. Do you know how many I get at the end of the year? Zero. Do you know how many the squirrels get? Fifty! They get 50. And that's very frustrating to me. I don't get to see I put time into those things and I get no fruit from it And that's just uh wow, what a what a silly example compared to a woman devoting herself to her children, her husband, her community, and never being acknowledged. Maybe it's because we have had this notion that we're not supposed to acknowledge things to people, that because we don't they're they're just supposed to be able to do things and And never hear anything about it. But when we look at the scriptures more closely, there is a godly fame and social esteem that is supposed to be acknowledged. You've seen it in Job, you saw it in Acts You see it with Ruth. You see it in the passage. There is a time where the fruit of all that she has done, part of the reaping that she receives, is honor. Honor in the community. There is another passage in Proverbs that we really should make us shake in our boots. The proverbist warns us that you ought not to be evil. And one of the ways that you can be evil is that you can be like a leech. And the leech only has two words in its vocabulary, give and give. If we are like a leech with the women in our lives, that is not the calling of Jesus Christ. The women in our lives, as we can see, are happy to give. They find great satisfaction in giving their lives away. Before their children are born, as their children are born, as their children are growing, the larger community We all see women putting great work into their households and into this community. They're happy to give, but in terms of our hearts, we should never be give-give We're not meant to be leeches. Instead, what we're called to here, to be a witness to the world, is that we would give and not just take. And the beginning here is that we would give honor, that we would give praise, that we would bless the women who are in our lives. You know, the Christian community is criticized regularly for their belittling of women. Do you know that? Have you ever heard that? The Christian community is criticized regularly for their mistreatment and belittling and disrespect of women. But I tell you, when you read the scriptures, there should be no such thing in the church. When you read a passage like this, God himself holds women made in his image in great honor. And we, as his followers, ought to do the same. The Christian community ought not to be criticized for belittling women. We should be setting the aspirational standard for what it looks like to treat women. As you can see here, God calls us to honor our God-fearing women, to stand in their honor, and to spread their fame in the community. May Jesus Christ make it so, and may we be salt and light to the earth. Amen. Let us pray