With prayer. Heavenly Father, I thank you for this day you've given to us where we can focus on your word without distraction. And where we're able to worship together. And Lord, where we'll be able to enjoy each other as brothers and sisters. And Lord, have time to be merciful and neighborly. And I thank you that you'll give us this evening too. And I pray that you'll be with Stephen as he exhorts us. I ask these things in your name. Amen. Okay, so we did it. We've come to at least the final major chapter of the book. I believe there are some appendices. Is that how they're listing them? Yeah, there's yep appendix. So the final chapter is planning ahead. And my goal today is to go through that. It was a pretty short chapter if you noticed So we'll just go through that and outline. I'll read a couple of the paragraphs in that chapter just to make sure for those of you who didn't get around to the reading, you can at least hear some of it I don't expect that to take very long. And what we can do since we're at the final class of this particular book I'll just open the floor, I'll just open up for questions that you might have about anything in the book or within anything really that's crossing your mind. Try to keep it somewhat focused on what we're talking about though. And and then um break do we do we have a break or are we just cranking right up next week? Yeah, so next week is still Sunday school, but it won't be me. We're gonna give you a break from me. And it will be Darren Long and he'll be teaching on the spiritual disciplines which uh weds quite nicely with this class. The his his um sometimes that topic is very boring to me, spiritual disciplines. But if you look at the uh or it just seems like crazy people are writing about it. But if you look at his His syllabus, it actually looks both biblically sound and interesting, which is kind of a miracle. So I do hope that you enjoy that class. I'll be here attending with you and sitting quietly in the back. Okay, so let's go ahead and start with the planning ahead. It's very easy to follow, and I'm going to start just on page 196. The very first uh heading that he wants to talk about are the practical preparations that we could take I'd love to hear if you are participating or if you have made some of these same things. I know I think Holly is going to be here this morning and she had, I think, a comment or two With the first point he makes with practical preparations is that we would tie up loose ends. Use Saturday to complete the work and domestic responsibilities of the week Finish your work so you do not have to think about it until Monday. Plan to leave time on Saturday to complete chores, to complete whatever chores cannot be done during the week Does anybody have any comments on that? Or any experiences that they want to share on tying up loose ends and how that has worked out for them? Yes, ma'am? For me, my job I ultimate working Friday and Saturdays. So some weeks I work on Friday and off Saturday, and other weeks I have off Friday and I work on Saturday. So because I'm that my Sabbath preparations actually start a little earlier. Okay. I start thinking about it on Thursday because the stuff that I would complete on Saturday if I had a day off, I don't have the time, so then I do it on Thursday Friday instead. So I just have to back up that problem a little bit further to make sure it gets done. Cool. All right. That sounds good. Thank you for sharing that. That's very good. Anybody else want to share any experiences on tying up loose ends? I think sh the one of the last comments was from Holly last week and she talked about tying up loose ends in terms of laundry. That kind of a thing. Yes. Christina. Morning to you. I do think one of the challenges that we face is that uh the other things that we do, birthday parties, celebrating with families. Kids getting together for things, going to a baseball game, things like that that we would say are lawful recreation often also happens on Saturdays. So I guess my question is, how do you make it not turn into two Sabbaths, a pre Sabbath and a Sabbath? Meaning like you would r you would rest all day Saturday? Well no, but like the point of Saturday is to prepare for Sunday And so then there's no day that's really available for kids going to each other's birthday parties For going to the baseball game as a family, for doing these other things because the focus of Saturday then becomes preparing for Sunday. Yeah, just to be clear, and everyone can answer this. Did you get the sense when you were reading the book? I'm not sure if this is what you're communicating or not, so don't let me put words in your mouth One way I could interpret what you're saying is, are you reading him to say all of Saturday should only be set aside for preparation? Or that most of Saturday should be set aside for preparation? I think it would be important to know if that's what he's saying or not. Well if not if he's not saying that it seems like there's plenty of time for baseball and for No sometimes. But not all the time. I mean at different seasons there's not enough time even on a Saturday to tie a scroll. Depending on what's going on and where your family is. We're in the season where we have older teenagers who can't drive yet. Uhhuh. But also we can't treat them like toddlers and say no to them in the same way that we could when they were four. And we have younger kids and Saturdays, you know, like I'll just be honest, this morning, my lo my loose ends are not tied up on on today. And and I'm not going to tie them up today either, because it's the Sabbath I do think there's room for that as well in the sense of coming to the Lord and our works are not W what makeup appropriate for him in the same way that our our tied up loose ends are not necessarily what are going to make the Sabbath. You know, God works in the Sabbath through his means of grace. But that doesn't mean that's obviously It's the same parallel. We obviously want to work towards and participate in the our sanctification and the way that God calls us to do that. And so we want to do that on the seventh. Uh we want to prepare for the Sabbath as well. But also I don't know, I just particularly today when my ends are not tied up, I want to just say sometimes It's not even that is a m mountain too high to climb and it's okay to still come to the saddle. Okay. Yeah. If that makes sense. It that seems reasonable. If I'm understanding you correctly, maybe part of the re You know, I guess we have reasons for asking different questions and the more that you talk I'm trying to discern what's going on in your mind and your heart. But I'm wondering if um Part of what you're the place you're coming from is while tying up loose ends for the Lord's Day If I were to look at that realistically, that's not going to happen, even if I were to devote all of Saturday to it. So then I end up with kind of like two Lord's Days So what do you think about that? Is that essentially what you're thinking? Yeah. So I'd love to hear from other people. Me personally, you kinda you know me pretty well. I read him as like You know, as many loose ends as you can tie up in order for you to have a favorable next day, then go for it. Which for me might be like Fifteen minutes in the evening. I don't I don't know, it's a fan. I didn't I didn't like I didn't look at it too e with too much exactitude, but you know me. So then how did everybody else take it? Did you think Did you struggle with um the same thought that Christina is struggling with, that if I really did try to honestly tie up all loose ends, it would not only take all Saturday but You see you see the thoughts she's having. She's being real realistic about it. And Darren, did you have anything? a woman's work is never done. And my wife and I we in these conversations about a Sabbath and there seems to be that kind of struggle for her. It's like and it's it it seems like, at least for her, she feels like There's a lot and it's just never done. And maybe that's some of the world Christine's getting out, whatever the loose ends are. But there's because they're there things like me, I I give my three things You know, I've listened out a couple of books. I do it done. I'm happy as claim. Well share for it. So for her there's this global thing of everything needs to be done and you know the wedding's in two weeks Well why don't we hear from some of the women then whose work is never done. Do you do you uh I'll just mention this, you might find this kind of interesting. So Sissy Pipa, his wife, who is now with the Lord. She wrote a book called The Lord's Day. It's called the You can look it up, see if I get it right. The Lord's Day, a Hard Day's Rest Or something along those or something along those lines. Because she's still trying to like make sure her family's taken care of with this that yeah So anybody want to share on how do you tie up any loose ends? Is that impossible? How do you look at the whole thing, Kate? Um yeah. Are all your t loose ends tied up today? Yeah. Okay. I mean a lot of for for the mom wife, right? A lot of the the work on the Sabbath um is centered around food, you know, um I don't we don't have small children anymore, but there's a lot of things that happen when you have small children um that doesn't ever end. So um but um so I I go into it trying to think about like through the week when I'm at the grocery store um what am I going to need for Sunday? So that um it's just kind of constantly in my thoughts, you know, what are we doing? It's really, it's really helpful to know ahead of time what the the Sunday meal is going to be so I appreciate that we do usually. Um but just at the grocery store, you know, do I need to get an extra head of lettuce to make a salad. what you know, what dessert I'm gonna make, whatever that is, so that I can do as much of it ahead of time as possible. When like last night um I knew I was gonna make muffins this morning and I didn't have time to do them yesterday, but I did have time to mix the dry together and leave them on So I didn't have to use all of it. Oh I could just throw the other stuff in there. But just little things like that that just helped when I wake up in the morning I can Well, that's half done already. So um, you know, just as much as I can like that, I mean I know that there are gonna be other things I'm going to have to do. Um, you know, I don't have all of this new pressed for the day Um but I try to do as much as I can. Whatever is within your control. Yeah. Based on everything else that was thrown at you that week. Yeah. Is that fair? Okay. Very good. Any anyone we'll take one more? Well why don't we stick with the women whose work never ends? Yes, Maryland. Well, I I agree with Kay that she's picking up on some of the things that Mr. Craig said in this book. Um my response to Christina is She's right there. I just think I think the Lord sees the heart. We know the Lord sees the heart. And the mindset that she's describing of the person the kind of person that would get upset about this question. It's in such a contrast with the person from the world that basically I feel like Christine and Kate are just saying, I'm gonna get as much done beforehand as I can can possibly get done. I've already thought about it in I've got my laundry done, I've got my my truck done for our food If something comes up on Sunday, I have the freedom, like like the sailboat example. If I got to trim the sailboat, trim the sails. And not feel guilty about it. There's a whole different attitude which is, oh, I'll do that extra loader with laundry on Sunday. Um we'll just stop at the store on the way home from church I mean and if you see that kind of thing happening on a regular basis, you might check whether you're actually trying to prepare for the Sabbath. I did some I I also had loose gun this morning. I did some work work this morning on my laptop because I'm preparing for an unusual Monday coming up. And I said that to the person that I was emailed. I don't usually do this on Sunday mornings. Um But before the Lord, I believe He wants me to be ready for something really, really strange to mark. So I'm I'm it the work never ends, but I feel like I'm juggling it before the Lord's face Oh, um Lord are you pleased with this? I'm doing this to please you. Um and then he can always, you know Well my husband can chime in and say something or one of you here will say something and I'll realize I made a wrong decision, but you know, I think it's all in you know, when you begin with the hearts of the Lord, praising him for those Little ones are not always going to be there, you know, local, you won't be changing factors on Sunday forever. But those are those are seasons Hm. And and our and and we need to start in with our heart through every season? Okay, very good. Thank you. So there's a little bit of feedback if you think what do you think? Way better than anything I could have said. I agree. I I brought it up. It was my thesis. Thank you. Okay, so then well the second one that he points out here on page 197, those of you who have just showed up, we're going to go through these pretty quickly and then open the floor for any questions you have. Second is learn to plan ahead. Be sure your car is serviced. And he goes on to develop the same habits with respect to groceries. Now we've already kind of combined that into the first one, so I would like to go to the third, which is also on page 197 A third aspect of Saturday preparation is physical. Have you noticed that you're often more tired on Sunday than the other days of the week? In our house, we attribute this to the adrenaline switch. If you do not have serious public responsibilities on Sunday, your body will stay more relaxed You've run hard all week on nervous energy, and because you're more relaxed on Sunday, the body body's turbo does not switch on. You probably notice the same thing on a few days uh for the first few days of a vacation. Although you may be getting more sleep than usual. You are often listless. In preparing for Sunday, you need to compensate for this phenomenon by getting plenty of rest on Saturday night. Does anybody have any experiences that they want to share with this point in terms of making sure your body is rested for the Lord's Day. Yes. I mean how I find that a big part of my like Sabbath preparation is staying out late on Saturday, which in this season of life is a challenge a lot of weeks But um it makes a huge difference. Like if I um if I get to bed late, um then I maybe don't have time for it. If I don't have to not commit a new devotion, then what I wake up thinking about is not the Lord and his goodness. It's whatever craziness was the day before. And it just sort of sends me into this spiral on a Sunday of hurry up, get dressed, brush teeth, shower, eat, whatever it is, rush out the door, hope I'm not late like just all of these things And the contrast to that is if I am home early. Eat, wind down, get to sit in the words, maybe I'm listening to worship music, maybe it's a sermon, maybe it's something. And as I'm going to bed now I'm thinking about the Lord. And then as I wake up, that's what's on my mind And now I wake up and I'm like, I get to worship the creator of the universe this morning. And it is a complete shift. It is totally different. I have more energy, I'm and I the whole um church service is different. My interactions with people here is different. Um and then the way that I go about the rest of my day is just totally different and it's a more um it's more restful and it's more um focused on the Lord and not on myself. Okay, so really watching yourself physically on Saturday really is helpful for what you're trying to accomplish on Sundays. For me, absolutely. Yeah, very good. Although that can be difficult to accomplish. That's the same with me early in my Uh Stephen, you'll note this too, just as you're heading towards the ministry, Lord willing. Early on, especially with small kids and just trying to keep up my responsibilities with making sure the yard is taken care of and the plumbing and every other thing. Um I would at first really would push it hard all the way to the end. And then I found on the following day that my memory wasn't as good. I was a little more scattered. I wasn't as relational as I would have liked to have been. There are a number of different things that happened just because I was still kind of physically turned up or tired. So I started quitting that kind of stuff earlier on Saturdays. Uh even if it was like a pleasure thing, I would try not to be out hunting or fishing until late. Uh there were many times I gave up an evening hunt, major sacrifice people, on Saturdays just so that I could be back into a different mindset way earlier Because it takes it actually takes a while to get around to a particular mindset for me to be in the right mindset here. The um The other thing um is that I don't sleep well on Saturday nights. Uh be and I don't know why that is, but it's I I I'm not consumed with worrying about what am I talking about or anything like that. I talked to Arch about it because he had the exact same experience his entire career. He said that it was spiritual warfare and that he knows of a lot of preachers who suffer through the night. And before they enter into the service. I don't uh I don't know. But um so I so that adds to the problem where I really do need to start much earlier trying to get into the the right mindset. And Saturday night for I'll give you an example that maybe this could help you to pray for me too in my preparations Saturday night, Satan will fill my mind with all of the mistakes and evil that I've ever done in my entire life. So then if I'm if he is successful, I'll wake up in the morning with a sour stomach, not wanting to get up here. Because I don't think that I should be here. I don't think I belong I don't think I belong with you. I I really um so at any rate, so that's my personal struggle and And it takes so I have to stop early in order to try to get through that cycle. That's a little strange. Sorry, I'm such a mess But you elected me and uh you know you can't even get rid of me without the Presbyterian's permission. Kinda crazy, right? I mean I guess you could physically threaten me. To not come back. But that won't work. I just get angrier. All right. Anybody else? Yes, Kate. appreciated this giving this thing a name. I honestly never thought about thing. I didn't know that was a thing. So but then it got me thinking that um that maybe um Like to me and I I don't take a lot of naps. I don't take a lot of naps on Sunday, but you know, the whole thing about just being a day of rest and um and taking myself and I just think to myself, yeah, that probably explains why I feel yucky when I take a nap on Sunday. And so that may be um for me anyway it's better to take a walk maybe when I feel like I want a nap right now. Okay. There you go. You know, but maybe it's just that adrenaline description You know, I wanna I wanna be able to focus. So and you know, we worship in the morning and then we worship in the evening, so you know, when I come in the evening, I don't wanna be Yeah, yeah. Okay, yeah. There's some insight for you, and maybe the the walk is what you want. Yeah, sure. Yeah. I don't d I don't mean this to be disrespectful. I think maybe it's an overgeneralization, but in my experience I haven't really seen Women enjoy naps as much as men. I don't know why that is. Uh women seem to like taking a walk. I don't I don't know I don't understand that but it just uh seems to be the case in my life. Yeah. Abigail. Uh for me an added layer of difficulty in this arena is that um I often suffer from chronic energy issues for multiple medical reasons and it's been a long road of over the past like six years of really getting into that and like feeling back the layers of why that is. And so it's a lot better now. But it used to be that it's like I couldn't get up in the morning until thirty minutes before I had to leave. You know Um and so that's an added layer of difficulty of trying to get enough rest for the day. And so I'm one that in the past loved naps because I needed them to function. Um I would come home from work and I would fall asleep like almost immediately. You know, so there are people that have that additional issue and so to combat that kind of adrenaline switch that listlessness on a day off and like the urge to nap. Um I need a plan. I need to say I'm gonna do this and I'm gonna do this and I'm gonna do this. to keep the momentum up so instead of having to take it now, which fortunately now is easier to do. Um like kind of send off the urge to do that, but um that has historically been a struggle. Okay. But the plan is helpful. It keeps the momentum up Yes. Okay, cool. That's that's that's very useful. Thank you so much for sharing that. Very good. Okay now we do have on the next page a uh this has in my experience here has been a pretty hot topic Do we start the Lord's Day on a Saturday night? Or do we start on a Sunday morning? That would be 12 a. m. Um so let me read what he says. I wonder if any of you were surprised. He uses now this is very rare for Dr. Pipa He used the word I prefer. That's very rare for him You think so? Yeah. So he says, in connection with the importance of preparation for the Sabbath, some advocate keeping Sabbath from Saturday evening until Sunday evening Theoretically, such a schedule is not improper. The commandment requires a whole day, but does not tell us when the day begins and ends. The Hebrews, of course, ordered their day from sundown to sundown. As you work out your own practice, you need to keep things in two things in mind. First The Jewish manner of ordering the day is not divinely mandated, and second, in order to avoid the appearance of evil, it is best to keep the Sabbath according to the manner of reckoning time in our own culture. There I therefore I think it is preferable to keep the day from midnight to midnight. Does anybody have any experiences on thought or thoughts on whether you take take evening to evening or midnight to midnight? Yes, ma'am. Well, bounding up what um one of them said about starting the night before You know, oh Amelia, when she was talking about preparing her for tonight before. Yeah. I find that thinking of the setup starting the evening before really helped me. Um there were seasons when I would stay up till midnight to do homework, for instance. And then it really ruins your Sabbath morning, you know, as you said. So um And then sometime Sunday night there's a lot to do to prepare for Monday morning. So it just helped me to think, all right, I'm gonna start Saturday night preparing my art. And then after service on Sunday, we'll get ready for so practically speaking. Yeah, so practically speaking, as you've tried to live your life, that Um those times really just kind of clicked. Is that right? Okay. Very good. Thanks for sharing. Dwayne? For me it's always been hard as a business owner And I personally have to believe I personally delineate from inducting that. And the reason why I've done that is because I know my sin nature And then if I tried to break the Sabbath and say, oh well it's gonna start you know sundown here and it guys would if I gave um work the ability to contact me on Sunday night Either I would be contacting them early or they would be contacting me early. And I'm like, no, it's from and it always has been for our household from midnight to midnight, devoting all of Sunday to the Lord's Sabbath. That's why I love evening service. So is because it is it makes it easier to keep the Sabbath all day long. rather than just having one service. It's uh it's a reminder that, you know, if there's nothing going on in that in in between time or the next time to fellowship with the body or you know, whatever, but the whole day should be devoted to stay. But it's it's like you said, it's different for for some and others. And plus I'm a workaholic, so I work at work and on Saturday, Saturday is home day And that's the only day I have to do my home chores. So unlike you, where you said that you'd like to stop, you know, not do some things Saturday night I I sleep better. If I go to bed and I hit the bed on Saturday night and I'm hit it and I'm exhausted, I'm like a zombie dude. I'm just like dead. I wake up refreshed. But it's different for everyone Yeah, um okay that's helpful though to hear the principles that you're using to make those kinds of decisions. One is that you're really maximizing when the Lord says he's given you six days to get the work done and you really need all of the six is one thing you said. But then also you don't want to rush your time through of being s set aside to be able to worship worship God and that and to be able to accomplish that both Physically and in your heart, you go midnight to midnight. Sometimes I'm running my memoir into dark on Saturday. Yeah. I see. Yeah, that'd be quite the switch. Alright, very good. Uh anyone else? Uh Bill, did you want to share your experiences at all? You were actually the first person I had ever heard of doing Saturday to Saturday. Except for those who had set up the time so that one time a year they're still justified in watching the Super Bowl No, no. I was very convicted. I should not be watching the Super Bowl. Anyway, I I found that I worship better on Sunday if I begin my Sabbath, Saturday night and don't have the excitement of that football game or baseball game that was on Saturday night coming back into my mind uh during the worship service And stupid funny and that'll stay with me. Oh really? Interesting. Are you betting on these games? It did mean a lot to me when we stopped watching football games on Sunday afternoon. Okay. That was super I mean it was super early in our marriage, but that was a huge big deal. Wha and why was that a big deal? Um just perhap just because well I personally like there's so much pandemonium and coming in my ears all week long that I like Sunday to be quiet. I don't like television voices in my house. Okay. Anyway, and also um because he was giving his attention When the football game's on, that's basically what's absorbing his thoughts and like I said, this was like Over fifty years ago, so but it meant a whole lot to me when he gave his attention to the family and to the Lord rather than that was a particular recreation that meant a lot to know for me to give up. Okay. But it also affected like our whole friend group Yeah. Okay. Did you have one another thing, Phil? Only well, I just says the Jewish manner of ordering the day is not the widely mandated, and I would say it is. Because God created morning and evening, evening and morning. God defines the day. And it says that that was the Hebrew way, but it was God's way in my mind. So so one of the ways in which you would differ from his writing here is he he uses the word culture. So he's so he's saying the selection of times is a cultural issue here So we should go with our culture. You're saying no it's not cultural in this case, it's actually divinely ordained. I would say so. Okay. All right. Thanks for sharing that. Okay, that's that was pretty good conversation on that. And so you see the different practices and why people are choosing those different things. Um has anybody here ever been in a military context where you've had to do uh all a different day like Friday? No. Okay. Um okay, and uh spiritual preparation on page one ninety-nine. In addition to the physical and mental preparation, you can consider the spiritual preparation. Some will prefer to do some things on Saturday evening. We've already begun to talk about this uh some and um I I did appreciate what he had said especially in this section. I found that these practices, I actually was trying them even this morning and it was very helpful to me. So beginning on page 201, the very first practice of preparing yourself spiritually is that you should begin the day with a thankfulness for the Lord's day and its great benefits. Oh that's very helpful. Um anyone else find that particular notion helpful in starting with a thankful heart? Do you sometimes struggle to have a thankful heart on this day? Is there a different kind of heart that you wake up with? I see I saw some notch, yes. Well, I mean going back to the previous discussion of what legends you have tied up or whatever. Yes I do feel when I have gotten everything done and the schedule has been more relaxed and I've been able to focus on completing one thing at a time so that I can come to Sunday well prepared, then I feel like and now Lord I may worship you. But it is much harder to feel that way when you're If in a week or a month or two where it's really hard for that to be what Sunda where you wake up on Sunday morning and it's the baskets of laundry that you're not gonna fold today Yeah. And you weren't able to fold yesterday and the living room is a mess and you know, you go out the door to worship service and breakfast is still on the table. Yeah. That the it is harder for me and Um that is harder for me, probably and this probably goes back to a woman's status Yeah. Versus a man's seven. You should write a book with that title. Yes. Um it is harder to come to worship and feel Available for worship or even and part of that is that that relentless um binding to works righteousness. Oh. Even that I should be worshipping God with thankfulness instead of worrying about all the things that I haven't gotten done. Yeah. W and wondering, is this my failure? And sort of feeling like that's what I really need to be spending my time thinking about. Yeah. So Yeah, I can see that. Um yeah, right. So on a similar thread, I I think the What I've seen develop in me over the past couple maybe years is that I get to the end of Saturday And there's similarly so much undone every time I look at the yard and walk past it, for example, on the way out the door. Or right now, I have a pallet Of mulch. Oh congrats. Yeah. So so uh I I did not follow through the timeline. No, so anyway, I you know, there's there's so many things um done on my list also, um, and on our family list. And I found that oftentimes Saturday nights I start to go into this mode of um Lord, you have ordained your weekly Sabbath and your Lord's Day knowing full well that man would not accomplish all that he needs to accomplish in six days. Oh yeah. And this seems like you are You have part of the reason you've appointed this is to help us remember what it means to exercise faith in you That you are going to provide us with the time and the wherewithal to do the things that you know that we actually need to do Throughout our lives. Man, those are good those are good thoughts. And this is basically a sermon from Exodus. This is this is good. Yeah, so That helps me to go to sleep on Saturday night. Okay. And to wake up okay on Sunday morning. Yeah. A lot of the time. Um it's there's still a struggle, of course, but it's like Sometimes it feels like more often than not, somewhere that thought comes in from somewhere and I I remember that. Um do you trust me? Do you have faith in me? You know, like He's asleep in the back of the boat and he wakes up and he goes, What are you worried about? Don't you have faith? And then Sunday comes. Peace be still. Yeah. Okay, that's nice, yeah. And then you could even enlarge it in terms of Humanity is not capable of completing the good works of God. A second Adam needed to be sent to send his spirit For that then to go on for eternity. That kind of idea. That's nice. I got it's a you reminded me of the lessons that we had to learn in the wilderness wanderings, especially when he did say that um they won't be making bread or anything like that on that Sunday. So that's very good. Holly, is your hand raised Okay. Yeah I I think back to um before I even owned my own company uh and even before Kate and I got married, when I came to Christ, at that point I was doing a lot of sidework and weekends were the time to do sidework. And I was, as soon as I was uh convicted by the spirit that Jesus was my Lord, I was equally convicted about Sabbath observance. So I stopped Ray Wayne doing side work on Sunday. And at first That gave me great concern because of how much money I made on Sunday. But God really did honor that. by trusting the Lord and not working on the Sabbath. But it was it was a real sacrifice at first. It became a place where I had to tell people that wanted me to work. I had to explain to them my faith and my convictions And some didn't like it because they were like, well, you know, I need this done. And I'm like, I'll get it done on Friday night and Saturday and There's always next week. But yeah, it was it was all interesting things. It was in my face and it made me share my convictions with those that wanted me to work for them But it was uh it was early on in my day. Yeah, very good. Thank you. Um for those of you who are Sunday school teachers or who have a lot of who do a lot of church work on the Lord's Day. Wonder if it would be helpful for you to hear just my own experience with um knowing that the Sabbath is rolling around. One of the struggles I specifically have in not being thankful for the Sabbath is that I continually have the thought, I really wish that the Lord would give this group of people a better pastor than me. Now, I'm not looking for sympathy or anything like that. This is a thought that has been around for a long time. And Stephen, that's important for you to hear too as you're entering into it So working through that and getting to the place of thankfulness is a good question on how is that to be done. One thing that has been helpful to me is I say, well, you didn't choose this, God installed you Literally, and he chose it. The other thing that I do is I pray, Lord, if you want to remove me, please do so swiftly and make it obvious. Like if there really is a replacement that needs to happen. I've prayed that before I was even ordained. Please take me out rather than ruin any people here, whether it be death or just make me retire. And so I really believe that he would. So until he does, then I then I believe that he he uh wants me here, and that helps my heart to get back over into the thankfulness part And I reread the beginning of Ephesians where it talks about that our vocations are chosen by Him. And He sticks us into those places The other thing too is testimony of other pastors. They continually tell me all of us were insufficient. The only thing that we really did was we showed up and we watched Jesus work. Now, when they put it that way, how many hours did they clock in on what they did? And yet, my continual experiences of them is them giving me a testimony of, I really just showed up and watched Jesus work Arch is one of the most diligent men I've ever met in my life. He was the superintendent and he was completely in charge of the Sidewinder Missile Project. He's a very serious dude He summarized his entire ministry as I showed up and watched the Lord work because I was insufficient. So all of those kinds of testimonies are very helpful too. So if you have any experiences like that and a kind of resentment towards the Lord's Day for those different reasons, then you can start working back and starting to become thankful. I have to do that every week. I'm in a sharing mood, I guess, today. I'm doing great though, don't worry about me. Yes, hi. I would say to be patient and you were too this point 'cause we have been working three lists ever since we came to this church Yeah. Yeah, different things come up all the time, right? And it's it's never been a clear cut. There's always been lots of learning. There's for me been lots of working on my part Because when it was first brought to my attention I was very bitter about the idea. As a mom, like as a wife and I have a hard time like shutting my brain off ever. I'm thinking always the next step and the next day and what do I need and I have lists and that is just how my mind works. And it's very hard for me to rest and shut that off. And so part of it through the years has been learning what it means to rest and letting others do that and being okay. But also the Lord helping me do what I'm doing outside. And not just resentment like, well it must be great. You know, the Lord's being great for everyone else But for me I still have to do all the other things and if I haven't then my Saturday is extremely crazy. Or your Monday is a br giant burden What? Or everything stacks up for Monday. Yeah, so if I don't make things real crazy on Saturday and really get extra ahead, then Sunday I have to really work hard because I don't want Monday to start out crazy. So for me I really the Lord really had to work in my heart to not resented because of the work that was still ahead of me. Yeah, and what you just described as basically sissy player's book. Working through that. Yeah, I should get you a copy. I should get you a copy. I have a book budget here. For I have a book budget to like buy books for families. Maybe you should buy that Okay. Let's work the system. And I think I go into phases too of of embracing it and loving it and then but having to push down that resentment that can creep up. Um well here I am and and it's like uh Kate was saying um And Christina was a thinking ahead of what I'm having on Sunday or what I'm making for the meal or or did I switch the warming, all those things make her a much smoother. Sunday. It is a day where I will let myself wrap and I love how Kate says about him putting the made to that feeling you have on Sunday afternoon because I'm never more tired than I am on Sunday afternoon and I never understand it. Like I I run it all day long, but I'm not on Sunday and that's my host, my gosh. There you go, you go fall asleep just sitting So Dr. Pipa also mentions earnest prayer. I imagine that we find that helpful. And then self-examination Also taking a look at the passage that you know or passages that you you know will be present the following day. That's one of the reasons why we publish the bulletin online for you to be able to see all of those things before you get here. And um and then let me go ahead and bring it to a close here. So here's a summary on two oh five of the whole book. He says, the Sabbath is a beautiful park designed by God for your spiritual well-being. It is a day of spiritual recreation, a market day of the soul, a weekly holiday or holy day for God's people. Approach it as you would approach a special family outing or that special vacation so that you may discover the treasures of the day. Use it as God ordained for His honor and your well-being. Then you will take delight in the Lord, and I will make you ride on the heights of the earth, and I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. Isaiah 58. So it circles all the way back to the first chapter there that he brought to us. Alright, thanks so much for engaging in that conversation. Does any I'll just use the remaining ten minutes for any kind of questions that you have about the book and I'll do my best and other people can try to answer also if you have uh some helpful things to say. Any questions as we close out this time I guess if there are no questions, is there bacon left? There actually is still more bacon out there. And cheesy potatoes. So any questions that you have throughout the entire book, your own experiences, concerns, other arguments. I mean whatever comes to mind. Anything that you feel like needs to be stated before we leave? Yeah. You brought up something very good I th I think is worth explaining exploring and that is the idea of spiritual warfare as we come into our South. I I say to my kids at school, the Bible class is the point of the spear. You could be sitting in any other class, having a good old time. All of a sudden you walk into Bible class, next thing you know, you're tired. Next thing you know, you're distracted, next thing you know, whatever because this is the place where Satan wants to say You're not going to get anything out of this. And so that moment where all of a sudden there you you you go to bow you're getting afraid, you're distracted. I mean, that that spiritual warfare is real. And and recognizing it and and fighting and dealing with it is is part of the is part of what we also need to understand. I think sometimes it's easy to go, I'm just tired. I'm just this or whatever, as opposed to no, there's there's a war going on And Satan would love for you to not get out of the Lord's Day what what the Lord would have you get. So if you want to fight that that particular fight. Yeah. And I don't know that much about spiritual warfare theoretically. Uh for me I've learned over the years the primary way in which the war is waged is that um the adversary will seek to make me feel nothing but shame which then makes me want to isolate myself and not be a part of anything. Right. Absolutely. Yes, sir. Yeah, it's similar to several authors of Rhythm who take down the husband, who ruin the family, and possibly the second and third generation in that line. Well how much I've never heard of pastors going through what you described. So that got me thinking, well that's an even more effective battle plan. Yeah. How many families and masks can be taken out from such an occurrence? So, Frank, for you Yeah. Thank you, and for other pastors too. It's what's beh it's what's behind you'll eventually hear of a public scandal. You'll hear of different things. You'll hear of Um pastors having inappropriate relationships with their staff. You'll hear pastors having an inappropriate relationship with alcohol and uh prescription drugs. Start to hear you'll hear a report, a scandal that when they're visiting their pr their congregations they will take prescription drugs out of their medicine cabinets and using it. You'll hear also of pastors plagiarizing. And the a lot of those things that you're seeing there that are the public scandal are coming from something that happened way back in the beginning. Which was a resentment and an inadequacy and a shame started to build. And they're trying to escape it in one way or another. Um So it's pretty pretty usual thing. And it and it's from the feeling of the insufficiency and the and what the adversary ends up planting in their minds. And there are different ways to try to solve it. So if you do see a person plagiarizing a sermon, they'll choose what they'll choose a person Uh they'll they'll they'll give someone else's sermon, that's what plagiarism is, right? And that person will be undoubtedly affirmed by the church of which they're a part. So for example, a person would probably choose a Tim Keller sermon if they're at a certain kind of church and that because they know everybody loves him. So it's just a way to like not be a disappointment once again Because you're you know you're giving what everybody loves. So you need to pray for every pastor. Because they're all experiencing the same kind of stuff. And um So at any rate, I'm glad you're gonna be praying. Seen some tough cases at Presbytery since I've been around. And I'm glad I'm not one of the cases. Anybody else have anything? Hey Sarah, how you doing? Good one. Um this is like a very, very practical question, so it might be better to just like discussion over the evening meal Okay. But um I grew up doing sports on Sundays. Yes. And Zach and I have some living reason that we don't want our children to do sports on Sundays As they grow up. So I'm just and it seems like increasingly hard to find words. of any kind of will have like will not do things on Sundays. Right. Um, whether it's practices or competitions. or whatever. Uh especially as children get older and like want to take sports more seriously. So I'm just wondering what experiences people have or advice people have for um and engaging your kids in activities but also honoring the service. Like how how have wh how or where are people finding sports where they can actually learn Okay. Yeah, we'd love for people to give those experiences in terms of how does one observe the Lord's Day and also with that considering it in relationship to recreational sports Um, which can be pretty serious. Uh I'll give you my thoughts real quick and then open it for others. We took um a pretty clear line that the sports would not be according to the purposes of the Lord's Day. And that was difficult for our children to swallow. Um Jack, for example, has had to make some pretty big sacrifices. Uh Jack is a lacrosse player And when I was growing up, if you wanted to be scouted and go to college, you would do well in your high school game. But now it's actually doesn't alm it almost doesn't matter. Would you say that's right, Jack? What matters is club. And club is always on Sundays. Sunday mornings. Sunday morning specifically. That's when the recruiter recruiters come out to club, isn't that right? Yeah, that's where you'll be recruited for college is on Sunday. So Jack has had to make sacrifices and so far I I do not see that he wants to kill me. So but there was a period in his life where I think he was building some resentment and he had to work through that with the Lord. Um and you could talk to him about that actually as a person who had to go through it. He had to give up football championships and that kind of stuff. Um We have prayed that the Lord would please provide an option, especially for those who are athletically gifted. We really would like to see their talents um flourish. We've asked, Lord, could you please provide a way? And as we have prayed that prayer, we are very surprised how many times an entire season the games are on Saturday. We did have the experience with Jack, but so far with Addison, uh all her games are on Saturday. Um the one of the nice things about I know there's arguments for and against for of people going to public school. One of the nice things about high school is there are no games on Sundays. Not even tournaments, to my knowledge. I think that's also true at Rockbridge, so getting people or other private schools, so getting people involved in sports at a particular school as opposed to a rec league almost in my experience guarantees Saturday, Wednesday or not sorry, not Saturday, weekday games as opposed to any weekend games at all. And that would be the it seems to be a a way forward. In the future, if things get really tight, it seems to me there might be able to be legislative action of some sort or pressure groups. I do know that Jewish communities make sure that there are no sporting events on their Jewish holidays. I know that for sure. Same thing with Islamic communities. So do you does the does for the sake of the certain goals, does the Christian community need to rise up and make a point about certain things? and get the rec leagues to restructure, that could be an option too. So those are my experiences. We've been really thankful for the middle school and the high school program at Rockbridge. We have Ellie we have Addy in Saberna Park Green Hornets and they scheduled all their games on Saturday this year. We always email the commissioner, except for one. We email the commissioner saying what the hanger is this going to be on? So so we're really b we were blessed to find that out and then we're really looking forward to getting if she does continue playing that she'll be able to play at like Rockbridge who have weekday games Just trying to keep that up. The other thing too that I've noticed is FCA ha actually has a pretty robust sports program, whether football, lacrosse, baseball. pretty good athletes in that and you're gonna be on the same page with them. There's a little bit of a commute involved. That's we forty five minutes for me to get them to practice. So that could be tougher. But you could start at FCA in the Annapolis area if you had enough leadership and you wanted to promote sports among We'd love to hear others and their experiences. Jeff, you have a lot of experience in sports also because of being both a soccer coach and having all of your children play sports. Did you have any comments on this? Um what Sarah's asking. Sure, it's uh it's definitely a challenge. Uh very hard. Um It's a a lot of parental involvement usually um uh helps. Um but it's it's a challenge challenge for parents, challenge for for children. Uh just echo echo what you said. Yeah. And it's also if you have multiple children No having some what seem like arbitrary lines, but just some things like hey we have to set a boundary somewhere. Um and you know this is Uh what what you do otherwise you have creep after creep probably. Yeah. Uh with that. Yeah. Um Yeah, I I guess and it's and it's as much just saying the activity and the competitiveness and everything and It goes back to sort of I think what you said several times is does it promote the purposes of the day? It's not really are you getting paid as a professional athlete or are you getting paid as a college athlete or many good players around here are getting paid as a high school athlete and they're getting scholarships to whatever private schools. Because they're good sports players, so it's that's your job. Or or in you know, and it's your teammates, right, that you're talking about. So it's like there's a lot of it it it's not a one or the other kind of thing, it's a sliding scale and it's like what are you gonna do and then step back and say, What am I supposed to be doing this day? Yeah. What what are the purposes of the day? Yeah. Make some decisions. Um I thought about we have to end. But I thought about having a per I couldn't schedule it in time because I didn't plan it. But do you know He owns a veterinary service now and I always forget his name. Murray. Murray. And his first name? Ewan. Ewan. Ewan Murray is a parent over at Rockbridge He also owns a vet service uh over in Odington. And before all of this, normal domestic life He was a rock star professional rugby player who refused to play games on the Words Day. Uh and I thought about having him come and give How did you make it I mean that's a like a that's the ultimate pressure, a professional athlete refusing? I mean we have movies about a runner who did that But if you wanted to check in with him personally, if you know him and his wife, otherwise I think I am going to invite him to just talk about what was going through his mind, how did the Lord lead him into those decisions? What were his experiences Did it ruin his professional career? I don't think it did, actually. I mean he he was all over the magazines, newspapers. I mean he was the real deal. And yet he still stood his ground. So I think it could be good to hear from him But it but until I get him here if you wanted to have a private conversation with him and his wife. He attends um Father Phil and uh the Anglican church over in Crofton He and his wife do. So do you know him? You know? Okay. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, interesting guy. So all righty. Well let's go ahead and close our time in prayer. Father, I thank you for uh your congregation here and um how their hearts really are uh seeking to be a group of people who are after your heart. Oh Lord, I pray that you would bless them. I pray that you would bless them in their time. And I pray that you'd bless them on these days where they make decisions to worship you as opposed to doing other things. Pray that you'd help them to see more and more of the the the truth of how you've set up your kingdom with the fourth command. And I pray, Lord, that you be with us as we enter into your worship together corporately, both here this morning and this evening. In the name of Christ. Amen.