Help us to have integrity and honesty and to look at your word carefully. And Lord, we pray that We would be built up in what pleases you. Lord help us especially with the issue of the fourth command in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. All right, good morning everybody. Here we are. The chosen few. Okay, so today what I would like to do is I want to go through chapter number eight. today. So if you can open your book there, I actually am going to read a few paragraphs from it at a certain point in the class. I'm going to begin with a review I'm going to then move into chapter 8. We are going to, in chapter 8, focus on the future aspect of the Sabbath We are going to focus on the present aspect of the Sabbath, and then we will focus a little bit um with the time that we have from that on just the day change where it moved from a Saturday to a Sunday. Um uh as a uh just as a quick word of review. Morning, Brian. As a quick word of review, this is the last chapter, chapter number eight, where we really just need to be taking one chapter at a time. All the way up to this point within the book, the author has been seeking to establish the moral obligation of the Sabbath. for the present-day church. After this chapter is over, he's going to switch. He's going to focus on, okay, well, since we're obligated, what would that look like? What are some creative ways for us to pull this off? And so we can start bringing some different chapters together in order to get back on track with the syllabus. Does anybody re know how many weeks we have left? Today is one of those days where I don't know things like that. Okay. Well we you can look at your syllabus and see um anybody have a syllabus with them? Abigail, when is the class how many more weeks do we have left? Yeah, so we have no problem in getting through the rest of the book in the combination of chapters, as you'll see. So uh but I really did slow down. Yeah, we already have the ne we have Sunday school planned out until basically September. So we have a whole nother class coming in after this one with uh Darren Long. Darren Long's gonna teach a Sunday school. Morning. Okay, so let's go ahead and begin with a review. Again, remember the first eight chapters of this book, I think I'm supposed to have something clipped on to me, but you know I don't really care. But I think people that that are watching will. So are we good? Okay. So uh just by way of review I'll try to remember the font I should be using. There you go. So we were looking at Really all the way up until this chapter, we've been looking at what the way that Pipa puts it or the author is we're looking at the moral obligation Of the fourth command. Hi, how are you working? Thanks. We've been looking at the moral obligation of the fourth command. And so one aspect of looking at the moral obligation Is that we're to be looking at the purposes of the day. And this would be delight Sorry about that. Delight, and then uh we could just uh summarize it in n uh necessity. Uh Abbreviated by the word or the letter N and mercy abbreviated by the letter M. Delight, necessity, and mercy. Um Oh well. Okay. That really got me. So it's it was surprising to me 'cause the way the sound went, it sounded like it was coming from me. So I was like, man, okay. So that moral obligation then a second thing that we considered is we really were looking at uh especially lately is is there really a moral obligation? And there were three passages that we looked at last week. uh from the Paul from Paul's writings. And these passages are the um are like the s center or tend to be the center of debate around of the Sabbath. Um and They included Galatians Corinthians, I believe, or no Romans, sorry, and Colossians. Alright, and I'll go back to that in just a second. The other thing, I just this really should have come first, but I don't I can erase everything. The other thing was just looking at Jesus' teachings. And when we were looking at those teachings, we were the author was sh um seeking to show that Jesus is not taking away the fourth commandment But rather as the Lord and the great high priest of the fourth command, he was showing uh his people how he actually wants it to be observed. That is not a day for us to neglect each other or to starve each other. It's actually the day for us to to live our fullest life. And uh we did an exegesis on that. Going back to Paul's writings, the author sought to show that Colossians was a good case study for the other two passages of Galatians and What did I write there? Romans. And uh the this this argument here, you really could divide into two like two parts. And you could say there's a main part and then there was a uh an implication of that, I guess you could put it. And the main part was to show that this is not taking away That the Colossians passage, the Romans passage, and the Galatians passage are not taking away our obligation to the fourth command, but are helping Jewish and Christian believers at that time of uh to realize that they're no longer obligated to the ceremonial festivals. The new moon, the Sabbaths, and the what was the other? And festivals. Festivals, new moons, and sabbaths, I think is how it went. Thanks. Are you having trouble seeing that? Yeah. Okay. See if that was a new bitter. Yeah, so And the main argument for reading Colossians that way was the context, that the letter was originally written to help the church against the persuasion of Judaizers. And Gnostics. And then the second argument, basically, although there were more than this, I think these were the main branches The second main argument was that when you look at the three terms that are used within the Colossians passage, you find those same three terms used in other Old Testament books and in those places such as In Leviticus and uh yeah, especially Leviticus, I think it was Numbers and um was it Chronicles? You find those three terms being used in the context of ceremonial festivals. So those were the arguments that were given. That was the first main branch showing that this is not taking away the fourth command, but rather helping people understand you're no longer obligated to Old Testament festivals. or Levitical festivals or ceremonial festivals, but the second main branch was that that includes the Saturday Saturday, it's been argued from the beginning of this book. The fact that the Sabbath is observed on the Saturday is a ceremonial aspect of the command or positive law and can be changed. that the the the command itself is that there is to be one day and seven or one seventh And that, if you go back in the beginning of the book, that was the discussion between the difference between cardinal and ordinal numbers and how they're used within the book of Hebrews within the book of Genesis. Um and then I think that pretty much covers what we went over. Yeah. So just again in review this if you look at the last Page of chapter 8, you'll see the author himself say, up to this point we've been focused on the moral obligation of the fourth command. And then we've looked, so we're looking at the purposes of this moral obligation, Jesus' teaching on this moral obligation and Paul's teaching on this moral obligation. That's a decent outline of what we've covered so far. Next week we're going to start combining chapters together. We have three weeks left. Right, Abigail? We're going to start combining chapters together to catch back up because the we're not dealing with the kind of argumentation that's pretty thick like we have been in the first eight chapters Okay, so I wanted to put that up there, but is everyone okay if I erase that now? Is that alright? Because I'd like to have full room for the next chapter. Okay, so that's the review. Alrighty. I think this is the one that you gave me. I don't know. Yep. Okay. Before we get into this present chapter, chapter number eight, and you'll want to open your book to that if you have it. I did want to say that it's this is just an interesting observation. One of the things you have to get your head around if you're going to look at the total canon of Scripture on the fourth command Which is really what you're trying to do here in this book and in this class is just understand what is going on with the fourth command. You're going to find that it is given very specific phrasing particularly uh um in Exodus and Deuteronomy. But what's inter what what is an interesting observation to me is that when you look at uh the Westminster Confession of Faith and what those divines. A divine is someone who holds a degree of divinity. That's all it means. It doesn't mean that they are gods. It doesn't mean anything like that. It's just they have that specific degree. They, in looking at the total canon, say that they summarize the the fourth commandment this way They say that we have an obligation to give a due proportion of time to the worship of God. That's it at its most basic. And then what you would do, and what they try to do, is they go through the scriptures to say, okay, well, what does the scripture teach us about all that? What time? How often? When? How are we supposed to what are we supposed to do at that time? Who's supposed to do it? And there's where you're going to start to accumulate and looking at the total of the scriptures, their answer to that is they're going to say, well, during this time in God's redemptive economy It should have it should happen on this day. And it should happen for this long on this day. And it should happen uh with this group of people on this day. meaning like the whole congregation as well as in their private lives. And then after that administration, and after the resurrection of Christ, it is now in this time. Still with this group of people, etc. So they're fleshing out that. But the basic answer they give, they believe that the the heart of the fourth command can be put as that God, that we owe God a due proportion of time for worship. That's the duty. They really boil it down to that. And I think that's helpful to see. But they're not gaining that from one specific scripture. They're gaining that from looking at the entire thing. I think that's what they're doing. Maybe that's helpful to you as you try to get your head around this. The other thing I'll say is that when I uh uh came to this church, I was not a person who knew anything about this. I would go to morning service and then do pretty much whatever else I wanted that day and sometimes not go to morning service because I was doing something else that day. And for example, some applications of the Sabbath would be that there should be no commercial activity on the Sabbath. And um when I came here I had no idea. So I don't know if you know the story, but I remember showing up to evening service really excited to bring fresh buckets of Kentucky fried chicken I just picked up. And that didn't fly very well as the intern. But then over time, and so let's say I came in here in 2008 I immediately submitted to Sabbatarian teaching in order to promote the peace of the church. So as to not cause division. I submitted to it even though I didn't know anything about it. And then from 2008, I would say all the way until 2016 was a time of me discovering the truth of it And I really did need that time. There's so much that went into it and understanding the different scriptures as well as um Just what does it look like in practice? And I would find that as I moved into different phases of my life, I would have to struggle with different aspects of the Sabbath. I would figure out what that would look like for me individually But then what does it look like when you're married? And what does it look like when you start to have children? And when the children are babies, it's pretty easy because they just do what you say and you pick them up and you put them places. But then what about when they get their own ideas and then they start complaining, well for example, well why can't I do this, that, or the other thing on this specific day, all my friends can. And then they bring their own arguments to the table. And so then that ends I've had to work through all of those different things And just like any other command, first through tenth, I'm still working through the fourth. I don't I don't think I will not gonna like arrive at understanding or completing the fourth command in this life. So I wondered if that biography would be a little bit helpful to you also. And what's going on with me here. Okay, so that's a review. And now let's go ahead and get into number eight. The first thing I wanted to do was to just start, like I mentioned at the beginning of the class, on the future aspect of the Sabbath. What we're basically going to be doing, spending most of the time, is just looking at Hebrews chapter 3, verse 7 through 4. 13. So let's go ahead and turn there in the scriptures. And we're gonna one of my goals is to make it through today. I'm operating at like Forty-five percent. I've been real sick this past week. I'm not contagious anymore, but I'm still getting over it. Okay, so let me go ahead and read that to you in three seven through four thirteen. Actually, let's just go ahead and start at the beginning of three so that we can see it. And it'll be a little bit of a longer reading, but that's okay. Therefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and high priest of our confession, Christ Jesus who was faithful to him who appointed him, as Moses also was faithful in all his house. For this one has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses. inasmuch as he who built the house has more honor than the house. For every house is built by some one, but he who built all things is God. And Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant for a testimony of those things which would be spoken afterward. But Christ as a son over his own house, whose house we are, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm to the end. Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says, Today, if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion in the day of trial in the wilderness. Where your fathers tested me, tried me, and saw my works forty years. Therefore I was angry with that generation and said, They always go astray in their heart. and they have not known my ways, so I swore in my wrath they shall not enter my rest. Beware, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief and departing from the living God. But exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin For we have become partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast to the end. While it is said, Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion For who, having heard, rebelled? Indeed, was it not all who came out of Egypt led by Moses? Now with whom was he angry forty years? Was it not with those who sinned whose corpses fell in the wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest, but to those who did not obey, but to those who did not obey. So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief. Therefore, since a promise remains of entering his rest, Let us fear lest any of you seem to have come short of it. For indeed the gospel was preached to us as well as to them. But the word which they heard did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in those who heard it. For we who have believed do not enter that rest, as he has said, So I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. although the works were finished from the foundation of the world. For he has spoken in a certain place of the seventh day in this way. And God rested on the seventh day from all his works, and again in this place, they shall not enter my rest. Since therefore it remains that some must enter it, And those to whom it was first preached did not enter because of disobedience. Again, he designates a certain day, saying in David, today. After such a long time, as it has been said, to-day, if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. For if Joshua had given them rest, then he would not afterward have spoken of another day There remains therefore a rest for the people of God, for he who has entered his rest has himself also ceased from his works, as God did from his. Therefore, let us be diligent to enter that rest, lest anyone fall according to the same example of disobedience. For the word of God is living and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the division of the soul. in spirit and of joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. And there is no creature hidden from his sight, but all things are naked and open to the eye of him to whom he must give account Okay, and um this chapter ends at verse number ten, but I thought I would just go there. Okay. So the the first thing um that I wanted to bring out, which I do think is important is um uh number one, one way for us to be able to summarize this section is by this first observation And that is that there is a future and there is a present aspect to the Sabbath. Were you able to see that? Did you see both of those aspects? Now, if you were to take a class at seminary, this is a time where you would hear about the already not yet As I've y'all are pretty familiar with that, I imagine. It's become pretty popular. But the already not yet is a good way that people uh try to explain, well what's going on, the teaching in Scripture Is everything still just in the future or has something arrived? And the answer is both. That there is an already and a not-yet sense to our salvation and the redemption that God has brought in Christ? And that is also true for the Sabbath. So, for example, on page 110, it says the book of Hebrews was written to encourage Jewish Christians who were tempted to return to Judaism. It demonstrates that in Jesus of Nazareth, God had accomplished, notice the past tense there, had accomplished his covenantal purposes. And so that's good for us to remember. We're just establishing the context here of the book of Hebrews. So our first thing to do is right now I'm just looking at the context. And we have here an all ready or we have a future aspect. Whoops. When you look at the passage, could you do me a favor and just look at that Hebrews passage again? And um D what observations do you have showing that there is a future aspect to the Sabbath? Brian, do you have something? Oh happy birthday by the way, my friend. Is that right? I'm a late. I'm late. That's okay. Oh yeah, but yeah. Uh huh. Um if Joshua had given the night and he wouldn't have spoken of another day afterwards. Okay. Certainly if they were entering the language Okay, entering the land wasn't it. There was a future aspect in that sense. Okay, very good. Anybody have any other observations from the passage about the future aspect of the Sabbath? That it is still to come? Yes. Christina. Um well all three of the three I mean I just have two right here, but throughout it there's this aspect of starting what you've done and holding fast to it to the end. Um versus Uh seven I think three seven I can't see my seven. I can make six. Oh, they're uh six. But price is the sun over the house whose house we are if we hold fast to the confidence of the rejo and the rejoicings of the hope firm to the end. And then again and Um so and there's a couple of other places. The idea of remaining, taking what you had used for remaining in it for the hope of the future is reiterated several times throughout the future. That's great. Very good. So you and Brian are really on the same page there. That there is this thing called Sabbath rest, and in this passage it seems pretty clear. that there's a f that um it's spoken of as like a future reality at the very least, that there is this rest that we're still able to enter into. It didn't already happen It didn't wasn't uh as Brian said, wasn't fulfilled with the entering into Canaan with Joshua. There was something else going on in the entering into that Sabbath rest. And we're supposed to be, Christina's emphasis is we are supposed to be, you could even use the word persevering to the end to enter in specifically to that rest. Okay, but there is also in the passage, we can make some observations that there is a present reality to the Sabbath. And the book on page 111 says this. At the same time, however, the full reality is I'm sh uh I'm sorry, did I mess this up? Uh Yeah, I did. I got it backwards. So the the I should have said at the uh same time, however, the full reality is yet in the future, when Christ shall appear to make all things perfect. Um nine twenty-six, yeah, ends up being a reference in Hebrews and And then the what I had read to you earlier from page 110, the book of Hebrews was written to encourage Jewish Christians who were tempted to return to Judaism. It demonstrates that in Jesus of Nazareth God had accomplished his covenantal purposes. So that's the present that there has been an accomplishment, but then also there is something still left for the for the future. At the bottom of page 111, both of these things come together in a tension, according to the author. He says, this tension between the present and future nature of salvation gives rise to the theme of the book, an exhortation to the Jewish Christians to persevere. Can you think of any other places in the book of Hebrews where that really is the emphasis to make it to the end? And if so, what are some of those passages? Perhaps you be maybe even have a favorite verse that has to do with that. Any ideas? From the book of Hebrews, Gary. Therefore, since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, laying aside every weight and the sin that so easily entangles us, let us run with endurance. Yeah, let us endure. Yeah, great. Thanks, Gary. Is that one of your favorite verses? Uh all right. Very good. I think technically there's only supposed to be one favorite. But I can't ever do that. So I just say one of my favorites. Which doesn't really work, I know. But don't hold that against me. Natalie, did you have one too or were you Okay. Yeah, okay, less we drift away. Okay, very good. So there is a again a focus on not drifting back or away, but in persevering to the end. And Anything uh any other ones from Brian? Oh eleven thirteen says these all dies in faith not having received the promises, but having seen them from afar off the We're assured of them. Uh yeah, and yeah, that's right. And that was in that's the Hall of Faith That passage? Yeah, the hall of faith where you have a group of people all looking forward to the same thing, seeking to get to that same end. Joe, did you have any you wanted to add? I know Hebrews is one of your favorite books and you've memorized uh some. Yeah. So um and I think we could go on You could go w you could go to the very end of the book too, and you'd see the book is really as the author points here, that uh um There's an exhortation especially to Jewish Christians to persevere. If they return to Judaism, it continues on the bottom of page 111. If they return to Judaism, they will be forsaking the full reality of the gospel for the shadows and types and will fail to enter into the rest of God. Now, what indications do you have just from your knowledge of the book of Hebrews that Paul really is concerned about these people returning to Judaism? Well Hebrews 6 has a tough stuff here. Okay. Like what? So it's a it's a very, very strong way. Okay. Is it a strong warning specifically indicating he had concern of them returning to Judaism? I'm wondering are there any hints in the book that he is really concerned about them returning to Judaism? Well the whole book is saying Jesus is better. better than Moses. The old the new covenant's better than the old covenant. The new precinct's better than the old precedent. So the kind of theme as a whole Yeah, I say so too. And y you could go through that's a good way to put it too, is uh Jesus is better. Okay. So continuing then, of course, a true believer cannot fall away permanently, but the danger always remains that there are those within the church who though professing faith have not experienced the powerful salvation of God. A mere profession of faith does not save. True faith personally appropriates the promise of rest and manifests itself in perseverance. I'm going to give the context here. I'm going to keep reading in the book here because he does a good job of establishing the context. So I'm now on page 112. After we get the context done, we're going to then look at the specific definition of a word within the passage itself that is important to the argument. The writer to the Hebrews points out the danger of failing to enter the rest by alluding to the apostasy of the children of Israel in the wilderness. Even though they had the promise pictured by the seventh-day Sabbath and the offer of rest in the land of Canaan, they failed to enter because of unbelief. Furthermore, he reminds the Hebrew Christians that the rest promised by God at creation in the establishment of the seventh-day rest was not fulfilled when Joshua brought them into the promised land. He bases these conclusions on the statement from Psalm 95, 7 through 11. Today, if you would hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as at Meribah, as in the day of Masa. in the wilderness. When your fathers tested me, they tried me, though they had seen my work, for forty years I loathed that generation, and said, They are a people who err in their heart. and they do not know my ways. Therefore I swore in my anger, truly they shall not enter into my rest. Since David wrote those words long after Joshua had led the children of Israel into the promised land He was showing that the rest in the promised land did not fulfill the promise of rest given at creation. Therefore, as long as the promise remained There was an urgent necessity for God's people to appropriate that rest. And he refers to 7 and 8 of the passage, which says Again, he designates a certain day, saying in David, today, after such a long time as it has been said, today if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. The fulfillment of God's promised rest had been provided by Jesus Christ, and those who believe in him have begun to participate in its reality. But they will participate in him his rest only if they persevere. And he references chapter 3, verse 6. But as Christ is a son over his own house, whose house we are, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm to the end. If they turned back, they would be like the children of Israel who did not enter the land because of unbelief. Like Israel in the wilderness, they were pilgrims. They were to press on to the heavenly, eternal rest provided by the Lord Jesus Christ. Let us therefore be diligent to enter into that rest. Chapter 4, verse 11. The author concludes his exhortation with nine verses 4-9, 3 through 13. He introduces this section by saying in verse 9, There remains therefore a Sabbath rest for the people of God. The word therefore introduces a conclusion to the argument of 4. 3-8. The Hebrews were not to look back, but to look ahead, since there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God. By referring to the people of God, the writer parallels the covenant people of the New Testament Church with God's people in the wilderness. He says the Sabbath rest with its promise of eternal life remains a reality for the New Covenant people. of God. All right. So does everybody see what's going on there within the context that's being established? I thought that was pretty clear, but if I need to break it down further, I can do that. There's an analogy between the those who were wandering in the wilderness and uh who needed to persevere to the end and those occurrent um who were the those to whom he was writing who needed to persevere to the end. So he's using the one situation to apply it to their situation. All seeking to enter the true rest which is in Jesus Christ that He provides. He says that Sabbath rest with its promise of eternal life remains a reality for the new covenant people of God. Okay, now um in that main argument, if you look on four nine through and following It says, there remains therefore a rest for the people of God. For he who has entered his rest has himself also ceased from his works. as God did from him. Now the author points out that in verse number nine there is the word therefore. There remains therefore a rest for the people of God. So he sees this as the conclusion and summary of the argument, and as such, he wants to focus on it and look at a specific word which is the Sabbath rest word there in verse number nine. There remains therefore a rest for the people of God. And that word is on page 113. You can see it transliterated if you want to. Sabbathismus or Sabbath rest. He points out that it is a unique word only used this one time in the Bible. The only other known possible use of the word is in Plutarch's Moralia, in which, according to some versions, he uses sabatismus to describe superstitious religious rest. Thus the word suggests religious observances. And that's going to be key here to what he's trying to point out. Now moving on, he says, although the noun form of the word used in Hebrews 4 9 is found nowhere else in the Bible The vo verbal form of the verb is is used a number of times in the Septuagint. So what he wants to do is he wants to understand what is going on here within the conclusion of the argument And he's doing so by way of understanding this word, a Sabbath rest. There remains therefore a Sabbath rest or sabbatismos for the people of God. Sabbatizo, which is the verbal form of that, is used a number of times in the Greek Old Testament. The first use of the verbal form is in Exodus 16. 30. So let's go ahead and take a look at that together in Exodus sixteen thirty. It says, so the people rested on the seventh day. So the rested there is the sabotezzo. They rested on the Sabbath day. So the people rested or he puts it in terms of taking the word sabatismo or sabatizo and turning it into a verb. in the English language, and he says sabotaged. Not sabotaged, but sabotaged. So the people sabotazed on the seventh day. That is, they observed a Sabbath rest. He continues and says, We learned in chapter 2 that this verse concludes the section in which God tells them not to collect manna on the seventh day, because it is the Sabbath. When they obeyed God and kept the Sabbath, they sabbatized. So he's seeking to work out here by looking at other scriptures, well, what does this word mean, the sabbatismos? And he's doing so by looking at the verbal form found in the Septuagint, since the noun form is nowhere in the New Testament and found only one in one place, and that's Plutarch. When he looks at the verbal form, he's finding that the word can be translated sabbatized or to keep the Sabbath. This idea of Sabbath keeping is involved every time this verb is used. For example, after a description of some feasts which were part of the worship of God's people Leviticus 23, 32 says, It is a Sabbath rest to you, and you shall humble your souls. On the ninth of the month that evening, From evening until evening, you shall keep your Sabbath. The phrase keep your Sabbath is sabbatizo In Leviticus 26, 34, and 35, the verb is used for the lands keeping its Sabbath rest. In all the above instances, the verbal form of sabbatizo is used to translate the Hebrew word meaning to keep the Sabbath. Okay, so let's go ahead and put that up on the board. In verse that's verse number nine, right? Hebrews four nine Sabbatismos. He's seeking to establish that we should divine define this as Sabbath. Keeping or to sabotage So you see what he's doing? He's trying to define the term so you can better understand the verse and what it's saying. And he'll continue with that now. He does he lays it out more clearly than I can just I'll do so I'm just gonna keep working w with him. He continues then on one fourteen and he says The early Christian writer Ignatius uses this verb to describe Old Testament Sabbath-keeping. In describing the change of day from the seventh to the first, he wrote, no longer living for the Sabbath, sabbatizo. but for the Lord's day. Therefore the verb suggests a specific rest of Sabbath keeping. Whether the noun Sabbathism was in existence or the um or the writer to the Hebrews coined it He would have been familiar with the Septuagint's use of the verb sabotezo, and in either case he chose this unique word with careful thought for a particular purpose. Now what is the particular purpose that he chooses this? And that is what goes on for the next for the next few paragraphs. Uh but he says here that the main purpose is I want to not go through all of this. Uh it's on page one fifteen, the second paragraph. He uses sabatismos as, number one, a play on words. He emphasizes that the spiritual, eternal rest promised by God has not been fulfilled. The promise of eternal rest remains, and they must enter it by persevering faith. That is, one enters the spiritual rest by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ But it will be fully realized only when one enters the eternal rest of glory. But if this were all he wanted to say, he could have used the catapuses. In fact, he uses Katepostas this way in verse 11. Let us therefore be diligent to enter that rest. Nor does it make sense to say he he chose sabotismus for stylistic variety as a synonym for catapausos. Such use does not make sense this late in the discourse. The uniqueness of the word suggests a deliberate theological purpose, and here's his main point. He selects or coins sabotismos because, in addition to referring to spiritual rest, it suggests as well an observance of that rest by a Sabbath-keeping. Because the promised rest lot, and this is the main summary that where he's trying to summarize the entire argument here from verse number 9 and 10, especially Because the promised rest lies ahead for the new covenant people, they are to strive to enter the future rest. Yet as they do so, they anticipate it by continuing to keep the Sabbath. That's his main point. So if we go back to the scriptures now, We see in verse number eight, for if Joshua had given them rest, then he would not afterward have spoken of another day. And then verse number nine moves into the conclusion. There remains, therefore, a Sabbath-keeping, is how he would translate that. There remains, therefore, a Sabbath-keeping for the people of God. Now, we're just looking at his main argument. So what do you think is the relationship between verses 8 and verses 9? I went through all of those details so that you'd have some information to try to draw the connection. What's the relationship between verse 8 and verse number 9 then, if we translate the word sabbatismos or sabbatizo as sabbath keeping? Which is what he does. Again, it goes back to the future and the present. Yes. What is the staff Sabbath press is continuing. have done it period. Then it they wouldn't have needed to continue it. But then if you didn't, then it's continuing. Yeah, Sabbath rest, what do you mean by that? Because we have a future aspect and we have a present aspect. So I just read you all a bunch of information. Now we need to work through it. So that's the thing, is we've got different words going on here referring to different times. And Sabbath rest could be a future reality. Clearly we're not all resting now. Clearly we have not entered the Sabbath rest now. And that's verse number eight. Would you agree with that? Yes. Yes, absolutely. Okay, so then verse number nine, his argument is that the the noun and the uh and the verbal form there is Sabbath keeping, which has to do with the present. So then what is the relationship between eight and nine? The Sabbath keeping continues. The Sabbath keeping continues. Okay. We'll stop there with with that part of the conversation. What else would you add or what would you end up saying? Yes, Gary. It just seems a little empty to to say, oh is that We have an observance now. The observance doesn't sound as fulfilled as a real spiritual rest in Christ. Yeah. Okay, so I'll say that again. So his his saying that the word rest is a keeping sounds like you're it's something shortchanging the pr the profundity here of a rest. Instead of a rest we have an observance. I mean the observance doesn't sound as well that's the question. Do we have one instead of the other Well, if we if we take that word to mean observance, which is his argument, which, you know, I'm really it's it's really hard to follow I mean to go back and look at all that. But it seems like the conclusion doesn't reach a really fulfilling Okay. Um well what do you think the relationship is between eight and nine? I think he's saying there's a deeper rest we have in cry. More than what Joshua did. But we have a we have a rest from all our striving. We have a rest in being reconciled to God. And then number nine? That's what number nine is. The remains of this rest. Oh. Okay. I thought that was eight. Well so eight is leading up to nine, right? So Joshua Joshua did great, but it's not everything. So verse nine says there remains the Sabbath rest. this there's this time ahead where we we are fully trusting in Christ and recognizing God and cease and striving. And to me that sounds like a better Take on that then to say, well, we still can observe the Saddest. Yeah. So you're looking at verse as eight and nine as synonymous Pretty much as okay here's the beginning of this thought in verse eight and then in verse number nine we're gonna stay with the same exact thought and just keep talking about the future. Okay. Uh Brian you had yours up next. I was just gonna say I struggled with as far as the book because it's a very circuitous kind of going through Greek words and I mean the end and end of it though I think either says too little or too much. I think it either says too little because of what Gary's saying, where if you just reduce it to an observance, you're missing the glory of rest in Christ and all that it deals for whole Christian life now in the future. If you if you take it to be more than that, I think it says too much because he says that almost and I think he almost Page 115 explicitly says that a condition of true Sabbath rest, which is salvation, is Sabbath keeping. Where, you know, uh what the writer of Hebrews says saying is that the Israelite that did not enter that Sabbath rest, in other words, were not saved, did so because of unbelief, not because of a lack of Sabbath keeping. So I struggle with I think he it it's very circuitous and it either says too little or too much. And I've I've come to the same conclusion as as Gary that we're really all the discussion of rest is In this particular Hebrews passage. Okay, gotcha. And just to be clear, what do you mean by circuitous? Well, it's just like okay, Plutarch said this one word And I always go from the noun firm form to the verb form. I think you probably have to have a a PhD in Hebrew and Greek and all that in order to Okay. Okay. I can go back over that too. Hey, uh Darren, you're up next, I think. And then Christina. But he he summarizes in one sixteen, I think, his point, which is that just like there are types that have fulfillment that they were types to have fulfillment. So the old covenant people of God had a rest they were injured, and therefore they observed a day in as a way of reminding themselves of that rest that they were And in the same way, the new covenant people, and he says it in uh page twelve sixteen. So if the old covenant people of God had the promise of future rest with its day of rest, so the promise of future rest That's to come, that's the future, is uh we have as we observe our day of rest, it's a reminder of the promise to come. And he's saying, and then likewise the new covenant people of God, the church also has the promise of future rest, which is what we see. year in this text. And with its day of religious rest, in other words, there is our Sabbath rest day is a type of the rest that is to come. And that's why just as the old government people kept it we are to maintain that as well as a one at the role of theme but also as a a type of thing to come, which is what's driving the things to internet Because it goes on in verse 10, right after 8 and 9, right? For whoever ever entered God's rest has also rested from his works as God's death's the rest of salvation. But then verse 11, let us therefore strive to enter that rest. So that no one may fall by the same sort of speed. You know, is is is if you think of salvation as once done, then you're really messed Um but that's how we say speaking to believers, let us not go back, let us try as and that's a that's a tricky verse at some But you have to run L from either you have any worry because they'll don't fall away, don't do this and this. At the same time you have wonderful promises. All these promises are yours in crisis. Yeah the first point the first uh way that you summarize it I think is what Pipa is saying. And that's important. That's really all I have time to do today is for you to be able to look at and say, This is how he's reading these verses. Then you'll need to keep looking at these things and meditating to see if you agree with his reading of the scriptures. And Darren did a good job of summarizing it. Verse number eight. So the connection between eight and nine is between a type and the observance of something to keep remembering what is in the future. So eight is, we have a Sabbath rest that is awaiting us. Verse 9 is, therefore we keep the Sabbath in constant remembrance of that day that will enter in. That's what he says it means. Now you you'd have to figure out do you agree that that's what eight and nine are doing. Uh so far Gary and Brian, at least right now, we're in the middle of a class, so Um at least right now they're saying, well I'm not exactly sure about that. And as for that final sadness, what really, really matters. Is it faith or is it sad? I would say your faith is worked out in uh obeying the Lord specifically s in Sabbath keeping. So one comes to a different conclusion on the Sabbath. passage it doesn't keep the Sabbath then that could be an indication that they are that they have unbelief and that they don't have faith. So in other words, if you were to go back and look at let's just look at his whole argument, he would it would end up saying something like, if you are the kind of person who does not give a due proportion of time to the worship of God Then you really need to wonder if the final Sabbath is yours. So you're a uh you're a waiting Sabbath. Yeah, I think I think he would too. I think you have to get back to like what is the heart of the command. You gotta strip away the positive laws and figure out what does that look like. I do think he would start once you start adding back in the the specifics that the Sabbath uh uh there should be an uh observation of the Sabbath with the congregation. In other words, there needs to be a corporate worship um that it is to be on a specific day. I think that's also within the scriptures. And then y if there are disagreement on some of those particulars, you'd have to start asking the question. I guess that you're asking about unbelief or whatever. And I think there's room for disagreement personally on some of those particulars, but we have to be really specific in the conversation. And you can't just say, do you believe the Sabbath or don't you? Because when we've looked at this argument, we see there's like thirty different parts to the whole Sabbath thing. Do you mean like the day we observe, or do you mean what we do on the day? Or do you mean uh whatever else is to w you know everything else that's involved. So I'm not sure if that's h helping out or not, but I don't see uh if you look at like um b the unbelief focus of the passage I think we could agree on. That unbelief shows up in different ways. And one of the ways would be to a person who refuses to obey the commands of God. And the fourth command is one of the commands. That may be the simplest way for me to put what I'm thinking But I do think now well you have to figure out do you think scripture teaches this, but Darren did do a good job of summarizing what pipe is saying the scriptures say which is that there is an eternal rest awaiting for those who persevere or preserve to the end. And in light of that, and to keep remembering it, we observe the Sabbath, or there is Sabbath keeping. There's a whole nother part of this argument that we can't get to, which is verse number 10. Does anybody want to summarize what he said in the book there? I wonder if you were surprised to find that some translations, for example in verse number 10, capitalize the word his. It says in verse number 10, for he who has entered his rest has himself also ceased from his works as God did from his. And in my translation, which is the NKJV, his rest, his is capitalized. This is a very important point in his argument, showing it's gonna bridge and start to show where to be keeping The day the new day of rest is that day, because that's the day on which Christ kept his day of rest. as um as a day of new creation, just as God kept his day of rest in the old creation. Anybody want is anybody able to summarize that part of the argument on the different transl different ways that people interpret that with the word his? We have like 30 seconds. At this point the ES needs a God's rest. Yeah. Yeah, and what is Pipa's argument here? Sarah, please. But basically you go through three different interpretations of that. Like it could be two thousand. Like I said that like Christ works in redemption and his resurrection on the first day, and then that leads to the the Like that's a further support of the idea that our Sabbath represented our first day now at New Covenant Jesus. Yeah. So he'll read that the antecedent Jesus. Yeah, and and he'll do so because the beginning of the argument was always talking about Jesus. You remember the discussion about whose house is this? It's Jesus's that's continuing here, according to the author, and it is Jesus has entered into his rest. And this ends up being a bridge where we would go into the discussion on why is it that the day has changed and to what day has it changed? And has to do with this there being a resurrection and it being a new creation. Now you've heard that word before new creation, right? Now you understand why if you've been following this argument in this book, you understand why that word creation is so important in this is that if it is a new creation, and as there there is an establishment of a day of rest in that new creation, that is analogous or parallel or echoing the first creation and its day of rest, but the day has changed. Where it has moved from this one day into the day of the resurrection of Christ. Now when you continue in the chapter, what Piper then tries to do is to show you the ways in which first the New Testament church observed this day or a due proportion of time in the worship of God, that they observed that on the first day of the week. otherwise called the Lord's Day. And he gives you a couple different verses to consider. He gives you Acts chapter 20 verse 7. He gives you where they were taking up a collection in 1 Corinthians. I forget the chapter. And then he gives you a revelation where John received the revelation on the Lord's Day. He then moves out of the New Testament people and starts talking about the early church and in writings such as from Ignatius. and as well as some others, uh the di uh the Didache, which is an old uh writing that tells us a lot about what early Christians were doing. that they were observing the Sabbath on the first day or the day of Christ's resurrection as the new day of rest because it is the day of the new creation. Alright, so that's all in the book for you, and that's all I was going to try to cover uh in this class. So for You can see that there's um a great deal of prayer and meditation that needs to go into these kinds of things. And uh but at least you have a book in front of you to where you can go back and you can look at the chapters and I'm always happy to keep talking. I was really thankful that I had eight years to think about it before I took my ordination exams. Um the um So then next week, let me just go ahead and announce this now so that uh I I think it's gotten a little bit confusing with being so far behind on the syllabus. So let's go ahead and plan together to cover chapters nine and ten. Well that that's going to work right, Abigail, if we look through this. Yeah, I think we can do that. We have 13, 9, and 10, and then I can do yep, okay. So let's plan on this week. Please read chapters nine and ten, and we're gonna go ahead and And uh work through those. Um you can see uh take a look on page one twenty-six, just so that we can end here. I just want you to see the transition in the book. Having sought to establish the moral obligation of New Testament Sabbath keeping, let us now turn our attention to the use of the Sabbath for the New Testament people of God. So there's the hinge. Phew. Alright, so we're moving into a very different part of the book. I would say the first part uh it consists of from pretty dense arguments and exegesis, and you'll need to keep working through those. And now we're going to do nine and ten this week. Okay. Very good. Let me know if you have any further questions about all this stuff. Yeah. All right, very good. Let's pray. Saban Heavenly Father