And it's uh verses one through twenty-six. Please follow along with me. Now Moses with the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying Keep all the commandments which I command you today, and it shall be on the day when you cross over the Jordan to the land which the Lord your God is giving you, that you shall set up for yourselves large stones, and whitewash them with lime You shall write on them all the words of this law when you have crossed over, that you may enter the land which the Lord your God has given you, a land flowing with milk and honey, just as the Lord God of your fathers promised you. Therefore it shall be, when you have crossed over the Jordan, that on Mount Ebal you shall set up these stones which I command you today, and you shall whitewash them with lime. And there you shall build an altar to the Lord your God, an altar of stones, and you shall not use an iron pool on them. You shall build with whole stones the altar of the Lord your God, and offer burnt offerings on it to the Lord your God. You shall offer peace offerings, and shall eat there, and rejoice before the Lord your God, and you shall write very plainly on the stones all the words of this law. Then Moses and the priests, the Levites, spoke to all Israel, saying, Take heed and listen, O Israel. This day you have become the people of the Lord your God. Therefore you shall obey the voice of the Lord your God, and observe his commandments and his statutes which I command you today. And Moses commanded the people on the same day, saying These shall stand on Mount Girazim to bless the people when you have crossed over the Jordan. Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin And these shall stand on Mount Abal to curse Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Nephthal And the Levites shall speak with a loud voice and say to all the men of Israel, Cursed is the one who makes the carved or molded image, an abomination to the Lord, the work of the hands of the craftsman, and sets it up in secret. And all the people shall answer and say, Amen. Cursed is the one who treats his father or his mother with contempt. And all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed is the one who moves his neighbor's landmark, and all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed is the one who makes the blind to wander off the road, and all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed is the one who perverts the justice do the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, and all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed is the one who lies with his father's wife, because he has uncovered his father's bed, and all the people shall say. Amen Cursed is the one who lies with any kind of animal, and all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed is the one who lies with his sister, the daughter of his father, or the daughter of his mother, and all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed is the one who lies with his mother-in-law, and all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed is the one who attacks his neighbor secretly, and all the people shall say, Amen. Cursed is the one who takes a bribe to slay an innocent person, and all the people shall say, Amen Cursed is the one who does not confirm all the words of this law by observing them. And all the people shall say, Amen. Please pray with me. Father, we pray that you would teach us here the purpose of these curses. We pray that Jesus Christ would be magnified, the one who took our curse. And Lord, may we no longer live a cursed life. By your grace, in the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. A woman woke up the other morning and she went to the basement to gather some pantry items. Once she was there, as soon as she stepped off the last step of the basement and her feet were wet, she noticed that the basement had two inches of water across the whole thing. And eventually found out that the water heater was the culprit. It had sprung a leak. So she grabbed the shop VAC, also in the basement, and worked at least for an hour just to get it back to the point where it could air dry. And during that time she had left her four-year-old daughter upstairs playing in the play kitchen. When she returned, she found no bangs on her daughter. She had cut them off with a pair of scissors from the kitchen drawer. They had a long talk. But the talk needed to end because one of the errands that she was going to run that day was to return the library books. When she got out to the car with the books in a bag, the car tire was flat. She changed the tire because she's a Proverbs 31 woman She got to the library, and lo and behold, she had read her email wrong, and the books had been due for three weeks, and she had accumulated late fines. Finally, she said to the librarian standing there asking for her card and her credit card, I feel like I'm cursed. Have you ever felt that way? I think I literally have described somebody's day out there. But if that wasn't your day, I wonder if you've ever said those words. I feel like I'm cursed. It's not funny. I feel like I'm cursed. But have you ever felt cursed? Has there been even just a moment where you have said I'm I must be cursed You know, we're beginning the tail end of Deuteronomy here, and this morning, as you can see from that longer passage, was the repetition that you see there with that responsive reading between Moses and the congregation. The obvious topic this morning is curses. And that's what we need to consider. We need to consider curses this morning and I think all of us have felt that way. We know what it would mean to be cursed. Let's seek to understand the curses in this covenant context I want to do so through looking at two main things here in this passage. There are two stones that are mentioned in the beginning. And then there's 12 curses. And those are the two parts that we'll look at together to seek to understand this plight that we're in called a curse. So begin with me here in chapter 27 with these two stones. We're first looking at verses 1 through 9. We're just going to take this bit by bit. This is pretty unfamiliar to us, this ceremony that's before us. Verses 1 through 9 record Moses' instructions for setting up actually a pretty elaborate covenantal ritual. Moses and the elders, you'll notice in verse 2, it starts off with elders. That's our real key to understanding this passage, is to see the division between the elders and the Levites. The elders start us off in verse 2, and they are to set up stones. You'll notice that the first stone is presumably large, and they are to whitewash it with lime. I think you heard me say that when I was reading it to you. Whitewashing large stones with lime was not unique to Israelite culture. It happened in other ancient Near Eastern cultures. Moses, for example, would have been familiar with this from the land of Egypt. They would have done the same kind of thing. What they did was they took limestone and they made a kind of plaster, and then they would take that plaster and cover objects, and the objects would then become white. If you want to think of the opposite, think of like a chalkboard paint that you'd then white you'd write with white chalk on it so that you could clearly see. It's just the opposite here, where it's white, and then they're going to to paint in black what we'll see here in just a moment. And so the large stone is painted. Now once the canvas is prepared, so to speak, now take a look at verse 3. They write the words on them of this law when they have crossed over. So this is a writ this is a flash forward. They're not doing this yet. This is a flash forward of what they'll do. And they are to write all the words of Lalal on the stone. And so you could clearly see the contrast I mean just imagine it. Imagine having in here a large stone, like a monument, and we plat we paint it all white, and then we put the Ten Commandments on it in black. It would be a constant memorial or reminder of the covenant that you are in with God. And not only would you see the Ten Commandments, but because you've gone through all of the case laws with Moses, you would see all the ways in which that's supposed to be worked out in human society. Well that's what's taking place here. All the people could look and see the covenant law. That's the first stone in the passage. But there's two stones The second stone is seen in verse 5. And there you shall build an altar to the Lord your God, an altar of stones. You see that? I mean correctly speaking, since it's an altar of stones, it's not just another single large stone. We're talking about multiple stones. But you see the point that I'm making. There's two stones. It's a bunch of stones making an altar. And you'll notice here, as with all worship, it is regulated. There's no iron tool that may sharpen the stone God wants no artwork of Himself. He wants no engravings of what they think he might look like or animals who represent him, which have been typical on altars during that day. He desires no human contribution or invention in his worship. He just wants them to do what he says to do. That's it. That's simple. You don't need to be creative here. In fact, creativity in this case would be a sin. They commit two offerings to the altar as he had commanded earlier within Leviticus in verses 6 and 7. You can see that you're sh in verse 6 you shall build with whole stones the altar of the Lord your God, and the first offering is a burnt offering. And then he'll go on to talk about in verse 7: you shall offer a peace offering. The burnt offering was a consistent offering. It was offered morning and evening, and it went on as a continual fragrance and aroma to the Lord before any other offering. Now the second offering was different. In verse 7, part of this offering went to God, and part of the offering went to the person giving the offering. What is that supposed to communicate to you? It's a fellowship meal. That's what's happening there. It was a kind of fellowship celebration between God and the people And you can see that in verse 7 with the with the descriptions. You shall offer peace offerings and shall eat there and rejoice before the Lord your God. There's a real celebration happening in communion with the Lord that we see in that kind of offering. Now you'll notice if you were to go back to verse 4, and I'll get into this more in the second point, that they were to take these stones, whether it's the stones that make up of the altar or it's the monument that they plaster white and paint the law on. And they in verse 4 are to set those stones up on Mount Ebal. And so far, this is the picture then. You have two main stone sites: one monument whitewashed with the law written. Another stone altar for sacrifices, and both stones were set up on Mount of Baal. That's what you have right now. Those are the two stones of the passage. But that's only part of the ceremony. We also have these twelve curses. And so let's start moving into this second point The curses are obvious. I mean, they were obvious in the way I read them. They're obvious as they're set off in stanzas within my scriptures. They're probably stanzas in yours. They're set up like a responsive reading. I hope you notice that And all the people shall say, Amen. They're pretty obvious. What can be a little less obvious is the a further understanding of the context. So that's what I want to do. I want to start with the setting of these curses. They are so obvious, but what about the setting? Let's look further at these. So far, we have a monument, and it's been commanded by elders in verse 1. Notice that. But then, and they place this on the side of the mountain called Mount Ebal. Now look at verses 9 through 12. Notice what verse 9 says. We've really shifted here as to who's going to give the commands. It's no longer going to be the elders that give the commands, it's going to be the Levites speaking to all of Israel saying. That's a major shift and a major division in the passage as you study it yourself. The priests have a role. Each priest is associated with one of the twelve tribes. So there could be a hundred priests associated with one of the tribes. I don't know exactly how many they were associated with each of the tribes, but it's not just one priest per tribe. But then we see in verse 12 that those proofs, those priests as part of the setting, are then grouped together into groups of six. You see that in verse 12? Take a look with me. These shall stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people. And then in verse 13, and these shall stand on Mount Abal to curse. So we've got six and six, and they all have different duties. Part of the priests were cursing, part of the priests were blessing. So here's the setting. Give me a little bit of a nod. Have you ever driven through the Cumberland, I think it's called the Cumberland Pass? Cumberland Password. Okay, that's uh pr that's close to something like what we have here. Has anyone ever been uh fly fishing on a decent stream? In the mountains, you'll have a river valley with the two sides of the mountain going up on either side of that river valley. Or like the Cumberland Pass, you drive through and you have those two sides. Imagine a bit of a gentler slope for the Cumberland Pass. And that's what you have here. Mount Ebal would be on one side with the monuments with one set of priests and the sacra and the altar, and then on Mount Gerizim would be the other side as you go through that pass. With the other set of priests, and each would have different roles within this elaborate ceremony and ritual. And that's the setting of the curses. They're setting this whole thing up. It was a river valley that actually entered into Canaan. So it's this pass that they have to go through to enter into the promised land. And on either side of the pass is this elaborate ritual having to deal with the covenant that was just expounded by Moses in the book of Deuteronomy. The people would cross through with those mountain slopes on either side, with these recitations happening. You can imagine how powerful this would be, and that if you were a child in the midst of this, you would always remember this for the rest of your life. The priests on Mount Gerizim would recite the blessings over the people, and then they would say Amen. And those on Mount Eval, the curses, and the people would say, Amen, over and over and over again. And actually, I'm going to get you to turn to Joshua chapter 8, which is the next book in your Bible. Turn to Joshua chapter 8. Beginning in verse 30. And I just want you to notice what's happening here Now Joshua built an altar to the Lord God of Israel in Mount Ebal, as Moses the servant of the Lord had commanded the children of Israel, as it is written in the book of the law of Moses. And then he mentions the altar, and that's where they actually perform the ceremony. Just so you know, if you want to read about that at another time. This ceremony took place in Joshua 8. But here, however, it is recorded for us as a kind of interruption in the timeline and a flash forward And you'll notice that later, when the actual ceremony is happening, there's blessings and curses, but here there are only curses. Now, that's the setting. There are in fact 12 curses. And there are different ways to group these curses. I'm going to give you one grouping, and I would encourage you to get some conversation going. on how you think these could be grouped. I think we really need to do some meditation on these curses together as a corporate body. So here's some of my reflection on uh on uh on how these can be grouped And I've heard scholars group it this exact same way, and I've heard scholars group it a little bit differently than this. Now we're we're hearing the curses in starting in verse 14. All the way down to 26. In verses 14 through 19, I've already read these for you, and I'm not going to keep reading them over and over again. So in verses 14 through 19, If you were to count, it contains five curses that I believe remain to the community at large. They move through social strata. God in verse 14 and his place within the community, of course, comes first. And then it drops into the Father with his household. And then it will move into the neighbor in verse 17. So we have, for example, verse 16, the parents curses the one who treats his father and his mother as the household. And then it moves into the neighbor as also a part of that community. And these are kind of representatives of major institutions that must have integrity. in order for the people to continue as God has providentially planned. And so you have community and what it will take for its integrity to remain. It will need to be based upon God. The institution of the family must remain, with the mother and the father being honored, and if that collapses, there will be chaos. The neighbor and his landmarks must be retained, but you can think about neighbor in general. And then of course we must not forget in verse 20 The disabled and the defenseless are also a part of the community and deserve dignity as has been expounded in Deuteronomy over and over again. Now there's a second part to the curses in 20 through 23. The second set of curses, my argument, is that it's specifically dealing with a household ethic. And interestingly, if you were to you can look at some works of scholarship on this section, some set it up as a chiasm, and this section on sexual ethic is the dead center. Which I find interesting. And like I said, we need to continue to do more meditation on it. First is the one who lies with his father's wife. Verse 20. Cursed is the one who lies with an animal, bestiality, verse 21. Sister, verse 22, or mother-in-law, verse 23. Those groupings are really obvious that it has to do with the with the sexual boundaries. particularly in relationship to the family. And then I believe that we move into a third set that relates to the value of life. The life of your neighbor in verse 24, and then this one can be a little confusing. It says, cursed is the one who takes a bribe to slay an innocent person. And I have rephrased this by essentially saying, your neighbor's enemy, that you would also honor the life of your neighbor's enemy, that you would not show your neighbor favoritism just because they're your neighbor and you know them, but that you would strive for true justice, not taking a bribe from your neighbor. Even if it's your neighbor's enemy. And then the curses are finished with a summary of the whole thing that is intended, verse 26. Cursed is the one who does not confirm all the words of this law by observing them, and all the people shall say Amen. And those are our two parts here as we consider the curses this morning. God instructed Moses to give these people a ceremony. He used the mountains on either side of a river valley. On Mount Gerizim stood six sets of priests. On Mount Ebal stood two stones and a second set of six priests. And from Mount Abal they led the people, pronouncing twelve curses. I mean you could not forget this They led the people pronouncing twelve curses, and all the people said Amen. And that's really key, that there was consent in the vow. The curses here let the people know where the boundaries were. In the same way that I talked about in the confession. In the same way that the ocean must know where its boundary is. Otherwise, there will be great devastation. And that is what curses do. I'm not sure how you think about curses, but it is not about a magical res uh uh like incantation. Like uh the witch in Disney movies where she curses or you can become cursed by a witch and she just states words and then there's some kind of magic that happens. What we're talking about here is not magic. We're talking about God in his providence cluing them in to the boundaries that he has set for his cosmos. And the way in which he governs his cosmos, if they go outside of the boundaries, there will be in fact chaos. If the ocean breaks past the boundary, then chaos and death enter, as I said earlier, and the same is true with our moral lives. Now I'm going to extend this out into a much bigger picture in a moment, but I do want to stay very close at first to what is specifically said here. The integrity of each one of these institutions within the curses are not to be violated. Do you know what happens if you violate the integrity of something? So for example, let's consider if you have a house and you have a foundation on your house, what would happen if we found out Through some kind of inspector, that the foundation of your house, the integrity of it, had been violated. You're not allowed to move into that house because the whole house could collapse. And Jesus says something similar about our lives when we don't build our lives on what God says and the works that He does. It is the saying here, he is warning them that the specifically within these institutions of the community, the people of God, within the family. and with our relationships with our neighbors, that these things must remain integral. If we transgress the boundaries of community responsibility, or family responsibility, or sexual responsibility, then moral chaos ensues and the integrity of community and family breaks apart and it collapses. And this is not just true for The people of God, but any person whatsoever. And you can read about this Specifically within Romans chapter 1, beginning in verse 18, when people continually press the boundaries, and then God says, okay, I'll give you what you want. And they spiral into chaos. Well, that's the warning here, but it is a little bit more particular for this group of people because not everyone has promised the promised land of Canaan. If you think back, this is what happened after the first sin and curse with Adam and Eve. The woman and man were cursed. The curse manifested immediately in a murder among brothers. And the integrity of the family at that moment was devastatingly lost, and they needed to go into prayer that another would be given. The line would continue. These curses, of course, should give us great thanks as we look at the curses here. That God the Father has sent Jesus to Christ to remove the curse. And if you think about that more and more deeply, he is doing so in different ways. And all of them are glorious. When you look by faith upon Christ on the cross and you remember that he has become a curse for you, Then, Christian, you can see the confidence that you would have in your own faith that you are no longer under the curse of God and separated from him. And when we by faith look upon the resurrection and the ascension of Christ, we remember that Christ, in his kingship, is removing the effects of the curse even from his community, even to this day. We are becoming a community of people that is not marked by moral chaos. There is a sea of chaos that surrounds us, and we are an island of light onto the world. And we pray that God would send people out of the sea over onto dry land, really. And that they would receive mercies from Christ as he works within them to remove chaos. Those are at least two ways in which Christ is removing the curse. Through his atoning work, through his ascension work, the sanctifying power of the Spirit. We know that the remaining effects of the curse will not be totally removed until his return And with each moment that we feel the curse, like that woman in the beginning, when she finally saw those library finds. She should have said this after her statement, I feel like I'm cursed. Jesus Christ, come quickly. And that would have been great for the librarian to hear. Because she would have remembered when it was uh cross dressing reading day and she would have said, Yes, Jesus Christ, please come quickly. The remaining effects of the curse will not be totally removed, however, until his return with the total renewal of heaven and earth But he is beginning that process now among his church. And that is very important for you to hear because there is a tremendous amount of responsibility as you have entered into covenant with God. We've been talking about ceremonies for several weeks now. You have your own, and I brought that out by God's grace when we celebrated the supper together. That you are in covenant with Christ. And you have a responsibility to endeavor to conduct yourselves as followers of Christ, being the dry land amidst the chaotic sea, that there would truly be a light on this earth. That people would run to us. Really, that they would run to Christ. We are a kind of ark, his people. He's beginning that process now among us that the new heavens and the new earth would begin with us, but also to show the world that there is salvation. That it's not just words on a piece of paper, that is actually happening in reality. What God has spoken has come to be Just as he spoke and it was created, so too he has spoken, and there is recreation, and it is called his church. If you were, for example, to have these kind of thoughts in mind and then read Matthew chapter 7, verses 24 through 26, you would see that Jesus is saying the same thing as he has taught that his people are meant to be a light. Jesus as the rock through the whole Sermon on the Mount has been teaching his people the correct understanding of the law, that they could be a light. And those who don't hear his teaching, his sayings, will be cursed, and their whole lives will fall and be swept into the sea. But we know that Christ is working in this world. A group of people, the church, who are hearing his words and his sayings, and their house shall not fall. Their lives will not be cursed. And that describes you. You are a picture of the new heavens and the new earth, which is blessed and not cursed. The church, by definition, hears all of Christ's words and they accept all of his work. Do you remember what Christ said? If you are ashamed of my words If you are ashamed of my work, I will be ashamed of you at the last day. But we are the church. And so when he speaks and when he works, we are not ashamed, but we are proud of what he has taught us. We hear our Christ as our priest who atones for our sins. Cursed is everyone on a tree. And Christ was on the tree not for his own sins, but to atone for our sins. We hear Christ as our prophet who reveals God's will for our lives. And we don't ignore it. We're not against the law because it's Christ's law. We hear Christ as our king and we submit to him. The question for you this morning is: have you heard Christ as priest? Do you believe that you are under a curse and that you are enemies with God and you need God to have mercy upon you? If you were sitting here and you were not a Christian And you are and you relish in that and you're proud of it, thinking that you are enlightened. Let me tell you that the wisdom you think you have will be revealed at some point in time as the most darkest foolishness that you have ever participated in When the light is revealed, you will beg that Jesus Christ would be your salvation, and it will be denied because you were ashamed of him. Today is the day of repentance. Today is to hear his words and to be removed out from under the curse and to be reconciled with the Father. Do not neglect the salvation that God the Father provides in Jesus Christ. He says, I am the way. Entrust yourself to me, and you will not drown. Have faith in me and you will not sink. I will reconcile you to the Father, and I will reconcile heaven and earth together. Well, what if you have given yourself over to Jesus Christ and He's taken you out of that sea of chaos? Have you heard of Christ as your prophet and your king? Do you accept his will for your responsibilities to his community and to your family and respect for your neighbor? We've been going through Deuteronomy on what it means to keep the heart of God's heart, which is called the law. And it has to do particularly with those who are distressed and friendless. And there are certain stations in life where that's felt more than others, and one of those stations is called widowhood. And very rarely do I hear, and I pray that it's just because it's kept secret between you and your father in heaven. Very rarely, however, do I hear of people visiting widows. Why are we not encouraging our children to constantly be visiting with widows, having tea with them? Taking them out to lunch, having a Bible study with them. Why do they not feel like, why do they still feel like they do not have family exactly? That they are included in Severn Run, but they do not belong. Now that is just one example, and maybe you're not guilty of that Just take the good and and do some self-evaluation because this is our responsibility. Christianity is laid before us today, and we have, in the popular form of it, no responsibility whatsoever. And that's called cheap grace. Jesus Christ has not given you his Holy Spirit so that you could perpetuate the moral chaos of this world. But rather that the chaos would go go away. Like the woman in the beginning, when she shop vaced up all the water. So too has Christ shop is shop vacing all of the unrighteousness out of your life. And that is has to do with your relationships. This is Christ as King, and we must accept our responsibility to him. Our responsibility, particularly to this community called Severn Run, should supersede your responsibility to your blood relatives, because the sphere is thicker than blood. But there is still a responsibility to our families, and there is still a respect to be had for our neighbors. Let us remember what happened to the people in this specific passage They disregarded. They stood there. They walked through that river valley or on that highway like the Cumberland Pass. And God had erected this whole ceremony for them to always remember with a bright white stone with black writing, so they couldn't miss the writing on the wall, so to speak. And they disregarded every single thing that God commanded them through Moses. And you know what God did? He gave them every single curse. And now I will remind you, as the author of Hebrews has done, this was just Moses speaking. What do you think will happen if you are ignoring Jesus Christ? And I'm not just talking about ignoring Jesus Christ for the salvation that he offers in atoning for your sin, but ignoring him and what he tells you your responsibilities are to him. And how you are to live as a Christian. He has given you his spirit. You must stay in step with his spirit. If that is what happened when a man of earth spoke, what will happen if we ignore the man from heaven? Have you been ignoring Jesus the Christ? May God give us all repentance. And blessing, and may he keep us from his curse. I pray, Christian, this morning. That you would hear these gospel threatenings and curses that I announced this morning, that you would return to your first love. That you would remember who Christ is and the grace that He has poured out on you, and the calling that you have received from Him, and that you would walk worthy of that calling. Everything is at stake. May the Lord bless you and may He keep you. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, it is with solemnity that we hear these curses. And even at the advent of Christ, we still hear curses pronounced and gospel threatenings, not that we may necessarily doubt our salvation. But that we might strengthen our knees, accept the discipline of you, our good Father, and get on with it as a member of the cloud of witnesses who live their life by faith I pray, Lord, that you would comfort the weak-hearted. I pray that you would not allow these curses to smother them or to smother out that flickering flame. I pray, Lord, that instead you would pour your oil and that their lamp would remain lit forever. I pray, Lord, for those who have become arrogant. And think they've gained some kind of wisdom, and that since you have not corrected them, they think they have gotten away with it, I pray that these curses would enter into their hearts. And that they would shake in their knees. Lord Jesus Christ. I ask that you would take these words that were pronounced so long ago, and the words that you have pronounced in your gospel, and that you would apply them to the heart of your congregation here. And I pray that we would be a light in the darkness and order within chaos, that we would be a people with integrity. In the name of Christ, amen.