I'd ask that you please stand with me and that you'd open your scriptures to the book of Revelation, chapter one. I'll be reading this morning God's Word from verses nine to verse nine to verse twenty. And the vision that we see here is enacted even this morning as Christ stands in our midst. Revelation chapter 1, 9 through 20. I, John, both your brother and companion in the tribulation and kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ. Was on the island that is called Patmos for the Word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. I was on this in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice as of a trumpet saying I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last. And what you see, write in a book and send it to the seven churches which are in Asia. To Ephesus, to Smyrna, to Pergamos, to Thyartira, to Sardis, to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea. Then I turned to see the voice that spoke with me. And having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands. And in the midst of the seven lampstands, one like the Son of Man. Clothed with a garment down to the feet, and girded about the chest with a golden band. His head and hair were white like wool, as white as snow. And his eyes like a flame of fire. His feet were like fine brass, as if refined in a furnace, and his voice as the sound of many waters. He had in his right hand seven stars. Out of his mouth went a sharp, two-edged sword, and his countenance was like the sun shining in its strength. And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. But he laid his right hand on me, saying to me, Do not be afraid. I am the first and the last. I am he who lives and was dead. And behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And I have the keys of Hades and of death. Write the things which you have seen, and the things which are, and the things will take place after this. The mystery of the seven stars which you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands which you saw are the seven churches. Let us pray. Lord Jesus Christ, the one who stands amongst us We ask that you would be our teacher this morning through your spirit, and that we would understand who you are, and that this would transform who we are. In the name of Christ. Studies have been done, and the results are in. Guess which age group is the most violent among all age groups Now I've shared this with some of you. But the winner, two years old. I'm not kidding. Statistically speaking, through clinical psychological research, the two-year-olds have won. In their studies, they would place a two-year-old in a room with others, and when crossed, they will kick They will scream, they will hit, they will bite, they will hoard toys, and they will burst into fits of anger over even the smallest of things. Now imagine if a person were like that when they're 40, and you can see why they classify actually, they classify two-year-olds as sociopaths. They do. Now studies continue in this same clinical psychological work. The studies continue to show that if parents do not socialize those children by the time that they are four, then major issues can occur which increase the chance of that child remaining a sociopath. Here's what happens in the story from clinical psychologists, which you know you take that for what it's worth. Other children, after through the age of two till four, have parents that discipline. They mold and they shape their children to relate well to their emotions and how to relate well to other people. But there are children with no discipline, and they don't learn. And there's a whole other variety of factors that enter into this. But the bottom line is, is because they never socialize, their peers begin to shy away. They can't handle how they socialize. And the undisciplined become more and more isolated, and they become rejected, and they become more and more antisocial. And in the worst cases, we hear about them on the news. In other words, if you wanted to summarize it, clinical psychology confirms that we should train up a child in the way that he should go. And when he is old, he will not depart from it. Now that's a proverb, and you have to take that as a proverb. But it leads us to a question as a congregation: do you believe in the importance of training people in the way that they should go? Or do you believe the change is impossible? Do you believe you should just let nature take its course? Or do you believe that there is a place for nurture? These are questions that human beings have considered for quite some time. And we'll all stand on one of those or another, or there will be a blend. Most of us, I think, here would probably say yes. We believe that we should train, that discipline is necessary, that we shouldn't just leave it to nature. That would be a horrible idea. But you would ask in the same sense, seeing these candles up here, what in the world are you doing talking about this during Advent with the theme of love? And that's a good question. But it has everything to do with how we're moving in Advent. And I assure you that it has everything to do with it. Over the past weeks, we have discovered the significance of the Christ of Christmas. We need to do that because Christ is distorted and twisted and who he truly is. We discovered first that Jesus is Israel and he's reintroducing paradise to earth. We discovered secondly that Jesus has ascended in safety, nurturing his church from the dragon And that every nativity scene should have a dragon that is a part of it, and I have yet to see that. I've been looking. Let me know when you have a dragon in your front yard. And then thirdly, John, and this was from last week, Jesus is the lion lamb worthy to open the scrolls, unfolding God's plan for the joy of the world. These are all true statements and confessions of who Jesus the Christ is. And it is underlying the meaning in the celebration of Christmas. Well, this morning, in line with what the introduction was talking about with discipline, we see that Jesus is the judge of his church And he disciplines us. And that that was even announced when Jesus was a child, even as a baby. And so that's what we're exploring this morning. We're seeing the Christ of Christmas as the judge. Now I want to look at this in this passage from Ephesians 1, 9 through 20. Really, this whole section in Revelation. I'm sorry, in Revelation, is an introduction to him being a judge, and I want to bring out bring that out under three parts, preparation for the vision, the vision of the judge, and then there is a response to the judge. So we'll look at those three parts and learn about the Christ of Christmas. And I do pray that you know Christ more after the sermon. So let's just begin warming up with a preparation for the vision, beginning in verse 9 and 10. I, John, both your brother and companion in the tribulation and kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was on the island that is called Patmos. That's where he was. He was sent there as an exile because of his influence among the churches. When we get into verse 10, we see when this took place. The day that John met with Christ was on the Lord's day. The Lord's Day is another name for the day, which the Lord Jesus Christ was resurrected from the dead. That's why it gained its name. And he is on Patmos on the Lord's Day. In the Spirit, it says. Now you know Christ also used this phrase in the Spirit in John chapter 4 that we might understand what's going on here. When Christ was speaking with the Samaritan woman, Jesus said that his future followers would worship him in the spirit and in truth. And thus, all as anticipated and as still practiced today, what we're doing right now, John was doing on Patmos. John was worshiping the Lord on the Christian Sabbath. Well, while he's worshiping in verse 10, John hears a loud voice as of a trumpet. And this is where Christ steps in in verse 11 and he says a few things to John. Number one, he says, I am the Alpha and the Omega, and then he interprets that, the first and the last. And here we have a book showing up again, which should remind you of last week. Books are very important within the book of Revelation. He says, What you see, write in a book and send it to the seven churches. So then, verse 10 and 11, they give us vital clues and preparation for this vision. That's really what this whole section is doing. It's a kind of introduction that we might understand the rest of this passage this morning. So, for example, just in this introduction, John says that his voice was as of a trumpet or like a trumpet. Do you see that? He does not say that Jesus was blowing a trumpet. Doesn't say that Jesus is a trumpet or that his voice is a trumpet. It says that it is like a trumpet or as a trumpet. The point is that John is interacting with the Christ, but Christ is revealing himself symbolically. It is very important for you to catch that. It is like a masterful piece of artwork that is being presented to John. And that's a rule that has to be followed as we move into the rest of this passage: that these are not literal descriptions. If you were to speak to Christ even now, perhaps his voice would not remind you of a trumpet. But for these purposes and for these symbols and the meaning that John would understand in reference to all of the scriptures, the trumpet is appropriate. It communicates a meaning and not just a fact or a meaningless description that has no significance placed on it. That's what symbols do. Symbols don't describe facts, but the significance or the meaning of the fact. That's the whole idea behind it. So the question is not, in other words, what did Christ look like? That's not the question you should be asking here. You shouldn't be asking, what color is Christ's hair, so that you would understand what he literally looks like. Rather, you should be saying, well, what does the symbol mean? What am I supposed to derive? What significance is present here with him having the hair that he does and the feet that he does and the voice that he does? We're dealing with symbols. The second clue is in the number of churches that are present. It says that there is the number is there are seven churches. That's how he enumerates them, and there are in fact seven churches listed, but it goes beyond that because if you were to study this, you'd see that the number seven is the number of completion. Seven tells us that this letter of Revelation is for all the churches. Some of the historical details will not transcend throughout history. That is Surely true. But as a church, Christ speaks to you even today, because you are one of the churches. As he speaks to the ancient church here in this revelation, so too does he speak to us, because his revelation is perfect. In fact, it is a model for any letter or writing within the scriptures itself. You actually can see a picture of how Christ, the Father, and the Spirit view the epistles of the New Testament. And so this is the basic introduction that we have here. We know where and when John is, and we have some vital clues for understanding the rest of the passage. And this prepares us for the vision of the judge. Which is our second point. Now we start to get into some of the details that are very important. Take a look at verse 12 with me. Then I turned to see the voice that spoke to with me. Now that is a signal that we've been following all the time we've been in Revelation through this Advent season. It's like a movie. And we have to follow the camera. And you see the camera move here. Then I turned and I see the voice that spoke with me. And now we're going to start seeing pan out and pan in with zooms. As the camera focuses on what John is saying. And having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands, and in the midst of the seven lampstands, one like the Son of Man. Now we don't need to rehearse the full history of lampstands. I wonder if you've done some word studies or if you've heard of lampstands in the scriptures. But we don't need to go through that here because in verse 20, to understand what a lampstand is, Christ just tells us. And he tells us what the stars are also. He interprets the vision for us. The seven stars and the seven lampstands are the angels, or really I think it's the pastors that oversee the church, the presbyters. Because that if you look up the word angel, it just means messenger. Okay? And the seven churches over which they have been called. That's the interpretation of the stars and the lamp stands, and so here you have the churches with the Presbyteries who have been called over those churches And in other words, what you end up seeing here is a vision that's showing all of the church and her Catholicity, lowercase c her universality, forming a circle in universal fellowship. And guess where Jesus Christ is in this vision? He stands in the center. He stands in the center of his churches in the vision. Christ at the center makes sense if we now read verse 13. And in the midst of the seven lampstands he was one like the Son of Man. He's clothed with a garment down to the feet and a uh girded about the chest was a golden band. Of course he's standing in the center of He has full authority. He's the Son of Man. Now, ladies, if you uh there are ladies here taking a Daniel Bible study. Is that correct? Correct. Let me see. Is that true? We're having a Daniel Bible study, right? Okay, very good. Does this remind you of anything? Have you seen the Son of Man in Daniel? I don't know if you've gotten to Daniel chapter 7 yet, but this is a reference to that same vision that was shown to Daniel earlier. That is now coming to fruition here. Daniel 7 says this with the Son of Man. Notice how Daniel is in a very similar situation in John. I was watching in the night visions. And behold, one like the Son of Man coming with the clouds of heaven, then to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. It's exactly what we see here within this vision is the symbolic representation of that declaration that Daniel gives As the divine ruling king, his description ends up continuing in verse 13 with his kingly clothing, which is also priestly. A garment down to the feet and girded about the chest with a golden band. And since he shares the divine glory of the ancient of days, which is also from Daniel, It then moves into verse 14. His head and hair were white like wool and it was white as snow, showing his divinity and eternality. We understand the lampstands. Do you see them? We understand the stars because Christ interprets it for us right here. We understand the Son of Man and of Christ's clothing because of the reference from Daniel. And of course, that's reused in Matthew and Mark. But there's one particular detail that we have to pay attention to this morning as we consider the heart of this passage. And it's not the bronze feet. It's the eyes that are like flame. Notice the description in verse 14 now. His head and hair were white like wool, as white as snow. And imagine what that would have looked like in the vision. In this masterful symbolic portrait set against his eyes like a flame of fire. John sees Christ Jesus and his eyes are like a flame of fire. Now, have you ever seen eyes like a flame of fire? You would probably run if you had friends that had eyes like flames of fire. The closest that I have come, and I wonder if you actually have this experience also, was the other day when my cat escaped from the upstairs down into the basement crawl space The crawl space is very dark. And so when I went down there, I brought the flashlight to try to find the cat, because he knows he's not supposed to be there. And when I shined back there, I was instantly able to see him. Do you know why? Because his eyes lit like a flame of fire, a very small flame. The cat's eyes lit up like a reflector. Now many animals have this in the back of their eye. I bet you you've seen deer that are like this. There's a reflective portion back there, and I don't can't pronounce the name, it's all in Latin. But it helps them to see in the dark, and that's just an analogy of the kind of thing that we're seeing here. I use that analogy not because I want to compare a cat's eye or a deer's eye to the revelation vision, but because they're there for the same purpose, to see better. To see purely. To see in the dark. That's the significance here. Remember, these are symbols Christ has eyes like a flame of fire. Again, this is taken from Daniel chapter 10, by the way. And it's showing that he sees perfectly, and in reality, he sees all. You see what this means, right? If you were to place Christ in the darkest of rooms, it doesn't make any difference because his eyes themselves are light. They are like a flame of fire. Nothing can be hid from him. It is the one who sees. In the deepest sense of that word, through bone and marrow. And so now we're ready to take all of these various threads, all of these different symbols that have been laid out on a table for us, and we can begin to organize them and we can begin to see what's being communicated to John in order to communicate to the churches. Jesus is symbolized here as the all-seeing kingly judge of his churches. He stands in the center with all authority and power to tend to his churches, just like the priests of old tended to the lampstands of the temple. That is what we were meant to see. Now, if you do not believe me, then you're wrong. Number one. And the reason why I say that is because I want you to take a look at now what follows this initial vision. It is all Christ acting as a judge that sees everything. Look at chapter 2, verse 1. He speaks to the church of Ephesus. And he knows exactly what's going on in that church. Because he stands in the center, and nothing can be hidden from him. And he judges them, he evaluates them for their own good and his glory. Now take a look at chapter 2, verse 8. He does the same thing with Smyrna. Now take a look at chapter 2, verse 12. He does the same thing with Pergamos. Chapter 2, verse 18, he does the same thing with Thyartira. Chapter 3, verse 1, he does the same thing with Sardis. Chapter 3, verse 7, he does the same thing with Philadelphia. Chapter 3, verse 14, and he does the same thing at the end. With the Laodiceans. All of these are examples of Christ standing in the center. Making sense of why the vision has the symbols that it does. Because it is symbolic of his action amongst the churches here as the great judge. All of the examples of Christ standing in the center are Him looking out at each church with a flaming sight and a loving, disciplinary judgment. In other words, Christ refuses to allow his people to become sociopaths. Now before I move on, what is your response to this Christ? Have you seen Christ before with all-seeing eyes of perfect light? How does that make you feel about him? How is it that you want to relate to him when you find out that he's like that? Particularly at Christmas time. Is he as he's portrayed within our media today? Or does his vision reveal something differently about him? How would you respond? What is your response right now to Christ standing in the center of the As the one with flaming eyes. Well, whatever your response is, we have before us an exemplary response, which is the response of John to the judge. And it takes us into our final portion. It may be surprising to you Particularly coming from John, who laid his head upon the breast of Christ because he loved him, to see the response that John has. with someone so close. You can see how one should respond from the response of John in verse 17 of chapter 1. It says here, and when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. John really maybe didn't even know it in the moment, but he was responding as many previous prophets have responded Who have a vision. Numbers chapter twenty, verse six. So Mosan and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly to the door of the tabernacle of meeting. And they fell on their faces. And the glory of the Lord appeared to them. Or we have a reference from Ezekiel. Like the appearance of a rainbow in a cloud on a rainy day, so was the appearance of the brightness all around it. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. So when I saw it, I fell on my face, and I heard a voice of one speaking. John, like prophets of old, fell at his feet as dead, although Christ was a close friend, an older brother, and a savior. He still had to respond this way. Which tells you that your relationship with the living Christ may be more complicated relationally than you initially were told by popular evangelicalism. It is not, he is not a hallmark Christ. Do you know the Christ of Christmas this way? Does our world know the Christ of Christmas this way? We believe in the Christ of Christmas love. But do we believe that the Christ of Christmas shows his love in establishing justice? Can justice and love exist together in a single person? Can justice and discipline in love Do you believe in a Christ wherein the correct response is to fall as if dead at his feet and yet to still be comforted by his love? Knowledge of the Christ with flaming eyes of discipline has been largely lost in American Christianity. He has been hallmarked. I'll just go ahead and coin the verb. He's been hallmarked. Now, what we have here in this passage is a message that we desperately need to hear. We need to see this about our Lord Jesus Christ. That he is the judge that stands amongst his churches. You must see that this is one of the reasons why you celebrate Christmas. It is a message that we desperately need in the Advent season. Jesus stands in the center of his churches and he has flaming eyes And he sees all, and he's committed to disciplining his people away from unrighteousness and toward just living And therefore his people, like John, should respond in obedient humility, seeking repentance, and they should, in their repentance, seek justice in their own midst. And boy, do we need to hear this. Do you remember Rachel Rachel Denhollander? She was a a gymnast, a USA gymnast. And she finally came out and brought to light that she had been sexually abused by her team doctor for a long time. Do you remember this story hitting the news? Once she spoke out, do you know how many other persons came to speak out? How other many of them were gymnasts, but how many other women Came out. I think it was I I read an article, it was 150. 150 more than he affected. Do you know what Miss Den Hollander said about her sexual abuse and trying to receive help from her church? Here's a direct quote. She says, It is with deep regret that I say the church is one of the worst places to go for help. She's not speaking about perhaps every church, but it was within her experience that that is what she found That the church was the least help. She went on to say: one of the dynamics that you see in a Christian church that is particularly devastating is, can you guess it? She says poor theology. Now I don't know what you think about theology, but she's thinking specifically that there was a poor theology of sexual abuse. within her church and they didn't know how to handle the situation. They were incompetent because they were not good enough theologians. She goes on and she says, often, if not always, people are motivated by poor theology and a poor understanding of grace and repentance. And that causes them to handle sexual assault in a way where a lot of predators go unchecked, often for decades. There's a recent study saying that by the time they catch a pedophile, they have already violated 250 people. So for example, she goes on to say every single publication that covered her case And quoted her words, every single Christian publication or speaker that has mentioned her statements about her doctor. has only ever focused on the aspect of whether or not she would forgive. And this is significant this morning because that is what the church often does. They only focus on one side of the coin, one aspect. of who Christ is with forgiveness. And they forget the aspect which she desperately needed, which was righteousness and justice amidst the church. And the breakdown was that they did not understand who Jesus Christ is and that he stands among the churches with an all-seeing eye. not allowing his people turn to turn into those who victimize others or who are sociopaths. But the church has not caught this vision of Christ that we see here in Revelation. She says, very few, if any of them, have recognized what else came with the statement about forgiveness, which was a swift and intentional pursuit of God's justice. Because of her theology and her understanding of Christ, she decided to say something because she understood that Christ was for justice. She says both of those are biblical concepts. Both forgiveness and justice represent Jesus Christ. And this is what she finally says. Obedience means that you pursue justice And you stand up for the oppressed, and you stand up for the victimized, and you tell the truth about the evil of sexual assault and the evil of covering it up. And she understood that and was able to not cover it up because she understood more than most of the evangelical church who Jesus Christ is among the churches. So she said something and has made a world of difference in the repentance of the church. Christ used her to discipline his bride. And I pray that he is using her this morning with you to discipline our mentality. And it's the perfect message for Christmas, isn't it? Although it's not a Hallmark Christmas show. I mean it would be canceled immediately. We drive around and we see nativity scenes with Jesus. And he's a baby tender and mild. There's no dragon. There's no flaming eyes, melting all the snow around them. Because we've forgotten the full nativity story as symbolized for us from the appearances in heaven But they were there all along. You read it in your bulletin today in Simeon's prophecy about the child. Didn't you see that he would be the Christ standing in the center of the churches judging? Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, Behold, this child is destined for the fall and rising of many in Israel. And he is a sign which will be spoken against. Just a sword will pierce through your own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. He's got eyes like fire, this baby. Now that's a true Christmas story. Behold the child Jesus this advent. But behold him as the one who will reveal and judge and cause, as Simeon said, the fall and the rise of many, even within the church. Behold the one who stands with eyes of fire among the churches May we fall as if dead before our Christ in humility. And you know why? Because it's the right thing to do. It's staying in step with the Spirit. But because as James says God gives grace to the humble, but he opposes the proud. And tell me that's not exactly what's happening in this As you accept Christ in this capacity with eyes like flame in your own life, and you humble yourself before Him, seeking repentance and returning to righteousness. And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. But he laid his right hand on me And I wonder if he changed his voice back to the voice that John had always heard in his earthly ministry, away from sounding like Niagara Falls. And he says, Do not be afraid. I am the first, and I am the last And I am he who lives and was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. And we can say, even in the midst of such a terrifying vision, because of the right hand of love upon his bride, Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for this great vision that you have given to us of you. As we come to know you, we can feel ourselves beginning to be transformed from glory to glory. And that's beautiful. We are destined to be the just, for we will by justice judge even the angels. We thank you for this vision of you. We ask, as we did in our prayer earlier, that you would walk amongst us That we would never be snuffed out, that instead you would feed us more oil, that you would give us the spirit, that we would be a people that would repent. That we would humble ourselves and receive grace, that we would not be prideful and therefore be opposed by you. We pray, Lord, that you would strengthen us. Make us competent. Make us a people that is righteous, only righteous. That we would not have testimonies any longer. Like the one we heard from Rachel Denhollander. That we would stand up for what is right because we know that you are the Christ who has eyes like a flame of fire. We ask that you would give us this flame. In the name of Christ, Amen.