On the same day, when evening had come, he said to them, Let us cross over to the other side. Now when they had left the multitude, they took him along in the boat as he was, and other little boats were also with him And a great windstorm arose, and the waves beat into the boat, so that it was already filling. But he was in the stern, asleep on a pillow And they awoke him and said to him, Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing? Then he arose and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. But he said to them, Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith? And they feared exceedingly, and said to one another, Who can this be that even the wind and the sea obey him? Please pray with me Gracious Lord, thank you for preserving your word. Thank you for giving it to us in a language that we can understand. Thank you for all of the gifts you have given to your church throughout the millennia. That have allowed us to have confidence that what we are reading is true and how we interpret it is true Lord, show us by your Spirit how this word should change and transform our lives. We trust you, Lord, to use it to make us more like Christ And I pray, our great God, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. There are all kinds of fears in this world, aren't there? All kinds of phobias. That word comes from the Greek word for fear. Phobias show up in our culture in all kinds of places. There's a lot of Xenophobia going around these days, fear of strangers. Sometimes when we talk about fears, we talk about irrational fears, irrational phobias, like perhaps You've never heard of it, but there's one called anemophobia, which is the fear of air. It's kind of hard to go through life if you're afraid of air. There is one that I thought my children had. It's called a bludophobia. Do you know what that is? It's a fear of bathing. There's also an irrational fear that to us may not seem irrational, acrophobia. That's a fear of heights. But if you think about rational fears, it makes sense as to why that would be an irrational fear, right? A height can't hurt you, tall things can't harm you. But the flip side to that coin is barophobia Which is a fear of gravity. And that's why if you're way up high, what you're actually you don't have a fear of heights, you actually have a fear of falling There is another fear that maybe you haven't heard of phalaosophobia. Do you know what that is? It's a fear of the sea. Comes from the Greek word for sea, the lasso. And I would ask you, do you think that that's a rational fear? A fear of the sea? Or is that an irrational fear? Does it make sense to be afraid of the oceans and the waters? I suppose it would If you thought that water or the oceans were completely chaotic, completely out of control. Well, brothers and sisters, Mark has been showing us that those things in this world may appear one way or a certain way. Things are not always what they seem. And Mark, we've been given snapshots, pictures, as if in a photo album, showing us Through different events in the life of the Messiah, that he is indeed the Son of the Living God. He is the Christ. He is the Messiah. Jesus has done what only God can do several times already in the Gospel of Mark. He's cleansed the lepers, He's forgiven sins. And that you would know that He has the power to forgive sins, He healed that paralyzed man. He's healed all kinds of diseases. He's taught many wondrous things, teaching with power and wisdom and authority like no one had ever heard before In chapter 4, where we've been most recently, Jesus has been teaching how his people need to understand this world. How they need to understand what he's doing in the world, no matter what it may look like. And he's done this, if you remember, through the parables, teaching us using an earthly story with a common understanding that has a heavenly meaning that has a spiritual significance for his people. There's been many parables, parable of the soils, showing that it it may appear like the gospel doesn't take root. Very often. But he teaches us through the parable of the soil that, well, it will take root only in the good soil. He's taught through the parable of the lamps. that Christ has saved us, and though it may appear that He saved us as a benefit just to ourselves and a blessing just to us, it's actually a blessing to others. For we are to shine as the light of Christ in the world, showing The good news of the gospel to others. In the parable of the seed, we saw that the gospel spreads. And it spreads, and those who are spreading the seed must patiently wait for God to progress the development of the gospel in those who receive it. First the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear. God is moving his gospel in individual lives and throughout the kingdom. And we saw last In the parable of the mustard seed that though the kingdom of God may appear insignificant, it really is the most significant thing that has come into this world. It will, by God's own power, be revealed. as truly significant. Well tonight Mark gives us another picture in the ministry of Jesus, again showing that he is the true Messiah. In this passage, verses 31 through 41, or 35 through 41, we have a valuable lesson about what it is like to follow Christ, a valuable lesson to those twelve disciples. They really needed to learn this lesson. But brothers and sisters, it's not just a lesson for them, it's a lesson for us as well. The followers of Christ. Do not need to be afraid because God cares about them and will bring peace in their lives through His power. Christians You do not need to fear. God cares about you and will bring you peace through his power. That is the lesson of this passage. You do not need to fear. God cares about you and will bring peace to you through his power. We're going to look at this in two divisions tonight. The first will be our fear. And we'll see this in verses 35 through 38, and then we will look together at God's care, verses 39 through 41. So let's look first at our fear in verses 35 to 38, and we'll examine the occasion of our fear and the cause of our fear. We learn something of the occasion for our fear in verses 35 to 36. Look there with me. On the same day, when evening had come, he said to them, Let us cross over to the other side. Now, when they had left the multitude, they took him along in the boat as he was, and other little boats were also with him. Every day can be an occasion for fear. Every day there is the potential for something to spring up, something to pop up unforeseen and out of nowhere. And look at the picture that Mark gives us. He says it was the same day. And we can understand this as, well, if if you look back in Mark, it's a really long day. It goes at least back to the beginning of chapter four, in which then there are several sermons. That has been recorded for us. But it seems to go all the way back to Mark chapter 3, verse 1, and possibly even chapter 2, verse 23. There was a lot of good that happened on this one day. Healing. Christ calls his disciples. He teaches, he preaches. It was a day of serving God and ministering to God's people. Yet even on such a marvelous day as that. There could be an occasion for fear, like every other day in our lives. Everything Can be an occasion for fear. Every day can be an occasion, and everything can be an occasion for fear. Because since the fall, this world has been cursed, and it is against us, it works against us every step of the way. All the seed of Satan are against the seed of the woman. Verse 36 tells us that they left the multitude. the disciples and Jesus. And the word that's translated left is, it might be better understood as released or dismissed. They released the crowd. And so when Jesus tells them what he wants to do, let us cross over to the other side. The disciples basically tell the crowd, go on home. There's nothing more to see here. The teacher is done. And if you recall from Mark chapter 3, verse 9, the crowd itself was an occasion for fear. Do you remember? There were so many pressing to see Jesus, pressing to come close to him and to touch him, that he wisely had the disciples keep a boat there. along the shore that he could teach from the water while staying clear of the crowd. And this helps us make sense of this little phrase as he was. Because chapter four, verse one tells us that the great crowd had gathered again, and so Jesus went into the boat to preach. He was already in the boat. That's as he was. They didn't they didn't change to a better, bigger boat. They didn't get more supplies. They didn't they didn't say, well, let's take a breather and then we can take this journey across the sea. They took him as he was. Now, something that we learn is that even with careful planning, even with the most forward of thinking, we cannot eliminate all occasions for fear. Though Jesus was already in the boat. A tool used to keep him from being afraid of the crowd, to keep the disciples from being afraid of what could happen. It did not eliminate all occasion for fear. I wondered at the disciples when they dismissed the crowd. I wonder if they had a big sigh of relief, right? How many thousands were there and what they could have done, what could have happened to Jesus. And as they saw them start to disperse, oh good. These people. These people are leaving. They thought that the crowd was the danger the unpredictable element. And now that they were going to cross over to what was admittedly a much less inhabited side of the lake, they thought, all right, nothing more to fear. Yet anything can happen and without warning. And if we don't have the right understanding of God and how the universe works, if we don't think rightly about Him And his love for us every day and every circumstance can be an occasion for fear. In verses 37 and 38 we learn something about what causes our fear. And we can see that the cause of our fear can be the greatness of our trial and the limitations of our own power. Look at verse 37 The disciples were facing a great trial. See that there? And a great windstorm arose, and the we the waves beat into the boat so that it was already filling. Seemingly out of nowhere, very quickly the storm comes, and the lives of everyone in that boat were in jeopardy. That's exactly what Luke's account says. He says they were in danger. In all three accounts, in Matthew and Mark, and in Luke, they all describe this storm as great. Matthew even calls it an earthquake at sea. Many of these men were fishermen. Do you remember that? We assume they would have been experienced I mean if you're a fisherman you have to spend some time on the sea. They earn their livelihoods in boats on the water. They must have experienced storms at some point before. But this was different. This was greater. The boat was filling with water, and they knew that they could sink very quickly. And so we can understand their fear, can't we? They knew this could be the end for all of them. And in moments like that, hopelessness creeps in Fear. It's not irrational. It's real. Because you see what is right before you, and that the end may be near It can feel like there is nothing that anyone can do except to be afraid. And so we see that the greatness of our trials can cause us to fear. But there's another side to that coin. The greatness of our trial highlights the limits and the limitations of our power. Look at verse 38. But he was in the cern asleep on a pillow, and they woke him and said to him, Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing? We can become afraid when we recognize that we are limited in what we can actually accomplish We can assume that the experienced boatmen weren't just sitting around watching the waves fill up the boat. We can assume that they were doing what they knew to do. They were probably bailing water as quickly as they could They were trying to empty the boat. They were trying to save themselves. And it just wasn't working. I wonder to myself, as I studied this passage, why did they wait so long? Why did they wait until the boat was already filling to cry out to God? It seems like they waited until the very end to wake Jesus. And, you know, we could be charitable to them. Perhaps they were trying to give him the rest that they knew he needed. Or perhaps they were like me, and they just relied on their own efforts all the time, thinking that whatever they could do, if they just worked hard enough, they could get out ahead of the storm. And keep the water from sinking the boat. Or maybe. Boy, when I had this thought, it made me feel real strange. Did they think that they could save him? Did they think he needed to be saved? I wonder if sometimes we think we need to save Jesus. I love what C. S. Lewis says. You don't have to defend God. You just release him. You don't defend a lion. You just let the lion go. Do we need to save Christ? The futility of their efforts is a cause for their fear because they are recognizing that they cannot do anything in the face of such a great and terrible storm. We can become afraid because we are limited, not just in what we can do. We're limited in our understanding, what we can actually understand. Their question to Jesus shows that despite all that they had witnessed, everything that had already happened up until this point in the Gospel of Mark, they just didn't get it. They did not understand who Jesus was. They did not understand what he was doing. Do you see what they says? What they said to him? They say, Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing? And fear does a lot of things in human beings, and one major thing it does is it makes us not think straight. And the disciples were not thinking straight. Jesus doesn't care that they are perishing. Do you see the irony in their question? The only reason Jesus is in that boat and in that circumstance is because he cares so much that his people are perishing. Jesus cares so much that he, the Son of God, took on human flesh, humiliates himself to be here and to be subjects. to nature and subject to challenges and trials. He did this all because he would not allow a single one who belongs to him to perish. As it says in John chapter 10, verse 28 He gives eternal life. And they shall never perish, those who are his sheep. No one will snatch them out of his hand. Every day, all the time, there are occasions to be afraid. We can be afraid of everything if we aren't careful. Trials, difficulties, storms can come out of nowhere and they threaten everything. They threaten sometimes our very lives. And sometimes we are facing such a great trial that we just can't see how we'll make it through to the other side. Our limitations become so clear to us that no matter what we do or how hard we try, we will not get through the trouble on our own. When we are afraid, we don't think straight. And when we're not thinking straight, we can end up blaming God and becoming angry at Him. How will anyone make it through the trials and the storms of this life? Well, God's sheep will make it. God's people will make it. Precisely because God does care. And so let's look now at God's care. We've looked at our fear. We've seen the occasion for our fear and the cause of our fear. Now let's look at God's care in verses 39 through 41. And we see God's care through his mighty power, through his convicting wisdom, and through his reorienting grace And so we see in verse 39, first thing, is that God's mighty power is displayed. He says, it says for us, Then he arose and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, peace be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. God has the power to command peace, and there will be peace. Do you believe that God really does have control over all things? Even the wind and the sea? Do you believe that he can command peace in your life? Command peace in your mind, peace in your thoughts, peace in your soul. Peace in your marriage or peace in your home. Notice that the peace comes through something very particular. Do you notice what the peace comes through? It comes through obedience. Do you see that? He commands both these words. There's just two words here. Peace, be still. The first word is silence. And these commands that he gives to the wind and the ways, the peace came from their obedience. They obey. Creation obeys its creator, and peace is what follows. And the same will come in your life. Brothers and sisters, I encourage you, obey God. Follow his teaching, keep his commandments. And you will experience peace. You will experience calmness and stillness the way the seas did when it obeyed. Well, we also see God's convicting wisdom. And we see it as it came to the disciples through the questions that Jesus asked them in verse 40. See that? But he said to them, Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith? What exactly did their fear indicate? What did it mean? If they didn't realize it from the first question, they certainly did it from the second. Their fear showed their lack of faith. Whatever it is they thought they believed about Jesus, their fear just proved to them that they didn't rightly believe who he was and what he was doing. His question showed that they were not even thinking about their fear in the right way. Which leads us to the last verse that sums up the whole experience. A life-threatening storm is evidence of God's reorienting grace. Look at verse 41. Look at the result of this whole encounter. with the wind and the waves. And they feared exceedingly, and said to one another, Who can this be that even the wind and the sea obey him? God loved his people so much that he didn't allow those disciples to go on living in the old way with their old fears, and he does the same for you and I. He doesn't let us just live with fears of calamity, fears of nature, fears of suffering and pain and death and difficulty and trials. Those are real fears. They really are But they are fears which will only cripple the old man. Those fears do not need to cripple the new man. One who is in Christ does not need to be completely paralyzed by that kind of fear. God loves us so much. Look at how much he loved the disciples. He orchestrated this event and this storm that they would not be left. Wrongly thinking about Jesus, that they would receive from this occasion true fear, and the right object of their fear, the fear of God. Quite literally, this storm struck the fear of God in them. It says that they feared exceedingly. The statement there is much stronger. They feared a great fear. They were so afraid they feared their own fear. And what was the object of their fear? Look at what they say. Who can this be? In the synoptics and the other gospels, it says, Who is this man? They had been watching him already for a while, and they still didn't get it. And so God's reorienting grace is seen And that he would allow this circumstance to shift their view, that they would not just see and think as they had before, but they would see the true Jesus. See him as the true God. He is the one who commands and the world obeys. Who is our light and our salvation so that we don't need to be afraid? It is God the Lord And they saw from this that that was Jesus the Christ. Brothers and sisters, you do not need to be afraid. God cares about you, God loves you. And he is bringing about your peace and peace in your life through his almighty power. There are many occasions for us to be afraid. The storms will rage, and we will think that they will overcome us. People we love can die suddenly. And we have to deal with that. If you've ever experienced that, it really does feel like you are drowning. Like you are sinking. Like the whole ship of your life. There's no way that it won't go down. Or maybe you're in a in a storm or a trial like our our brothers Brendan and Ezra and our sister Carlin, the Bucks who have to leave and move, thousands of miles away, across the country. They're live moving to a whole different climate and a whole different region. Imagine all the storms that they may encounter and the challenges and the trials. There are going to be a lot of new fears. Fears, housing markets. political things. Who knows what kind of neighborhood they'll end up having to be in. There's a lot of fear for them. Maybe you've been in a circumstance of a medical emergency. Anybody here ever had a heart attack? If we show up in the hospital and find out, hey, your heart needs a whole lot of work done to it, or you're gonna die. It's a great challenge. Health issues in general can feel like storms because what can you do? What can you really do? Especially if you find out that this pain you've been dealing with is something that cannot be treated. You will have to just deal with it for the rest of your life. I bet that feels like a storm, huh? I bet that feels like waves are beating into your boat. Try to remember the lessons from this passage, brothers and sisters. There is no storm so great that God cannot calm it. He can and does command peace and stillness for his people. Sometimes he does that by removing the storm entirely. But sometimes he can give you peace through the storm, while the storm rages. The peace like our Savior had Peace so that he could rest and sleep while everyone around him thought they were gonna die. Cry out to God. Beg him to help you. Beg him to bring to you the peace that you need to command that peace in your life. Don't forget that when you are afraid You might not be thinking rightly. You may not be thinking straight. And so what can we do then? I love what Mark incorporates in this passage that's different from the other gospels. He says that there were other boats with them. None of the other passages keep that. But it reminds me that this boat full of the disciples, they weren't the only ones on the sea in the storm. And you're not the only one in a boat on a sea dealing with the raging waves. There's a lot of us here who've been through a lot. If you're dealing with the storm of a miscarriage, there are people in this church who have had to deal with it. If you're dealing with challenges in your marriage, there are people here who have had to deal with it. And so don't think that you're alone in this. God has put you and made you part of this family. We need to remember and remind each other. that we're in this together. And what we've experienced, God may have given us that storm to reorient us so that we can now help someone else who's afraid and not thinking straight to see what God is doing. Dear Christian, do not accuse God of not caring about you because he's allowing you to go through a storm. He will use it. He may be using it to transform you or to change you. He may be using it to transform others. Maybe people who are on the outskirts of the storm. He may be using it so that one day you will be able to show someone the hope of Christ when they're in a similar storm. And how do we do this? I'd like to close just with some practical application. How do we help each other? Remember, remember, remember Remind each other. Remind yourselves. At the beginning of Joshua, the people crossed the Jordan. They made it into the promised land. And then do you remember what God had them do? He had them take twelve stones from the Jordan River, where the priests were standing, where the Ark of the Covenant was, where the Jordan River stopped flowing, so that they, all the millions of them, could trek into the Promised Land. And in John chapter, in Joshua chapter 4, sorry, he tells them why he made them do that. Do you remember what he says? He says, this is so you will remember. They're called stones of help, Ebenezers. Remember when God helped. And so that when your children come and you've been living in this land for a long time and they say, What are those twelve stones about? You get to tell your children, Well. This is when God worked. This is when God was mighty, and through his mighty power, he got us through a terrible trial. Forty years in the wilderness. You think that's a trial? That's a pretty severe storm. We can do the same in our own lives. I encourage you. When you're in a storm or in a difficult trial, As best you can, look back over your life and remember when God got you through storms and trials before. You find yourself without a job? Remind yourself the last time that you had no income, how did God care for you? You find yourself in a tremendous trial, not knowing what the next few years of life are going to look like, not knowing what's going to be required of you. Remember, that's happened before. And if it hasn't happened for you, it's happened for someone else. And so remember that this church, sing it together, find someone. Brothers and sisters, we can be reminding each other. And so I encourage you: if you look out at this congregation, at the church, and you see somebody in the midst of a trial, have your eyes open. Are they in a trial that God's gotten you through? Be bold. Have the courage. Reach out to them. Reach out to them to share with them. It looks like what you're going through may never end, but I can assure you, we've been through it. There's a lot of those things. And then I encourage you who are going through the storm, who are facing the challenge and the struggle, remember that there are others who've been through it. Don't keep it to yourself If you try to keep it to yourself, no one will ever know that you're struggling. If you try to keep that strong face That Christian Sunday morning faith that says, Nothing is ever wrong in my life. How will you ever receive the help that you need? And to know that your brothers and sisters have been through it with you, or can go through it with you now. I couldn't help imagining myself as one of the disciples. Why didn't they cry out to the heavenly God? To their father in heaven. Why didn't they cry out? Wouldn't it have been a very different passage if it said, And Jesus was awoken at the sounds of the disciples crying out to God to save them? Or better yet. If it said Jesus awoke at the loud singing of Psalm 107 by his disciples. Do you know why I would pick Psalm 107? I'm going to read something for you. Listen to this. This is amazing. And this is it. We must remember that it's not news to God that we're in the trial. It's not news to God that people suffer and have difficult circumstances. God knows this And his word is a great reminder for us. So be in the word. Learn from the word. Listen to this from Psalm 107. Those who go down to the sea in ships, who do business on great waters, they see the works of the Lord And his wonders in the deed, for he commands and raises the stormy wind, which lifts up the waves of the sea. They mount up to the heavens, they go down again to the depths, their soul melts because of trouble. They reel to and fro and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wits' end. Then they cry out to the Lord in their trouble. And he brings them out of their distresses. He calms the storm. So that its waves are still. Then they are glad because they are quiet. So he guides them to their desired haven. Oh, that man would give thanks to the Lord for his goodness. And for his wonderful works to the children of men. Let them exalt him also in the assembly of the people and praise him in the company of the elders. That's Psalm 107, verses 23 through 32. What a difference that might have made for them. If they had had that on their hearts and in their minds while they're in this tremendous and great storm. And again, for you and I, brothers and sisters. We must be reminded that God is sovereign. He is allowing the storm to graciously change us, to reorient us in our whole lives, that we would fear him more than anything else. May our great God give you the ability to remember how He has helped you and others all along the way. May He give you the love To notice when someone else is in a storm, and may He give you the boldness and the courage to share your struggle And how he brought you peace. May we not be afraid, because we remember and believe that God cares for us, that he loves us so deeply, that he is bringing us the ultimate peace through his almighty power. In Christ our Savior, please pray with me