If you will, please turn to Philippians chapter 3. We're going to be looking at 17 through 21 this morning A little place for sermon notes in your bulletin if you wish to take notes. And let's stand, and I will read, let's stand for God's the reading of God's Word. And I'll read 17 through 24. and pray. Brethren, join in following my example and note those who so walk. as you have us for a pattern. For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you, even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ, whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is in their shame You set their mind on earthly things. For our citizenship is in heaven from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body that it may be conformed to his glorious body, according to the working by which he is able even to subdue all things to himself. Father, we ask that you subdue our hearts and our wills and our minds to yourself this morning through the hearing of this word. Amen. Please be seated. Our series on partnership is coming to a close. This is not the end. We have at least one more, and then Brad will be bringing a little miniseries up here on the 21st and the 28th. of this month and then we move in September to a whole new series that talks about our vision for our church uh over a ser over a number of different months. The um I'm seeing some new faces. We're in a series on partnership And when we what we just bear with me, those of you who have heard this a thousand times. Partnership in the sense of a business partnership. When you read in the beginning of Philippians, it Paul is thankful for his fellowship with those believers. That he's they're fellowshipping with him in the gospel. The word that he's using is a word of business transaction And so what we're saying here in the series is that it's a time for us to learn not just to be an employee who hangs up his hat after a good day's work and forgets all about it, but rather to be a partner, which means you're always on call. Being a Christian is a full-time business. It absorbs your life. And we've been looking at many different aspects of partnership. The stakes are raised today The stakes are raised today because today we're looking at the citizenship of partnership. And it's another analogy that Paul's really use he's using uh for a particular reason I'll bring out. He's using it to up the stakes. For you really to understand the s the the tremendous uh truth that he's trying to communicate to us in partnership. He's He's coming out and he's saying you're not a citizen of America, first and foremost. You are a citizen of heaven. And that is where your allegiance lies. Now that is dramatic But not in a bad sense as a melodramatic, but it's serious. It tells you where all of your loyalties lie. And uh so I want to develop that. It's really, really important Um uh please talk to me afterward about it if if you'd like to keep the conversation going. So we're looking at the citizens of partnership and I want to do so under three parts. It's I wanted you to understand the background of what's going on here. And then the example. Can everyone hear me okay? You hear me okay in the back? Okay, great. The background, the example, and then the allegiance. We're just going to look at those three parts that divide the passage up. But first I want you to see the background of s of citizens here so you can see why I'm focusing on this concept. Well number one Just take a look very quickly at the passage. You can see he mentions in verse 20, for our citizenship is in heaven. That's a very serious statement. But what I what I want to do is unfold a little bit so that you can understand how serious this is. And this is from uh historians and different scholars They note in their work that in 42 BC, about a hundred years before Paul came to this area of Philippi Philippi was the setting, if you remember even your middle school history lessons, particularly here at the Academy, that the Philippi was a setting for one of the greatest battles in the Roman Civil War that had broken out after the death of Julius Julius Caesar. Are you all with me on what we're talking about here? Roman Civil War. You know what the war was called? Any guess? That'll filipide. Hey. So the two victorious generals, Antony and Octavian, who becomes the future Emperor Augustus, had found themselves after the Civil War with a lot of soldiers. as you can imagine, that they had brought up in specifically northern Greece, and they didn't have anything else to do because the war was over. So They did not want to send them all back to Italy or to Rome to occupy, but instead wanted to find someplace else for these thousands of soldiers To be able to dwell in a kind of veteran retirement. And so they gave them the land in and around Philippi, making it a colony of Rome where veterans stayed. Uh you can think of similar things that happened in America coming back from the war, there were little houses built, you can still see them in the burning area for soldiers. Think of something similar here, perhaps, where they take over, and there's a colony of Rome now in Philippi. And once the colony was established, other veterans from other battles joined them. And by the talk, by the time that Paul went there, Philippi Contained quite a number of families descended from those original Roman colonists, as well as several local people who had benefited from the Roman presence. Now if you think about it, when you have you have this Roman colony, if you can picture Macedonia, and here is Silipi, and then here's Italy, there is the Adriatic Sea and it's the sh between Philippi. There's a road that runs through Philippi and and be the uh Italy and that road it's the shortest distance in the sea and they They purposefully have the road there for that. Philippi was on a main road, that main road which ran rest to the west to the narrowest part of the Adriatic Sea, where you could sail easily across to Italy and travel onto Rome Close contact, in other words, could be contained or maintained with the mother city. So this is serious. I'm trying to paint the picture of what is going to happen when Paul says you are a citizen of heaven. This is serious. He's calling their patriotism to another allegiance, and really it's treasonous relative to the Roman Empire. So they could easily keep contact with the mother city. The Philippian colonists were proud of being Romans, and they would do their best to order their civic life so that it matched the way things were done in Rome. The most recent innovation down the line was, of course, the establishment of the imperial cult. Caesar the Emperor was to be worshipped as Savior. And Lord. That was written in an inscription. You can find it. You can find the inscription. And I've talked to you about that before. It was called the Gospel of Caesar. And he was called Lord, and that's why they call Jesus Lord of Lords. and king of kings. And all of this is important because this phrase of the citizens tree of heaven ends up being the really the climax of this entire letter He just takes it to another level for us. In fact, if you look at chapter four, he's really just hitting on various topics to close the letter to this congregation. Here he's giving his his final word in terms of partnership and instead he's calling it citizenship to really uh push the seriousness that he sh that they should be taking Christianity. Where does their allegiance lie? There is this maintenance that they have with the mother city. Well, Paul doesn't just say these things to the Philippians. He uh is not Just going to rely on words, he also wants to set an example, which brings us to our second point. But I just want you to see. These first two points are really just you seeing the passage, okay? First, understand that background of what's going on here historically The background of being citizens, the background of why Paul would use that phrase. And now notice the example that he gives throughout actually several chapters here. If you have your Bible open, will you turn to 29 very quickly. This is helpful for you as you read your Philippians later on. Take a if you take a look, he moves from the Christ hymn And the implications of being in the or growing in the image of Jesus Christ as with sacrificial generosity. And he then starts talking about different people that he would like to have sent to them to help them. The first man that he mentions is Timothy. And look at how he speaks of Timothy in 2. 19. But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, that I also may be encouraged when I know your state. And listen to this, for I have no one like-minded who will sincerely care for your state. So he's speaking about here of looking across the spectrum of male leadership, and then he doesn't see anyone who's not selfishly motivated. But Timothy. Timothy is a fine example of one that we should be following in terms of being a citizen of heaven. That's the first example that's given here. Notice then that he moves on to a second example of Epaphroditus who almost dies. You can see in verse twenty-nine he starts to speak of him As an example, receive him, therefore, speaking of Epaphroditus in the Lord with all gladness, and hold such men in esteem. Hold them as an example. Or is one that you should be imitating. And then Paul lays forth even himself as an example in 315 as a citizen of heaven. Therefore, let us, as many as are mature, have this mind. And if any of you think otherwise, God will reveal it, even this to you. When he says, have this mind, he just told you what his mind was, and he wants you to imitate or mimic the way that he ends up thinking about things And you can see it again in three seventeen, where he says, Brethren, join in following my example, and note those who so walk as you have us for a pattern. Which is our passage this morning. Historically, but you need to understand the example that I have been trying to set before you with Timothy and Epaphroditus and my own life, and I want you to follow this as a pattern. What's the pattern? The pattern is a heavenly existence. And what is a heavenly existence? It means really being a citizen of heaven and not a citizen of this earth. And that means having allegiance as citizens. to Jesus Christ over any patriotism that you would have for your own country. And that's our last point. Our last point is the allegiance of citizens. It's really the implication, and I want to draw this out for you because uh even within America that can be difficult to swallow When we combine the present example that Paul has given to us with verse 20, we can end up having an alarming conclusion, and that is that we are citizens of heaven. At once, being a modern Christian, we can uh we can misunderstand what he's saying here, and so I'm gonna bring us back to the historical context once again. I'm pasting all these little pieces in here for you. Okay, and then we're gonna pull At once many modern Christians misunderstand what Paul means. We naturally suppose he means when he says, become a citizen of heaven We naturally suppose that he means, and so we're all waiting until we can go live in heaven where we belong. You hear that He says in this passage, we're citizens of heaven, so we're just going to wait until we get to heaven where we belong, and then we'll start living like heavenly citizens. That's what he means, is that we're all going to go live in heaven one day. That takes the edge off of it. If you go back to the first point, which is the historical example, he's not saying, when you get to heaven, you can begin to act heavenly. He's saying exactly what they would have heard as Roman citizens being connected to the motherland. He's saying that now you are to bring your heavenly influence even into this country. This has become a heavenly colony. It's overtaking a Roman colony, is what he's saying here. He's saying they would say we are Roman citizens if they said if he said you are Roman citizens, they would not believe him to say we're looking forward to going back to the motherland and then we'll be Roman citizens there That's that's a that's the opposite of what he would mean. It's a colony that works the other way around. That's how colonies work. Colonies are sent out to other lands to then bring that nation to that land and their way of life and it takes over. We've heard the the word colony use if you're in college we hear the word colony used in a derogatory sense the majority of the time like us bringing smallpox to the Native Americans As part of their colonization. But here he doesn't mean it in a negative sense. He just means that we are bringing the colony of heaven and it's overtaking the colony of Rome. I suppose if you were the Emperor of Rome, you'd hear very negative tones in that. And rightfully so, because Jesus Christ has become the King. And that's really the background, that's the example, and you can begin to see the allegiance that he's calling for here. Don't take off the edge Don't say one day I'll go live in heaven. He's saying you are a citizen who is brought to a particular area of life and you are to bring that nation's values and understandings to that particular area. The task of the Roman citizen in a place like Philippi was to bring Roman culture and rule to northern Greece and to expand Roman influence there, and that is the exact same task that we are to have as Christians. Is the analogy that we would bring the rule of Jesus Christ to an area and that we would bring his influence there. Now that ends up making a sense of everything that's going on within the whole book. Because partnership is about bringing, not as an employee, but as someone who takes it just as serious as the owner, being a fellow owner, so to speak Bringing that influence into that area. Bringing his kingship into that area. And we saw, what's most interesting, some ways in which for a heavenly colony to bring influence in Western Last week's sermon, which I want to further develop because it's such a big idea. Last week we saw in verses four through six of chapter three That there is a different kind of righteousness that happens in the kingdom of heaven than there is on the kingdom of earth. There are in stark contrast, if you take a look, look, do me a favor and look at chapter 3, verses 4 to 5 through six, and look at Paul moving from a citizen of the earth, particularly as it's expressed in Judaism, to a citizen of heaven. Look at all of the things that he lists there. He says, though I also might have confidence in the flesh, if anyone else thinks he may have confidence in the flesh In the flesh, I more so circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, concerning the law of Pharisee, concerning Concerning zeal, persecuting the church, concerning the righteousness which is in the law, blameless, and then within the next paragraph he goes on to say, and all that has become crack to me. That's the Trash, rubbish, dung. All that has be in in in comparison to becoming a heavenly citizen and the marks that mark them. Like the Spirit of God, all of that is considered trust for me. And we have to explore that. We have to explore that. He brings his influence into our lives as a heavenly citizen He brings his allegiance to Christ into this present world and it ends up landing right here in Severn Run. And he says if you want to be a col if you want to be a colony of heaven and no longer just uh uh an American, which is what you're called to do, or whatever country you're in, it doesn't matter. Then you need to understand what true righteousness is, and it's not something that you can end up earning yourself. Paul lists his resume here And he says this resume was worth nothing. And it ends up speaking to us about our resumes. If you remember in the sermon from last week, all of the different resumes that we end up trying to Develop, trying to find some dignity and work to justify our existence. We always are doing things in order to recommend ourselves to other people, in order to justify our existence. We are doing things in order to recommend ourselves to ourselves to justify our existence. We are doing things to recommend ourselves to God in order to justify our existence, or saying that he doesn't exist so that we can then justify our existence. Either way, religion or irreligion is still a justification of our existence. But what you end up seeing here with Paul is that now a new righteousness has descended from heaven. The city of God is overtaking the city of man, and the people in the city of God don't do things like they do in the city of man. Righteousness ends up being not something that one can earn themselves You come to find out you can't justify your own existence. It must be received. It's not the way Paul says it, he says, it's not found in me. I want to be found in him. I don't want to be found in me. I want to be found in him. And you could see him going through the list. This is what recommends me. Oh no, I don't want to be found there. I want to be found in him. Oh no, I don't want to be found there. I want to be found in him. And those are the thoughts of someone from heaven. In other words, Paul wanted status by association, not status by self-righteousness. The difficulty that we find, and this is why I'm trying to make the not trying to blunt the engine the edges here in a call to heavenly citizenship You can really feel your heavenly citizenship in this fact that this world tries to get you to be ashamed of the things that you do in your city. If you are a citizen of heaven, they want you to feel ashamed and they want you to develop the practices of the city of Earth. It's what their primary job is. And they don't even most aren't even conscious of it There's an entire cultural movement at one time or another, different expressions, always seeking to make you ashamed to call yourself a heavenly citizen, the practices that you would have If you would think of, you know, for instance, different practices that we bring over from our Sicilian great-grandparents Or if you're Irish, those practices that you would have brought over that may be embarrassing now, like when Brian Lepiccolo sings Dominique the Donkey at Christmas Some people find that fun. Others might find it embarrassing to go, he haw, he ha. It's that kind of idea. Those are cultural differences, and one culture is embarrassed at the the movements and developments of another, and that's not absent with the city of God and the city of man. We're very familiar with that, and we need to become more conscious as we you seek to give your allegiance To Jesus Christ, particularly in this domain of righteousness, you will meet resistance by people making you feel ashamed. Let me give you an example of shame in the kingdom uh relative to worldly righteousness. There are some who are growing up in Christian homes And they are working diligently to keep themselves from physical romantic sin. When you were growing up. older now you remember struggling with that. And when they go off to work for the first time, for instance, at the workplace they're not working with Christians. And so the non-Christian will say, have you been physically I'm being euphemistic? Here. Have you been physically romantic? Um no. Do you see the embarrassment already beginning? No. Then they say Well, you know, I've been physically romantic with thirteen people. Or or whatever it is. But you s you s you you see this what's happening within the person. Why is it that the someone growing up in the church instantly feels a sh shame for saying, no, I have not been physically romantic. I'm waiting until I get married. What is so shameful about that? But do you see that the shame was the default position? Without us being aware of it, the culture is constantly taking its toll. The the citizenship of the world is actively working out its values as the world non-stop. But but as citizens of heaven, we're not even conscious that we're citizens of heaven sometimes We don't see the stark distance. We just consider ourselves Americans, and Americans are religious. But that can't that's not what Paul's saying here You actually need to become have your allegiance for Jesus Christ as his citizen, and then you need to ask the question, does he run his city? Does he do his politics differently than the world does politics? In politics I just mean governing all of what? Living together as a community and governance therein. And we see with that single example That the city of man has an effect on us where we begin to feel shame, and we didn't know that we were already feeling ashamed to be a citizen of heaven to say, I'm going to wait till I'm married Here and I've given you this question before uh the teenage daughter comes to you and says, and when I say teenage I mean eleven, saying, if two people love each other, why can't they be physically romantic And then we go, I don't really know what. Because we've been so influenced by the city of man as opposed to understanding the city of God and the importance of covenants and in pla in the place of where love will take place. And that's just a that's a a single example of physical romance, and I give that example because everybody's struggling with that particularly our youth. The world at every single level will question your allegiance to Jesus Christ. What the underlying assumption is, the underlying question that they're assuming here is they're saying to you, can't you figure out your own way to be glorious? Do you really need to rely upon God to be glorious? You can't figure out romantic relationships without relying on God. I mean Well come on. We've been physically romantic for a long time and there's nothing's happened. Why can't you order your life like me? What makes you such a failure? And then you can go ahead and you can do that in each area of life. If you just went to college, you could have had a better career. It's your fault. You didn't need religion But I think that there needs to be a moment of honesty with them. And so whether you're struggling with that, if you don't see the glory of Jesus Christ, if Jesus Christ, if God were dead and it made no difference to you. If God were dead and it didn't it doesn't make any difference to you, then I'd ask you to be really honest about your life before you draw out that conclusion. In fact, in drawing out the conclusion, be honest with your life. I want you to be honest about who you really are. You see the difference between what ends up happening, interestingly enough, when you become A Christian and you realize that you don't need to make your own resume, you can rely on the resume of Jesus Christ, is you can begin to be honest about who you really are. You can begin to say things about who you are that are really embarrassing to To people that are close to you. And then you start to learn about what a human being really wrestles with, and you know that the person who says that God is dead is really not being honest with themselves They don't really understand how difficult the human embarrassment is. Do you know that when I was in high school, did you have the same thing and get your photo as a senior? Luckily they didn't. photos before I went to do the mouth attention. They they they gave they do photos and then at the bottom uh they'd also have a bunch of photos of you just in your in the halls with your friends and they'd write on the bottom what you're most likely most likely to own a Chick-fil-A. Or whatever it is most likely to be a poet. Mine was most likely to be a criminal Um just so you know. And um so people are very surprised to find out that I'm a pastor on Facebook And then when I when I found when Jesus Christ found me, just as he found you, do you know what they said to me? They said, well you've never been able to handle life. You've always been a failure. In fact, that's probably why your last name is Crutchly, because you will always need some kind of crutch, and this time it's religion. But this isn't about me. I'm saying this is exactly what happens to you. Is to be ashamed of your allegiance to Jesus Christ. To be ashamed of your allegiance to Jesus Christ is what I'm talking about. But this won't happen if you have not expressed yourself as a citizen of heaven. And you're not going to understand the citizenry of heaven unless you understand the background that we just talked about. When he says you are you are to be you are citizens of heaven, he's not saying you're gonna go off to heaven one day This is not a Tim LeHay novel. He is saying that right now heaven has come to earth. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be the Thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Are we still waiting for that? Or is has heaven already come to earth? Are we not the new temple of God? be to heaven first and foremost. Jesus Christ is Lord of Lord and King of Kings and Presidents of Presidents and whatever it is That's the main point of this passage. And what we have been doing is just applying it to righteousness. The kingdom of heaven brings so many different things besides justification by faith. It brings so many different areas of life, and it's your opportunity to be able to explore what it means to be a heavenly citizen. You can re-look at your scriptures and say, what does this teach me about bringing heaven to earth? How is heaven different than earth? Really, when we think about just the righteousness aspect though, it really ends up being beautiful, and we're getting ready to go to the Lord's table. To really unfold this even further. With the righteousness aspect, this is what you see within the kingdom of heaven. Those of you who might not be familiar with the message of the kingdom This is what's beautiful about marriage. I pray that everyone experiences this. Let's take righteousness and bring it into the realm of marriage and the kingdom. This is what marriage is. Marriage is being able to be as ugly as you get in front of another human being and they still accept you They don't divorce you. That's what marriage is. And that's a picture of Jesus Christ in his church. He knows your ugliness. And yet he accepts you and I'll I want to look at that physically by breaking bread and the wine now. So let's pray and then let's sing our invitational song