Eleven and I'll read nineteen through twenty six. I ask that you'd follow along. I'm going to be pointing out a number of things from this passage today, kind of running commentaries, so we'll need our scriptures open. 19 through 26. Now those who were scattered after the persecution that arose over Stephen travelled as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch preaching the word to no one but the Jews only. But some of them were men from Cyprus and Cyrene, who when they had come to Antioch spoke to the Hellenists, preaching the Lord Jesus And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord. Then news of these things came to the ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent out Barnabas to go as far as Antioch When he came and had seen the grace of God, he was glad and encouraged them all with all that with purpose of heart they should continue with the Lord. for he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith, and a great many people were added to the Lord. Then Barnabas departed for Tarsus to seek Saul, and when he had found him he brought him to Antioch So it was that for a whole year they assembled with the church and taught a great many people. And the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch. Let us pray. Christ, the theme is obvious. We are worshiping you and orienting our lives to you as our King Lord, our problem is that naturally, after the fall, we orient our lives to everything but you. But now that's all changing. For your grace has been poured out even on Severn Run. We pray, therefore, Lord, that we would receive your word as the word of the King. And that we would bow our minds and our hearts and our bodies to it, not just today, but in all things. Lord, in essence, help us to take your word seriously this morning In the name of Christ, Amen. May be seated. Last week we noticed the emphasis on God granting the Gentiles repentance to life. And because we have had the right emphasis throughout the Book of Acts, this really was not a surprise. Because if anyone lives in the realm of life as God defines it, then it is only because God has granted it to them. God is the giver of life. That's the truth on many levels. And this, of course, ends up having many implications. And we reviewed one main one, which had to do with humility last week. particularly humility and controversy. We have more of the little booklets in the back and the basket just outside these doors if you'd like one. This week, we're continuing in seeing the emphasis of the sovereign action of God among the Gentiles. You will notice with me in verse 19 Notice in verse 19 that we return to the dispersion which took place due to Stephen's martyrdom. So we're really rewinding here. We're going to go back to the main trunk of the tree of the message of Acts, and we're now going to go out on a different branch, which is going to be the branch of the ministry to the Gentiles. In Acts chapter 8, you can review this if you want, but just remember in 8 and 8. 4, therefore those who were scattered went everywhere preaching the word after Stephen was martyred. And we saw some of the scattering happen, for example, with Tabithor, with Cornelius. There are other examples also with the sorcerer and the town in Samaria. We went through all of those together And now we're heading off in a different direction here, where the gospel has traveled up the Mediterranean coast to the far north into Antioch. That's what we end up seeing. And so what I would like to do is provide a little bit of commentary before we get into our lessons today on different parts of what we see here in our passage. Moving on this new branch to the Gentiles. I want to start with verse 21. I've already spoken to you about 19 and 20, it's the dispersion, but I want to move into verse 21 now. And the hand of the Lord was with them. And a great number believed and turned to the Lord. Verse 21 ends up being, I try to give this to you every time. Verse 21 is the lens through which the whole passage should be understood. Specifically the phrase hand of the Lord. And with the way that the worship bulletin has been set up, we we're already setting you up for success to be able to understand the hand of the Lord. If you were to go back in your bulletin to Exodus chapter 15 on your own time. You'll see the hand of the Lord spoken of in that passage. Well, it's repeated a lot throughout Scripture, and it is often used as an image for sovereign military and political power that God has That's what it means when we say that he is the sovereign. And this hand of the Lord Especially in this context, is meaning that. In fact, you'll see in a few weeks, maybe as early as next week, that there's another hand out there, and it's called the hand of Herod, and that hand is going to end up being cut off. Because it does not stand a chance against the hand of the Lord. When you see the hand of the Lord, therefore, you should be thinking of the Exodus. For example, the warrior imagery that I pointed out to you earlier. And let me just quote it just a little bit. His chosen captains are also drowned in the Red Sea. The depths have covered them. They sank to the bottom like a stone Your right hand, O Lord, has become glorious in power. Your right hand, O Lord, has dashed the enemy in pieces. And that's quite a literal description. And now, since this is our lens, what we see here is a military victory. or conquest wherein Christ has saved, also military and political language, where Christ has saved even the Gentiles in Antioch from their own evil empire. He is taking over the earth. Now that's verse 21. And that sets the stage for really everything else. And so now let's take a look at verse 23 together. When he came and had seen the grace of God, speaking of Barnabas, he was glad and encouraged them all that with purpose of heart they should continue with the Lord. Now what do you do with a with a a statement like that? When you already have the lens of the hand of the Lord before you, as you end up moving into verse 23, you have to maintain the original viewpoint that I gave you. The grace of God cannot be primarily a private religious concept that you experience with just your feelings. That is not what is happening here The grace of God is not primarily a religious concept as we conceive of religious concepts, but it is the act or decree It is a gracious act and execution of a decree of a sovereign king to those who are a part of a nation who only deserve condemnation. And so instead, as a king, he has determined to give grace. It is a good thing, in other words, to be in the grace of the king That's what he's trying to say here. And Barnabas is happy to see it. And so consequently, when Barnabas encouraged them to continue with the Lord in this beautiful phrase, with purpose of heart, The primary sense here, as Chase was already bringing out, is allegiance. That's the vocabulary that we would want to adopt. Allegiance to the king. I pledge allegiance. Now that's verse 23. Now I want to look at verses 25 through 26, and we're just going to keep piling on here. Then Barnabas departed for Tarsus to seek Saul, and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. So it was that for a whole year they assembled with the church and taught a great many people And the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch. I mean you see the story, Barnabas departs, he brings Saul back to Antioch. Saul and Barnabas stay in Antioch for a whole year teaching a great many things to the people. And I think one question that would be smart of us to ask is, what in the world did they teach? I want to know. Jesus Christ is King. I therefore owe my allegiance to him. They were teaching them how to have allegiance. What was that teaching? I need to know And if you were to look on your own time in Acts chapter 26, you will get a really good picture. In Acts chapter 26, verse 20, We see the kind of teaching that took place in summary form. This is what Paul says in verses 19 and 20. I declared to the Gentiles, exactly who we're dealing with here in this passage, that they should repent Turn to God and do works befitting repentance. Now, what that does is it gives you a link to see what are all of those works that are befitting of repentance. And what you would do is you would find That those good works are those things which are fitting for the calling of a citizen in the kingdom of God. And now go ahead and turn to anywhere in the scriptures and find out what that looks like. Because there's passage after passage after passage after passage. For you to know. You can see it in all of its detail, or it can be summarized into ten commands, or we can summarize it into two. Love God, love neighbor. However you want to do it, but it's all over the place, and now you know what it means to serve Christ in wisdom All the works that he as a king pronounced as good in his law and that we see worked out in the wisdom of his people. So then make the next step with me here. Quite naturally, therefore, if you see the steps, he's the king. We are allied to him in our allegiance. Allegiance looks like obeying him. So now, what would you end up being called if that was your political authority? You would be a Christian or a Christian. At the very least. I understand there's a great deal of study on what he means here. But I think at the very least it means that you show allegiance to Christ. In other words, hey, listen, if you're a follower of Herod, then you're a Herodian. But if you're a follower of Christ, then you're a Christian. And I think that the pagans were calling them this because it was acknowledged who was their leader. In essence, then, what you end up seeing in the commentary of these different verses is what it means for you to be a Christian. And boy, do we need clarity on that question. What does it mean to be a Christian? It means all of these things. It means that Christ, with his right hand of kingly power graciously put you in allegiance and service to him and his kingdom. That's called the call. You are not a Herodian following Herod. You are not even primarily a Republican following the latest campaign points. You are primarily a Christian giving full allegiance to Christ Jesus. Now, this has so many implications for us. And I can't get into all of them. But I do want to focus on two. And you know, this is going to be so much fun. Because guess what my first point is? Politics. I'm breaking all the rules. The first point is politics and the second point is public. So I got two points. Two lessons or implications and applications I want to draw out of these truths, politics and the public. You are primarily a Christian giving full allegiance to Christ Jesus. So let's look at politics Since we vow allegiance to the King by his grace, we must acknowledge that living as a Christian is a political act. But what we end up experiencing here is a little cognitive dissonance. Because as an entire society, we no longer know really what politics are. We don't know what it means to be political. It has been corrupted to the core It is admittedly a complex issue, but at the heart, if you were to look at the scriptures, people wouldn't think of it, but if you look to the scriptures to find out what it means to be political Then you can boil it down to some basic things. At the heart, to be political means this: it means to receive authority from God. And to perform those authoritative tasks to his glory. That is like the heart and the kernel of all of what it would mean to have politics and to be political. It is about authority and the granting of authority and the acting in that authority for his glory. If anything falls outside of that definition, including for his glory Then it ends up being corrupted politics. It's that simple. And so in the civil realm, some will receive authority from God Some in the church realm will receive authority from God. Some in the family realm will receive authority from God. And they are meant to exercise the authority to the ends that He has given each one of those authorities for His glory. Of course, what has happened is that in each realm, those who have authority use it not to execute God's decrees for his glory, but to shape and to form this world into their own idolatrous image. I don't hear much about it now, but I remember folks being concerned about our culture being shaped in a particular image. And it happened under the conversation about the dominance or the the uh the influence of Sharia law. Do you remember these conversations Sharia law became a real concern for some folks for a little while. They were concerned that they were going to have to live according to Quran-based guidance. For living an Islamic life, that it was gaining some kind of influence. And I think part of the fear in having a society under Sharia law is that you knew what that would mean It would mean that fundamentally everything would change. Relationships, how we understand ourselves, the purpose of society, what the end goal is, what the good life is what truth is, what beauty is, all of those things would end up changing, so it freaks people out to think about it But I tell you, I don't know where that whole debate stands. I don't know about the influence of Sharia law, but I'll tell you something else that I'm more concerned about more immediately, more presently Is that Christendom is gone? And you know what that means, right? It means that we have returned to a time before Christ was the center of all decision-making as to how society should be. Which officially, congratulations, you are barbarians. Or Goths or whatever, before coming under and be bowing the knee to Jesus Christ. Since Christendom is set aside, the very definition of law has changed if you talk to lawyers It's not operating under the same definitions that we used to have. The definition of authority has changed. You look around and you hear the same words that you've always heard since you were a child. And you could hear the same word you could pick up a book from the 16th century who won who was orienting towards Christ. And you would see the same set of words, but all those words have been redefined according to a new modern system. Now that's scary to me because it's happening and you don't know it. It's the adoption of the same words, but different definitions. We are returning to a time before Christ with the Gentiles. And when you return to that time Things as important as authority and law and government are no longer thought of or even conceived in relationship to Christ the King. And if you are a student of history, go ahead and see what nations were like before him. It's not going to be fun. It's not going to be fun for children. It's not going to be fun for women. And it'll be fun for you as a man if you're the strongest one. Or if you have the most money. It is in this context that you, Christian, Are being given the opportunity to be truly political. There has never been a moment in my life, which is not very long. I mean, come on. I'm only 44. But that's still a space of time where I have not seen where it will be as clear what it means to be a Christian. Because it is dark as it has ever been, and we get to be stars in the sky. And you will be stars in the sky by being political. And what I mean is that you will obey Christ in all of his commands. You will have a vision for what it means to respect children, even in the womb. You will have a vision for what it means to truly hold women in honor. You will know what it means to respect a husband. You will have all of these boundaries and limitations. A vision of the good life, all from Christ. And it will stand out to those who do not have life as a sore thumb. But to those who smell life and are drawn to Christ, they will see it as finally a break from the rat race of the world. where human life is truly respected. This is the context in which you are called to be a Christian, which means You get to be political. You get to show allegiance to Christ as a community. You get to be the city on the hill, conducting yourselves in wisdom according to his law. You get to be the refuge to those who are tired and weary. This system that is being put together that has no relation to Christ. and acknowledging his authority, it will just dominate and kill people. It will chew them up. And we must be there as an alternative witness of light showing that we understand that because you are made in God's image, you have dignity. And I could go on and on, but it makes all the difference in the world. That we look at life in relationship to Christ our King. We define everything by Him. It is a political act, and you get to embody it here in Anoreno County. That's what it means to be political. Receive the authority that is given to you and do not act illegitimately. Now, the second point is public. This goes along with political. Since we vow allegiance to the king, we must acknowledge that living as Christians is a public act Now this is news for a lot of folks because Christianity has been turned into a private personal hobby But because of the way that we're defining it by way of the scriptures here, we're getting a deep model to be able to understand human life again that Christianity, because it is a political act, it is by definition necessarily public. You can't hide your candlelight under a bushel basket because you are a polis or a city set on a hill. So it is public. And from the Latin, it would be kind of obvious because public comes from of the people. That's the idea that we are to be existing in community. It is a public witness to everyone to whom we serve. And you can see this side of things, particularly in this passage. When you get there towards the end, when Barnabas goes and grabs Saul and brings them back, the whole reason why Barnabas was sent was because they got news of it in Jerusalem. Jerusalem, therefore, as a community As a kind of separate city within a city. Jerusalem sends Barnabas as a kind of ambassador. Barnabas grabs Paul They bring all of the laws, they bring all of the traditions, they bring all of the customs, they bring all of the experiences that they had as little Jewish boys with their mother and their father and their grandfather and their great-grandfather, all of those things that were passed down that were righteous. And they brought all of that community to the Gentiles in Antioch. And there was so much that they needed to spend a year with them. I mean when you think about taking up the role of discipling somebody, you're like, yeah, I'll have a coffee with you. But what if they said, I need a year, and you're going to live with me? You're going to move in. And we end up being called to do the same because we too are a public community. It not only means that we're a witness towards the world, but that we operate together. That's what it means to be a community. We are a political entity and city that relies upon each person. But one of the problems that we have is that the church has been asleep, and by God's grace we're now waking up through his means of COVID and other things. And nevertheless, what we are finding as we re-engage with the world is that all of that Communal wisdom is up in the attic with dust on it and nobody knows what it says. And so we're trying to do grand retrieval projects so that we can regain the wisdom of what it means to be Christian, that we can act publicly for the good, for the glory of God and for the good of our neighbor. What I want to end with is a couple proposals. What would it mean for us to take the same kind of mentality and over the next year spend time with each other? Now I could have had a list of a thousand things to do. So I invite your creativity in this matter. But standing where I am, I see a few things that deserve emphasis. For true discipleship to begin again. These are pretty fundamental, so stick with me The very first thing I want to mention for true discipleship to begin again, in other words, for us to be public and all that that means, to be of the people. One of the very first things that we need to do is we need to reset and return to a biblical expectation of age groups. You may or may not know this, but the majority of the language you use to describe age groups is not from the scriptures. It is from modern psychology. They're not orienting their lives and their systems of psychology by the reign of Christ. So what they have done is they've come up with all two familiar terms: infant. Toddler, adolescent, teenager, young adult, adult. Those are developmental stages within a philosophy of psychology of someone who doesn't orient life towards Christ And we go ahead and shape our reality according to those categories, which is idolatrous. According to each stage, you know that you've moved from one stage to the next. if you meet a certain vision that they have for that stage. And they evaluate that naturalistically, like they would evaluate a dog. As Christians, we end up not being able to buy into those modern visions for those stages of life. And you know, I don't really need to debate this matter. All I have to do is ask you: are you happy with what they have done with the category of teenager? I mean, are they our most productive citizens? A hundred years ago, there would have been nurses and captains on ships. That's not what's happening. Now I know plenty of good teenagers, and I'm not trying to insult anyone here. I'm speaking categorically. That's what the category does to you. It can make you think, oh, while I'm in this time of my existence, I get to play video games and eat nachos from 7-Eleven And then cram for my history homework because school's not that hard anyway. We're not happy with that, and we're not happy with the culture's vision of those in retirement age either. Essentially, our culture has said to you, if you're elderly, just stay out of the way. And I'm sorry. I'm sorry that they have done that. That's not how I think about you. So, what I would suggest in this first point in resetting biblical expectations on age groups is that we have different stages. I don't love these terms, but this is closer to what we're dealing with biblically. The first stage is the watcher. The child follows and watches parents and those who are their authorities in church, and they learn how to live for God in every situation. They know what it looks like to weep. They know what it looks like to laugh in every situation. All under the mighty hand of God. That is uh a responsibility on two sides there you can see. And if you want to see a great example, watch the Western the Rifleman The son follows the father around. Really the whole show is about the son learning from the father. He's a widow widower. Second category after the watcher is the warrior. We have a lot of warriors here. Warriors are the ones who have youthful strength to execute the will of the community who submits to God's will. They have all the energy to get it done. And then there are the kings. They've got some energy, so they'll ride out with the warriors, but what they're going to say to the warriors are, hold on, let's just think about this a little bit longer. We don't need to kill anybody. Put the sword down. And then there is the sage, the most respected in the community. Through experience, actual experience with God, and actual long-term use of His Word in those experiences. They keep the whole community grounded in God's wisdom. They are the touchstone that God has given to mediate his calmness amongst us. And his resolve. And so the sage pours out his wisdom on the king, and the king slows down the warrior, and we all together raise up watchers. That ends up being a far more biblical vision. And we need to reset that. It's one of the reasons why we don't have a quote-unquote youth ministry here The second is that we must invest in talent. This will depend on the circumstances that you're in in a lifetime. We put a lot of emphasis here on making sure we respect those who are working on cars and building houses because sometimes they get the short end of the stick. If you go to college, you're more important. If you don't, you're a second class citizen, and we don't buy into that philosophy here We believe that God calls people to all kinds of things. I would love it if we had more car mechanics around here, because as the pastor, you could give me a discount. It would be good. In our time, though, I do want to bring some emphasis on learning and those who have been given the ability to learn. Not like me. I'm talking about someone who can really dive into scholarship because we need it more than ever. Retrieving wisdom ends up taking a lifetime, so we have to start now. We need someone who is interested enough in books and not allergic to dust to go up there in those attics and find out what we have lost and bring it back to the church. What I'm doing right now is I'm defining for you what it means to be an academic. That's what it means to be a scholar Go do the work, bring it back for the glory of God and his people. You know, I saw a beautiful picture of this in a different context. There's a village in Africa. And they wanted to provide more life to their people by having better farming methods to produce more food. So they all chipped in their money and they took the most promising child and sent him to America, paid for his whole the whole village had to join together, paid for the whole college education For him to be in agriculture. He took everything that he had learned, got on a plane, came back to that village, and they put it into place so that they could thrive and they could flourish That's the exact same model that I'm talking about here. If you see something in a person who is able to do or has the potential to do good political theology, we really need you. And we need to invest in folks who have talents like that. When you see that the church has become lopsided and that we don't have something, well, it would be really great to have an arm right now Or to have another foot and you start to see one coming up as a tender shoot, we need to recognize that, we need to encourage them, and they need to be encouraged not to think in terms of a sovereign self, but that they find their meaning by benefiting the community. That's a biblical vision. And so let us invest in talent. Let's put our money where our mouth is. And then lastly, I want to say That especially amongst you sage folks, you silvered hair saints, I'd heard recently, especially amongst you, we need you to be a rock I mean, in a sense, in terms of human experience relative to me and the others, my age, you've seen it all. You've experienced things that I can only read about in books. And you are the one that needs to be the rock in the community. To represent Jesus Christ who is our rock. While all of this is developing, while we're thinking about age groups and we're investing in talent, you know. We're all still just kind of sitting under, according to my definition, a tyrannical government. And your warriors are going to lose patience. And they're going to lose patience quicker if you silvered-haired saints are always nervous. If you're not offering a calm, assertive energy to the congregation, it will make it worse. You have to develop a voice. You must be heard amongst us. You can't go silent in your age. We need you. We, by definition, live under a tyrannical government. If you don't bring your age and experience to the issues, then the warriors will just want to fight everybody all the time, and it's going to get us in trouble. It will not be with the full counsel of God's word like Jeremiah chapter 29 Warriors have very little patience. Kings like to give in to them because they're excited by the energy and they want to get things done. But you, you are made to ground us. Which means we need to give you respect. We need to make sure that we're always listening for your voice. In fact, you speak first. Let us shut up. We speak too much as it is. We need to hear what you have to say. And this means that you cannot buy into the modern philosophy of what it means to be in a community. When you buy into the modern philosophy of what it means to be in a community, the number one virtue is for you to be vulnerable. Which means you're in a share with people that are very, very nervous about what's going on in life, who are young, who have no experiences They don't really know what to do. They're frozen and they're paralyzed about what decisions to make. You're going to share all of your fears and insecurities with them because you want to be vulnerable. And then what are they going to do? They are going to hyperventilate in their room. There are people in your life if you are older where you can open up a little bit more like that. But I'm telling you right now, it is irresponsible as a leader to be vulnerable in certain situations It is your responsibility to draw upon all of the experiences wherein God has been faithful to you in the most difficult circumstances, and to put your arm around us and say. Don't you trust God? Is he not the King of the Cosmos? Will he not be faithful? That's what it would mean to be a rough. You must ground us. You can't be walking around nervous all the time. You have been alive for a long time. Gather up all the ways that God has been faithful. Calm down and bring your calm assurance to the youth. We are not primarily Herodians. We do not follow Herod. We are not primarily Republicans. We don't follow the latest campaign points. They're not our leaders. We can use them. You are primarily Christians. And what that means is that you give your full allegiance to Christ Jesus This means that your life has to be political because he's a king and you are his servants God graciously grants you authority to execute his decrees in the various areas of your life. It is an unspeakable privilege. And this also means that your life is public. You are a member in a community who lives by communal wisdom. Wisdom on what to expect from each age and stage. Wisdom on how we should invest in our future and our children. Wisdom which calms the nerves of the community. We are a group, in truth and in summary, we are a group of people gathered by Jesus Christ to witness to the world That Christ is in charge. And all I'm really saying to you this morning is that you are Christians. Pra let us pray