Chapter ten. After Abimelech there arose to save Israel Tola the son son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, and he dwelt in Shamir in the mountains of Ephraim. He judged Israel twenty-three years, and he died and was buried in Shamir. After him rose Ja'ir, a Gileadite. And he judged Israel twenty-two years. Now he had thirty sons who rode on thirty donkeys. They also had thirty towns. which are called Havaf Jair, to this day, which are in the land of Gilead. And Jair died and was buried in Kamon. Then the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of the Lord, and served the Baals and the Ashtareths the gods of Syria, the gods of Sidan, the gods of Moab, the gods of the people of Amman, and the gods of the Philistines And they forsook the Lord and did not serve him. So the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hands of the Philistines and into the hands of the people of Amon. From that year they harassed and oppressed the children of Israel for eighteen years, all the children of Israel who were on the other side of the Jordan in the land of the Amorites in Gilead Moreover, the people of Amon crossed over the Jordan to fight against Judah also, against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim, so that Israel was severely distressed. And the children of Israel cried out to the Lord, saying, We have sinned against you, because we have both forsaken our God and served the Baals. and from the Amorites and from the people of Amon and from the Philistines, also the Sidonians and the Amalekites and the Maonites oppressed you and you cried out to me and I delivered you from their land their hand yet you have forsaken me and served other gods Therefore I will deliver you no more. Go and cry out to the gods which you have chosen. Let them deliver you in your time of distress. And the children of Israel said to the Lord, We have sinned, do to us whatever seems best to you. Only deliver us this day, we pray. So they put away the foreign gods from among them and served the Lord. And his soul could no longer endure the misery of Israel. Then the people of Ammon gathered together and encamped in Gilead, and the children of Israel assembled together and encamped at Misf And the people, the leaders of Gilead, said to one another, Who is the man who will begin the fight against the people of Amon? And he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead. Let us pray. Lord God, we pray that through your Son and his spirit that you would be our teacher today through the means of the preaching of your word. I ask, Holy Spirit, that you would work in the hearts here. I pray, Lord, that their love for you would grow. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Last week we heard this mighty doctrine. Our triune God stands behind all of his creation, working out all things. To his own good order. God the Father will crush the head of all his adversaries through the Christ and his bride, the church And at this time, therefore, we must give warning to others and tell them of his mercy and offer of salvation. And I have heard news of folks doing just that even in this Congregation, praise God. This morning I have a series of observations for you from chapter 10, which will move us. into the morally complex case of Jeff and Samson. We'll get there in due time. But let's just start with chapter ten. Here's the first thing I want you to notice. Did you see that in verse 1 through 5 that we really had some minor deliverers that don't have much to do with with the story of Jephthah. We had some names dropped that they had 30 donkeys and 30 kids riding on their donkeys and then we moved on. No explanation Here we saw the two minor deliverers, Tola and Jair. What you're going to see after the account of Jephthah in chapter 12, verse 8. are three more minor deliverers, Ibzan, Elon, and Abdan. And what's going on here with the small remarks is to show that there was a time of peace amongst Israel, that they were judged and governed well by the grace of the Christ. But they are also to act as contrasts or foils to the morally questionable characteristics of Jephthah. And Samson. We're gonna have a real time with these scoundrels. Rascals. They're rascals. You'll see what I mean when we get there. But the writer of judges uses these minor judges as foils to emphasize the questionable characters of Jeff In other words, he's high they're using these minor prophets or minor um judges to bring out the theological thesis Of the whole book, which is about the canonization of Israel. Just as salt brings out the flavor of food, these minor judges bring out the theological point of the narrator. That's the first thing I wanted to mention to you was just an explanation of these little judges you saw. Here's the second thing I want you to notice. I bet you already noticed it. Verse number six. There it goes again. The cycle has started all over. Then the children of Israel again did sight in the evil of the Lord. or did evil in the sight of the Lord. This time, did you notice the extent to which they have done so? We've got seven gods mentioned in the text of the Canaanites, and they are listed demonstrating the degree of worldliness and canonization that has taken place within this group of people. This grievous degree to which they have fallen is not surprisingly reinforced at the end of verse 7, which is, the anger of the Lord was hot. Against Israel. We have not seen this before. But here it is. So we've gone to a new place. As I told you from the beginning of this book, we're on a downward slope right into the pit of hell. with apostasy at the very end with the concubine we'll see them doing everything right in their own eyes. And here you can see we're going to really pick up some speed. We got some inertia heading down this moral hill. Number three, observation number three. The cycle continues in addition to them moving into sin. We would expect for them to no longer want to be oppressed, and so then they In verse 8, we see the oppression cycle coming in, and then in verse 10, we should see a continuation of that cycle where they're going to cry out. And then in the other accounts, we would see that cry result in God saying, Yes, I will deliver you, and then I'll provide a deliverer for you. But this time the Lord declares that he will not deliver them. You can really see things moving in a different way in this account, can't you? For example, in Judges 10, 14, this is worth your reflection. Go and cry out to the gods which you have chosen. Let them deliver you. It really should be read like this. Let them deliver you in your time of distress. I'm sure you've heard that before. But that's a little change in the cycle here because we're moving to a new place. And then we have in verse 15 what appears to be full responsibility and repentance. Among the Israelites, they say this. And the children of Israel said to the Lord, We have sinned. Do not do to us whatever seems best to you, only deliver us this day. We pray. Verse 15. Now, here is where we need to be really careful when we hit verse 16, and we're trying to make sense of this episode. Because if we're not careful, it can seem like God is schizophrenic and double-minded. On the one hand, he says very clearly and starkly in verse 14, let them deliver you. And then, if we take verse 16, listen to how it reads from the NKJV. And his soul could no longer endure the misery of Israel This translation is very specific. It's really taking the Hebrew words and it's choosing to translate these Hebrew words this way because of how they think the story is going. And the assumption is they think the story is going where Israel really is repentant. But that is a problem. If you take the opportunity to read some scholars on this, you will see that as we continue in the account of Jephthah, there are some stark changes. Notice when I started reading right at the tail end of chapter 10, God did not send the angel of the Lord or a prophet to announce that Jephthah should be the next deliverer. They the leadership of Israel took it upon themselves to just ask who's the strongest and who should we raise up. We're missing also Jephthah being given the strength of the Lord like we would see in the other deliverers. And so what we want to do here, and I hate to do this, I hate to change and give you an alternative translation, but I want us to be consistent with what's going on within the story. We really need to read the Hebrew more generally, and it reads like this. You might even want to write this down, and if you want to look at the Hebrew together, I'm fine with that. And it should say this, just generally speaking, so that we can then make some decisions together as to the whole point here. And his soul was short because of the efforts of Israel. That's a real literal translation of the Hebrew. God's soul was short because of the efforts of Israel. Now that's a more general term than misery. You can see how efforts could be miserable, but that's already reading the situation into it. So then you've got to ask the question, what are the efforts being referred to here? Are the efforts them trying to escape the misery of the oppressors? Or are the efforts what we see here in verse 16 that they put away false gods and they religiously serve the Lord? Lord. You see that in verse 16, where they basically came up with a worship ceremony and went before him seeking to worship him. And the larger narrative, this is what I'm telling you this morning. I'm giving you the details for those of you who want those details. I'm going to summarize all this. The larger narrative favors that Israel is not actually repentant at this point, and God calls their bluff. He's staying consistent with what he already said. Let them deliver you in your time of distress. He's going to remain consistent with that, and that's how they're going to get Jephthah. It is the efforts just mentioned in 16 when they apparently put away false gods and they go before him with apparent sincerity in worship. He is saying to them, my soul is short with these hypocritical efforts. You say to me that you love me, and then you go to these seven gods. You want to do this worship before me, but I know your real heart. That's what's going on here. That the repentance is external. Theirs, one scholar writes, is a conversion of convenience. But then as soon as they are, what do they do every time? God is not dumb. He sees through their empty cry. Now, if you want to summarize this, this is the same kind of teaching that we see throughout the scriptures relative to the church. And so if you had a tough time tracking with me there, this is all that I'm saying. It is summarized very well by our Lord in Matthew chapter 15, verses 8 and 9. These people draw near to me with their mouth, and they honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. That's what I think the narrative is teaching. That's the episode before we get into Jephthah. And like I said, I know some of you are thinking, yeah, I do want to get in the Hebrew boy. That's fine. We'll do it. We can do it. I hope you can read backwards. A little Hebrew joke. Hey, watch out. Okay, so here's the doctrine this morning. Let's put it negatively. Another symptom of the worldliness of the church is hypocrisy, or as Mark said earlier, pretending. Another symptom of the worldliness of the church is that you're a pretender. When it comes to God. The church can honor God with their outward actions, but keep their heart far from Him. But I want to state this positively. And it is stated positively. This way. By the grace of Christ, we are called to love the Lord with all our hearts, with all our soul, and with all of our strength. Amen. Amen. That's the positive teaching of the scriptures on the same thing. And so I want to look at that that positive statement that I just gave you. I want to look at that underlying the underlying teaching there and then the underlying problem. And um And then we'll go from there. So let me just state the doctrine again so you can see where we're launching and what the passage teaches. Another symptom of the worldliness of the church is hypocrisy or pretending. The church can honor God with their outward actions, but keep their heart far from Him. And then positively, by the grace of Christ, we are called to love the Lord with all our hearts, with all our soul, and with all our strength. So children, we have two points like I said, underlying teaching, underlying problem. What I mean when I say the underlying teaching is that what I just quoted from you, did you notice that it is from scripture? that positive doctrine, that that is titled the Shema. Does anybody know where the Shema is located within the scriptures? And it's called the Shema. And Shema is just the Hebrew word for hear, like hear, hear me, and you can see it if you were to turn to that. I'll just read it to you. Hear, O Israel. The Lord our God, the Lord is one, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. And the Shema stands behind God's hot anger with his people in this judges episode. Now you have to remember that all of that that Pentateuch is leading up into Joshua and then into Judges. We have not left them behind. They carry forward. The Shema stands behind God's dissatisfaction with the efforts of his people, even in their worship that we saw within the passage. Perhaps some of you will remember from the Deuteronomy series, we looked at the Shema together. And heart and soul and strength should be understood as a ripple effect. When we drop a pebble in calm water, it ripples out, if the pebble's big enough, to the shore. And that's what's going on here. Each of these things are connected. The soul, the strength, all these things are connected. Heart, soul, strength. At the center where you drop the pebble, where God is taking issue with these people. In this episode and the church throughout all time after the fall is right in the center, and that's the heart. The heart, as we saw in the Shema. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. The heart is different than the way that we think about it today. Obviously it's not the literal one, but it's even different than the way we talk about things, which is predominantly psychological. The heart is the source from which everything else in life is animated. Even the way you see things, the animation Now you can look and see that kind of a statement all over the scriptures. Let me give you an example of the heart being the source from which all else is animated. This is from 1 Samuel 25, 36 through 38. Now I'm going to read this to you. Now Abigail went to Nabal. And there he was, holding a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. And Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunk. Therefore she told him nothing, little or much, until morning light. So it was in the morning, when the wine had gone from the ball And his wife had told him these things that his heart died within him that heart word. His heart died within him. But listen very carefully as we now learn about the heart. And he became like a stone. Then it happened after about ten days that the Lord struck Nabal and he died. Now when it says that Nabal's heart died, if I said to you, I found them, and their heart is dead, you would say, They are dead. But that's not what happened here in this story. When we say that Nabal's heart died within him, it didn't mean that he died because he did not die until ten days later. So what did it mean when he said his heart was dead? When his heart died within him, it's described as him becoming like a stone. And that means that Nabal was paralyzed. He had no animation. He did not move. He had no energy or force. That is to say, he had no heart. And that's the content of the heart That's what the heart is. It is the animating force or cause of all that we do, all that we think, all that we feel. That is how deep and central the heart is. The heart is that which moves and energizes and causes all else within you, at least as a secondary cause. And this is just the first pebble drop, and now we're going to ripple out to the second concentric circle from the Shema, and that's the soul. And I'll be quick with these other two. The soul refers primarily to your appetites and your desires, your emotions and your thoughts And then finally, and this one will be surprising to you if you haven't already heard this exposition in the Deuteronomy series, you have the last ripple, which is strength, heart, soul, and strength from the Shema. And here its meaning is best captured by a word like resources. resources. And this includes your physical strength. This includes your economic strength. This includes your social strength. And it even extends to the physical things that you own. Tools, livestock, a house, any of those things. Now I'm painting a really big picture for you. I hope you're looking at the painting, but I'm going to summarize it for you. Calling all Israelites to love God without reservation or qualification is what the Shema is doing The Shema is calling all the church to love God without reservation or qualification. And Moses begins with the inner being, then he moves to the whole uh desires of the person and he ends with all that one claims as one's own. And I'll put it one more way. This is the covenant committed commitment rooted in the heart, extending to every level of One's being. And our passage is telling us that right at the center, they got it wrong. Right at the center, and it destroyed everything else. And that leads us to the second main application, which is the underlying problem. So those are the that's the underlying thought going on underneath of judges, is this Deuteronomy passage. And now we can see the underlying problem. We're in a position to look out and see what we need to see. The people of God made an effort with their resources on that outer rim. They made an effort in worship, for example, and they confessed with their lips. But deep in the center of their hearts They were animated not out of a love for him, but out of a love for somebody or something else. And he called them on it. And he said, Go to those lovers and let them help you. And as I mentioned before, as one scholar says, I think this is a brilliant way to put it, their conversion was a conversion of convenience. And this problem is repeated throughout the history of the church, which I assume is why it's here in the book of Judges for all the church to learn. Can you think of a place in the scriptures where Jesus, for example, confronts this kind of thing head on? Where people like to look pretty on the outside, but they're rotten like dead in the inside. Yeah, in Ma in in Matthew, we see him dealing with this especially in the Sermon on the Mount. You should go back and look at that in light of these passages that we've looked at. Consider this one, for example. This is just a single example for Matthew chapter 6, verse 2. Therefore, when you do a charitable deed, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrite or pretenders do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory from men. Assuredly I say to you, they have their reward. Now we could say a lot about that, but what I want to do is I just want to apply everything we just did with the Shema to see the problem that's going on here. Out on the far end of the circle, that last ripple, where they're taking their resources. like their finances, their strength in the Shema, they're taking their strength and they're giving it to charity. People are benefiting from them. from their finances. But notice what Jesus is doing is he's saying, but if you were to go back into the center where the pebble drops, and we're in the center where the heart is and it's meant to be love for God, what we find is corruption and they are animated for social status. evidenced by the fact that when they drop the coin in the coffer, they blow a trumpet so everybody can see them do it They look like they love God and neighbor, but they are moved by love of themselves. And Jesus says, you are hypocrites. And what he means by hypocrite is you are pretending. You look like you are an example for the entire society of what it means to love God, and yet it is just a veneer. If we got down into the center of what truly animates you, which is revealed by your fruit, by the way, the old trumpets telling us something about And the fact that you can't pray in your closet tells us something else. And the fact that when you fast, you make everybody know that you haven't eaten in five days. Look at me, look how thin I am and religious. Jesus is pointing out that they are just pretending and they're missing the heartbeat of the shoulder. Ma right there in the center. Now, I think we can see that. We can see that that's the problem. Go ahead and read the prophets if you want. This is the main problem. problem all the time. And it's not just a problem that we read about in the scriptures. This is a problem that can resurface in the church in every day. generation. And I'll be honest with you, this problem can arise from one week to the next Now we're getting ready to start school. I hate to be the bearer of bad news. No, we're thankful for our educations. But I want to say this to you students, first and foremost. I want you to take all these things that I've said, and I want you to bring it home to your own hearts. Because in your schools, you have an immense privilege. You will be, by the time you graduate, You will have delivered to you the entire reformed system of theology. You will have all of the mysteries of God in your mind But here is a problem that I have seen in many students, and I warn you right now, is that your head can have that theology And you can be an atheist in your heart. Because you can study all of those things. and know all the theological vocabulary because you are animated by something else beside the love of God. You just want to get into school so you can get your Land Rover. Or you don't want to be embarrassed in front of the student body, or whatever it is are ulterior motives to what theology should bring you to, which is love of God. Let me ask you a question Are you a real theologian if you do not love God? What kind of theologian doesn't love God? Not a real one. It's a pretender. And so I encourage you to be very careful and watch yourself as you're under these studies. We are warned in 1 Corinthians, for example, that one of the things that the youth like to do is they like to take these kind of things and they like to use it to puff up themselves. And I would encourage you, that is not the purpose of learning theology. If anything, you're to be humbled. or the dirt, and that you are fragile. And that all that you have and that you do is meant to be towards the love. Now I think that's true for students, especially because of what they're delivered and the pressures that they're under. the reasons why they're animated. And I think it also can be true for all of us as we study. And so I think we need to ask the question, okay, I hear the warning, but what is it that I can do to heed the warning? What little thing could you offer me this morning that's not too long that I could do? And this is going to be very surprising coming from my mouth. But I'm going to tell you this is a mark of maturity within myself that God is doing. And I'm telling you right now that every one of you needs a devotional time. I never would have said that in my youth. If you told me I needed a devotional time when I was younger, I thought you were trying to get me to sit down with Jesus as calling. And feel all my feelings, and I would have hated you. I would have thought you were a weak, but now I cannot tell you how much we need. Properly understood our devotional time. Now devotional time isn't sitting around and talking about this is what I feel like this means. Devotional time is what the word says. It is a time for you to take care that your devotion is to the Lord in the end. animating center of your life. That you are devoted and adoring of him. Now I'm going to say something that also might shock you. I'll ask you a question that was just asked me over lunch the other day. A friend of mine says, How is your devotional time? I'm not going to tell you my answer. But I'm going to ask you the question. And you don't have to tell me your answer. You can keep this between you you and the Lord and those that you're sitting with, how is your devotional time? And the reason why that is such an important question for us to ask is because you you need to hear a major reality about what it means to be a human being. You, brother or sister, have an inclination to find God unlovable. It is the great tragedy of the cosmos that he who is exceedingly lovely you find to be grotesque sometimes. And that's what devotions are for. Because we are inclined to find God unlovable, and therefore devotional time is defined as A time to remember his loveliness. It is a time to remember his loveliness. It is not a time for you to just get your 15 minutes of Bible study under your belt. There is a time for that. Where you can become more and more acquainted with the scriptures over time and you do it in 15-minute increments. I'm fine with that. But there still needs to be a devotional time where you are focused on growing and really knowing in your animating center that God is lovely. That He is worth everything That if if someone came to you and they said, You can either have God through Jesus Christ and His Holy Spirit, or I will give you everything in the world, you would say, Well then I'll take God. Now that's a progressive advance that we have to make. As humans, we can't confess that right away. But I'm telling you that devotions are a way toward a greater and greater confession of such a thing. To see him as lovable again, to reanimate our love for God. I don't want you to raise your hand. This is between you and the Lord, but I know that some of you out there are struggling with whether God is lovable. You look and you learn about him, and it keeps coming up in the category of I don't want anything to do with him. And that is from that's from the devil. That is a lie. That is a lie, because he is pre-eminently lovable above all else. How is your devotional time Which is another way for us to do some holy introspection and ask the question, how is my love for God? How's the animating center? Have I moved out of it I had a friend who was in the Navy. He was stationed in Rota, Spain, and he was sitting at the bar with a Guinness. And on the left-hand side was one of his friends who had been married for some time. And a woman came up to his friend and started making advances. And the friend cut her off in mid-sentence. And he said to her, I don't know what you're doing, but I'll tell you right now, I love my wife. This passage in the episode that is before us today, if the Israelites were sitting in the bar with the Guinness, they had seven women come up to them, and to every single one they said, Well, all right then. Sounds good to me. And part of it was because they've neglected their animating center. And I want you to take this seriously. Let me give you a picture of how serious you should take this based on what we just heard about the hotness of God towards Israel. This is a little bit of a funny image, but I think it should help you out a little bit. I want you to think of all your efforts that you do in all of your life. And I want all of your efforts to be re-represented that you're making a really nice and beautiful meal for the Lord that you're going to present to him. Maybe it's a pasta dish. Maybe you have a a famous pasta recipe and you want to give this to the Lord and this represents your whole life to him. And if you're not taking care of the animating center, when he's eaten that pasta, you know what he finds? A nice long black hair. Or a fly in the ointment, so to speak. That's a major point in this episode. Is that we cannot neglect the animating center with our heart, our soul, and our strength. Those are concentric circles that flow out of the hearts. And we Christians have been given new hearts by Jesus Christ and his Spirit, and therefore must tend to that garden that He has given to us with our devotional time. You have been given the Spirit of God that your efforts may flow from a degree of actual love for God. Negatively this morning, this is what we have considered. Another symptom of the worldliness of the church is hypocrisy or pretending The church can honor God with their outward actions, but keep their heart far from him. And here it is positively. By the grace of Christ, we are called to love the Lord with all our hearts, with all our soul, and with all our strength. Let us tend to this with our devotion. Amen. Let us pray