I ask now that you would turn to the word preached in the Luke chapter two. If you need a Bible, if you raise your hand, I'll have one brought to you. We'll be following along the account of the birth, the announcement, and the response of Jesus, our Messiah. Messiah. And we'll go through the first twenty verses Beginning in chapter two And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This census first took place while Corinius was governor was governing Syria. So all went to be registered, every one to his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth and to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. Because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child. So it was that while they were there the days were completed for her to be delivered And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the end. Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were greatly afraid. Then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people. For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior Who is Christ the Lord? And this will be the sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. So it was when the angels had gone away from them into heaven, that the shepherds said to one another, Let us go down to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. Now, when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child. And all those who heard it marveled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. Then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they heard and seen as it was told them. Let's pray. Lord Jesus Christ, it is only right for us to celebrate your incarnation This is great news to us. It is the great fulfillment of the promise of you, Father, that you would dwell with us again, that you would atone for our sins, that you would sanctify us. That we would no longer desecrate your temple or this world. And we pray that your Holy Spirit would descend upon us next And that we would be filled with the knowledge of your love and your glory in the face of Jesus Christ. So much so that we couldn't help to tell our friends and family about it. This Christmas Eve and this Christmas. We ask these things in your name. Amen. We're coming close to the end of our series. It'll end tonight in our candlelight service. I hope to see everyone there. We're asking the question: who is Jesus really? We want to know. How do we find out with so many opinions that surround us? Everyone seems to know who Jesus is, but they seem to also all disagree. But I need to clarify at this point, we're not actually asking how many opinions are there about the facts of Jesus? It is opinions on the significance of the facts, the meaning of the facts that we're asking about. There's actually not much debate on the facts. There's debate on the significance and the meaning. Let me give you an illustration so that you can follow me here. This is a quote from 1 Peter 3, basically. Christ suffered once for sins. Maybe you've read that verse before. Only those who are ignorant, even major secular scholars, would not disagree with the following three words: Christ suffered once. That is pretty much universally acknowledged. There is a recognition that Jesus was a real person and that he did in fact suffer. They would change the meaning of the word. word Christ. But to a political revolutionary, but there's pretty much universal meaning on those first three words. Here's where the problem comes in though. Across the spectrum there's disagreement. It's the interpretation of those facts, which are the final words. For our sins, there's no way that there's universal agreement on that. And so there is a difference here in the way that I'm wording this between the facts and the interpretation of the significance of the facts. And that's what we're looking for. We're looking for an authoritative interpretation and the significance of Jesus. This one from 1 Peter 3 tells us that Jesus' death was an atonement. Very Christian perspective The bottom line is that we're all tired. This is what the whole series is about. Quite honestly, we want people on earth to shut their mouth. We're tired of listening to them. We want to hear something from heaven. And so we've turned here to Luke's gospel. And Luke's gospel has the angel Gabriel sent by God himself to tell us not only the facts, but an authoritative interpretation of the identity of Jesus. That we could know who He truly is, and not only the angel Gabriel, but there are folks in these passages who are filled to the brim with the Holy Spirit Speaking truth to us from heaven. Heaven truly has arrived at earth, and now we get to hear heavenly songs. First, we were told that Jesus was conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary, that he is the God-man. Truly heavenly news. Second, that John the Baptist was the long-awaited forerunner of the Messiah as spoken in Malachi 3. We saw that in the second stanza. of the poem. Thirdly, that God the Father is accomplishing a new exodus through Jesus, who is the horn of salvation. He will be enthroned on the throne of David, the long-awaited Messiah. That is who Jesus is according to heaven. And now this Christmas Eve morning, we will cover a new passage, and it has three main parts, and the three parts are actually quite natural to your own experience. The parts are this. Verses 1 through 7 in chapter 2 is the birth of Jesus. Now, what do you do after the baby's been born? You announce. So the second section is the announcement. In our culture, you try to get other people from announcing the birth on Facebook before you do. But there's still an announcement. The announcement of the birth is in chapter 2, verses 8 through 14, and then there's a response now that everyone's heard the announcement of rejoicing. And that's the last section, verses 15 through 20. Just as we have when we have children today, the birth happens, someone announces on Facebook or wherever, and all respond. That's the same organization that we'll follow this morning. So let's begin with the birth of Jesus. Luke has recorded the birth of Jesus in a very special way. He has done so to highlight the great providence of our loving Heavenly Father in fulfilling his promises. Now here was the promise, and you can look this up another time. This is from Micah chapter 5, verse 2. But you, Bethlehem Though you are little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of you shall come forth to me the one to be ruler in Israel, whose goings forth from old, from everlasting. There's a prophecy here that the Messiah would come out of Bethlehem. And you've got to bet that Mary at this point in her life was saying, maybe she knew, you know, I'm imagining here, how in the world If this is, I've heard all these songs, I've heard all these words from an angel and prophecies from the Holy Spirit, that this child is the Messiah, how in the world is he going to be from Bethlehem? The one that is in my womb. Mary wondered how in the world that was going to take place. And then we see in verse 1: God's providence, lo and behold, the census. God working through the political endeavors of other nations and showing his sovereign control over them by fulfilling a prophecy through the registering of Joseph in the So take a look at that with me. And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This census first took place while Corinius was governing Syria. A census, if you don't know, is an official count of a population by governing rulers It's usually a frustrating count because in this case, Rome was counting the population and the property as an assessment for taxation And it would be according to lineage and hometown. And so it's quite possible that Joseph, being from Bethlehem, had property there and had to return for the census. That's what we speculate is going on in terms of the specifics of the sentence. And that's the perspective from Earth, and the perspective of what Caesar was seeking to accomplish, tax. Taxes. But from the perspective from heaven, from heaven, we know that God the Father was using the senses to accomplish what he promised. As you can read also in Matthew, this emphasis is made by multiple Gospels. Listen to Matthew 2:5. It follows the same pattern. So they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it was written by the prophet, but you Bethlehem in the land of Judah are not the least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. And so it was, verse six, take a look with me now. And so it was that while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered. And she shall give birth in Bethlehem. Isn't that just magnificent to see the sovereignty of our God over the Caesar himself? Nothing. He's but a grasshopper on the earth to Yahweh And so it was while he was there, the days were completed for her to be delivered. In verse 7, she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. And now you've heard that story, have you not? There being no poor Mary and Joseph, vagabonds on the earth, knocking on every door in the neighborhood, trying to find an open in, but you know, everyone had too much at the pub at the end, and so there's That's really not what's going on in the story. I've heard the story misrepresented so many different times. I would like to just take a moment to remove the artificial sentiment. Is that okay to remove sentiment from Christmas this year? This is how the story is usually told. Poor Mary and Joseph wandered through the night. They stopped by all the inns. And when we think of an inn, we think of a bed and breakfast. If you're a teenager, you'll probably think of the inn that of Lord of the Rings where the Rangers stayed and the wraiths tried to track them down. But wherever the inn was, there was no room. Maybe you think of Hollow But there was no room, and so they were forced to find some barn or stable to give birth and to stay the night at least This is not historically realistic if you pay attention to the wording relative to that specific culture. As I said, Joseph returned to Bethlehem for a census because of his up And so Joseph surely had relatives in Bethlehem. When he went to stay with them, they told him there was no room in the Kata Luma, which means guest room. And so ancient homes had three levels. The top level was the guest room, the middle section was the main living area, and the bottom floor was an all-purpose mud room where animals could reside at times And so since there was no room on the third floor, I'm not sure who took it. Maybe an uncle was in town also, and they said, well, Uncle Fester's got the guest room. So you're gonna have to be down in the lower room the in the um because there's no room in that inn or the guest room. So there's no room on the third floor, and the main living area was occupied. Mary and Joseph had to stay on the ground floor, the all-purpose room. Animals were not necessarily present. Although they could be because it would be cruel to leave animals out at night. Certainly farming and agricultural equipment was present, and especially a manger, as we see in the account of the story, but I don't want you to miss the main point. The main point is not them being vagabonds and carrying their pride through the streets, banging on every end. Notice the emphasis of the account here. The point is that these this manger is is really not the point, it ends up being assigned for a further point. To concentrate on the manger And to forget why it's mentioned in the story and review this at home, reread the Christmas story. It's mentioned in the first place so that they could see a great heavenly sign that has been given to the shepherds. And to focus on the manger, to make that the focal point of a manger scene, if you will, would be like concentrating on a finger while there's a meteor shower to which it's pointing. To quote Bruce Lee, I'm very sorry, this is Christmas Eve, and I'm going to quote Bruce Lee from Enter the Dragon: don't concentrate on the finger, or you'll miss all that heavenly glory. The feeding trough in the story is there for one reason. It was the sign to the shepherds. Now listen to the account again, verse 12. And this will be the sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. That's how they knew where the Christ would reside. That's how they found him. It told them which baby they were looking for, and it showed them and gave credibility and credence to the message of the angels. And we know that it's because of human shortfalls that we need such a thing. The reason Luke has mentioned it is because it is important in giving the shepherd their news and their instructions for the big announcement that they must give, which moves us now from the birth of Jesus into the announcement of his birth. Now let's continue the in the account. As Mary and Joseph are in Bethlehem, notice that in the same country in verses eight and nine there are shepherds. This would have been the same territory in which Uh David would have fought lions and bears and shepherded his sheep. Long and rich history here. Shepherds were living out in the fields in verses eight and nine keeping watch over their flock by n by night, and verse nine, and behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them. Now, I cannot prove it because it doesn't say it specifically in the angel account. But if there's any consistency, then it seems likely that this is yet another visitation from the angel Gabriel. But it doesn't mention his name. So I can't say for sure. Whether from Gabriel or not, the response is typical. They're afraid. If you look in each of the accounts, the angel shows up to Mary, and she was afraid. Zacharias, and she was afraid. The angels then tell them, verse 10, not to be afraid. Why? Because it's not terror that they bring, or judgment, or an overwhelming glory. Rather, there are good tidings. To all peoples. And now notice, as I mentioned in the introduction of this sermon, between the facts and the interpretation, notice the facts and the interpretation that are given. From heaven here, angels that have been sent from God Himself. Verse 11. Here's a fact for you. For there is one born to you this day in the city of David. Fact. Could be found in an almanac, perhaps. Number two, here's the interpretation: He's the Savior. Look at the other language. He's the Messiah, the Christ. Notice the other language of reality. He is the king. This is angelic, heavenly, God-sent interpretation of who this child is. this. We have another fact, verse 13. An army of angels showed up. Interpretation. Now a whole army and host of them have already put to song the significance of the child. Through Jesus, God the Father is glorifying himself by making peace with men. That's the connection between the two stanzas. Is there. That's again the heavenly interpretation. If you're tired of hearing people, then listen to angels and listen to God. Because this is who he says Jesus is. Now, I want you to stop and just observe the main focus of the angelic message for a moment in this announcement. In verse 11, the focus is on Jesus born as the Christ and King. Do you see that there in verse 11? For there is born to you this day in the city of David, that's a mention of regality even there, a savior, which has to be The king, who is Christ, which is a reference to the anointed one who will be king, the Lord, which is another emphasis on King. The focus is Jesus born as Christ and King. However, in verse 14, I want you to notice something Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. If you pay attention, it always goes back to this. In verse 14, the cause of Jesus' birth is unveiled God the Father is in fact celebrated for his immeasurable grace and love and his goals for his people and what he seeks to accomplish. He is in the forefront of the story, actually. Not just the child, not just Jesus. It is God's work in sending Jesus. The angels, in other words. Have put into other words for us what is recorded in John chapter 3. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. And if you want other words, still from John in 1 John 3, the angels are telling us to not fear because God the Father has decided to love. John 1 John three, there is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. Now in recognizing this announcement from the angels on the significance of this child Child, do you recognize, with God the Father taking the forefront, that the Christian message has been reversed from how you often relay the Christian message, particularly in evangelism? It's upside down here. We are usually saying to people, what do we usually say to people as we approach them about Jesus? Do you have room for Jesus in your life? Oh, I wish you would. Would you consider Jesus plead? I I I plead with you. Now there's nothing wrong with that. But that is how we approach it, is it not? Trying to talk people into it They feel like they're in control to make the decision. Do you have room for God in your life? And then we talk about God in such a way where we would make him attractive. So that he would fit into their life and they would want him to be a part of their life. Do you see the overarching question in the normal Christian story is: do you have room for God? But in this story, when God the Father takes forefront and the angels are singing, the question is the other way around. The question is: does God have room for you? And the angels are saying, actually he does. In the eternal counsels of his will, God the Father has decided to love his people by sending his only begotten son. It is a great sign to you, just as it was to the shepherds, that God has room for forgiveness and your repentance and turning to him. In Jesus Christ. That is why it is such good news. We are not in control. God is in control. And come to find out, the one who is in control has room for us. He has sought to have mercy. The just one will also be the one who justifies. That's the implied question. Does God have room for you? And so here the logic of a song, 'twas sovereign mercy called me and taught my opening mind. The world had else enthralled me To heavenly glories blind. My heart owns none before thee. For thy rich grace I thirst. This knowing, if I love thee, thou must have loved me first. That's the Christmas story. That's truly what's happening here, the great significance, and it's a part of the great announcement of the birth. And now we have the opportunity to see seeing all of these different threads being wound in this story of the The incarnate Savior, God man, Jesus the Son, God the Father taking presidence, the Holy Spirit being present in the speaking The angel Gabriel delivering the message, perhaps the angel Gabriel, a whole host of angels, we now have the response here on earth of this great news. So, as I mentioned before, picking up in verse 12, the angels gave the shepherds a sign to look for. That was really key. The baby will be in swaddling clothes. That's what they say to the shepherds. And he's going to be in a manger. I imagine then that the shepherds went banging around on doors or poking around in different places and they would look at a baby and say, not a manger, not swaddling clothes That's not the one. That's not the one. They've got a jumper on. That one's got a onesie. Nope. We're looking for swaddling clothes, looking for a manger. Nope, that one's got a crib That's not it. That one's got a bassinet. Whatever it is, they know what they're looking for and they find one in the manger, the child that the angels announced And now I want to, and coming to a close, I want to answer two questions from the response part of the passage. Question one. I want you to look very diligently at the passage. And ask this question. To what did they all respond to? Sorry about the preposition there. To what did they respond? Was it the facts? In the way that I'm using that word. I know these are all facts, but the way that I'm using it. The response was not to the facts. If you take a look, for example, take a look at verse 16. I'll start in verse 15. So it was when the angels had gone away from them that the shepherds said to one another, Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and a babe lying in a manger. There's no response there. They just find the baby. They go to a place that they see another baby just as they've seen babies their whole life. This part of it if you I've heard some people try to make a lot of verse sixteen that the baby had rosy cheeks. Do Christmas carols do this kind of thing? It had rosy cheeks and it was glowing and beams shooting out of its face, and they're all very moved by the fact of there being a baby. But I don't see that here in verse 16 Instead, it looks more like it was just kind of a matter of a fact. There's a a pretty big difference. They're responding like male shepherds, really, and not saying anything about it. It reminds me when I'm doing baptisms here and I have this This gorgeous child that's being baptized, and all the ladies here are oh so precious. And all of the teenage boys, as I look out, are about to fall asleep or vomit At just the idea of going crazy over a baby. It's just a baby. We've seen a million babies. And that's kind of what's going on here. So it's not the facts where they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. That's not to what they respond. It's the interpretation of the significance of the facts. Notice that this is emphasized in verse 15 first. So it was, when the angels had gone away from them into heaven, that the shepherds said to one another, What did they say? They said, Let us now go to Bethlehem and what? And see this thing that has come to pass, what Which the Lord has made known to us. When the Lord made it known through the angels, it was not just facts, it was the interpretation and the significance of the facts. That is to what they're responding. You see this again in verse 17. Take a look. Now, when they had seen him, they made widely known what? The facts? That they saw a baby? Known. They made known the saying which was told them concerning this child. And all the marvels that accompany it, they are focused on the message that was given to them from the Lord, to the angels, to themselves. They are promoting the Word of God. That is what the response is coming to, the significance told them by the angels from God. Now that's a really big deal. Take a look at it again. You can't miss it, it's in verse 20. Then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God. Why? For all the things that they heard and seen as it was told them. It's not just the facts, it's the heavenly significance and interpretation of the facts that move them to a response, and that's our second Second question. How did they respond? There's multiple responses in the passage, actually. There's two that I want to focus on from the shepherds, because that's what I'm focused on. Mary pondered it in her heart. She's going to do that when Simeon and Anna. give a prophecy also, she's needs some time. She's I guess like um Northrop Grumman engineers. They just need to keep thinking about it. But here are the shepherds, with these angels that have appeared to them. How did the shepherds respond to these words concerning the revelation and the purpose of the love of God the Father? And I want to bring out to you something remarkable that I would have never anticipated in verse 17. They made it widely known. Their Christmas was spent in evangelism. Have you ever thought of Christmas that way? They went, verse seventeen, and they told everyone. They made widely known And oh, that we would not just know the facts, but that we would embrace the significance, and that we would interpret Christmas as the season Not to remain in a cluster in our homes, a time instead to share the love of God the Father and the giving of his only Son. That seems to be the true spirit of Christmas here in this passage. Oh, that we too would make this love widely known. And I don't want you to think that this is strange. It's not strange what's happening here. I should have guessed it. As soon as I saw that the angels were announcing the love of God, I should have guessed that this section would have ended with evangelism. Because that is the natural and most appropriate consummation of knowing the love of God, is that you have got to talk about it. If you truly know it, then it cannot remain silent within you. You've got to tell everybody. I remember reading a quote from C. S. Lewis that fits quite well here, that sharing the love of God is actually the consummation and knowing the love of God. It is not out of compliment, he writes, that lovers keep on telling one another how beautiful they are. The delight is incomplete until it is expressed. You are so beautiful. That I have got to write you a song. Otherwise, I'll burst. It is frustrating to have a disc to discover a new author or a new movie and not be able to tell anybody about how good it is. It needs to is just waiting to be announced. And it's the same here with the love of God the Father Father, how much more than a movie, how much more than a novel. To come suddenly, C. S. Lewis continues, at the turn of a road upon some mountain valley of unexpected grandeur. And then to have to keep silent is absolutely inhumane. And so it is with the love of God the Father Evangelism, when understood correctly, is the outflow and consummation of being a Christian. It is our great delight. It is right like writing a song to the one that we love. Could we with ink the ocean fill, And were the skies of parchment made, were every stalk on earth a quill, and every man a scribe by trade To write the love of God above Would drain the ocean dry, Nor could the scroll contain the whole, though stretched from sky to sky. May our Christmas be filled with the expression of the love of God the Father that we ourselves know in our very being, just as the shepherds did. Please pray with me. Father, we thank you for this great news. We live our life in fear on this earth, and you, through this passage, have given us perspective this Christmas Eve, that there are glad tidings going out because you have loved us You have decided to love from the eternal counsel of your will. And Father, we give you praise and thanks. We ask that through Jesus Christ you would receive our next song. We thank you for speaking to us from heaven and not leaving us here to roll around in the filth of this earth. We thank you, Lord, that you will in fact redeem your creation. And that you'll bring all that you have spoken to be, to where your earth will then again be refined, and we could Trust that the truth will prevail and that your glory will cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. We thank you, Father, for giving us a Merry Christmas through Jesus Christ. In your name we pray. Amen.