Through twenty-seven in Proverbs thirty-one. She stretches out her hands to the Dysaph, and her hand holds the spindle. She extends her hand to the poor Yes, she reaches out her hands to the needy. She is not afraid of snow for her household, for all her household is clothed with scarlet She makes tapestry for herself. Her clothing is fine linen and purple. Her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land. She makes linen garments and sells them and supplies sashes for the merchants. Strength and honor are her clothing, she shall rejoice in time to come. She opens her mouth with wisdom, and on her tongue is the law of kindness. She watches over the ways of her household and does not eat the bread of idleness. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for this picture that you have given to us. I pray, Lord, that it would be The picture that draws both your church and the women of this congregation, especially, in what you have set up and called them to by the power of your Holy Spirit. And I also pray, Lord, that it would draw men to recognize it in the women around them, and for young men to pray to you, to have a wife that loves you. loves you more than they even love them. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. You may be seated. It's been a few weeks since we've been in Proverbs thirty one. But the last time that I was preaching from this section, I raised a question with you of what are the different models that are given to women within our society? as to what it looks like to be a good woman. M most of the time I would say the model has primarily to do with looks, for example, the kind of clothes that you would wear the kind of figure that you would have, the shoes that you would wear, or whatever it is. Of course there's others. There's portrayals of what it means to be a woman in terms of the kind of work that you would do and the kind of clothing that you would wear to work and where you would work. It seems to me that as we go back in history, there's really nothing new. There's always been an appeal to a larger society and to the women in it. as to this is what it's supposed to look like to be a woman. And there's different ideals depending on the culture. And we can keep that in mind as we enter back into Proverbs 31 because there is an ideal that is being presented here. both for individual women and for the church at large, which is often spoken about in the feminine form. Zion or the city of God or the church of God is often spoken of as a woman. You see that in Revelation 21, for example. And I think this is uh very relevant. I'm sure some of you continually hear the question, maybe it's becoming less popular now, that there's a question, what is a woman? And usually there are the answer is people answer just biologically and they talk about chromosomal makeup. Well, thank God. that God gives us more than a chromosome discussion here within Proverbs 31. He lays out for us this this ideal or model for the church and for women. And one more thing I'll just mention on the relevance of this is that it's not just relevant for women. It's not just relevant as a picture as to what the church is to be in the world. It's also relevant for us to be able to, as men, to acknowledge when we see this and the women around us. We're going to get to that next week. If you take a look down at your scriptures, though, I just want to point that out very quickly. If you take a look at the end there, it says in verse number 28, her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praises her. When these attributes that Jesus Christ is creating in the women around us, when they're happening, when there is a witness to that, it's meant to be acknowledged. And not only just men in general, or husbands, or brothers, or fathers, or whatever it is, but also if you're a young man and you're looking for the Lord to bless you with a wife, this is a passage that is supposed to help you to figure out what you're looking for. The world would tell you something quite different, actually. And that we'll talk about that next week also. It says in verse number 30 though, if you'd like to just take a quick look Charm is deceitful and beauty is passing. But a woman who fears the Lord, she shall be praised. And that's what you're looking for. And men, I'm I'm here to tell you too, I know your wives and the Lord has blessed you. He really has. So we're gonna Go back up into verse 24 here tonight, where we're still looking at this model of a woman that is given to us in Proverbs 31 and the model of a wife. And that's in verses 24 through 27. I want to look at this in just a couple different ways. One, I want to look at the social influence that is portrayed here. the underlying character, number two, and then the valuable teaching that we see from her. So it is the social influence, the underlying character. and the valuable teaching. So first we're looking at the social influence, and you can see this right at the beginning in verse number 24. Verse 24 it says she makes linen garments and sells them and supplies sashes for the merchants. Now I talked to you about this the last time I was preaching on this, that this poem is set up to where there's matching pairs. And it works towards the center where the husband is. And it's the picture of Adam and Eve working together to bring goodness to the world, really. But tw verse 24 is matched up with verse number 20. So if you'd like, I don't want it to be too complicated here, but if you just take a look back up at verse number 20, you could see why the King Lemuel's mother is saying things like this. In verse 24, she makes linen garments and sells them and supplies sashes for the merchants. That's a part of an overarching picture of this woman from verse 20, which says, she extends her hand to the poor. Yes, she reaches out her hands to the needy. The whole idea here is again that not only is she taking care of herself, you see that in those verses, it says she clothes herself. Not only is she clothing herself, but she's clothing her household. You could think of this as concentric circles. She's taking care of herself, and then she's able to take care of her household. But then she goes one more step out, and the economy that she is creating is actually providing benefit to the larger community. Here in verse number 24, it's the merchants She's made something that she's able to pass onto the marketplace and then other families are able to sell her stuff so that they can benefit from her hard work. It's her hard work that is starting to change the dynamics and the nature of the community itself, where they're able to maintain a kind of well-being through her thoughtfulness and prudence. And great work within the community. I wonder if you've met certain people like that. I have an example of when we were at another church, there was a woman who had started a catering business. And her catering business was busy enough to where she would need help from other people. And so there were some of the other moms or some of the other ladies in the church that she would invite to be a part of that, and they were able to make several hundred dollars at the catering event. And so you had this one business that was able to benefit multiple families because of the hard work that had been put in here. And that's the picture that we have of this extending out. You see the ripple effect? You see the ripple of effect of this woman who's filled with the Spirit of God She's not only clothing herself, she's not only clothing her household, her work is even extending out and bringing life to the larger community. And that's the first thing that we see here that there is a social influence. Now do you need to start a catering company? Do you need to start a software company or whatever it it doesn't have to be that way. There's so many different examples Where just in small ways the Lord can bless others through the way that He is blessing us. in whether it's financial or in other ways. So it's good to keep in mind as to what the model is and what the ideal is. Is I think the largest picture that we're really trying to to get across here is just that this woman is bringing life wherever she goes. She's bringing life wherever she goes. If you wanted to, you could picture life as largely a desert But then I wonder if you know certain people in the world where if they go to that desert, it starts to bloom. Grass starts to come up, and there's life. And that's the calling that God has for the women here. And I see that already beginning. Ladies I'll just again I don't mean to be flattering, but I'll just say when I see the work that you do in your households and in your s in schools and at your work, whether it's young ladies or older ladies, I see you bringing life I believe I can see it. I have uh I just say right now I see Jesus Christ working in you all the time. All of you. So you should be encouraged that uh this is happening in you, a kind of this kind of social influence. Now the second part that I wanted to point out to you besides verse twenty-four, and that being connected to verse number twenty and her extending her hand to the poor and even to the merchants is the underlying character. That's the next point I wanted to bring out in the sermon, and that besides the social influence, there is the underlying character, and you can see that in verse number 25. This is really helpful. It says here, she makes linens and garments and sells them and supplies sashes for the merchants. And then it goes on And it points out, the Lemuel's mother points out the underlying character that is present within this woman that is making all of these different things possible. All of the things of her life are flowing out of her heart and her character. And you see her character in verse number 25. She has strength and honor. She's clothed with them. You see how the metaphor has continued? She's making all of these different garments for all kinds of people, including herself. And now she's not just clothed with uh whatever she's dressed with, it's it's actually the language here is nice clothing, but she's also clothed with strength and honor. And it mentions in the second part of verse number 25, she shall rejoice in time to come. And that connects us back up into verse number 21. She is not afraid of snow for her household, for all her household is clothed with scarlet. And that really adds to the picture that's being given to us is that her underlying character is able to flow out and affect her community in such a way to where because she is a woman who fears the Lord and ha and therefore has wisdom, because the beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord Through that wisdom, the future and the things that come in the future are less scary. That's the picture. Like snow here. She's not that worried about snow because she has things that keep people warm. And she got the things that keep people warm through her industry, her prudence, and the materials that her husband provided And the reason why she was able to work with all of those materials and all of those things is because the underlying character that was always present, a strength and an honor. That's the picture that we see here of this woman. And it's a picture of many women within the scriptures. In the Old Testament, to put on clothing was to show one's true colors. or to display one's true character. Now think of the characters, the the the women within the scriptures and their character. Think of their deeds and what they were able to accomplish when they are commended, and then think of the underlying character that the Spirit Himself formed and shaped within them that they would be spirit-filled women. You could think of Ruth, for example. Certainly, if you look at that story with the way that she related to her mother-in-law, she is commended for the underlying character traits of loyalty and faithfulness and devotion. Her famous declaration to Naomi, where you go, I will go. Your people will be my people, and your God, my God, in Ruth 116 It exemplifies an underlying character of steadfast commitment. And Boaz later will comment on it. The whole community had come to know her as a woman of honor. Strength and honor, just like we see here within this proverb passage. Um imagine that uh you think also of the of Abigail from 1 Samuel 25. She is praised for her wisdom. She is praised for her discernment. She's praised for her compassion. She's praised for her quick brave action when her foolish husband Nabal, which means fool in Hebrew When he insulted David, Abigail intervened wisely with humility and provision, and she averted disaster for the entire household. And there's an underlying character that was there for her to take those kinds of steps. She had the fruits of the Spirit. Another one that maybe we don't think of all the time is the woman with the issue of blood. Do you remember these stories within the Gospels? In Luke 8, 42 through 48, if you wanted to look it up another time, or Mark 5, 25 through 34, Jesus explicitly commends her. Now that's something. Can you imagine being commended by the Lord Himself? Jesus explicitly commends her for her underlying character. He says that she has great faith and courage. After twelve years of suffering, she boldly touched Jesus' garment in faith and was healed. Jesus said, Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace. In Luke 8, 48. These are just some of the examples. We could talk about Mary. We could talk about Hannah. We could talk about Tabitha or Dorcas. There are all of these different other examples, and you see these deeds that they're commended for in their community. And if you just take a moment to look a little bit longer, what you'll see is a spirit-wrought underlying character And it's the same thing that we see here. And that's being presented to you as to what a real woman looks like. As one not who's shallow, who's just a veneer, only has the looks. Charm is deceitful and beauty is fleeting, but a woman who fears the Lord, that's what we're talking about here. Now the last thing I'll point out that we have here in just our portion of this poem, we've taken a look at the social influence. We've seen the underlying character. And now in this final portion is the valuable teaching. And this is actually probably my favorite section of the poem. Today. I have a different favorite section, it seems, as I study it. But the valuable teaching, there is in verse number 26 It says this explicitly. It says that she opens her mouth with wisdom, and on her tongue is the law of kindness. Now I'm gonna I'm gonna stop there for a moment, but there is more stuff going on with the teaching. The uh uh from exper she has this experience of living a godly life And therefore, she has authority to give wise teaching within the home. So take a look at that passage again. She opens her mouth with wisdom And on her tongue is the law of kindness. There are two wait one sec There we go. No, it's fine. I've been here for a long time. Lots of screaming kids during sermons. That's great. Jesus loves little children. No, seriously, that's good to remember. That's what I say to myself. So let's go ahead and look at the scripture again. Would you with me, please? I just want you to notice the kind of teaching that she has going on here. There's actually two different kind two different attributes that are ascribed to her teaching, which I find that are really important. It's important to have this quality of teaching. In verse 26, it says, She opens her mouth with wisdom, and on her tongue is the law of kindness. You see there, the first kind of teaching is that she speaks with wisdom. This doesn't mean that she just ordered a stack of Amazon books and repeats or parrots what other people have experienced. She's speaking from her own life experiences. She has grown in walking with the Lord. She knows about the path of life. And she's able to share that wisdom with others. That's what's going on here is that she speaks with wisdom and it implies that she already possesses it. You can't give what you don't have She speaks from a place of experience and skill. And that wisdom that she has, it shapes what she has to say. Everybody knows that she's already been through it, so people listen to her. It shapes what she has to say, but it's also this, and let's not forget it, it also shapes how she says it. She knows that things set in silver or gold or a spoonful of medicine goes down a little better with some sugar. Or something along those lines. She knows all of those things, and so she's able to speak with wisdom from the life and the relationship that she has with God. But it also mentions that this second part of her teaching, that in verse 26, that on her tongue is the law of kindness. Now this is a specifically, just quite literally, loving teaching. Uh it's bas uh I'm not gonna speak the exact Hebrew, but it's basically Torah Hassed. Um and I imagine you know those words Torah, you've heard of the Torah, and Hasid, that covenant faithfulness and love. That is what is on her t her tongue. And it means that her teaching is always informed by her own loving kindness. Now that does that surprise you? What it tells you is that this passage is kind of like water is just kind of the um Her sacrificial kindness and love is really just trickling down through the whole passage. It shows up in the choices that she makes and the hard work that she does and the way that she relates to her family and her community. And now it's trickled all the way down. And because it's such a part of her, it also comes out in the teaching of her mouth. That when she talks and the way that she talks, she's doing it in order to continue to bring life to the people that are around her Really, you have a picture here of the same thing we saw in chapter 9 of Proverbs, of woman wisdom crying aloud. calling people to her palace that they'd be able to benefit and to walk in life and not go down into the grave with woman folly. That is the law of kindness that we seek in all of her life, and it continues with her speech Now those are the two, those are the some of the ways or the qualities that she has in her teaching. I wanted to point out also from this passage the extent of the teaching that she gives You'll notice here in verse number 27, it goes on to share with you some of the things that she's focused on. It says in verse 27, she watches over the ways of her household. and does not eat the bread of idleness. Oh my gracious, is this true? I see this in spades here among the women. and women in other congregations that you watch over the ways of your household, and boy, do you not eat the bread of idleness. Ways here has to do with, just pay attention to that word for a moment. It has to do with the direction that things are going. the way that things are ordered, the lifestyle that people are living, the paths that people are on and that they're taking. And is pointing out here that there is something about moms, there's something about wives that are able to notice these kinds of things. in order to make sure that their households don't fall apart. And boy is that true. Wow do I see that. You know, it r it reminds me of um the the beginning of this proverb. If you take a look at uh chapter 31, verse 2, just take a look at that again and remember where we came from? Originally in speaking to the son, King Lemuel's mother says this. She says, And what my son, and what son of my womb, and what son of my vows Here there's a chronology. She's raising this question, and she says, You're my son now. Right now, you're my son. You'll always be my son. You'll always be my boy. But then she asked that second question: I've always been looking after you, even when you were in my womb, son of my womb, and then even son of my vows, when I was praying to be able to conceive you. And the same thing is continuing here at the end of this poem where she has always looked out for the ways of her household. And it is continuing. It's continuing here. She is able to spot when somebody's on a path or something's out of order and something needs to be put right. You know, I think we all have uh a a lot of experiences where the woman of the home is able to point out to people, hey This relationship isn't going very well. We need to do something about it. And we're warned here within this passage that it is to our own harm if we don't pay attention to the women in our lives. God blesses them to be able to see while the while the household is in their womb. They've been doing it for a long time, looking out to make sure everything would be healthy, taking their um What are the pills that you take while you're pregnant? Prenatals. Thank you. Beginning with prenatals. I mean this has been a long time coming. They've been concerned in nurturing their household from the beginning So they notice things. They have an eye for it. And we need to pay attention where they see a disorderly uh disorderliness that is taking place and we need to be able to address that and not just push their words aside as if they had no wisdom. They they actually have been paying attention to the right things for a long time. Now you see this being brought out even more when it says that she does not eat the bread of idleness. Remember that idleness is not just about you're not allowed to take a rest. If you want to make a glass of lemonade and have a front porch swing, that would be great. Here, idleness is talking about when you're supposed to act, you don't. That's what idleness is. It's not acting when you're supposed to act. It would be like if all of the corn was ready to reap and then you just let it go sour. No, you reap when it's time to reap. You harvest when it's time to harvest, and you cry when it's time to cry. You're timely. And idleness means that you're not timely. You really miss it. But here, this woman and the model that is given to us, that's not her. She sees what's going on in the household and she knows when things need to be addressed. Well, that's what we have here in this short part of the poem, and we'll go on to the next part next week. We have the social influence of the wife We have the underlying character of the wife, and we have the valuable teaching of the wife. She's there in the home giving her wisdom, making sure that everything remains in order Now this is a real blessing to be given to us. And I hope that the blessing already started to come through when I mentioned earlier, just speaking directly to you women, I see Jesus Christ working these things. within each of you and within each of your families. That Jesus Christ is making you these kinds of women, or this kind of woman. And those of you here who are young men who are still looking for a woman, this is the kind of woman that you want to find. And actually, you can see it in the godly women in our congregation. They have been filled with the Holy Spirit. They have the fruits of the Spirit. And you're encouraged here to make sure that you would find a wife like this. Let me say this to the young men, just as a word of caution. You want to know one of the quickest ways for you to ruin your life? Your parents have poured so much into you, one of the quickest ways to end up with the wrong woman. To end up with a woman that does not fear the Lord. You really need to take that seriously. It really changes everything. And young ladies, you know one of the best ways, according to the scriptures, that you can bless your future husband? is to cry out to God that you would be a woman like this. Not like the woman women that are shown to you in other places. Those models might have certain attributes that, yeah, maybe they are commendable, but a lot of time they're not They focus on all the wrong things. But here you have a model. And it's Jesus Christ that is molding and shaping you as a young woman to be just like this. And for us as a church The church is seen in Proverb in Revelation 21 as a bride, a bride who's supposed to be bringing life wherever she goes. A bride who has wisdom, a bride who doesn't eat of the bread of idleness. And may we as a church have those attributes also. This is really gracious of Jesus Christ to give us this model. Everybody right now is asking, what is a woman? Well, if you want to know, you go to the Christian church and find out. They'll show you in the scriptures, just like we see here in Proverbs 31. Amen. Let us pray