Our reading of Scripture this morning will be Hebrews 8:6 through 12, which is also the word preached. Ask that you turn there to follow along with me. I just have to tell you Severn Run is the best church in the world. It's because Jesus is with us. Hebrews chapter eight, and we'll be picking up from where we left off, which will be chapter verse six, although I'll be preaching from seven to thirteen. Please follow along with me. But now he has obtained a more excellent ministry. Inasmuch as he is also a mediator of a better covenant, which was established on better promises. For if that first covenant had been faultless, then no place would have been sought for a second. Because finding fault with them, he says, meaning Jeremiah. Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not according to the covenant that I had made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt. Because they did not continue in my covenant, and I disregarded them, says the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will put my laws in their mind, and I will write on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. None of them shall teach his neighbor, and none his brother, saying, Know the Lord. For all shall know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them. For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and their lawless deeds I will remember no more. In that he says, a new covenant from that quote, he has made the first obsolete. Now what is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to vanish away. I have a particularly good number of pages here for my sermon. And so I'm not even going to waste any time with the introduction. We need to just jump right in. Otherwise we're going to seriously be here all afternoon. So so here so here's the deal. We're continuing the argument, okay? Stick with me. We're jumping right in. We got to get going. I got more than usual We're continuing the argument that shows that Christ is better. And this is done by showing that Christ is the mediator of a better covenant in this section. Do you see that in verse 6? It it's really the heading of everything that he's doing. Take a look at verse six there in your passage. He wants to prove, as he has been doing for a while, that Jesus has a more excellent ministry. Remember he's a public minister, a mediator, a surety, a high priest, a king, a prophet, all of these things for the sake of his church. And now he's going to say, inasmuch, well how is he a bet how does he have a more excellent ministry? Well, he does in that he's the mediator of a better covenant. And so what he's going to do is he's going to show you now in this next section in 7 through 13 how good this covenant is. how faulty the old one was and how good this new one is and since he is a part of that it shows him to be better. In other words, if you're the coach of a little league team, you're you know you could be pretty good. But if if you're the coach of a major league baseball team, well, you're probably a better coach. And that's the point here, is that Jesus Jesus is a better coach just by the mere fact we can see as an indication as to the covenant that he belongs to As well as all the other arguments that you've heard so far. And so in the same way, here's the point, here's the big big idea that the new covenant is better. And if that's better, then he's better. excellent ministry. It's simply divided in verses 7 through 9, he's talking about the old covenant. And in verses, in the rest of the verses, all the way down to 13, 10 through 13, he's talking about the new covenant. new covenant. And that's that those are the two parts that we'll look at today. You may want to take some notes, there's a lot of technical details that go along with this. And we're going to do our best by God's grace. The old covenant in verses 7 through 9 is first proven to be faulty in order to emphasize just how good the new one is. But we have to be very, very careful when we use that word faulty. Because in our culture it means something that it does he does not intend here. You know, you really have to look at all the scriptures to get the whole mind of God. You can't just proof text people. And so when we look here in Hebrews 8. 7, for if that first covenant had been faultless. You see that there? It's another way of saying it is faulty. Then no place would have been sought for the second. Let's remember, though, there's a paradox here. That it did have a fault. Now, if you think of Romans 8. 3, for example, let me read this to you. For what the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh. You see that little qualification there? It's talking about the law and then it's saying that it couldn't do something. Speaking about same law here, same covenant administration. But it wasn't because the law something was wrong with the law, it was something wrong with the people that were given the law Law. Okay? So when he says fault, he's he's really not saying there's something wrong with the covenant. Uh and you can see that even at the end there of verse seven it says finding fault with them. And then it goes on to a quote from Jeremiah, God through Jeremiah. showing that he did in find he did in fact find call fault with them. And we'll get into that in a minute. Romans 712 comes out with it, doesn't it? Therefore the law is holy and the commandment holy He's speaking about the Mosaic administration there. What you really have to understand to go on to understand what he means by faulty is the design of the author. No place would be sought for a second comes right at the end of verse 7. That's what he's really trying to prove to you. And you can hear these principles It's really the same argument that you just saw in Hebrews chapter 7, verse 11. Will you turn? Will you flip there real quick again? It's the exact same kind of argument applied to a different medium. He's trying to show you that the covenant is better. Before in 7, he was showing you that the high priesthood or the new priesthood of Melchizedek is better. But he does it through the same ways. Now 7-11 in Hebrews says, therefore, if perfection were through the Levitical priesthood, for under it the people received What further need was there that another priest should should rise according to the order of Melchizedek and not be called according to the order of Aaron? If the old one was good, why do we mention in this passage from Jeremiah a new? If the old one could have taken care of business, we would have just stuck with the old. Same thing is said about the Levitical priests in chapter 7. It's the same argument If the Levitical priest was meant for all time and was designed to bring perfect reconciliation between God and men, then why, when the priesthood was most successful, did David say that another priesthood is needed according to the order of Melchizedek? The argument from Psalm 110 was powerful because of its authority. He's saying to the Hebrews, look at what David said. What need would we need? Why would we need, why would David say we have another order of priesthood if the old one was fine? Why broke that which is why not fix that which is not broken? Well, it must be broken if it if we have to have this kind of fix. Now the same thing's happening here, but he's not quoting from David from Psalm 10, he's quoting from Jeremiah You see the same logic that's happening here? That's what's happening. The argument, if you remember, educated us on the purpose of the Levitical system. The Levitical priests were not bad, and neither was the ceremonial law ceremonial laws that were given at Mount Sinai. The point, nevertheless, was that God never intended the Levitical priesthood and the law to accomplish reconciliation with him at face value. That was never his design at face value. If you try and use it for that purpose, then it will crash. Now do you remember the image that I gave you when we talked about this? The Levitical priesthood and the law were the spare tire of the Mosaic Covenant And what I was what we had brought up during that argument is if you read the fine print on your spare tire, it says, do not exceed 40 miles per hour and proceed to the nearest service station, and yet Some of you, I'm gonna go check in the parking lot afterward to see if you are some are some of you are riding around on your spare tire. It says this because the spare tire does not have the capacity to serve as your rough and ready permanent tire. This is all a review. Spare tires are good, but not as full-time tires. That's not the design of the tire. So too the Levitical law was good, but only for a limited purpose and design. Now, not only was this the case with the Levitical priesthood, it was also the case with the entire Mosaic and Old Testament. Old covenant. The old covenant. The apostle quotes Jeremiah as an authority for a similar power that he quoted David earlier. And saying the same thing. You have got to understand God's design for these kind of things throughout redemptive history. If you try and use the old covenant at face value and not as a finger pointing to the promises, then you were trying to make a spare tire, a permanent tire, which is what they ran into. Now, a covenant is not just a formal agreement between two parties in this context. It's not just the shaking of a hand. It's not just the signing of a paper. We see these little quick episodes in the scriptures of covenants, and it doesn't give you the full picture. A covenant is it's a formal relationship established to accomplish a goal. Why else would you enter into covenant with someone if it didn't involve a whole associative network of benefits that you would gain from the relationship? Things that you would give and that you would take. So for example, Israel, illegitimately, in second Kings 17, has an alliance or a covenant with Egypt. Why? Just to shake hands and sign the paper. In order to gain military power against Assyria. Now they did that unlawfully, but that's what they were looking for in the relationship with Egypt. That's why they wanted the alliance. In Isaiah 30, God condemns this. Woe to the rebellious children, says the Lord, who take counsel, but not of me, and they devise plans, but not of my spirit, that they may add sin to sin, who walk down to Egypt. And have to ask, and have not asked my advice, to strengthen themselves in the strength of Pharaoh and not me, and to trust in the shadow of Egypt and not in my reality. Now that was a bad covenant, but it shows you the nature of the covenant and what was offered to them with Egypt and what God always wanted to offer them. Truly the alliance should have been with him. Now you have to ask the question, what was the goal of the old covenant at face value? If there's going to be an alliance between God and his people, what was to be accomplished? What was God's design with it? Now the Apostle Paul answers this, and this would be a good study for you, in Galatians 3, 19 through 24, and I'm not going to exposit that text. I'm just going to mention a few things. Take a look at that on your own time, though. The old covenant first, according to Galatians 3:19 through 24, the old covenant was an electric collar and an invisible fence. Some folks have these for their dogs. Do you have this for your dog? I guess you could use it for a cat. That would be kind of cruel. Cats don't really listen. Some you know what I'm talking about with the invisible sense in the same way, Israel was given clear boundaries. And those boundaries were enforced with such electrifying rigor that they lived in fear of the law. And that was for a particular purpose. You saw what it was like when they were unrestrained and not muzzled, didn't you? The old covenant restrained the people so that they could be a witness to surrounding cultures. They carried God's name with them. And eventually, his plan is to bring the Messiah from this group of people, so they must be held together. and not dissolve in complete corruption. The old covenant, in addition, was a tutor teaching everyone that they were sinful and they needed a savior, and it's not going to happen in this thing that I've been given to you. Everything was supposed to be pointing to Christ. It was a way for that to happen at that point. At face value, the old covenant was not designed to provide inner renovation and eternal salvations. Eternal salvation, and the Jews misunderstood this, some of them at least. Especially the ones that Jesus is dealing with. If we have an earthly priest and earthly sacrifice, then we can be reconciled. To God. You can almost hear one Jew having a conversation with another Jew. Hey Simeon, we aren't we so lucky to have this priest here before us. I I've known Father So-and-so for so long. I've known him for twelve years now. I am so thankful that he reconciles me before God. And what this author is pointing out is that yet the earthly priest was a sinner himself, O Father O'Malley. Or whatever. And the sacrifices had to be repeated over and over again. We just heard that argument last week. And this proved that the sacrifices never dealt fully with sin. If guilt had been taken care of, then there's no need for another sacrifice, is there? And so it ends up just being this revolving door of sacrifice and sin, sacrifice and sin, sacrifice and sin. Nothing to be able to truly appease the conscience. If we just have the laws from Moses, then we can commune with God. They would say that, hey Simeon, aren't you so thankful for the law? It's through the study of the law, knowing every line, memorizing every jot and tittle, which isn't actually a Hebrew thing, a jot and a tittle. If you were to memorize all those things, ah, the communion with God. And this author, the Apostle Paul, would come forward and he'd say, that's not true. They could not follow. The entire history of our people could not follow Moses. He went up on the mountain, and by the time he came back with the tablets, we had already built a golden calf And he dropped the tablets in astonishment. You think that you could just study and memorize and you could commune with God? See, this is the covenant at face value. This is what it means to take it at face value. Not at spiritual significance to what it points to, but at face value Oh, well then what you needed to do was you needed to not just memorize it. Uh you needed to write the law on your doorposts and you need to etch and sew them on your clothes. That shows you that you're really serious. That's what you need. You don't need to buy mints, you need to buy testaments. That way you can always have the word in your dashboard or in your in your cup holder. Then you'll be able to commune with God. And the Apostle Paul would be saying here, that doesn't work either. You literally could etch it on your doorpost. You could walk away, and three seconds later, you as a man could glance at a woman adulterously. And it just said on your doorpost, do not commit adultery. You could sew it on your clothes. You ever seen Christian clothes? You buy a Christian clothes that says Sun Kiss S O N, and it's got the soda thing, or it's got whatever. And those are so do they really help you to grow in holiness? That's all you need is on your clothes? What if it were in Jewish clothes, like an ephod or something like that, or you wore tassels to remember? What if you were to tie a string around your finger to Now, I understand there might be some kind of help in that, but not outside of the Holy Spirit. You can tie all fingers on all you can tie strings on all your fingers. If you don't have the Holy Spirit, you're not going to do any of it. And that's the point here. The external ways, the covenant at face value will not affect an eternal an internal change. The old covenant at face value does not work that way. It was never designed to be the fulfillment. To be able to accomplish for the church all that God wanted to accomplish. What the church needed and needs today is an old covenant, not at face value, but in promissory value. The Old Covenant has a superficial meaning. But we are learning that it also had a promissory meaning. When I mean superficial, I mean right on the surface. If you looked at the covenant, the old covenant and what it literally said, right on the surface, literally write the words on your doorpost. Literally sew them onto your clothes. If you just look at it at face value, you miss the promissory value It was all pointing towards a promise. We learned this last week. It pointed to other realities. The tabernacle had a face value. Remember the face value of the tabernacle? Utensils, veils, incense. sacrifices, priests. But what's the promissory value? The promissory value is Christ's flesh as the veil, a new way to enter the Holy of Holies. Christ's intercession as the incense. Christ as the Lamb of God as sacrifice. Christ as our altar. Christ as our priest. Christ is the tabernacle. He is the promissory value. The apostle continues to bring out more promissory values here within this passage. He shows that all this is pointing to a new covenant with better promises. Everything about it. You could have mistakenly taken it at face value and that would have been wrong. But it did have a promissory value also The new covenant is established, in fact, on better promises. We've already started to talk about some of those in terms of our high priest, but now he brings out even more in verses 10 through 12 by using the quote from Jeremiah. This is the longest Old Testament quote in the New Testament. Isn't that interesting? And it's the least expounded on by the author himself. He barely says anything about it. It's a little frustrating. The first part of the quote that we just looked at was to show you that because of the people, the old covenant at face value could not accomplish everything that God wanted for his people. You can write and tie strings on your fingers, and it's not going to do the job if you only look at the covenant at face value. You see how they mistake that? They mistook that? There's a promissory value. The second part of the quote is to show what God would do, has in fact now done, given the need of his people. And there are two main promises, and I'm I'm I'm joining some things together and reducing other points. But there's two main promises here. And the first one is he makes a promise in verse 10 to address our corrupted nature. Those of you who are doing the catechism as children, you are corrupt in in your being, right? The very nature of how how does it go, children? I'm corrupt in every part of my being. I love it when I hear my kids say that. That's great. I am corrupt in every part of my being, Daddy. Yes, you are. So the apostle continues here in 810 to show that he is addressing our corrupt nature. For this is the covenant. Take a look at your scripture. Scriptures. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will put my laws in their mind and write them on their heart. The mind and the heart in Ephesians 4, 17 through 18, captures the center of the corruption of humanity. Listen to Ephesians 14, 74, 17 and 18. This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord, that you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk, in the futility of their mind. Having their understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart. It's the center. The two combined are the center of the corruption of humanity. The apostle is naming the core, the fountain. This is the center of our corruption that is being addressed within the covenant. It was always present within the old covenant, but not at face value, only in promissory value. Well now it's going to be brought out in high relief. That's the purpose of this letter, is they've missed it. Everything's being brought out in high relief. Everything that the Lord intended. This is the center of our corruption. Our souls and their natural states are a fountain or spring of pollution. That's why by the time Moses came back down, he had to drop the tablets to show the breaking of the covenant. Even though it was literally written on stone, so we would never forget it. It wasn't written well enough for us and our pollution. So God says, I'm going to make sure that this can be taken care of. Now, are some of you familiar with the Conewingo Dam? Do you develop frustration in your heart when you hear about the Conewingo Dam? The Conowingo Dam is a large hydroelectric dam in the lower Susquehanna River. The Susquehanna travels and all Pennsylvania goes way up and we're downstream of everyone. And it the the Susquehanna travels and it deposits, now that there's a dam there, it deposits soot and trash from the upper sections of the river at the base of the dam. And when there is a lot of rain, they need to release the dam. Well get it guess what is below the dam? Guess w what is fed by the Susquehanna? Chesapeake Bay. One of the most frustrating things that can happen is you can pay for a um a fishing trip and then they release the dam and you can't see any it scares all the rockfish out of the water. And they go to southern Maryland. They release the dam, and when they do, the Chesapeake Bay becomes murky and it has tires flowing. Down it. In the same way, our minds and our hearts are dams. The trash and the soot of our nature collects at the base of our souls, and it is released upon our neighbor and the world. That is our problem. You can think of all the pent-up energy there and the lust that would be present at the base of that dam and the base of our soul. However, now a new covenant is established that which is which was even promised uh by by presence virtually in promise in the old is established that addresses This problem. In the old covenant at face value, God gave Israel his law and told them to write it upon their doorposts and to inscribe it on their clothing and to memorize the early. And he wrote the law with his own finger on the tablets of stone. However, in the new covenant, look what happens in the passage. God writes the laws on our hearts and minds, and he renews and he recreates. the soul. Exactly what we need. What a good administration. What an excellent covenant. How much better is it? And how much better is our mediator who is in charge of it? And this is reinforced reinforced by verse eleven. Take a look at verse eleven None of them shall teach his neighbor, and none his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for all shall know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them. Now this has certainly been misunderstood. Particularly amongst in the 16th century, the Quakers, so I'm not sure what the Quakers are doing now. Many have misunderstood this passage. Some use it to prove that no human teachers Are needed, and it's a lack of faith to have any, that you should sit in your quiet place and hear the small, still voice of the Spirit. Or you should just read your Bible and it doesn't matter what anybody else says. Just you and your Bible However, this really can't be the meeting and meaning, and this is why just a basic point of interpretation is That you can't just read one piece of Scripture without considering what all of Scripture says. And that which is more clear to you must be used to understand that which is less clear. In a kind of shadowy promise like this. What he's pointing out is not what the Quakers would have said back then. In fact, in Ephesians chapter 4, the ascended Christ as one of his gifts to the church sends us what? Teachers. So that certainly can't be what he's talking about here. Rather, the promise refers, and you can just appeal to your own experience of being a New Testament believer. That this is referring to the promise of the ministry of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit will teach you the mind and law of God in a way that sticks, that feels like he's written it on the tablet. He'll make your heart malleable and he'll form it into the image of Christ. And one day, when you look in the mirror, you will literally see the Ten Commandments Because you'll be in the image of Christ. It will no longer be like the wanderings in the wilderness. You remember the beginning of Hebrews where only Caleb and Joshua were were the ones that remained faithful? That's not what happens here. Look at what he says. He says, from the least of them to the greatest, they will all know the Lord. And we could get into the bringing in and the gathering of every tongue and tribe and nation and not just this little group of wandering people in the desert. The second is that he promises to commune with us in this covenant. Hebrews 8 10, I will be their God and they shall be my people. And this should remind you of the discussion of Jesus. Because God the Father has placed Jesus as a mediator in order for the communion to happen through his Spirit. Jesus as high priest is really a description of God as king taking care of us. Jesus as King calls out of the world a people to himself and he gives them officers, laws by which we can visibly govern ourselves God through Christ pours out saving grace upon his elect. He rewards our obedience. He corrects us for our sins. He preserves and supports us under all temptations and sufferings. He restrains And he overcomes all of our enemies. And Jesus powerfully arranges all things for his own glory and our good. He is our God, and we are his people. That's what you mean when you say that. It also means this: that our communion with God is further developed by verse 12. Take a look at verse 12. For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness and their sins and lawless deeds. I will remember no more. Which office does this imply in terms of what God the Father has given to the Lord Jesus Christ? It is his priesthood once again This is still in focus. We're still under the category of better than Aaron. Aaron the high priest. And in fact, the next two chapters will develop nothing but this. Christ performs the office of a priest by only once offering himself a sacrifice without spot to be a reconciliation for the sins of his people and in making continual intercession for us. We've covered all those points. We've done all of those points. And now here's a question that may arise as we're going through this. This passage, I feel like I say This with every passage. It's one of the most difficult passages. Don't I say that a lot? This is one of the most difficult ones. There's a lot of debate over this. One of the questions that you can be asking is Here's a summary you could be saying in your head, you are telling me that this is the new covenant and the glory of the new covenant are the better promises. Gotcha. And if there's better promises, it's a better priest. And Jesus is better. Got it. Now I can see the front of my bulletin. Jesus is greater. For example, however, weren't some in the old covenant partakers of these promises too? So, how could you be saying this? For example, are you telling me that Abraham and Moses did not have the Holy Spirit to teach them? Because that's what's promised in this covenant. Did they not have it because it's a new covenant? The Old Testament fathers certainly did have saving faith. And now let me just give you one example. The Apostle Paul uses Abraham over and over again as the premier example of what it means to be a new covenant believer. So that hypothesis is not what I'm saying. There's really a larger problem that's happening here, and that's what is how is the Bible connected in all of its parts? How does it continue as a single story? Where does it become interrupted? In what ways does it become interrupted? interrupted. And well, this is something that you might want to write down that could be helpful for you because you're going to have to think about this for longer than just this sermon. Here's one scheme. And it has a little jingle to it. Or you could turn it into a jingle if you want. The Old Testament is Jesus promised The New Testament gospels are Jesus revealed. The Acts of the Apostles are Jesus preached. The epistles are Jesus explained. And revelation is Jesus anticipated. Let me say that one more time. Old Testament is Jesus promised. The New Testament gospels are Jesus revealed. The Acts of the Apostles Jesus preached The epistles Jesus explained and revelation Jesus anticipated. Now there's another way to think about this too. Another way that you must look at the whole Bible is as a two-act play. The first act is the old covenant. The second act is the new covenant. But when I say that, it's all one play. You see what I'm saying? So it becomes a little bit complicated. There's one play. In fact, Genesis 3. 15, all the way back then, Adam is a new covenant believer. In Genesis 3. 15, God gives the promise of Christ stomping on the work of the devil as early as that The whole Bible is the single continuous playout or play of the revelation of this happening, but it takes place in two acts, is what I'm saying to you. It's just another way or another model for you to consider. If you wanted to, you could also say that it's two administrations. You have an Obama administration and a Trump administration. Don't judge me. Me, there's a single, but they are all administration of a single government? Same. Two administrations, single story that continues, and that is called the covenant of grace. Thus, in the Old Testament, There are many parts, perhaps, to the play, two acts, maybe multiple scenes, however you divide it up, but it's all a part of one single gracious stream going down through the ages called the covenant of grace Your confession will say that it's one covenant of grace and two administrations, the old administration and the new administration Two ways of delivering Christ to people. One through face value and promissory, and that which is in the fulfillment. And that's how our Bible comes together. There's some different ways for you to be able to think through that. To be able to think through how your Bible would stick together and the continuity of it. If you were in Act 1, then you saw Christ but very dimly, was one of the effects. In Act 1, if you're on the stage, you don't really know what's going to happen in Act Two. You can't see it very clearly. You know, this is there's a great illustration within Mark 8. 24 that helps us to see the relationships between the covenants. In Mark 8. 24, Jesus has met this blind man, and Jesus gets the mud and he spits, and then he rubs the mud and the spit on the guy's eyes. Can you imagine that? Him rubbing mud and spit on your eyes. That'd be great. He does this, and what's the first thing that happens? He says, the man opens his eyes and he looked up and he said, I see men. They're like trees walking. Anybody out there, when you take off your glasses, do you just see trees walking? It means it's really blurry. You can't see clearly, and that's what it would have been like to be under face value and something that was just a promise many years later, the old covenant. That's another way to look at your scriptures. Is that you're that person, if you were under in Act One, you had the mud rubbed on your eyes and you opened and all you could see were just kind of this This negative instead of the real picture, these trees walking instead of the reality of Christ, these shadows. But then the passage goes on, and here's Act 2. And there's where you would see Christ so clearly in verse 25 of Mark. Then he put his hands on his eyes and again, again, and made him look up, and he was restored, and he saw everyone clearly. Oh Oh. The Lamb is Jesus. The walls of the tabernacle are Jesus. The utensils are Jesus. The incense is Jesus. And that's what's happening in this book. right here. Everything is about Jesus. Jesus promised. Jesus preached. Jesus explained. Jesus expected. Everything is about Jesus. And one stream of the covenant of grace and two acts and two administrations. That's your Bible. The new covenant is better, is his point, which was promised in the signs of the old. The old covenant could not accomplish all God wanted to do for him. his church nor was it designed for that. He never designed it, so don't criticize him for that. He never designed it for that purpose. It'd be like taking chicken soup and dumping it in your pool, expecting it to clear up the algae. It was never designed for that. Don't criticize my chicken soup because it doesn't act like chlorine. If it did, you wouldn't like my chicken soup. That's the point of the design. That's what he's saying by the faultiness of the old covenant. The new covenant affects everything needed for the renovation of us, his people. The point is that all that it is all accomplished and run by one mediator, this new reality. Jesus has a more excellent ministry. He is the mediator of a better covenant established on better promises. That's the main argument. And that's how he unfolds it. And that's everything that goes into that. If you were a Jew of that day, you would have known all that background knowledge that I just gave you. Now I want you to notice in verse thirteen as we end that he says In that he draws an inference from everything that he just said, especially from the part of the quote that says a new covenant. Do you see that in verse 13? In that he says, a new covenant he has made the first obsolete. Now, what is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to vanish away. Now this would have been very real for them in 70 A. D. , would it not? Would they not literally be seeing the temple? ransacked in 70 A. D. , the glory of the temple and the high priest and the sacrifices vanishing before their very eyes. Eyes. And those who had dedicated themselves to that system and didn't get past the face value to the promissory value, they would have seen it vanishing away. They would have seen the temple burn and the people in the courtyard. And you've heard a story about that. That is, they were looking at the face value and they turned God's design into a mere human religion, and they stuck with that. They're actually, the Jews are still struggling with this. But they have stuck with this. They have created and kept just the face value, which becomes a mere human religion with no power or transformation. No connection with the supernatural. I want you to think about some of the other religions that you may be exposed to that have the same mark. For example Think of the religious, think of uh mere human religion and how it unfolds. A mere human religion just follows it just follows rules and laws with no personal communion with God Himself. You just read the book and you follow the steps during the day. There's no personal communion, and that's what Judaism has been reduced to. There's no personal communion for how would they commune? They have no high priest. And now I want to know, could you perhaps struggle with the same thing? You also have a human heart who is capable of taking something only at face value. and turning supernatural transformation through the administration of Christ as your mediator into a mere human religion where you just follow rules. And laws, where you're just sewing the fringe on the garment and you're not getting to the heart of the matter. Now think of how that is the case with some of other the other religions that we come in contact with. If you are a Buddhist, Is there any communion with Buddha? No. You just follow the teachings from his book. Have you ever heard a Buddhist say, well, I'm just loving my personal relationship with Buddha? Buddha. Have you ever heard someone say, I'm loving my personal relationship with Confucius? They have his writings and they seek to follow the words that are on the page. They have no personal relationship or transforming power from Confucius. Or what about Muhammad with Islam? Do you hear Muslims say, ah, you should be jealous of me because of my personal relationship with Islam. with Muhammad. There's no such thing. They have rules and they have words and they follow the words and they follow the rules There's no personal relationship. It's a mere at face value non-transformative human religion. And you could just come up with your own if you want to do that. Come up with your own religion and form God in your own image. Do you turn Christianity into a mere religious system? Or when you speak, because of the inheritance of America, do you speak about Christianity in this way when you do evangelism? Do you just follow rules without any sense of communion with the living God? All of us say that in some sense, and we're very regretful of it, I I believe. I don't think any of us are very proud of would be would be very proud of being able to make Such a statement. We all long for a sense of communion with God, a personal touch, so to speak. I want you to consider your prayers for an instance. Here's what it looks like to be a new covenant believer Someone who doesn't just take something at face value and follow religious regulations that have no power in and of themselves, but someone that's connected with Jesus Jesus, like Stephen was connected, that we the uh in his trial and his persecution. Do your prayers feel like lifeless offerings into the darkness? Like no one is listening. You're just going through the motions because it helps you to feel better to know that you prayed, so then you can tell yourself, I'm a guy, I'm a guy, or I'm a girl that prays And now I don't feel guilty because I know I'm supposed to be praying. And he's going to ask a question in the sermon, do you pray? And I'm going to be able to, yes I do. I pray every day. And at least you could be able to answer that. But is that, did you turn it into a mere human religion? Are your prayers a lifeless speaking into the air just for the sake of building up your own self-righteousness? I know a gentleman. And I know a lady that felt this way. And interestingly, as they were struggling through this, Jesus had grace on them and revealed something to them. It was very, very interesting as they talked about this. Prayers, they realized, are at their core a request to a person concerning a desire. That's actually what the confession says. It is the lifting up of a desire by request. I have a personal desire, and I'm going to request something from you, another person. And that's what prayer is. And when that reality of that truly dawns on you, it can't be just a religious lifeless system. There's immediate a personal contact that takes place. There's your desires and their desires. It's your request and their want if they will grant the request. There's automatically a personal relationship that is established Now, when this gentleman and this lady prays, they say, God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, I desire to have patience with my family. This is my request, my request before you. Now you can do that just as a religious monotony, but they really mean it. Then they wait and listen to this Because they believe that Jesus really hears them, and by faith they see him as the as their high priest, they wait and they look every moment for the providential hand of God asking, is this the moment when I'm gonna be patient? They read their Bible and they listen to sermons and they take the Lord's Supper with this thought, will this be the moment? That you bless me with patience. I know you're there. I'm just waiting. Contently. Will this be the moment? Will these be the instruments that you use to renovate my heart? Now that is a new covenant relationship. That's what it means to live in Act II. That's what it means to live under the surety and the mediatorship of Jesus Christ. Christ. Let's all endeavor to live with a new covenant state of mind. And we can begin that right now because the last song, you will be communing personally with God. The last song is you speaking to him, to the Trinity. You as a person speaking to another person. If you're distractable, close your eyes and by faith commune with the triune God. as you sing this song. Let's stand and let's begin acting out our new covenant status