Copy of God's Word with you, please turn there to Matthew chapter 13. It's also printed for you in the bulletin if you want to follow along there. I'll be reading verses 1 through 23, but our focus this morning is only going to be on the parable and the explanation, verses 1 through 9 and 18 through 23. We're going to read the whole passage just to give us that context. This is the word of the living God for the people of God. On the same day Jesus went out of the house and sat by the sea, and great multitudes were gathered together to him, so that he got into a boat and sat, and the whole multitude stood on the shore. Then he spoke many things to them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went out to sow, and as he sowed, some seed fell by the wayside, and the birds came and devoured them Some fell on stony places where they did not have much earth, and they immediately sprang up because they had no depth of earth. But when the sun was up, they were scorched, and because they had no root, they withered away And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprang up and choked them, but others fell on good ground, and yielded a crop, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. And the disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? He answered and said to them, Because it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been given For whoever has, to him more will be given, and he will have abundance. But whoever does not have, even what he has, will be taken away from him Therefore I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. And in them the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled, which says Hearing you will hear and shall not understand, and seeing you will see and not perceive. For the hearts of this people have grown dull, their ears are hard of hearing, and their eyes they have closed Lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears, lest they should understand with their hearts and turn, so that I should heal them But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears for they hear. For assuredly I say to you that many prophets and righteous men desired to see what you see, and did not see it and to hear what you hear and did not hear it. Therefore, hear the parable of the sower. When any one hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, then the wicked one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is he who received seed by the wayside. But he who received the seed on stony places, this is he who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy. Yet he has no root in himself But endures only for a while. For when tribulation or persecution arises because of the word, immediately he stumbles. Now he who receives seed among the thorns is he who hears the word, and the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful. But he who received the seed on the good ground is he who hears the word and understands it Who indeed bears fruit and produces some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. Thus far, the word of the Holy God. Let us pray and ask his blessing. Father, this is your word. You have preserved it for us. It is a great gift to us and a mercy. We pray that we would experience that mercy and grace this morning. That your Spirit would open this word to us, that it would take root in our hearts. Father God, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my strength, and my redeemer. Amen. Please be seated. When Jesus first spoke this parable, I'm pretty sure his audience had no trouble relating to the story. It's likely that they were much more familiar with the growing of food than we are. And if you pay attention to what's happening on the world stage, that could change in the near future. You see, none of us Would have a problem finding ourselves in, let's say, the parable of the Amazon shopper. We could see ourselves readily in a parable such as that. But in the parable of the sower? Is it so easy to find ourselves there? Well if this were only a story about growing food, uh A lesson about agriculture and farming, then perhaps we could be forgiven for thinking that it doesn't apply to us. But to treat it that way is to do exactly what Isaiah says. Hearing you do not understand, and seeing you do not perceive. This story is not all about farming It's very important that we understand this passage because it marks a change in how Jesus taught the crowds in his earthly ministry. And we, here now, 2,000 years later, need to be able to understand how Jesus teaches. In Mark chapter 4, verse 13, Jesus asks his disciples, Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables? The same is true for us. We must understand this parable to know how to understand all the other parables of Jesus. The same events and the same parable are found in the two other synoptic gospels, in Mark 4, verses 1 through 20, and in Luke 8, verses 4-15. You can maybe turn there and look at that this afternoon. Good Sabbath reading. And though Jesus often used illustrations in his teaching and ministry, this passage is the first of his official parables. Up to this point, he taught plainly, speaking and healing out in the open where all can see and hear. Think for yourself of the Sermon on the Mount. But when Jesus heals and teaches on the Sabbath day, the Pharisees, oh, they get riled up. They begin to question. who this man might be, who he might serve. They begin to plot about how they might destroy him. That's in chapter 12, verse 14. They say that his power is evil because it comes from the enemy. Chapter 12, verse 24. They ask Jesus for a sign, chapter 12, verse 38, and Jesus says. An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. That's not exactly crystal clear, is it? Things are starting to seem a little less transparent. And here in chapter 13, Jesus begins. This new phase, this new method of teaching in his ministry. While he continues to speak to the crowds openly, he teaches in a kind of code. He speaks in a way that only his elect, only the chosen sheep of his flock can truly understand. He speaks in parables He speaks openly to all of the people, but not all of the people can grasp the true significance and the true meaning of the story that they hear. Mark 4, verse 34 says that he did not speak to them except in parables from this point on. We must understand Jesus' parables. And in order to do that, we have to answer one question first. What is a parable? The English definition is a story, statement, or comment that conveys a meaning indirectly by the use of comparison, analogy, or the like. I think the most helpful word in that definition is indirectly. Perhaps you've heard it explained this way, as I have, though I can't ever remember where I first heard it. A parable is an earthly story with heavenly meaning. The word itself, parable, comes from the Greek parabole. It's a combination of the word for beside and the word for throw. And it's quite literally a side-by-side comparison. You throw something beside it in the means of comparing it. And Jesus ingeniously crafted stories which demonstrate a plain and simple truth. Though with a much deeper significance, a much deeper and hidden meaning. Thus we have the parables This indirect communication or code is by design. It's not an accident It's not for everyone to have the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. But we'll get into that in a lot more detail next Sunday when we focus on verses 10 through 17. This morning, we're going to focus on the parable and the explanation. And from this parable, I pray that we will learn that only the heart blessed by God to believe his word will bear fruit for the kingdom. Only the heart, blessed by God to believe his word, will bear fruit for his kingdom. We're going to look at it in two sections. This morning we'll first look at the parable given, verses 1 through 9, and then we'll examine the parable explained, verses 18. through twenty-three. Let's get right to it. Let's start by examining the parable given. And the first thing we notice Is the occasion of the parable. It's right there, verses 1 through the first part of verse 3. You can follow along with me in the scripture. On the same day, Jesus went out of the house and sat by the sea. That's verse one. This is the same day that the scribes and the Pharisees asked Jesus to give them a sign to prove his authority and power. It's the very same day that Jesus is sought by his blood relatives, and he teaches that we must look deeper and not be satisfied with the surface-level understanding of things like family. Family is more than just flesh and blood. Our true family is everyone who shares the one Father in heaven. Jesus again goes out into the open to teach the gathered crowds. Look at verse 2. And great multitudes were gathered together to him, so that he got into a boat and sat, and the whole multitude stood on the shore. The great multitude. It's like all those multitudes that had come to Jesus before. They were looking for something special. They had heard about him. They wanted those words of life. They wanted to experience the supernatural healing. They were hoping that they would experience Jesus as they had heard about him And yet perhaps sprinkled among the crowd were some trying to trap him, like those Pharisees, or catch him in some kind of mistake. Maybe a good deal of them were looking for that sign. The Lord Jesus has mercy on them. Do you see what he does? Do you see his concern for them? He wants them all to be able to hear And so he enters the boat. He goes out into the water, and he teaches from the water that everyone would be able to hear his voice. He knows that crowd, that great multitude before him. He knows that they need to hear his words. And he knows exactly what word they need to hear. The beginning of verse 3 says, Then he spoke many things to them in parables, saying, From this, we understand that this is not the only parable, nor can we assume that we have all of Jesus' parables recorded for us. What we have are those which the good Lord wanted us to have in order that we would better know Him and know what He requires of us. This is the first. of the parables. And we are blessed with his own explanation of it to teach us how to understand the parables. To do that, we must now examine the parable itself. So we're going to be focusing on the rest of verse 3 through verse 9. The parable begins with a sower. Behold, a sower went out to sow. If we paid attention, this story is barely about the sower, isn't it? This is all there is to him. He's one who sows. And he, guess what he does? He sows. He takes seed, he tosses it into the field. We aren't told anything, not one word, about how to be the best sower. The Lord does not give us the most successful sowing techniques. Now, at the time that the parable was given, the sower is Jesus, teaching the crowds, giving the word of God. Later, after Christ's ascension, the sower will become his apostles. Then the sower becomes the early church fathers. And then down through the ages, through the course of history and time, who's the sower now? It's us, you and I. Now the seed is also very important. It's vital to the story itself, but it's barely about the seed. Notice that there are not different seeds for each of the different soils. There's only one seed. Verse 19 tells us that it's the word of the kingdom. In the Luke parallel passage, it states it even clearly. Even more clearly, it says that the seed is the word of God. Well, if you're paying attention to this, you uh you'd notice that Jesus is uh is remiss in his reading. He hasn't read all those books about church growth. He hasn't read those various articles about How the church can survive in the 21st century. How we need to make church relevant and attractive and palatable to everyone. We're certainly not taught that in this parable. The sower here throws the seed far and wide. He doesn't take special precautions or employ methods designed around the specific needs of the different soil types. He doesn't break out the fog machine. Now, if you're paying attention, you see that the soils are the main theme of this parable. There's four different kinds, and there's only one of them, which allows the seed to find a home and fulfill its purpose of growing and producing fruit. The three others teach us something about the world, and if we're careful. If we beg the Holy Spirit to show us ourselves, it teaches us something about us, doesn't it? Look at verse 4, the first part. We've got the sower, he's gone out to sow, and as he sowed, some seed fell by the wayside, and the birds came and devoured them. Wayside is used here to translate the word for road or path. The Luke passage helps us understand this. uh understand a little bit more about the soil. It's a place where things are trampled down. They're walked on, they're trodden, they're packed down. It's so hard, the soil is so packed, it might as well be stone. It's not receptive to anything, certainly not to seeds. And after the birds get to it, it's as if no seed had been sown there at all. There is no hope of fruit coming from the seed that was sown on the wayside. Look at verses five and six. Some fell on stony places where they did not have much earth, and they immediately sprang up because they had no depth of earth. But when the sun was up, they were scorched, and because they had no root they withered away. This soil is looser than the first. The seed can find some purchase, find some protection, spring up. That seems like a good thing, doesn't it? But the problem is that the soil layer is so thin because it rests on top of rocky ground, there's nowhere for the roots to go. They cannot grow. And so, as the plant grows up, what should be giving it energy, what should be giving it life, the sun ends up scorching it, because its roots cannot find the moisture it needs. And so the plant withers. There's no hope of fruit from that seed either. And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprang up and choked them. This soil is obviously hospitable for plant life. There's a bunch of plants already growing there. Thorns are basically weeds. They don't prevent the seed from taking root, but they do prevent the plant, which grows from the seed, from being fruitful. They choked the roots, they blocked the light, and if the plant does survive, it does not bear fruit. But others fell on good ground and yielded a crop some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. Jesus chooses not to give details about this kind of soil. All we know, this is all that we're told in the whole parable, and the whole explanation also, is that this is the kind of soil In which the seed thrives. And thrive it does. It yields a tremendous harvest, a hundredfold, sixtyfold, thirtyfold. We can understand this: that from one seed, just one A hundred more seeds come, or sixty more seeds, or thirty more seeds. Talk about return on investment. Verse 9 says, He who has ears to hear, let him hear. And we're going to cover that in more detail next week because that itself is a statement of judgment against those who don't hear and don't understand. Well, there you have it. The first of Jesus' parables. If verses 1 through 9 were all we had, I don't know about you, but I'd be a little confused. I hope you'll forgive me, but we're talking about the soils. It's it's clear as mud. The story is so simple, it seems self-explanatory. The best soil Is the best home for the seed, and it produces the best crop. Well, thank God in heaven that the disciples were just as slow as we are. They had to ask Jesus why he speaks in parables, and in his response to them, he gives an explanation of the parable of the sower. He shows us exactly how we are to understand it. So now we're going to turn our attention to the parable explained. This is verses 18 through 23 And here we find out with absolute certainty the story is not about farming. Jesus explains, starting with the first kind of soil. Therefore, hear the parable of the sower. When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, then the wicked one comes and snatches away. What was sown in his heart. This is he who received seed by the wayside. From this verse we learn that the seed is the word of the kingdom or the word of God, and the soil is in fact not just soil It's the heart of a human being. And in this case, the heart is a hardened heart. It's packed down. It's beaten down. It's like that path or that road, the wayside. It is so hardened that it can't receive the same. Seed. Such a hardened heart, if you notice, is vulnerable to the enemy. A hard heart is vulnerable to the wicked one who can come and snatch away the Word of God before it ever has a chance to grow or bear fruit for the kingdom. People with hardened hearts aren't just resistant to the gospel. Oftentimes, they're resistant to any kind of logic or reasoning. Well, Jesus explains the second kind of soil as being those who have shallow hearts. Look at verses twenty and twenty-one. But he who received the seed on stony places, this is he who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy. Yet he has no root in himself, but endures only for a while. For when tribulation or persecution arises because of the word, immediately he stumbles There's an immediate, superficial response to the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so this one appears to have the joy of salvation. They have a worship experience. I don't know about you. You may have heard it called a mountaintop experience. Oh, they're just up there. There are a great many churches nowadays trying to create these kinds of experiences. They try to manipulate people's emotions with insipid music or pop music or lights or all kinds of different things Raffles and giveaways and stuff like that. They try to entertain. They try to amuse in order to manipulate and produce a response. But the one with a shallow heart, though there is a response, it's merely temporary. The trials which accompany the word cause them to stumble, and the fruit of salvation is not produced in their life. The third kind of soil is explained to be those with worldly hearts. Look at verse 22. Now he who received seed among the thorns is he who hears the word, and the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches Choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful. This person hears the word, they might even receive it well. But their life is so full, they don't have room to allow the seed to grow and to thrive. It cannot bear fruit. The cares of the world, the stresses, and the difficulties of life are overwhelming, and there's no energy, there's no time to focus on the Word of God. These hearts are deceived. Worldly hearts are deceived by riches. The worldly heart, its focus, everything that it values, is in and of the world. And so the word is choked. Does not grow, does not yield a harvest. And the last type of soil is simply those who have believing hearts Look at verse 23. But he who received seed on the good ground is he who hears the word and understands it. Who indeed bears fruit and produces some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. They are described as those who hear the word and understand it. They believe it It is given its proper place of honor in their life, and it is not devoured by the enemies of the gospel Their response to it is not superficial or shallow. Their life is founded on it, sustained by it, defined by it. It is in this kind of heart that the seed of the gospel takes root and grows into a thriving and productive Christian life. From such a life a harvest for the kingdom is born. New seeds are produced and sown a hundred, sixty, thirty fold. Oh, that God would allow us to see in our own lives such fruit, such a harvest from our Christianity, from our faithfulness. What a parable. What a lesson for God's people. It both amazes us and it should humble us. Through this simple story, we are taught so much about God, we are taught so much about the world, and we're taught so much about ourselves. Look at what it teaches us about God. God gives his seed. He has designed the seed. He's made the seed, and the seed is his holy word. He has designed his seed that it would only take root in one particular kind of heart. The good kind. He doesn't change his word or his message or his gospel that it would match the soils. No, what does he do? He changes the soils to be fit for the word, to be fit for the seed. So we must not worry about the palatability or attractiveness of the gospel. We must not worry about how the world perceives the truth of the Word of God. We cannot change it. We must not hide any aspects of it. in order that we would try to induce the hardened or the shallow or the superficial or the worldly into receiving it The seed is one and it does not change. We also learn that God is not in need. He doesn't need the perfect sower. The sower has no impact on the soil. The one delivering the Word of God does not determine the profitability and the effectiveness of the Word. If it did, how could Judas have sat under the teaching of Jesus Himself and yet still reject it? The sower is not what's important here. There is no way for anyone, anyone who sows the gospel, anyone sharing the Word of God, to manipulate how hearers will respond to it. And because there's no way for them to manipulate that, there's no way for any sewer to take credit for how someone responds to the word. There's no way to package the seed so that it is always fruitful, always received. Notice that the sower doesn't become a specialist He doesn't alter his methods for the different soils. He's not a wayside exclusive preacher who specializes and got his doctorate of ministry in sowing the hardened hearts. He doesn't establish the shallow soil sanctuary where the rootless plant is coddled so it can survive, yet never become mature enough to bear actual fruit. The Lord made the one seed, he made the soils. He gets to define what kind of soil is good for the seed. He alone can make a heart fit to understand and to hear. To believe his word, which brings salvation. Well, the parable also teaches us about the world It answers for us the most challenging of questions. Why is it that so many people reject the good news of reconciliation with the Father and the forgiveness of our sins through the Lord Jesus Christ? Well, it answers that question. Some people have hearts which are hardened. So what can we do? Do we shout louder at them? No, we must pray. We must pray that the Lord would soften them. We must pray that He who is the only one who can change and alter soils would alter and transform their hearts. That it would become good soft soil where the gospel will take hold. Now some people will seem to accept the seed to embrace Jesus Christ, or so they think they do. They say the words. They go through the motions. They have what seems like a genuine experience of God's grace and mercy. And don't be mistaken, joy is a righteous response to the gospel. But if it's only an emotional experience, that is wholly insufficient to support the Christian faith. Some will hear the word, they will recognize its significance and try their hardest to cultivate it and to help it grow, but they don't give it the attention it deserves. Their heart is filled with longings and desires of the world. There isn't room for the seed to grow into that which is intended. Other priorities take precedence. The word is neglected. It's choked. It's stifled. It is never reaching fulfillment And then there are some people we can never tell who. You'll never be able to look out into a crowd and say, Oh, there's the good soil. He's got the MAGA hat on. It doesn't work that way. That's not how it works. These people that we can never tell who they are will receive the word. They will receive it truly and sincerely, and they will give it the proper priority and honor. in their lives that God wants them to. They will abandon their own pursuits and goals to devote their time and their energy to God's Word and to the kingdom. And by God's grace it will not only grow to take over their whole life. But it will bring forth seeds of its own, that same seed, which will then be sown, which will reap a harvest. From that life, a hundred Christians may come, or sixty, or thirty. It's important for us to remember That the growing season for human beings is their whole life There are those who are good soil. We just can't tell. We just can't tell yet. The evidence remains to be seen. The fruit has yet to be born. The plant is growing, it's visible, it appears healthy, but it may be too soon to determine if it's growing in rocky soil with no depth for its roots, or if the soil is filled with thorns and weeds that are going to choke it out It is crucial that we remember this whenever we share the gospel. A person has their whole life. To show what kind of soil they are. The Lord tells us that some plant and others water and others reap the harvest. We must never congratulate ourselves when someone responds favorably And at the same time, we must not unduly chastise ourselves if they do not. We must leave it in the hands of him who makes the seed, of him who makes the soil. And lastly, we learn something about ourselves. Now I'm not gonna embarrass anybody in here by asking for a show of hands, but I know for a fact There's at least one person in this room who, at various times in life, would have described themselves or thought that they were each one of these bad soils. That's me. I know what it's like to have a hard heart. I grew up in a Christian household. I was surrounded by the Word of God, the gospel, yet my heart never truly received it Because I wanted to serve myself. I had my own goals. Sunday mornings I'd bob my head up and down. Oh yes, preacher man. Mm-hmm. I had uh I was very good at the Presbyterian Amen. You know what the Presbyterian Amen is? Exactly. I was taking copious notes. But not two minutes would go by as soon as I was out the door, headlong, running first, into the flames of my own desires, my own self-will. I ignored what I had just heard so that I could just go and do whatever I felt like on the Lord's Day. Perhaps you too have heard the word of God and responded with joy. You've had an emotional response. It's it's a real emotional response. I'm not I'm not dogging on joy or emotion. You wept at the thought of God's grace. You beat your breast, knowing you were one who did not deserve the mercy of Christ. The following days or weeks, maybe months or years, were filled with A kingdom focus, you were excited about the gospel, excited about the word. If you were like me, you made these sweeping declarations. I will never go there again. I will never do that again. I will not, I do not need those people in my life. I'm done with it. Lord for you, I'm done with it all. Then eventually that fades, right? As time passes after the conference or the concert or the sermon. And then along comes some trouble, some adversity The first real trial after that mountaintop experience, and you fall right back in the old patterns, the old sinful thoughts and the old sinful behaviors. Or maybe you relate as I can to the third kind of soil. The Word of God is really precious to you. You know how important it is. You know with your head. You could talk all about text criticism, you know, all of the all the different hundreds of thousands of manuscripts. It's really important to you You can talk all about the commentators k commentators and the commentaries and you've read Calvin and you know all about the Bible. Oh the Bible. But come on, life is busy. There's just so much going on. There's always something else that needs our attention. We'll get right to it. A promise. Right after the super important thing. I mean, come on. That show is coming off Netflix next week, so I have to get it all done. We know that we should be giving the Word of God more time and energy in our lives. But we have to provide for our families, right? We have to do all these good things. Cleaning the bathroom is something good too We'll have the time to give our lives to God when we graduate, right? Once we graduate high school, then focus on God Or maybe we say, uh, it's when we retire. Once I retire, then God will be able to full focus right in the center. Or after that baby's born, right? After the baby's born, then I'll have a bunch of time. Yeah, that's a person without kids, right? First child, they didn't realize that. Or maybe it's after the kids move out. Once the kids are out of the house and we have this empty house, we can use our house for ministry after they're gone. Once they're potty trained. Oh y fill in the blanks for yourself. We are so good at making excuses, finding excuses as to why we can't give ourselves completely over to Jesus Christ's right. Right now. For me, the most convicting part of this parable is this. I am far too quick to evaluate myself as being good soil. Might that be true for some of you also? First, we remind ourselves, we have to remind ourselves, that being good soil doesn't mean anything special about us. We can't take credit for it. We didn't make ourselves good. It's up to the Father to give us hearts that will believe his gospel, hearts which are fitting homes for his word It's only by His grace that we can hear and understand and respond in faith to His holy Word. For by grace you've been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. Not of works, lest anyone should boast. We cannot take any credit or boast in ourselves if we are indeed good soil We must recognize that every second of our lives has been God the Father tending to the soil of our heart. God is transforming us from the hardened or from the superficial and the shallow. He's transforming us from the worldly. Which could never, ever love him, which could never love his word, or embrace the gospel. And for many of us, it hasn't been an easy road. At times it has seemed as if the Lord needed a whole fleet of backhoes and tractors and those giant digging machines you see that are the size of a small city. He's needed that for me to pulverize my heart, to make it fit to receive the Word of God. Might be the same for you. May recognizing this fact give us great patience with everyone else in this world for whom God is doing the same thing. All the good soil on planet Earth, God is working on it. He's the author and the finisher. And lastly, we must examine our own lives to see If the soil of our life is producing the fruit of the gospel, is the Word of God planted in us, growing into a plant that brings glory to God by producing more seeds? Galatians 5, 19 through 23 contrasts the works of the flesh with the fruit of the Spirit, and this is a great place for us to be helped in examining ourselves. Verses 22 through 23 of Galatians 5 says this And you probably know it. A lot of you probably know it by heart. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering. Kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Brothers and sisters, do these traits describe you Do they dominate your life? Is this who you really are? Do you have love? Do you love God? Do you love your neighbor, not because they're going to give you something, but you love them because God told you to? Do you love your neighbor for God's sake? Is your life filled with joy and contentment in the Lord? Is what He's doing what brings you happiness and peace? Speaking of peace, are you at peace? Do you know what that feels like? Are you at peace with yourself? Are you at peace with others? Are you at peace with your past? Are you at peace with your present where God has you now or the future where you may be? Are you seeking first the kingdom of heaven and his righteousness? Or are you still in a constant Warfare and battle with God to get your own way and to follow your own path. Are you long-suffering? Have you cultivated patience? Long-suffering is specifically that patience with those who are doing wrong. Right? Parents, you know all about that. Long-suffering is patience with those who maybe are dishonoring you Are you quick to judge the failures of others more harshly than you judge your own failures? Do you have kindness? Do you value others Are you concerned with the needs of others as well as with your own? Are you willing to sacrifice your own personal pleasure, your own comfort, to ensure that another person has what they need? This is a loaded question. Are you good? Are you a good person? There's a lot of people in the world who think they're good people. So we have to look at this biblically. Do you seek to obey God's commandments? Do you submit to the morality that he defines in his holy word? Or are you always trying to look for some way to get out of it? Well, actually, that word, if translated blah blah blah, no. Do you submit to it? Submit to the plain understanding of Scripture. And what about gentleness? Are you able to interact with all different kinds of people Are you the kind of person who, as long as someone's just like me, we get along fine? Can you interact with children Can you interact with those who may have a learning disability or those who may have a physical disability? Are you a bull in a china shop? That's my problem Are you a hammer looking for nails? Looking for nails to pound with the truth? Of course it's constructive. It's always constructive. It's always with lots of love. It just hurts real bad. Are you self-controlled? Do you have the self-discipline to tell yourself no? Even when everyone around you, the whole world, tells you you should say yes Brothers and sisters, do not be discouraged by such self examination. Rather, learn from this passage, from this parable, and know that only by God's grace and mercy Can you have the good believing heart which is required for God glorifying fruitfulness? If you want to be fruitful for the kingdom of God, beg him. Be on your knees every single day, begging him that he would do whatever is necessary to transform your heart and to make his word. the center of your life, to make it bear fruit in your life. We have before us this marvelous meal. May it seal to us this truth, the truth of the Word of God. Jesus, who gave his own life, is the seed which fell into the ground. He died that from his death and his resurrection a bountiful harvest would be produced for our Father in heaven. Only through the work of the Lord Jesus Christ can our hearts be made good, be blessed to believe the truth Only at his pleasure can the Word of God grow in us to produce fruit for his glory and spread the good news of the kingdom of God. Please pray with me.