And open our time in prayer. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for setting aside this time for us. And we pray that we would have a sweet communion with you, not just here in Sunday school, but in the fullness of this day. I pray that you would be present for your people, that you would help them to see the glory of your thoughts and what you're doing in their life and how you provide for them. And I ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. Alrighty, so we're starting our new Sunday school, and this Sunday school class is specifically on a book uh the Lord's Day by Joseph Pipa. Uh we sent the syllabus out and It included the first week's reading so that you had a little bit more time to get the book in from Amazon. I'm not sure if this book is available as an e-book. I guess you can search around to see if that is the case. Okay, it is not. Uh so and I don't think it's uh available as an audible book either, though a shortened version of it is But this is the book we'll be doing. I did get a little bit of feedback from the last Sunday school, and I may actually start handing out a piece of paper at the end and just asking Hey, how did this go well and what are some things we could do better? Just so that I can get more feedback from you And one of the pieces of feedback was, wow, these Sunday schools cover a lot of material really quickly. So is there any way that we could slow down? And I thought, well, there's some merit to that. So for this Sunday school, what we're going to do is we'll be a total of 13 weeks instead of the eight weeks And what that has done is it's reduced your weekly reading from about 28 pages to 18 pages. Which is nice and hopefully will give us a little bit more time to cover that stuff in class and more time for you to reflect on it The classes will be based on the readings. This book is largely an extended argument. It's not a complicated argument. It's real basic, which I'll go over in a minute But you're really going to want to spend time in the book. So if you would like to benefit from the class, you want to do your reading beforehand. Maybe you can Read out loud to each other. I don't know. However you want to do that. But um so that's the book, The Lord's Day by Joseph Pipa. It's going to be thirteen weeks and you will benefit much more greatly from the class if you read ahead. I wanted to tell you that the I'm going to try to use the whiteboard so that at the end of the class you can at least at least take a picture of the discussion that we had so you can keep turning these things over But I want to rule the class by we're going to we'll do a lot of things, but I wanted to make sure we're following at least three basic principles when we're going through the class. And I'll just put those up. They're going to just kind of be like guides for us. And the first is that we are, this is a basic class. So and that's because we're following a basic book on the Lord's Day. So when we start to look at Isaiah 58 this morning and we start working through those arguments Inevitably in a church like this, some of you want me to start working through all of the Hebrew with you on this, especially since it makes such a big difference in your life. And I'm not going to do that here. I'm not going to put Hebrew sentences up on the board. We're not going to be working through 17 different commentaries and what people have said from the 11th century on. People do that, but that's not this class. We're just really going to stick with the basics. I don't want to go beyond what he has said here in the book or the level that he's addressing us. There is a time to become to go into more of the details, and I'm happy to do that with you. I just want to set your expectations for the class. The second is that I want to conduct the class in a way that is Catholic. And what I mean by that is universal. I don't want Roman Catholics to steal the word Catholic from us My position is that we as Protestants are more Catholic than Roman Catholics because they kick people out of their communion. uh they're too narrow. Uh I want to conduct this uh with sometimes you'll hear the word Catholicity. And that is, I want to us to be at least acknowledge that there are other Christians out there Who think different things than us, and who will present different arguments than what we have within this book. And they are our brothers and our sisters So I want to acknowledge that. And this book, one of the reasons why I chose this book, is because Dr. Pipel does take a look at how other people think about the Lord's Day. There are more there are I can't do every position out there because hu humanity comes up with a thousand different reasons to not agree with each other. I think you're aware of that But I want to acknowledge some of the one some of the the other positions that are within your life. But I'm not the kind of person, nor do I think it's right to be the kind of person where you just say, oh, well the differences don't really matter. At all. So we still want to speak with a level of convict. And we're going to uh even acknowledge that there are degrees of uh severity There will be some positions that people will adopt that, well, you know what, we can, you know, there's not there's hardly much difference between us. But there are other positions that people adopt where it's going to cause a major problem in our personal relationship, especially in certain situations. How am I supposed to keep up my fellowship with you when you keep doing that? You see what I'm saying? So I want to acknowledge the Catholicity because I think that's important. But I want to make sure we're keeping these subheadings here also. One last thing on this is uh one of the the things I see uh as a major problem with in the church today is that we haven't spent enough time uh looking at other beliefs within the church And what that ends up opening us up to is people become tempted to head off to other places when they really shouldn't. Alright, so I do want to explore those things together so that you can see, hey, you're in a great church and there's no reason to head any place else. Alright, you don't need to become Eastern Orthodox today Alright, those are major temptations for people because they have access to everything by way of YouTube. So And then the last thing I wanted to mention was that this class is specifically biblical. You'll notice in when you're reading the book that he wants to proceed with an exegetical argument is what he said. Carol, are you able to see it okay? Is my am I do I have like doctor's prescription handwriting? It's just a small. Oh, is it really? It's really big up here. But see, we all read we all are reading lattice on that. really can't see that because it's so far away. So it is legible, it's just small. It's just small. Thank you. Yeah. The handwriting is good. Yeah. Much better too well. I'm getting right. I'm getting rid of uh that. Is that cool? All right. That's really big up here. Not as big of it. Still doing my dad jokes a little bit. Okay, so I and um I talked to you about how we're gonna handle this. I'm not going to pretend that the differences don't matter. They matter more or less. Okay. And then the last is that I want to focus on this being a biblical argument. And you'll notice that in the book he specifically says One of his major ways of proceeding is he says that he wants to proceed exegetically and with exposition. Now, what we can do is we can benefit from the accumulated wisdom in the room here What does it mean when he says he wants to proceed exegetically? That's a fancy word because it's from a different language. Anybody have a want to give us a hint, Ryan, please? Yeah, so what what he's going to that's right. He's gonna bring out the meaning of God's word. is the whole idea. Now one way for you to think about this, and I'll put it this way, even though it may sound a little academic at first, I'm I'm going to put it this way because This is really how things work within our society and it's good to be aware of it. Books typically proceed in a couple different ways, and this will help you to just, by way of contrast, understand what we're doing. They could have a book. Here's a book. And it could proceed by what this talks about is this talks about what Sorry, Kirkway. This kind this kind of a book talks about what people say about a topic. So, an example that you would find within our community is somebody would write a book about what John Calvin says about 1 Corinthians 13. Everybody got that? And now if you have gone to if you take an English course, this is has a fancy word As called a tertiary source. It means that I'm not talking about a the primary subject or topic, I'm talking about people that talk about that topic. So if my main topic is in the is 1 Corinthians thirteen I'm not studying 1 Corinthians 13. I'm just studying what John Calvin said about 1 Corinthians 13. So I'm layers removed from it And that really kind of makes you just a histor historian. Because you're just studying one person in history and what they thought about something. Another kind of book that we could have is a book that where the person is directly reflecting on the topic And this is called a secondary source. And that is what you have with this book. Dr. Joseph Pipa is reflecting on a primary source, which is the Bible. And then that brings us to the third book or the third way of doing this, and that would be that we're looking at the original source, and that's all we're doing. And that's called primary. Alright, and we'll be doing that too. This is what really what we want to do. We want to locate our conversation in here Anytime you jump over in here into the third section, it becomes less useful for us in this particular Sunday school class. Let me give you an example. If we were to start a conversation about Isaiah 58, everyone here is edified. If we use Joseph Pipa's observations to help us understand Isaiah 58 Everyone is edified. If we get into a long discussion about what Joseph Pipa thinks among other Southern Presbyterians, I don't really want to be here. I've got other things to do. I think that could be interesting at another time, but it's not going to be edifying here for us. That's not the kind of class that we're in. That's more like a historical theology class. That's not what we're doing Alright. Yes. So basically Pipa Pipa's book is based on he di he he went from a primary course to his second course. He is the secondary source on the primary source. He's writing about the Bible. Alright, so I think that will be helpful for how the conver how I want the conversation to go. Have you ever been a part of a conversation at a party where you thought you were talking about the Bible, but then people just start erupting about what does Martin Luther think? Well Luther would really say this, wouldn't he? I really think Luther would take it like this. And that could be okay, but I just don't want to do that here. Alrighty. Yeah, but we're going to do that to stay in the Bible. I don't want to d just the argument here isn't trying to figure out what Pipa thinks for the sake of knowing what type of things. We're only doing it for the sake of understanding the Bible. We're using him as a guide for the Bible. That's the idea. So I hope that that's helpful and the kind of discussion that I think that we should have here Basic, Catholic, and then again biblical. That's the idea. So I'm going to take this down. So if anybody wanted to take a quick shot, or I guess you could take a snapshot off of the video. that we have for the class. But uh am I good? Yep. Okay, great. Okay, now let's jump right in. Let's go ahead and open our scriptures to Isaiah 58 But that's really what's going to happen. And uh I will ask him one quick question. I'm going to move a little bit quick because I want to try to get the whole thing in here. Let me just ask you very quickly, uh did anybody have any thoughts that they wanted to share based on the initial story within the book Uh let's let's put it this way. Could someone summarize for us the basic story given in the beginning of the book? The whole book starts off with a story It's an extended parable. Could someone go ahead and put that in their own words for us? Just real quick. Yes, please, Sarah. And um there's an amphitheater where they have regular meetings but also there's all sorts of beautiful flowers and paths um and eventually the parts becomes neglected and then there are those who try to restore it but they do so by kind of putting up spent Um and not really using the the park as a like beautiful, pleasurable place But more as a kind of memorial. And then the king's son comes and he commands that the sentence be taken down. Um and that the the part the short is originally used um in the full understanding of its beauty and the the pleasure of it. And and so the the the purpose of the analogy is like the park is the Sabbath. Uh we've not quite used it in the way that God intended And obviously those were you know the senses were the Pharisees. Um but even today some might put it in some ways that's Pharisaical kind of And he says you know the the park is still kind of in this state where there's lots of people who disagree about the team's purposes. And they all pretend to be speaking so they came. Yeah. Uh but he is once to restore the art to its original visible. Yeah, okay. That's great. Very good. That was a very good summary. And uh one of the surprising things that you might find about the story, and this w it's probably the top reason why I like the extended parable so much Is that his main point is to show you that God has given you this park uh uh to enjoy it. That it is a positive thing that He's putting into your life. He's not just trying to take things away from you And oftentimes I think we get off on the wrong foot by thinking about the fourth commandment and the Sabbath or the Lord's Day by thinking, well, that's just about a bunch of things that I'm not I can't do uh uh people who want to continue the Jewish religion. Uh just give me a bunch a list of rules that really cramp my style Here, this extended parable is helpful to us if his argument is right, that actually, no, he's trying to give you something special, something beautiful, like a beautiful park. And I and I think that'll be a main line you want to pay attention to here is you do want to ask the question and if you want to start bringing like a little notebook to write down your questions That'll be really helpful. This is something you're going to want to think through for a while, not just in this class, especially all the practical implications. You could just write down What are all of the benefits that God wants to give me here on the Lord's Day? Okay, so that's the extended parable. I enjoyed it. It was nice to start a book with a story. We're turned now to Isaiah 58, and he uh Dr. Pipa is going to start in just a moment in verses 13 and 14 because he wants to start the whole discussion with the promise. But before we get there, he did drop a couple terms that I want to really make sure that we get down. And again, with our collected wisdom in the class, I think we should be able. uh to answer some of these questions. So first let's just get a vocabulary term down. Alright, so here's one vocab term And he also put it as everybody read that? Sabbath and Sabbatharian. Okay, so uh who just very quickly again I want to keep moving at a quick pace What does it could come off as a fancy word. So what does the word Sabbath refer to? To what does it refer? Day of rest. Okay, the uh the the day of rest. Alright, very good. Any other comments on that? Yes? Okay, resting one day in seven. And then what about sabotay in? Sounds even fancier. Christina. Um well I think it's helpful the Sabbath is one of the it that we have to to go to Sabbatarian we have to include it in as one of the Ten Commandments. Alright. And so Sabbatarians believe that As all the other laws are um completed and fulfilled in Christ, but also to their fullness, that Uh the Sabbath, we are also responsible just as we are responsible for the other nine commandments, we are also responsible for um for obeying the commandment of the Sabbath as well. And that non-Sabbatarians generally think that it is not command Okay. Alright, so um we're right so far. We really do have p uh a lot of wisdom in the room here. The word Sabbath is from different languages. You can turn to the Hebrew, you can turn to the Greek, or you can turn to the Latin. And that just means that different Civilizations had it as a part of their vocabulary. You could have the civilization of the Hebrews, you could have a civilization of the Greeks, Sabbathon, or you could have a civilization of the Romans who spoke Latin. And all of them had the word in their vocabulary. And we as a group of people have adopted a lot of their language. We have a lot of their words So that's why uh we are still using words like this. There's a lot of Latin words in our in our our language. I think any student here would know what they are because they do a derivatives test. Anybody think of a Latin word, Abigail, you got one? I saw you nodding, sir. I only know pig Latin. Because I'm from the eastern shore Anybody know of any Latin words at all? A million of them in your vocab. Olivia, you want to help everybody out? No? Okay. Thanks. Yeah. Exegesis is from the Greek. That's from the Greek. Yeah. So Sarah is uh did a lot of Latin. Sorry, go ahead. Well uh the word uh amicable Uh-huh. Uh give a couple others. Americans. That's why America's America. America's a I guess. I was getting rid of the R you Latin word. Okay, America, any Latin word that we use. Forte. Forte. Comfort. I said audible words we hear. Yeah, audible. Alright, so we got a bunch of. So and the if you were to look up the Latin looks very similar to what we're writing right here Uh so that's what that means. But then the second thing, besides it just us looking at like the history of language and why the words are the way that they are The other thing that Christina is especially pointing out is that these words actually do refer to something. So this, if you were to look it up in the dictionary, it means uh rest or cease activity. Alright, it can be used in a lot of different ways. And then a Sabbatarian is going to be someone who believes that we're still to obey. The fourth command. So I'm carrying as someone who believes we're to obey the fourth command. Now there are a lot of subdivisions on that. Like for example, we'll have to get into on what day should it be obeyed And what can it and can what are the purposes of that day? And that's all in this book. But a sabbatarian is a person who particularly is taking this position. There are some who take the position that the fourth commandment is no longer applicable in that way. Or is applicable in different ways. And we can start to look at that kind of stuff. Okay, so that's one vocabulary word that we needed to get out of the way. And then when we continue on in the argument, Dr. Piper wants to focus on Isaiah 58, 13, and 14. So let me go ahead and read that to you. And this is to help us to understand what the purpose of the Sabbath is. So if we have a Roman numeral in his argument, the first thing he wants to cover is purpose. And he is going to make the argument that we could find that purpose in verses 13 and 14. So I'll go ahead and read that. If you turn your foot from the Sabbath from doing your pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight and the holy day of the Lord honorable If you honor it, not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly, then you'll sh then you shall take delight in the Lord And I will make you ride on the heights of the earth. I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. Okay, so then if you've read the book, you know that he basically is just going to go ahead and step us through the different parts of these couple verses, and that's what I'd just like to list up here for us and then we can see if you have any questions on this first one. So these are categorized as God's promises to those who keep the Sabbath The very first point he makes is that God here in these verses, verses 13 and 14, that he promises that if we obey um What he gives us on this day, then he promises unsurpassed communion with God. You can look again at the scriptures, and he says, you will take delight in the Lord. So we can see that in specifically verse number 14. So go ahead and take a look at that in your scriptures. Then you shall take delight in the Lord. So uh he discusses the word delight. The word delight means exquisite pleasure. To take exquisite pleasure in the Lord is to be overwhelmed by his beauty and glory that are revealed in his attributes and work. To delight in God is to enjoy special communion and fellowship with Him, responding with gratitude and delight as He manifests His love to you. And he says this communion is captured by the emblem of a luxuriant garden adorned with beautiful foliage where God meets with you. Do any of us love and enjoy God as much as we should? God designed the Sabbath as a means of our enjoying Him through special communion with Him. On the Sabbath you will find exquisite pleasure in God. So what we're doing then is we have the first purpose is to have a special Communion with God, which is defined by verse number fourteen with the word delight. So within the promises of God, we discover the purposes of God. And one of the purposes is for you to be able to have a day where you're delighting and enjoying in Him. more than the other days. And we could even we could get into a little bit, I think this will go in this will be later in the book, but um We could also say that God works to reveal Himself to you in a way that He doesn't on other days that He does on that day. Okay, so that's the very first thing. I just want to keep going because I have a lot to cover. And so if you have some questions, just write those down and we can keep, we can hopefully get to them throughout the class. Okay. But wait, there is more. The second part of the argument is that, and I will make you ride on the heights of the earth. And you can see that in 14b of chapter 58. Okay, so this second part is going to be I will make you ride on the heights of the earth. Here Dr. Pipa argues he's borrowing language of victory from Deuteronomy 32, 12 through 13. And 33, 29. So let's just take a look at that. Again, one of the guides for our class is we want to be biblical. So let's look up stuff in the Bible. So Deuteronomy 32. And verses twelve through thirteen I'll start in verse eleven. Like an eagle that stirs up its nest that flutters over its young, spreading out its wing wings, catching them, bearing them on its pinions. The Lord alone guided him, no foreign God was with him. He made him ride on the high places of the land, and he ate the produce of the field, and he suckled him with the honey out of the rock. and oil out of the flinty rock. So here the argument again is that this is the language of victory being taken from elsewhere within the Scriptures. He also quotes, besides 32, he quotes 3329. You see that these are verbatim. Happy are you, O Israel, who is like you, a people saved by the Lord, the shield of your help, and the sword of your triumph? Your enemies shall come uh fawning to you and you shall tread upon their backs. And did I miss the Oh yeah, right, right. Okay, yeah, thank you. Okay. So thank you, Tate. I appreciate that. So here he's making the argument. So what he's doing is he's saying, hey, if you really want to understand what's going on in Isaiah 58, then let's go ahead and understand it by way of Deuteronomy 32 and 33. So what he does then is he points over to those passages and he says, hey, look, it's the same kind of language. And if we look at what's going on in those specific contexts, it's talking about the victory of God's people. Alright, so you can see his argument being constructed there and why he's deriving specific meaning that he is. He then goes on and he says, in these verses, God promises Israel great victory over her enemies. Earlier, Isaiah uses this language to promise the people victory over their enemies. Isaiah 33, 16. So let's take a look at that. Yes, yep, thirty three sixteen. I'll start in fifteen. He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly, who dis who despises the gain of oppressions, who shakes His hands who shakes his hands lest they hold a bride, who stops his ears from hearing of bloodshed, and shuts his eyes from looking on evil, he will dwell on the heights His place of defense will be the fortresses of rocks. His bread will be given him. His water will be sure. And so there again we see that same language of the riding on the heights or being on the heights and So we see it not only in Deuteronomy, but earlier in Isaiah 33, 16, as victory over our enemies. So their return from exile, Pippus says, is a picture of the victory promised in the new covenant. In the New Testament, God promises us victory as well. In Christ, we are more than conquerors. Romans 8:37. We shall have victory over Satan and sin. According to Isaiah 58. 14, therefore, God promises this victory to those who keep his day holy. Sabbath keeping is a means of grace that will help you die to sin and grow in holiness. So his second argument Or a second the second purpose is spiritual victory And he gives specifically does he give mortification and vivification there? He says Yes, okay. So he gives a two sided coin. Die to sin Grow in holiness Just so you know, for the sake of being aware of the larger conversation within your Christian world, this has historically been called to mortify This has been called vivify. Yeah. So this means death. Uh somebody has a coffee mug with death on it. Who was that? Is that you, uh Matt? Me and Okay. And what's the saying again? Momentum more? Yeah, Mori, yeah, momentum more. And that means what? Remember your death Remember your death, yeah. And so you can see it's where that word's come from and it's the same thing here. Does anybody see this word in their I don't know, bottled water, vivify, isn't there one called Vivi uh Vivian or something like that? That's life. Right, sir? Yeah. Okay, cool. Devo or it's a Latin word to live. So the word vital too comes from Yeah, vital vivo, not tiva, but viva. And uh so we have word five and vulify. So he's saying that the other purpose that this day It uh gives us is spiritual victory. And he's going to make that argument uh specifically from verse 14B As well as Deuteronomy, Isaiah, other passages, and then also Romans 8. So these are things for you to you know, you can take a look at those and see if you're if you agree with it. He's laying it all out there for you so you can evaluate that. Okay, so that's the second purpose of the Lord's day. So let's keep going here. There is a number of things that he does in the book to continue to beef up this second point and talking about um feeding on the inheritance and what's that what that means. He quotes a couple psalms But I want to go ahead and move to the third point, which is that and this one's the easier of these for you to be able to recognize. And I'll put uh can you all see that if I were to write down here, can you see that? Okay, I'll do my best now. The third uh here is going to be the certainty. Now that's not exactly the the A purpose. But if you were to look at the scripture here that I just gave you, which verse proves that this is a certain promise? Which do you think he would use to prove that? From Isaiah fifty-eight. Yeah, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. So he's using uh verse number fourteen, I guess that's A, B, C, D, maybe Alright, I'll just put it verse fourteen, but that's where he's gonna pull that together. Is that this the purposes that he's going to accomplish that they are There's a certainty there. He says, notice as well the remarkable certainty of the promise, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken Isaiah often uses this phrase to highlight the certainty of specific promises, particularly promises that have to do with the Messiah and the remission of sin. You can take, for example, Isaiah 1, 18 through 20. After promising remission of sins to those who repent, but threatening judgment on those who refuse God's offer, the prophet concludes Truly the mouth of the Lord has spoken it. That's from Isaiah 1. 18. Or consider Isaiah 25. 8. He will swallow up death for all time, and the Lord will wipe tears away from all faces, and he will remove the reproach of his people from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. Do you see what God is doing? By the declaration, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken, he guarantees the promise. And could any better guarantee be given? The Lord God puts it all on the line. He says, I the Lord, who cannot lie, I promise that if you keep my Sabbath and delight in it, you will delight in me Gain spiritual victory and enjoy your inheritance. And the enjoy your inheritance point was a paragraph I didn't draw totally out, but it is in your book. Okay. But we can we can put that but you you got the summary of that there. Okay. So then uh before I move on, very quickly Do you well I'll take uh maybe one or two questions and but I can't get into a long answer on anything at this point. So does anybody have any questions so far? Yes, sir. Just could you summarize again the first one about the Special delight, because I mean there are other places we're told to I'm assumed there's a general regular delight, delight yourself in the Lord And then but the Sabbath is a special delight. Is that is that what you're saying? Are you saying in verse number 14, it looks like Dr. Pipa is making the argument that when it says, then you shall take delight in the Lord. that it's a day in which that is um set aside where there's a particular or specific kind of delight that can be taken that can't be taken on the other days. It doesn't mean you can't have the same kinds of delight. Like you could see his glory all throughout the week. But I think his argument is that the day has been set aside to where Maybe you could even I don't want to reduce it to this, but it's like you have a lot more time set aside to be able to delight in him and the benefits you've received within the new covenant. See what I'm saying. Miss the urinal. I don't you see what I'm saying? Because you're not at work. Yeah. Or is it fall asleep in classic? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I could have chosen a classic. Does this analogy work for you I generally delight in my life. Joe is life. But then there's Friday night date night. Yeah. And I like that. And what's incorporated that is a Much more delight. Yeah, and listen to this man. Only if I get this right, it's only $5. 99 per person plus another $5. 99 per shoes, so you can do let's just say $12 Per person to do bowling things. Absolutely. Absolutely. Okay. No, I like to do it. We just want bowling. We had a blast. I like that hope that makes sense, because when I first read it I thought We there's a general delight that we should always have. So we're going to do that. The Lord's Day is a spiritual vacation. So it's the same thing as date night. You can say spiritual date night, sure. Okay. That's cool. That makes a lot of sense. That works. And that's going to tie in a little bit later too as to he's going to get to this in a later chapter, but what do we mean when he says that the day is set aside as holy? And when he says that we are to rest, what does that mean? Well both holy and rest mean that we're going to set it aside to a different set of purposes, like you would set aside a night to date night. Or a spiritual vacation. We have a very specific set of things we're trying to do, and positively spoken, we are delighting in the Lord. And helping others to delight in him. So we want to go to nursing homes on that day, or whatever it is, right? Okay, so he gives that. And then it's the same thing with the rest. You're being given rest Uh so I'm ceasing my regular activities. Well for what? Just to take a nap on the couch all day? Sure, you can take a nap, but it's for the sake of, what's the rest for the sake of, to have time for date night Spiritual vacation or spiritual vacation. Okay. Alright, great. Second part is uh he raises the question now Does the promise still apply? Does that promise still apply? And he's going to answer that in a couple different ways. So we have the certainty of the promise here, and we could ask the question, I'll just put here. Uh does it still apply for the New Testament believer? I'll just put it like that And he answers that a couple different ways. He starts off really generally by first asking the question, do any Old Testament promises apply to New Testament believers? Can anybody think if of the answer to that and an example? Are there any promises given in the first testament that are applicable to those after the advent of Jesus Christ? Promise of Christ crushing the serpent's head. Okay, Genesis chapter 3, verse 15 is a promise that was given in the very beginning and it is still applicable. It's been applicable all through all of history. Alright, what else? The fifth commandment to honor your fathers and it will go well with you? Yes. Alright, the fifth commandment, the promise in the fifth commandment Anything else? I live in God and you think he might. Yes, very good. And I'll just say one place that we see that is in Revelation chapter 21. We see in a whole host of other places, but that's one. He keeps that all the way to the end. Really all of history is a working that out. Alright? Anything else? Any other promises from the first witness? Yes, Christina. Alright, if you cry out to the Lord, he will respond to you. Very good. See that in a lot of Psalms. Some real biggies that you should definitely have in your back pocket are the Abrahamic promises. They are fulfilled in Christ. They're not thrown away. That's not what fulfilled means. It means that all of these things are coming to be and are certain. In Christ. Okay, that's a really big one. And you can have a whole host. So why does he bring this one up first? Because what he's trying to say is, hey, look When you say, does this Old Testament promise still apply? There are some of you who are thinking there's no Old Testament promises don't have anything to do with New Testament believers. And he's what he wants to do is he wants to say, that's not true, and you don't even believe that. There's hundreds of them that you acknowledge that are promises given to us in the Old Testament that still carry forward There's continuity is the fancy word they use. Alright, so if you were to think of it as like a stream The place where the Old Testament and the New Testament meet, there's no dam there. There's water flowing freely through. Alrighty. So that's this first way that he wants to argue this is that actually there's a lot of promises that are true. So don't start off on the wrong foot. Still true for the New Testament believer. Then he goes on and he says Among other things, we consider the context of the promise when seeking to determine how it applies. So we could ask the question: when we see this promise in Isaiah 58, in what context is it? Is it in the context of speaking to all of those who are in Christ Jesus? He goes on and he says, the entire section of Isaiah refers ultimately to Jesus Christ and the new covenant people. The section begins with the famous promise of the suffering servant in chapter 53. Don't forget, on Good Friday, we're at Isaiah 58. But on Good Friday, we're reading Isaiah 53, and all of you are just. . Bringing it all in, saying this has everything to do with me. And the and his argument is it's the same context. We have we're still talking about the same kind of thing. It's still being applied to of what will happen in Jesus Christ. So, and that continues in chapter 54, verses 1 through 3. So let's take a look at that very quickly together. And I'm just going to read the first three verses from chapter 54 of Isaiah, just so that again the argument here is the context tells us that this promise has to do with us. Sing O barren one who did not bear, break forth into singing and cry aloud You who have not been in labor, for the children of the desolate one will be more than the children of her who is married, says the Lord. Can anybody think of a New Testament place where that is where that is riffed upon? Enlarge the place of your tent and let the curtains of your habitations be stretched out. Do not hold back, lengthen your cords, and strengthen your stakes, for you will spread abroad to the right and to the left, and your offspring will possess the nations and will people the desolate cities. It continues on in chapter 55. These promises that we see are fulfilled in Jesus Christ. He calls sinners to repentance in verse number one. Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. And he who has no money, come, buy and eat. Come buy wine and milk without mercy and without price. Has anybody heard those kinds of words in the New Testament? Yeah, that's true, Revelation, but also Jesus, all who are thirsty. Right? Okay, so we see that kind of thing again being picked up and again we're just looking at the context. Then moving into chapter 56 God begins to relate the Sabbath to the New Testament people. He says in 56, 2 through 5 Blessed is the man who does this, and the Son of Man who holds fast, who keeps the Sabbath, not profaning it, and keeps his hand from doing any evil. You'll notice in verse number one it's pretty interesting. Let me start there, in chapter 56 of Isaiah. Thus says the Lord, Keep justice and do righteousness, for soon my salvation will come. And my righteousness be revealed. Blessed is the man who does this, and the Son of Man who holds it fast, who keeps the Sabbath, not profaning it, and keeps his hand from doing any evil. So you see there that we're dealing with categories of righteousness and justice, and then we get into the particulars of that, and it has to do with Sabbath keeping also. So you see that there within, so we've looked at 53 with the servant song. 54 also continues to talk about how this will be fulfilled. um within the New Testament and then 55, it's the same thing. 56, we see it specifically applied with a continuation with the Sabbath. And then I'll continue here. He says In 56, 2 through 5, he then goes on to talk about the eunuch. How blessed is the man who does this? I'm sorry, where am I? Yeah, 56, 2 through 5. Blessed is the man who does this, and I've already read that section. Let me keep going. Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord say, The Lord will surely separate me from his people. And let not the eunuchs say, Behold, I am a dry tree. For thus says the Lord, to the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, who choose the things that please me, and hold fast my covenant, I will give in my house and within my walls A monument and a name better than sons and daughters. I will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off. Can anybody think of a New Testament example there of where we see that that day has arrived? That's gonna be when Philip goes and speaks to the eunuch. And the Philip teaches the eunuch to read what book of the Bible? Isaiah. Isaiah. And specifically the chapter 53, right? And then it eventually you wonder if they continued on in their reading and got to fifty-six and pointed out to him that the era has arrived where you're no longer kept on the outer courts of the temple. The veil has been torn and through Jesus Christ you may enter in. And then he and then he says, Well, I believe. And then he says, okay, well then Let's get you baptized. And that's what they do. So you can read that section there. Does anybody remember the chapter in Acts that that is that's Acts 8. Is that right? Yeah. So Acts chapter 8, you'll want to take a look at that to see how all of these things are coming together. You'll notice too, if you go ahead and you read that, you'll see that the Uh uh the author Luke, let's just look at that really quickly. I know we're running short on time here, but in Acts chapter 8, it's really interesting to look at the you know they speak sparsely Uh the the authors of the scriptures, inspired by the Holy Spirit, don't waste words. So when I I I I'm not even entertaining a argument on sometimes they waste words. Not doing that. That was crazy. Okay. That'd be fun another time though. That'd be fun another time. Okay. So that's funny. Okay, so where are we at, Carol? Alright, thank you. Okay. Acts eight twenty-six. So take a look at this and listen to the particularity of the language. Now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, Rise and go toward the south to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is a desert place. And he rose and went, and there was a Ethiopian, a eunuch, a court official of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure. He had come to Jerusalem to worship. You see that? So this idea of him engaging in worship, this is a part of him engaging in we're hopefully we'll look at this in the book, but There's a singular Sabbath, and then there are Sabbaths. We can look there's a plural, and those Sabbaths have to do with all of the different feasts that are a part of the life of God's people And we can talk about that another time, but you can see here he's really, and then the fact that he's reading Isaiah 53 and going forward, um The Holy Spirit is really just pulling together a constellation of things so that you'd very able you'd very clearly be able to see what's going on here, that what was spoken in Isaiah is right here in this moment going on. Uh why would the Holy Spirit draw Philip specifically to this person and not all the other people that are hearing about Jesus Christ and being saved? There's thousands of people converting. Why this guy why is this guy getting a spotlight? Well you know why. Because they're trying to help you understand that the days have been fulfilled. And so this is Joseph Pipa's argument that the context bears out. If we go all the way back to Isaiah 53 and keep working our way forward, we're not finding that these are chapters that only had to do with a people long ago and far away. That all of these chapters are talking about the church as it continues today. Um and to believe otherwise, I think he would say is special pleading Okay. So that takes us all the way up through 56, 2 through 5, and then I'll just read this quick little paragraph for you from Pipa. How do we know that this applies to the New Testament era? Speaking of the eunuch, because only in the Gospel era may a eunuch enjoy the privileges promised here. In Deuteronomy 23. 1, God declares that a eunuch may not enter the house of the Lord. Here, anticipating the reign of the Christ, God promises the eunuch That he shall receive a great memorial name in the house of the Lord. The prophet is relating Sabbath-keeping to the days of the new covenant and the glories of the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. We may conclude, therefore, that the promise of Isaiah 58, 13 through 14 is for the New Testament Church. Surely every Christian longs for the things promised. Intimate communion with God. spiritual victory and practical enjoyment of his privileges. Okay, so um I'd encourage you to, if you haven't been reading the book, to really go through it. And we only have a couple minutes left, so I'm not going to continue by way of the argument. I've taken you all the way to chap to ver to page number 16, and you'll want to keep going there. The next section is on the conditions of the promise. And that'll be the different another section from Isaiah. If because of the Sabbath you turn your foot from doing your own pleasure on my holy holy day and call the Sabbath a delight, the holy day of the Lord honorable, and shall honor it, desisting from your own ways, from seeking your own pleasure and from speaking your own word. I am going to cover the exegesis of this particular passage next week. I lost a little bit of time with the preface. So I think we could add this and then also hammer through the arguments for next week's reading. So do next week's reading. We're still on the syllabus. Just follow the syllabus. But no, I'm going to start off the whole time together by looking at that next section of Isaiah, basically verse number 13, because I think a lot of your questions are going to come from there So we want to define the word delight, we want to define the word holy, and we want to define the word ways from your own ways and the word pleasure and what we mean by speaking your own word. So one, two, three, four, five. We'll have five points next week and then we'll hammer on to the next chapter. Okay, I got 30 seconds. Is there a very quick question that someone might have? Yes, Derek. I hope it's quick. Does Piper talk Piper talk about any other purposes? Because it seems like scripturally there are even more purposes for the Sabbath than than than that. Like one of the type of the rest that we will enter, that kind of thing is and the worship of the Lord on that day is a reflection of ultimately or the eschaton Is that also is he going to talk about that or is that I don't remember that particularly. I think what he's done here is he's given you a summary. Okay. And actually as you were speaking, I was starting to take all the specific things you were mentioning and putting them under the larger category For example, when you look it back at this chapter, if you go back and read it, he mentions that you're going to delight in him specifically in his glory and his salvation. Right. Well if you're reflecting on how all of these things are fulfilled in Christ and that we enter into an eternal rice rest, that's reflecting on his glory and the ultimate accomplishment of his salvation, where everything is leading. Sure. That So it seems to me like all of those would fall under that category. It just fills that out a little bit what what what that delight means for certain there's a beautiful um picture here of of what we are to uh rest the waits that people have got still subscribe into the Yeah, I think that would be uh one of the things that would definitely be included. There's a funny anecdote I'll give you and everyone else is um Uh anybody know besides me one of the besides the scriptures morning and evening worship, one of Pipa's favorite things to do on the Lord's Day with his wife and his grandchildren. Uh read aloud Pilgrim's Progress. Yeah, isn't that cool? That'd be anyway. There you go. Fun fact. Alright, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you have given us this day, and I pray that by the power of your Holy Spirit, that You'd help your people to reflect on the words that we've considered in Isaiah 58, the places in Deuteronomy and the context of Isaiah. I pray that you'd help them to be good Bereans, to determine, in fact, what is your will and what are the promises that you've given to them and the conditions of those promises. I pray that you'd give them time today, in fact, to be able to continue reflecting on these things. And may, Lord, I pray for all the people here and all those in the congregation that today would be a delight. And it would be specifically a delight in you. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.