For 21 together. We're looking at some further case laws this morning, case studies. The title of the sermon is The Rights of Parents and Children So let's stand and I'll be reading Deuteronomy twenty-one and it'll be verses fifteen through twenty-three actually. This is beginning in verse 15. If a man has two wives, one loved and the other unloved, and they have borne him children, both the loved and the unloved. And if the firstborn son is of her who is unloved, then it shall be on the day he bequeaths his possessions to his sons, that he must not bestow firstborn status on the son of the loved wife in preference of the to the son of the unloved, the true firstborn. But he shall acknowledge the son of the unloved wife as the firstborn, by giving him a double portion of all that he has For he is the beginning of his strength. The right of the firstborn is his. If a man has a stubborn and rebellious son who will not obey the voice of his father or the voice of his mother and who, when they have chastened him, will not heed them, then his father and his mother shall take hold of him and bring him out to the elders of the city To the gate of his city. And they shall say to the elders of his city: This son of ours is stubborn and rebellious. He will not obey our voice. He is a glutton and a drunkard. Then all the men of his city shall stone him to death with stones, so you shall put away the evil from among you, and all Israel shall hear and fear. If a man has committed a sin deserving of death and he is put to death, and you hang him on a tree, his body shall not remain overnight on the tree. But you shall surely bury him that day, so that you do not defile the land which the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance. For he who is hanged is accursed of God. Please pray with me. Father, we pray that we would take these things and that we would better understand what you have called us to in the mercy of Jesus Christ, this righteousness. We ask these things In your name, Amen. Amen. Please be seated. Let me ask you a question Was the death of Jesus Christ, Him dying the death on a cross, was it an end in itself or a means to an end? Was it an end in itself or a means to an end? You'd have to say if you looked at the scriptures that it really was a means to an end. That doesn't degrade the act at all, but it shows you that Jesus Christ was acting for an overall purpose. But so often we just Stop at the cross. Did you know that Jesus Christ is alive today? Children? Hi Nora. Did you know that Jesus Christ is alive today? That he has ascended in glory. And what is he doing now? What is he accomplishing? What has his life and his death and his resurrection? Resurrection and his ascension set him up to be able to do. What is he accomplishing right now? The way that that has been summarized in the book of Deuteronomy is this: righteousness, only righteousness. It is through his work that righteousness is being accomplished, particularly within his church. You know, we've been hearing lots of ways in which this what this righteousness looks like. We've seen it in the catechism of children. Last week we focused on uh case law stressing the importance of women, the righteousness of a relationship between a man and The example, if you remember, dealt with a soldier who wanted to marry a war captive, and it was an extreme example on purpose. The soldier was permitted to marry, but under certain conditions. And those conditions revealed, as we studied them, the importance of women and wives to our God. And it's great that we have this revealed to us from heaven by God so that we don't get this wrong. Essentially, as I mentioned, many scholars recognize the case of the war captive. Is an extreme case meant to protect, elevate, and nurture women. There's actually so much within the scriptures on a theology of womanhood that I hope to be able to share with you over the next couple of years. years, I guess. There's just so much. If a war captor and and the and the argument goes something like this if war captives should receive dignified treatment, then how much How much more all wives? How much more all women. This week we're going to continue in righteousness only righteousness. I don't want you to think because we're going down into these case laws and we're focusing on law that we are outside of the gospel. means to an end or an end in itself. Because often we stop short in understanding what the true gospel is. Let me ask you this question before we get into these cases studies this morning. Is the gospel just Jesus on a cross? Is the gospel the resurrect include the resurrection of Jesus Would you say so? Would you say that the gospel includes the ascension of Jesus Christ? Would you say that the gospel includes the ascending of the Spirit of Jesus Christ? And what is the Spirit doing in God's people? But righteousness, only righteousness. And so now we see the full orb gospel, and when we then turn to Deuteronomy, we can still see the gospel here. in these case laws. God is concerned about every area of our lives, whether it's how we view women or how we view men. Or as we're going to see here this morning, how we view the case of the firstborn child or children in general, and also how we view rebellion. Children. God has left no stone unturned in order for us to be a righteous community. What a blessing He's given to us. So there's two case studies this morning that continue the gospel of Moses, which is why we put that on the front of the bulletin. Really, I put it there. I'm to blame. There's two more case studies: the case of the firstborn and then the case of the rebellious son. And those are the two we're going to look at this morning and draw some application for us here after the advent of Christ. Now, do not really answer this question. Don't nod. Don't raise your hand. Have any of you started putting your wills together? Yes? I told you not to nod. Okay. If you have, does everybody know what a will is? I wrote down the definition for For for me and you children. It's a legal document that contains instructions as to what should be done with one's money and property, for example, after one's death. That's the will. And that's really the situation that we have here if you turn with me in this passage when we start with verse 15 This is this is how we would talk about it today. It's about a man and and who he's going to include in his will and who's the executor of the estate and all of those kinds of things. But that's the situation in our passage. It involves a will. But notice in verse 15 that this situation with the will is quite complicated because he has two wives. Verse 15, if a man has two wives, one loved and the other unloved, and they have borne him children, both the loved and the unloved, you can see here the typical marker for the case study, if or when you're in this moral situation. What should you do? So it's complicated because of the practice of having more than one spouse here. And as you can see in verse 15, this husband has multiple wives. It could in fact be It a continuation of the situation that a soldier had a wife before he left for war, went off to war, and then had a war captive wife and brought her home. You could tie the whole all the passages together like that if you The difficulty no matter what arises in that he loves the one wife and he does not love the other. And yet both women have borne him sons Now there's a reminder that you should see a similarity of another situation from Genesis 29. Do you remember that? with with Leah and Rachel, with the situation there, something similar. Then Jacob did so and fulfilled her week. So he gave him his daughter Rachel as wife also. And Lavan gave his maid Bilhah to his daughter Rachel as a maid. Then Jacob also went into Rachel, and he also loved Rachel more than Leah. And he served with Laban still another seven years. You could reread that story if you want to see this kind of acted out, the husband with multiple wives. But apparently in this situation, when you look at verse 16, there is a temptation for the man in this situation. Then it shall be on the day he bequeaths his possession to his sons that he must not bestow firstborn status on the son, who's not the really, this is the paraphrase of the rest, who's not the true firstborn. That's the temptation. The temptation could be for the husband, in other words, to change his will to reflect his favoritism toward the son of the wife that he loves at present. However, if that son was not the true firstborn, he should not change his will. That's the law. Instead, as verse 17 says. He should acknowledge the son of the unloved wife as the firstborn by giving him his due in the will. So now I just want to make a few observations of this case. First, let me say that a passage like this surprises us on the East Coast as Western people. If you get West, this passage isn't as surprising. I was just Talking with Stan this morning, uh, where he was in a state with many Mormons who practiced polygamy. But it can be surprising for us in a culture or at least around here where we don't see such practices. Let me just say very quickly that polygamy is not the biblical standard, if you had any doubt. I don't want men getting any ideas. Adam and Eve are the ideal standard. One man and one woman are what God intends for marriage. And if you want to talk about that more, we can talk about it more, but I'm not going to stand up here and talk about polygamy Me uh any longer. Number two, I do want you though to notice the pattern that has formed between this passage on the firstborn and his inheritance and the passage on the war captive. There is a pattern and these end up connecting together. If you had to summarize both of those passage passages under a larger theme, What you would see is that God is clearly, through the mediator Moses, limiting the authority of the husband. He is limiting the authority of men. And he's doing so for good reason. He is making sure that there are checks and balances within the law in order to protect women and children. Two groups of people that have been taken advantage of for almost all of history. Women and children. So it is great to see the heart of our God once again rise up. And to provide nurture for those that need protection. The husband is the head of the family. It's a clear clear teaching within the scriptures, but the husband cannot do whatever he wants. It's a point that needs to be made. Their neighbors, here in Deuteronomy, the neighbors, they would not have the exact same law. It's seen across ancient Near Eastern law that limits were not placed upon the earth um men in the same way that we see here within this passage. It really shows and isolates for you the mind of God and how he views relationships. The husband is, in fact, the head of the family, but the husband cannot do whatever he wants. The husband is a servant of God and must submit to God's ways. He's not under a law. The husband must submit to God and how he regards his wife. That was last week. The husband must submit to God and how he regards his children, and that's this week. The problem, if you haven't noticed, is that husbands have a way of disregarding their wives and exasperating their children. In the past, apparently, when we look here at this case law, which is a bit historically removed from us, I agree But in that past you could see that a father could exasperate his child by changing the will and violating the rights of the firstborn, which would be a societal upheaval in their situation. Today, exasperation, tell me this isn't true, it can come in a thousand other ways. And according to this passage, what we have to see is that the foundational cause of a husband forgetting or disregarding his wife or exasperating his child is that he has not learned a very Vital lesson that he is under the authority of God himself. He is not a lull to himself. He may not do what he wants. He is not the final authority. God is. And I have seen men with broadened chest declare their will when they could have just as easily. declared their will humbly under their God and with gentleness before those that they were leading Let me just remind you, as we said in the prayer this morning, or as I said in the prayer this morning, that 1 Peter 3 says, husbands honor your wives. And the consequence of not honor. doing so, your prayers are hindered. Let me just ask you, as a husband, do you feel like your prayers are needed? not being heard. There can be a lot of reasons why. One of them can be because you disregard and do not honor your wife. I just ask that you do some self-examination today. And then Colossians 3 also says this with regards more particularly to our passage this morning. Fathers, do not provoke your children lest they become discouraged So, above all, ask this question. Do you walk humbly before your God, placing yourself submissively under your heavenly Father's law Do you walk humbly with your God? And can your children see it? You know what you could do. And children, I'd ask that you'd be exceptionally respectful if this were to happen. Happen. You could ask your children, do I exasperate you? Do I discourage you? Do I represent God well to you? Ask them that. Have a conversation. And then begin some repentance if they were to reveal something to you respectfully. Maybe help them to understand that termination. It could be a really good thing. But again, children, please be very respectful. And you also know your place. So that's the first case study that we have If we were in different culture, there could be many more applications. I've just brought that out for us. It goes along with tying these units together and seeing the limit of the husband or man's authority. But God, through Moses, is not just concerned to protect children from their parents. You see, when we get to this next case study, he also protects parents from their children because the relationship goes both both ways as we know And so we see here in verse 18, beginning in verse 18, it's the case study of the rebellious son. If a man has a stubborn and rebellious son who will not obey the voice of his father or the voice of his mother, notice how both are placed there in equality with each other, and who, when they have chastened him, will not heed them, and then it continues and Now verse 18 starts again with that case study marker. This time the situation is that a man has a stubborn or rebellious son. And this son, note the details. They're very, very important. This son will not obey the voice of his father and his mother. We've seen earlier in Deuteronomy that both parents are responsible for the raising of the children. They have tried. Do you get the sense? Do you see the repetition of the words? They have tried over and over and over again, which is why he's called stubborn and rebellious. They have even chastened him. But the son will not listen. The child refuses to listen Later in verse 20, look at some of the complaints that are given. When they go before the elders, which I'll talk about in just a moment, they say before them, he is a glutton and he is a drunkard. But notice this. Those are only two words compared to the repetition in verse 20 again that he is stubborn and he is rebellious. And that is really the heart of the matter. The sun shows no repentance. He just runs headlong into sin. The son does not even regret his sin. He's confused as to why his parents don't see it the way that he sees it or she sees it. And I this should remind you a bit of Proverbs. When we were going through Proverbs, do you remember when I gave you different categories? of of children. This is an older child here. This is a child that would be in their teens or late teens. Do you remember the categories that I gave you? There was a the Proverbs provides a spectrum of obedience to disobedience at the utmost. And that's really ringing through here within this passage also. First, you have the righteous. You see the righteous within Proverbs, and there's no real concerns there. But then you have the gullible. Are you remembering this? The gullible, sometimes they want to serve God. Sometimes they get really distracted and they lose their way. But at the end of the day they feel sorry for their sin and even though in five minutes they're going to make another dumb mistake, they say, oh, I just wish I'd never make this mistake. I can't. They cling on to that verse from Paul that says, I always do what I don't want to do. That's the gullible. It's kind of like the double-minded person in a way. But then it moves in its spectrum in Proverbs, we see that what we want to do is we we we understand the goal gullibility as a certain phase of life. It actually corresponds to our teenage. years. But if you don't watch it, that gullible person can start and start to harden in. And they're no longer sorry. And the word starts to change for that person within the Old Testament, and they are now referred to as the wicked and the fool. Who are set in their ways. And that's the difference. It's different to have someone who's somewhat malleable and that which has hardened like concrete. And they are happiest and most at home when they are in sin. is basically like taking a beautiful gold ring and putting it in the snout of a pig, or taking beautiful pearls and casting it before the pig. It's the way that they speak about that category of people. And so please just notice the severity of the case that is before you. What kind of person is in the passage? Is it a righteous person? Is that the son? Is he or she gullible? That's not the picture that we get. What we get is that this son has moved into wickedness and severely so. And so what do you do with a child who's moved into this domain? That's where verse 19 comes in for us. Then his father and his mother shall take hold of him and bring him out to the elders of his city, to the gate of the city. This son of ours is stubborn and rebellious. He will not obey our voice. He's a glutton and a drunkard. And then we'll see the The consequences of being wicked or foolish. Verse 19 gives the instructions that the father and the mother should Obey. And the parents will together, so that there's two witnesses at least, tell the elders that he will not listen. And next we see the devastating consequences. That all the men of his city, note that detail, all the men of his city shall stone him. Now, if you're like me, this case is tough to hear. Can you imagine being a part of the community where it would have to be done? I think if we were a part of a community where it would have to be done, I think we would would perhaps have more understanding than we do today. But no matter what the understanding is, this is a difficult case to hear. Yet what do you do? Let me ask you. What do you do when someone in the community, even if it is your own child, is relentlessly destructive to the community? Think of some of the more severe sins that a person can commit. What if they just keep doing it, no matter how much you tell them? What are you supposed to do? Well, here we see what God instructs for them to do, and this was a certain time and a place. And we have our ways now. But we forget, when we read a passage like this, that the actions of an older child in this particular context could destroy all of the family and have devastating consequences for the larger community. One acquaintance of mine pointed out in passages like this that we have really lost the context of what it meant to live in this kind of situation. Even just a hundred years ago, the situation would be far more understandable than the kind of situation that you live in right now. Let me put it this way. Today, if your child does not take out the trash, I mean It may smell a little bit, and then you could take out the trash, but the community isn't going down in flames. And that is with the majority of the things or responsibilities that are given to our children. If they don't do them, there are not many consequences to it. You could take five minutes and probably do it for them. But not in this kind of situation. If the child didn't do the chores a hundred years ago, it could be devastating. This is the conversation. Between a teenager and a father a hundred or more years ago. Now, son, I want you to go do your chores and I want you to take care of them. Dad. Why not? I don't have any time. Why would I want to do that? Well, son, if you don't milk the cow, then we're all gonna die Because the cow's gonna develop some kind of infection in the udder and then that's it for you and me and your sisters. You wanna die? No, I I guess I'll do my choice But it's not exactly like that any longer. But it was like that for them. To have a drunkard who would spend everything on drink. Where else do you find the discretionary income? Oh, a state welfare program. Does not exist It's far more dire. That's just the those are just the natural consequences that flow out that God has set up in His providence on why one of the reasons why we would want to take this seriously. There are other reasons too. That this is meant to be a sacred people, a light unto all of the nations. And you can see that overtone within this passage also. When he says that you would remove all the evil from among you. There's much to observe in this passage Besides that, let me say this. Children, I had your attention earlier. Let me have your child your attention again. Put away the crossword puzzle or the drawings or whatever you're doing. Okay? Let me let me speak to you from this specific passage and one of the implications for you that children, you fit into an overarching society. or structure. In other words, you have a place, and I just want to tell you this. You're not the center around which all of us orbit. And we are trying to communicate that to you in the instructions that we give you. Your life is not primarily about your wants and your desires. Desires. It is about how you can serve the productive and God honoring work of your parents. You are like little handmaidens helping them to get their work done Done. And not just your parents, but those who are present here within this congregation who are your elders. You are to see the great work that they are doing for God and when you were called to step in and to help them. Let me give you this picture. I remember growing up with my father, and it was glorious because it was uh it meant growing up in a concrete vocation called building houses. And you know your place as a child when you're building houses. You know you're not the lead carpenter. That's really clear. Well my dad was. He was a master carpenter. And his goal was to build houses to provide for his family. family and to provide for other families that they would have a place to live. And my job, it was quite obvious, was to serve my dad and to help him build the house. Not to pretend to be the master carpenter or what my wants or desires were. If I wanted to eat lunch at 9:30 a. m. and I was always hungry as a boy, it didn't matter because lunchtime was lunch And my even the the pangs of my hung hunger had to serve the overarching job. If my father needed more nails, I got them. If he needed a saw, I got the saw. If he needed lumber, guess who was the one that carried it all? Not my father. Me. And I served him that he could do his work well and he could do it in a timely fashion. And you know what that word we call that today is an apprentice. And that is the picture. If you were to look back a hundred or more years ago, that's the picture, children. That you would have of you in relationship to your parents. You would be apprenticing. Now it's it's kind of gotten lost because you're no you're no longer necessarily going to take on your parents' trade. But that's the idea, and that's the picture. There's still some kind of apprenticeship that needs to happen. We tried to establish this very early in our household by sleeping schedules. The babies will not just be awake whenever they want or sleep whenever they want. They need to serve the larger purposes of the home whenever that is possible. And that's why we chose that. And this is how God intends. I just gave you specifics. You have to work out your own specifics, but you can see the overarching vision for you children. This is how you are to relate to your parents. And it implies that they are serving God and that you would help them as supports in their service Your parents are serving God in many ways. Here's the question that I want you to ask yourself. How can you serve your parents to help them serve their God? That's the ultimate question. And talk about that over lunch if you can. Number two, I want you to notice that those who are involved with the the notice those who are involved with the rebellious son in the passage. Were you surprised? I was gonna make a political comment. Never mind. But apparently the statement is true. It takes a village to raise a child. I'll leave it at that. The entire community, look at verse 21. Then all the men of his city shall stone him to death with Now I know that that is a devastating example, but the whole community is involved here. You can't keep other families at arm's length with the rebellion. Do you think it would have been easy for those men to pick up the stone? They grew up with the boy. They've seen him move from gullible to hardened. And yet they're called. The entire community is involved and responsible for the son in this case. And we carry forward the same mentality as Brad has already reminded us when we stand and vow to parents. That we help them raise their children in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. And you have to figure out exactly how that is supposed to look. What are the some of the ways that you could be involved? And why not start when the children are young? My next door neighbor bought me an X Acto set to work on uh Balsalwood planes. And you know what it did? It started a relationship where he then became An influencer in my life. My uncle taught me to shoot a bow and arrow, and it opened up a relationship where then he became an influencer in my life. Nancy Johnson is not attending here this morning, but she did the same thing with Rachel Cooley, and it opened her up to be, to this day, am I correct, an influencer in Rachel life because they had tea together and they would talk about life. What about having somebody over for tea? Cucumber sandwiches? Hamburger? Why not taking out one of the young ones here to lunch? What about teaching a young man to shoot a bow and arrow? Or or do you know how to whittle with a pocket knife? Why not showing Someone as a way to move into influence within a person's life. To take responsibility as a community member Why not use those kinds of things to grow in influence and then to use your influence to help this community to grow in righteousness? Because by the time the son gets to the point where he needs to be stoned, there's no more time for tea or the whittling of sticks. So why not start earlier? And when they have their hardest and most rebellious moments, I promise you. You. Because you invested in them when they were younger, they will turn to you, and you can help to direct them toward the Lord. I've seen it over and over again. They could be, in a sense, without them even knowing it, you don't have to mention this to them, but they could be your apprentice. It's called discipleship. And you can help them to grow in righteousness. And don't forget, that's what all of this is about. That's what the first case study is about. That's what the second case study is about. It's about righteousness-only righteousness. That's the focus. That's the gift that has been given to us from the risen Lord Jesus Christ and sending his Spirit that you would have a desire for such good things and to live life with by the implications that we see here within this passage. This week it's the righteousness and how we treat children and how children treat their parents and how the whole community contributes to that. What a glorious social vision. What a beautiful picture for society. And really, we thank God the Father through Jesus Christ, who is even now through the church restoring such a vision of mind. Us. That is what he is doing. Do you want to stay in step with the Spirit? Then follow the implications of this passage. Now let me just remind you how serious this is. We're talking about the work, we're talking about the gospel of the ascended Lord Jesus Christ. And he takes this very seriously. He takes women seriously. He takes children seriously, and he takes parents seriously. Take a look at verse 22. We have these two case studies, but I want to show you something that follows on the heels of these case studies. Verse 22 and 23: if a man has committed a sin deserving of death and he is put to death, it could be that same son. And then his body is hung in a tree as a public example to the community. And what is it an example of? For he who is hanged. Is accursed of God. Do you see that? That unrighteousness leads to the curse of God, even death and execution, like we see, publicly displayed for us As these hung on the tree. Now it doesn't take any imagination to see the connection Really, all you need to do is to realize that this is a quote from Galatians chapter 3. Paul quotes this same verse in reference to Jesus Christ. Christ. The Apostle Paul quotes this verse. It says this in Galatians 3, verses 13 and 14 Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law. Having become a curse for us. For it is written, cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree, that the blessing of Abraham might come upon the Gentiles, you in Christ Jesus that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. Do you see the whole gospel right there? And he's pulling from this passage within Deuteronomy? In other words, do you see the character that you are without Jesus Christ in this passage? You are the rebellious son. You are the rebellious daughter. And you deserve to be publicly displayed as a curse. Or one accursed of God because of your rebellion. Wow, what a lot we learn about ourselves in this situation. But right there, kissing this situation is what we learn about the Lord Jesus Christ and God the Father who sent him. That Jesus Christ in our place has become accursed. That we can be set free and be free children of God. God the Father. Before God the Father, all of us were rebellious children, but Christ took the curse for us to redeem us. And he sent his spirit to begin restoring how we relate to each other. That's the ultimate argument for how serious we need to take this community And so I call upon you, as you think about yourself as parent, or woman, or husband, or wife, or child. That you would remember the firstborn Son, Jesus Christ, and how He, as our older brother, died that we might live, although we were the prodigal sons. And daughters. And don't forget this part of the gospel too. And let us live for him by the Spirit. In the way we love our wives, the way that we love and we discipline our children, and how we contribute to righteousness-only righteousness in our relationships. as an entire community. This is the gospel according to Moses. Please pray with me.