A a little exercise is a dangerous thing. So I was out walking here about two weeks ago and pulled something and I've been hobbling ever since. The pain comes and goes, but today it's a Little bit more painful than usual. So that's what's happening if you're wondering why I'm hobbling. Matthew eleven, picking up with verse twenty-five. At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and the prudent. And have revealed them to babes. Even so, Father, for it seemed good in your sight. All things have been delivered to me By my Father. And no one knows the Son except the Father, nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and the one to whom the Son wills to reveal him. Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. And you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. The first thing I noticed about this passage, particularly as I was studying it this week, so much so that it changed the direction that I was going in the sermon throughout the week was the dramatic change in tone that is picked up immediately by Jesus in this passage. If we keep it in context and we look at what's gone on before one minute, he is chastising the crowd around him. and the cities in which he had done great works. And the next he is speaking with the tenderness of a mother encouraging her child. One minute he is powerfully proclaiming the terror of eternal judgment. So strongly that I think the people that were listening to him were probably thinking it's coming tomorrow And the next moment he's confessing that God's ways and his plans are marvelous beyond comprehension. He is praising God for remaining hidden. To the worldly wise and prudent, and yet revealing himself and his mighty works to those who could be considered babes. Jesus is here actually praising God for his justice and his mercy. He is praising God. He is praising God for leaving those who are arrogantly clinging to their own wisdom and their own thought processes. He is praising God for leaving them in their sinfulness. But he is also praising God for sending his Holy Spirit to open the eyes of those whom he classifies as babes. The transition is just too stark. To go from hot to warm, if you will, not cold To go from one aspect of speaking to God's people to an entirely different demeanor. The transition is too sp stark, I think, to be anything other than intentional. And I think it is this dramatic change in tone that lies at the heart of understanding these last verses and what lies at the heart of this passage. I want you to imagine yourself there in that crowd that day. And if you were one of those who had been standing around Jesus while he spoke the first words of this chapter, And you were one of those in whom God had actually created a tender heart, I think by the time you got to the point where Jesus moves into this last few verses, I think you'd have been feeling pretty bummed about it First, Jesus didn't give John's disciples a whole great deal of encouragement if you want to look at them specifically. John was still in jail. Jesus, for all practical purposes, said he's going to stay in jail. Jesus, for all practical purposes, since he knows what's going to happen, he is God in the flesh, he knows, I believe, that John is going to die. He knows that he's going to leave him there for John's punishment or John's um uh uh having his head chopped off by Herod. John was, by Jesus' own admission, the greatest of the Old Testament prophets. And yet, if you were John's disciple and you came there wanting to hear good news about what Jesus was going to do about John, you went away wishing that it was perhaps a bit different Perhaps you, along with some of those there, were secretly hoping that Jesus would do something. Perhaps even though it hadn't happened yet, he would do something like he did with Paul and Silas when he opened up the jail cells, caused the prison doors to be flung open. But Jesus doesn't do that. Secondly, Jesus is speaking some pretty strong words in these previous passages. He intentionally adopts the language of the Old Testament prophets. Woe to you, he proclaims. Woe to this generation, he states. Woe to you hard-hearted and stiff-necked people. Now judgment day is coming, and it will be better for Sodom and tomorrow on that day than it is going to be for you people. Now Jesus here sounds like Jeremiah or Elijah or any of those other prophets of ancient Israel. And we know, and those people there knew how things turned out after those prophets spoke. They knew that some dark days were in their future. I think if we had been there, Jesus' tough language would have made us uncomfortable also. I think we would have begun to feel a tension. We would be kind of wiggling in our sandals. We would be having a tendency to look down on our hands. We might be wondering, what's gonna happen to me? Is there any way, is there any hope in the face of all of these Strict things that our Lord is speaking, this guy Jesus is getting pretty scary right now. Now, how am I supposed to respond to that? As we read these verses before thus, we must not, we must not strip them of their context. We cannot remove the tension that Jesus our Lord both builds into them. When Jesus says, Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest That is not just one more religious bumper sticker. It is not just one more insipid platitude. It's a call to embrace Him as the only possible answer to the things that burden us at our deepest soul. It is the heavy burden of being distant from God, of being liable for his wrath. The only answer to the nagging fear that perhaps our eyes have been darkened also, and that we might be wise in our own eyes. And prudent in the ways of the world, but missing the things of God. When judgment comes And the fear of God's wrath is very present before us. Are we really at peace? If we don't feel that tension, brothers and sisters, and I think we missed Jesus' whole point in these words. Look first at the tension we see in Jesus' opening words in this passage. He does it on purpose. I thank you, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things. From the wise and the prudent, and you have revealed them to babes. Now think about that. Think about what that says about our Lord God Himself. And let that tension begin to develop in you. Jesus had just rebuked the people of Israel and the cities of Galilee, the people standing around him. He had just rebuked them for being blind. For not seeing what's going on around them, for not hearing John the Baptist and understanding John the Baptist for what he was, for not seeing Jesus as what he is And who he is by the nature of the works that he's doing. Jesus had just threatened these people with judgment for being blind. And then he turns around and he praises God for leaving them in darkness He's praising God for hiding these things from those who are wise and prudent in the ways of the world. He is praising God for leaving a veil over their hearts. God, I thank you, he is saying, that you have hidden these things. From the arrogant and the proud. Does that make you wonder what's going on here? Jesus rebuking the crowd and then praising God for leaving them that way. What is the only reason that God gives that Jesus gives for God doing this? He says, even so, it is for your own good pleasure that you're doing this. That's his only reason. Because it seemed good in your sight to do so. Jesus doesn't dispel the tension. He drives the point home. The whole world, he proclaims, is at risk. Brothers and sisters, Jesus is here teaching us and teaching those people there that there is a mighty God Out there. There is a mighty God here. There is a mighty God who does what he wants to do. No man can stay his hand, no man can change his mind, there is no power above him to which man can appeal. You're doing this because it's your good pleasure to do it, our Lord says. The ancient king of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar, learned this lesson the hard way. I'm not going to go through his whole story. Just going to say what or repeat the verses that he said after he came through learning this lesson. At the end of that time, I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted my eyes to heaven, and my understanding returned to me, and I blessed the Most High, and praised and honored him who lives forever. For his dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom is from generation to generation. Now listen to this. All inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing he does according to his will in the army of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth no one. can restrain his hand or say to him, What have you done? Brothers and sisters, that ought to create just a sense of uneasiness that has nothing to do with muscle ache. Jesus and Nebuchadnezzar both proclaim that there's a God out there to whom we're accountable, and he does what he pleases. That's where we stand. The stakes are high. Judgment is coming, and it will be a terrible thing, and there will be those standing in judgment someday who are wise and prudent in the ways of the world, and they will not see it coming. They will not feel its threatening imminence or presence. They will not believe that there is a God who does what he wants. and that no one can stop him. They will be too wise to think that way. They will be too prudent to think that way. They will not They could not bring themselves to transform their whole life, to change their whole life from pursuing what they in their own wisdom and their own prudence want to do, it does not occur to them to be within the realm of possibility that they should change that in order to conform to what this Bible says about this God It just won't make any sense to them. And so the eminence of judgment Well pass them by. Have you ever felt the nearness of a thunderstorm? When you're at sea in a relatively small sailboat, it's very perceptible. There's a freshening to the breeze. There's kind of an electricity that forms in the air. There's a certain scent. You can smell rain. You can feel it coming. So it is with the judgment of God for those who have the senses to sense it. They can sense it coming. They know it's near. There are those who will feel it coming and those who don't That's how things will be. That's how things were. That's how things are. And what does Jesus here say? He praises God. He says this is the way it ought to be. It's God's good pleasure for it to be like this. There's a veil over the eyes and over the hearts of those who are given over to the wisdom and prudence of the world, and then there are those who are mere babes in this world, and they are the ones who will benefit from God's grace and his mercy and his blessing, and they will rejoice in his judgment. That's a tense teaching. And yet Jesus is praising God for it. And brothers and sisters, I ask you here today, are you praising God for it right now? Is that the effect it's having on your soul right now? Are you saying judgment is coming? Yea, God. Or are you wondering where you'll stand? Wondering if this judgment thing is good news or not. Does it burden you? Does it weigh on you? Because that's what Jesus intends for it to do. There's more here. Look at the tension that Jesus continues to build. Verse 27, all things have been delivered to me by my Father. And no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and the one to whom the Son will reveal him. We just talked about the blindness that is over people's hearts and minds. And that some people are babes in the world and they have this revelation or they are given insight. And we see that this is according to the good counsel and the pleasure of God the Father. And now Jesus is inserting himself right in the middle of that. Jesus moves from praising God the Father to revealing God the Son and placing himself in the middle of God's divine redemptive plan. Who is in this world? Who is dark in this world? Who is it that is blind to the path to the working of God and to his great gospel? Who is it that is at risk? In the coming judgment, because they do not know God and will not follow him, who are among the babes, so that they in fact know Christ and will receive his grace? Only those to whom our Lord Himself reveals. Brothers and sisters, no one comes into this world knowing the Father. No fallen human being, born of Christian parents or non-Christian parents, is born into this world with the knowledge of God the Father. Much less God the Son, much less God the Holy Spirit. The word that is used here for knowing is a heightened form of knowledge. It means essentially to know God as He really is. In modern colloquial English, that is the way that we would register it. And what Jesus is saying here is that God as He is is beyond human ex understanding. You cannot look at the world around you and then arrive at true conclusions about the perfections of God. You cannot start off with a philosophical premise and develop it to the end that you arrive at a knowledge of God. You cannot discover him on your own. Yeah, all of those who are wise and prudent in this world, they dispute that. They believe they've got God in a box. They figured him out. They reduced him down to their level. They made him comprehensible to themselves. And that is the nature of sin. That is the nature of being fallen. We try to make God understandable and then fit into our life where we want Him to fit. And whether it's a great philosopher or whether it's just a guy on the street trying to get his job done. When we put God into that box and we conform Him to our will, we discover that we don't know Him at all. Brothers and sisters, that is damnable arrogance. No one, no human being knows God unless our Lord Christ Himself reveals God. to that person. Now what does that tell you about all other religions? It tells you there is no truth in them. And brothers and sisters, if you're here today thinking that all religions lead to the same God, you're wrong. There is only one knowledge of God That it's a true knowledge of God and has any hope of revealing God to the human soul, and that comes through the Holy Spirit, through the person of Christ, and that alone And here Christians stand and here Christians die. But we never give up that point. No one, no one knows God unless Jesus reveals him. No Buddha sitting and staring at his new No prophet Muhammad, no philosopher like Plato, no Mormon like Joseph Smith, no Pope sitting on his throne in Rome There is no true sense of knowing God if you are at a distance from the Lord Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, do you feel the tension Do you see how critical things are? Do you see how much at risk the world is? Judgment is coming, the world is in darkness, God is ordering all things to these ends. This is worthy of being praised, and yet the thought of judgment does not elicit praise in our heart, and only Jesus can open us up to this. He is the key to it all. What do we do? It is here that the words now begin to make sense. sense. Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden. I will give you rest Take my yoke. Learn from me. I am gentle and lowly in heart. You will find rest for your souls. My yoke is easy, my burden is light. It is in the context of the awe-inspiring reality of a God God who does what He wants, against whom we have no recourse, who answers to no one, who is certain to bring judgment upon those who do not know Him and yet is alone responsible for revealing himself to them. When we realize that is our dreadful plight and it begins to weigh on our soul. Then these words of Jesus are sweet indeed. For those of you who are hearing these words today and you feel the sin, the trouble that sin causes in this world, that causes in your own life. When you see the pain and the suffering that is caused by those who do evil When you look at your own life and you see sin still there, sometimes sin that seems to overwhelm you and against which you fail to be able to bring a strong ability to change it. When you begin to wonder in the darkness of the night, when you will lie there at three o'clock in the morning and you can't sleep And you begin to think that one of these days you're not going to awaken. And you're going to have to face This thing called Christ, whether he's real or not. And you begin to wonder whether or not that is indeed going to be a day of good news for you. When those fears begin to control your life, and when you begin to think that you may be far from Christ, and that you can't do anything about it on your own You see the power of Satan showing itself to be in the world seemingly stronger than the power of Christ. When you see what appears to be the bad guys winning and the good guys getting stomped upon. When the context of judgment begins to feel certain And these words are blessed indeed. Come to me. Open your heart to me. Learn from me. For I am gentle. I'm lowly at heart. You will find rest for your soul. Embrace me. Turn to Christ. Let your fears and your worries and your heartaches and your tears let them all find their answer in Him. You can't do that unless the Lord opens your heart. But if you do that, He has opened your heart. And that is exactly how he is glorified. I am the answer, Jesus says. I am the only answer to the terrors of your conscience. The fear of death, the power of sin. I am the answer. Believe in me. Trust in pray. Trust in me. And take up my yoke Become my servant, and you will find that it is the best thing you have ever done. Let's pray. Our Lord and God uh