I'll start at uh verse number eight just so that we can read the whole prayer. Therefore, do not be like them, for your Father knows the things you have need of before you ask him. In this manner, therefore, pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Let us pray Heavenly Father, we thank you that you have preserved your word for us to this day. I pray that you would work through the word preached, that your Holy Spirit would alight upon your congregation here today. And that we would not just be hearers of your word, but that we would be doers. I pray, Lord, that we would grow in our acknowledgement and dependence upon you, and that it would be a delight that we are your creatures. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Throughout the history of literature or in movies there are certain characters that uh uh are remembered from era to era. One of the characters is from the Lord of the Rings trilogy and He's most well known originally Smeagol and becomes Gollum. If you look at his character, whether in reading in the books or you look in the movies, you'll notice that He signifies to us a universal human struggle, that there are particular things that if they become too large or too important to us in our lives, and everything else takes second place then that life leads to loneliness and destruction and ultimately death. This is signified in the literal ring with which he struggles It is a picture of idolatry, of what happens when the human soul or the hobbit soul in this particular case is oriented in towards something that it's not meant to be oriented to, that it's not meant to worship. Now, I imagine if you were to read literary or movie critics, you could see that they asked the question, for what does the ring stand? In the movies, in the books, it is a literal ring, and perhaps there is a figurative meaning to it also. Is it that human beings uh place human relationships too highly and have inordinate desires there and that causes their destruction. Is it that they put uh their uh relo their relationships in terms of intimacy in too high of a spot Do they put creation itself in too high of a spot? Well, we probably could fill in the blank, couldn't we? that human beings are known for elevating just about anything into the place of God where it does not belong. One thing that we might not remember, but is truly clear within the scriptures, is that we often elevate ourselves to a position that we don't belong. We have been tempted from the beginning to think of ourselves as gods and to displace God, to think of ourselves as autonomous and as creators. and not creatures. Here within the Lord's Prayer, if you were to accept the teaching of the Lord's Prayer, And if you take up the practice of the Lord's Prayer, then those thoughts of your autonomy or that you're the Creator, they can't stand with what the teaching is here that the Lord Jesus gives to us. It's very clear that it is not your kingdom. It is God's kingdom that is meant to advance, and you are his servant. We saw last week that we're dividing the Lord's Prayer into two main parts, although it could be divided into six. We're putting it into two parts to match with the two parts of God's law Last week, therefore, we looked at the first table of the law by way of the first table of the Lord's Prayer, table connecting to the tablets which the law was written upon The first table was all focused on those first four commandments of our worship of God and his kingdom. If you take a look back down at your scriptures, you can see That that is the focus. It's our Father in heaven. It's hallowed be your name. That is our desire that everyone would worship you. It's your kingdom that is to come, not the kingdom of Satan, not my kingdom. Your kingdom advanced And may it be done on earth as it is in heaven. And we talked about what that would look like. It's not primarily by way of coercion, but a due submission and holy reverence that is given unto our God. Now that's the first part of this. That's the first part of that. And it strikes against that idolatry of self and autonomy that we sometimes try to declare This morning we're moving into the second table, which really focuses on who we are in relationship to God. And our neighbor. So we have love God in the first table of the prayer and love each other in the second table of the prayer. Now, what I'd like to do As we go through this second table is to just look basically at three main things. I want to look at the physical needs of prayer I want to look at the relational needs of prayer, and I want to look at the spiritual needs of prayer. If that's too much for you to write, then you'll know that I'm going to proceed by doing the physical, the relational, and the spiritual. The physical, the relational, and the spiritual. So let's go ahead and begin looking at our passage here this morning, the second table And let's see first the physical needs that are present within us as creatures, and therefore the necessity of prayer. I'll tell you, brothers and sisters. When we start to see the implications of these different petitions in the prayer, we can immediately see that we are creatures dependent on God for everything. We are creatures dependent on God for everything. And God knows that you and I are dependent upon him. for even the smallest things of our physical life. And you can see here also by way of implication that he invites you That he is ready and he is able for you to ask him for your daily needs. Now you can see that immediately in verse number 11 with just the phrase, give us this day. our daily bread. Do you see all of those implications popping out of there? Number one, the implication that you can't just accomplish these things. by yourself, so you will have to go to him, even for the smallest things like your daily bread. That's how dependent you are on him. And God, as Jonathan Edwards said, is glorified in your dependence upon him. It is a part of why you worship him, because he's such a good, good father in the things that he gives you. Every good and perfect gift coming from him. Now I imagine you have your scriptures open in front of you one way or another, but I'd like to you to see that creatures are dependent upon God. It's always been that way, and there is this beautiful vision of that in Psalm 104. Would you turn there with me just a Psalm one hundred four. I'll just show you a couple of these verses and I'd encourage you to read through this psalm. It's I don't have favorite Bible verses just because Kind of depends what I'm going through with God and with other people, and he brings certain verses into my life, and I'm saying, well, those are my favorite right now. But I do keep going back to Psalm 104. Psalm 104 gives this beautiful vision. where we would bless the Lord, O our souls. It begins, take a look with me very quickly. I'm going to do a very quick exposition of this. We see in the very beginning in verse number three, That God is above and we are below. He lays the beams of his upper chambers in the waters, who makes the clouds his chariot. You can see that it's starting way at the top When we look at verse number five, it also goes all the way down to the bottom. So who laid the foundation of the earth? Now, we can see it's the God of heaven and earth. When we get to verse number 10, we're going to go back up to the top of a mountain, and there's going to be springs of water that God causes to run down into the valleys. Now this is literally water that runs down into the valleys, but I think it's also a prefiguration of the sending of the Holy Spirit to all the nations. But you can see here quite literally that he sends the springs in verse number 10 in the valleys, and here just start to notice that along the way with the stream There's now going to be formed an ecosystem where God is taking care and giving the daily bread to every living creature. They give drink to the every beast of the field, the wild donkeys, verse number eleven, quench their thirst And verse number 12, he's also taking care of the birds of heaven. They have their home, and they sing among the branches because the trees were able to grow up because of the water. It continues then in verse number 14, where because the grass is growing because of the water and is being fertilized by the birds, it causes the grass to grow for the cattle and the vegetation for the service of man And then man is going to take the things that are given to him and it's gonna be turned into wine and uh feasts. He'll even talk about the the birds and storks in verse 17 making their homes in the fir trees and the wild goats and the rock badgers that are able to be taken care of by God. It goes on to verse number 21, where the young lions roar after their prey and they seek their food from God. You see here in verse number 22 this kind of summary when the sun rises, they gather together And lie down in their dens, and man goes out to his work, to all his labor until the evening. And when we get into this section on verse number 24, we are able to acknowledge begin to acknowledge that God is the one who provides all things. But you can see this explicitly stated when we get into verse number 27. And there's some children here that have memorized this. It says here, of all creatures, these all wait for you, that you may give them their food in due season. What you give them, they gather in. And what a beautiful image we have here. You open your hand, and they are filled with good. That's a part of the biblical teaching and the revelation of our God and Father that is behind this The petition that is given to us, give us this day our daily bread. All of us are creatures. We have that in similarity to all the other creatures we just read in Psalm 104. And you therefore are declared to be dependent upon him. And you see here within this petition that he encourages you to go to him in your dependence. You're not supposed to be ashamed of that. Now Satan would have you think this thought. I should be able to just take care of myself. There is a sense in which that could be true and that we do take responsibility for our lives, but in the ultimate sense you don't take care of yourself. Every good thing for you and every perfect gift is from God. And He encourages you as your Father to come to Him with even the little things. I have a conversation once a year with an individual where they tell me that they don't pray to God because Shh they don't want to bother him with their small concerns. And every year I say, but your father is a good father, and he wants you to bring even the smallest things, things like bread and water to his attention when you need them. Well, that's the picture of your father that is painted here, and I say the same thing to you that we even have read here this morning. That every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and it comes down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow He wants us to turn to him and to discover in our relationship with him that your father may not be represented by a closed hand. He wants you to know him as a father who at just the right time, all the time, opens his hand to you and the things that you need. Now, I want you to observe one more thing about this first petition. And it doesn't just say, give us this day my daily bread. That's not what it says. It says, give us this day our daily bread, which the church has always read to mean in part that you're not only to be praying to God for your daily needs, but you should be interceding for other people That God would give other people also what they need. And so I encourage you in that way. That you would know God the Father as one who does not have his hand closed to you and he does not have his hand closed to others. Now I bring that up in closing on this first point in part because Within my own heart, I detect something. And I wonder if you detect it in your own heart. There is something about me as a fallen creature. That finds it more comfortable to believe that God has a closed hand than that he has an open one. I wrestle with believing that he can be trusted and that he is reliable. And I think that you probably wrestle with that too. But here again, Jesus is telling you as his disciple, one of the main things that you must work on in your relationship with him is to believe that he's trustworthy, that he's faithful, and that he's reliable. I don't know about you, but I wonder, especially those of you who are more mature in years, is it just me Or is the main lesson of life that God continually seeks to teach you is to trust Him? That's what I'm finding most, if not all of my lessons boil down to. You didn't trust me again. I am every I am very trustworthy. And then I ultimately end up saying, you're right. You are trustworthy, and I keep needing to learn that lesson. And here it is again within the petition that he is trustworthy to turn to even the smallest things that we're dealing with that other people would say are silly, but our Father does not say they're silly. And we can turn to our Father for others as well. Now that's the first part of this petition. The first part is That first petition in verse number 11, give us this day our daily bread, and it focuses on the physical needs. Isn't it great that God's not too spiritual for you? Isn't it nice that he knows that you're physical being also, that you have a body, and that it needs to be taken care of? What a blessing. Now the second is that there are these relational needs of prayer besides the physical. And this really points out to us when we start to look at this petition, which is in verse number 12. that not only are we creatures that are entirely dependent upon the Creator, but we are also creatures that become estranged and hardened toward him This is a normal part of human life. It's technically abnormal, but it has become the normality to where we relate to our Creator and we are easily estranged from him. and harden towards him. Our relationship can get bad quick. And God knows this about you. He knows that you sin against him He knows that you sin against others and that people sin against you, and he wants you to acknowledge your sin against him and against others to him in prayer Not because he didn't know what you did and you have to reveal it. Nothing is private to him. I think the primary reason that he gives this petition is so that you can keep up your relationship with him. If you look in verse number 12, which is where I'm um pulling these things from, it says in verse number 12, and forget us forgive us our debts. as we forgive our debtors. So part of our prayer is going to Him and acknowledging our debts. Now this debt idea is a metaphor. You'll see it a little bit later in a story in Matthew where actually someone is in financial debt. But if you were to look at other passages that talk about this exact same topic. or are also a reoccurrence of the Lord's Prayer, you'll see that this has everything to do with your relationship with God. It's not primarily about it's not about you owing money to God. It's number in verses 14 and 15, if you don't mind just flipping in mine, you have to flip the page, but if you just scan down in this same passage In verse number 14 and 15, he's going to focus in on this. Notice in verse number 14 it doesn't say, forgive men their debts. It says, forgive men their trespasses. You see that? And that's reflective of a different word where we're talking about the ways in which people offend us. They sin against us. That's what's being referred to here. And that's picked up explicitly if you ever have the opportunity to go to Luke chapter 11. Verse 4, in the Lord's Prayer there, it says, and forgive us our sins. You see that? So we have a metaphor, debts, and then we have offenses and we have sins. And this has to do with our sinning against God. That's what's going on here. And forgive us our sins, Luke would say, as we forgive those who have sinned against us. The best commentators here help us to understand the relationship between these two sayings within verse number 12. Have you ever wrestled with that? You can see explicitly that we should be confessing our sins to God, asking for his forgiveness. But have you ever struggled with the second part? Take a look at it. It says, as we forgive our debtors So one way to read that is, would you forgive us in the same way that we've forgiven other people? Now the best commentators write R. C. Sprohl, he says, they tell us at this point that if we were to take this In one way, we would be finished. Because if God forgave us in exact proportion to how we forgive others, we would perish. So thank God that this is an aspiration. And I think that's a good reading based on some studies. Thank God that this is an aspiration rather than a condition. Jesus is teaching us to aspire to reflect the kindness of God and to be ready to forgive anyone who has sinned against us or offend us when he repents. Now, the main reason that I told you that Jesus gave us this, now that we understand the words of the passage, the main reason I think he's giving this to you is in order to keep up your relationship. I already told you that. Have you seen just in your normal everyday relationships that if you sin or are sinned against and it's never dealt with, if it's at the level where it can't be overlooked, Do you see how that starts to tear at your relationship with the person? Are you able to see how you become estranged from them? that you begin to have different feelings and thoughts about them. And over time, the distance can be pretty long. between you and that person and that relationship. Have you noticed how you can even become hardened toward them? You could get to the point where there's nothing good to say about them at all. They are the embodiment of Satan. Or whatever it is. There's a villainization that takes place. Well, part of what Jesus is doing here is that you know did you know that that same kind of thing can happen between you and God? That when you don't acknowledge your sin to him, especially on your side, you can become more and more estranged from him. Darker and darker thoughts can occur to you about him. And the relationship goes south and is sour. And so God here is saying, come to me and acknowledge in the name of my son who has covered all of your sins. Come to me still, nevertheless, even though I already knew what you did. Don't be like Adam and Eve hiding in the garden. Come to me and in the name of Jesus Christ acknowledge what you have done so that our relationship doesn't continue on these sour terms. You know, it reminds me of s of something that takes place right about now and at this time, especially in s uh certain places like the Northeast or in Alaska, there are a specific set of boats that go out each morning, especially in harbors, and they break the ice. Have you seen pictures of these boats? They're you guess what they're called? Icebreakers. Yeah, it's a big mystery. Icebreakers. And what I see Jesus doing here is as we go into that prayer closet and we're able to acknowledge our sins before him. that that prayer in the hands of the Holy Spirit becomes an icebreaker. It keeps our hearts from hardening and from continual estrangement to God. Now I'll say also that in addition to confessing your sins to God, there is a very long understanding of the importance of confessing your sins. to an elder, for example, not because they're God and they're going to forgive you or absolve you of your sin, but so that you can begin to get some help for it. We see that in the in James chapter 5, for example. The supposed situation is that a person is on their deathbed and the elders are called to them to anoint them with oil, and they're to confess their sins to the elders. as a part of what's going on here. It's important that we acknowledge these things with God and with those who can help us through it. Because things can get deep and they can get dark really quickly. That's good for us to keep in mind because this series is still about how are we going to disciple those whom God sends us? Well, Jesus is saying, well, we we perpetually need ourselves to work on our relationship with our Father by way of prayer. And they're going to need that same kind of help also. So they're going to come to you. This is inevitable. And they are going to confess their sins to God, but they're going to tell you too. And you're going to have to work through that with them. You're going to have to help them to understand this second petition in this second table that's given to us and forgive us our debts or sins or offenses. And we aspire to show the same kindness that our God has shown to us in Christ Jesus as we forgive those who have sinned against us. Now that's the second need that we see there within this passage. You have the physical need as a creature, and you have the spiritual need as the creature. or relational need as the creature. And then we finally move into the spiritual needs of prayer. And here's what this next petition teaches us. That we are not only creatures who are entirely dependent upon God. We are not only creatures who are easily estranged from Him because of our sin and wanting to hide it. And not acknowledge it, never take responsibility. But we are also creatures with an enemy who wants us to fall in our callings to God's kingdom. There is an enemy that is like a lion seeking to devour you. And this is brought out to us within this next petition. It says here, and do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one, and it will continue, for yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. God knows that you are prone to wander from the very first table of prayer. May your name be hallowed May your kingdom come and your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Lord, within five minutes of praying that, I strayed. And so now when we get over into this second table, we begin to realize that there was temptations that were already involved. There's an enemy that never w that wanted us to never live up to the prayer that we had talked about earlier in prayer meeting. And God knows that about you. He knows you're dependent on Him in this way too. He knows that you are prone to wander from the first petitions of this prayer And he invites you to ask him for deliverance from the evil one. And do not lead me into temptation, Lord, but deliver me from the evil one. It is yours that is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Now you can see the connection here to the earlier prayer where we are to confess our sins to him. And there are times when we will be taken captive by our enemy. And during the captivity, we usually don't do any kind of confession. We're very proud of the decisions that we have made, and we think we're right. But according to 2 Timothy 2, 24 through 26, there is a captivity that can take place, and God can, especially through the cause of Christian correction. Get you out of the captivity. It says, and a servant of the Lord must not quarrel, but be gentle to all, able to teach, patient, in humility, correcting those who are in opposition. If God perhaps will grant them repentance, that they may know the truth, and that they may come to their senses and escape the snare of the devil, having been taken captive by him, to do His will. Not the will of your father who is in heaven. But to do his will. And now we have a name for the enemy, and it's the devil. Well, this shouldn't surprise us either, because that name comes up in Matthew earlier in verse number 4, the same word that is used here in our prayer that we would be delivered from temptation is used in chapter 4 of Matthew, verses 1 through 3, of one who is tempting Jesus and is known as the tempter himself. It says here in Matthew 4, 1 through 3, then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the I'm sorry, this is beginning in verse 4. No, it's 1, I'm sorry. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights afterward, he was hungry. Now, when the tempter came to him, he said, If you are the Son of God, command that these stones become bread. And Jesus is fully aware that those temptations are coming your way too. In fact, won't that be some of the struggle of his disciples? And it's the struggle of you as his disciples also. And so here we see that he recognizes that we have an enemy and he encourages you as your father to come to him You're going to be tempted. There is one who wants to eat you alive. Come to me Ask for deliverance from the temptation. And then if I permit the temptation to happen, like I have done with Job, for example, then ask that you would be delivered from it It is possible to see these two verses as the first being a request to be kept free from any kind of testing or temptation. Writes one commentator, and the second for rescue if God, in his infinite wisdom, permits it to occur, and yet is not the author of any sin. And this should be a great reminder for us as we enter into these this last portion of the prayer. That when we pray the first portion of the prayer, which is Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven, that the enemy does not want you to complete that calling or to make any progress in it whatsoever. So if you do sin against God If the devil and the tempter does pull you off of the path of righteousness and onto the path of folly, as Proverbs talks about. Then here, back at the end, we're recognizing that we are to confess those sins from straying from worshiping our God in all of our heart, soul, mind, and our neighbor as ourself. We are to ask that as we are restored under that kind of forgiveness, that if temptation were to arise again, as we're back on the path of righteousness That instead this time we would be delivered from our enemy. And we are to remember with the final conclusion of this prayer that this is not about the kingdom of Satan. This is not about our kingdom. It says clearly in the final verse of 13, Father, yours is the kingdom. And yours is the power, and yours is the glory forever. Amen. And so that's the second table that Jesus is teaching us here. You can see that there's quite a bit for us to learn, especially about our relationship with the Father. There are the physical needs that we have as creatures. God is glorified in your dependence. There are the relational needs of prayer that we have. He knows that we're inclined to being hardened and estranged towards him as our Father. And then there are the spiritual needs of prayer. He knows that we have an enemy that wants to take us down and destroy us body and soul. And so here, Jesus, teaching his disciples on the hillside, encourages us all to go to our Father with these most basic and fundamental things of our lives. And I think he wants us to pray this prayer for another reason too, that lies at the heart of everything. And that is that we wouldn't forget that Jesus from the very beginning of this Sermon on the Mount has declared that you, as his disciples, are meant to be salt and light to the world. You are meant to be a witness. Now, I know that that word witness is used. in different contexts within our culture. And with it's a kind of Christian easy thing to say that we're witnesses. I'd like you to just think about the law court, for example. That you were called as a witness to something. Because I think that gets close to what we're talking about here, that we are witnesses to the world. As a community, we are witnesses to the world of something. When they see us and they hear us, they witness something. And it tells us that that's who we're meant to be as salt and light. Now what are they meant to witness? They are meant to witness from us that God is good, that He's lovable, and that He is to be worshipped. And this prayer addresses the problem that we have, is that we don't naturally think that. So I believe that what Jesus is in part doing is he's helping you by way of this prayer as a regular Everyday part of your life is for you to have a good relationship with your Heavenly Father so that you can witness to the world about how good he is. If you don't have a good relationship with him, if you think if if pe people can read your face, if they were to come up to you and say, is God reliable? They can tell on your face if you say, yeah, but you mean, hmm, 25% of the time. We should with a clear conscience be able to say without a doubt, he is always unreliable. He is always reliable. That's where Jesus is taking us and the kind of relationship that we'll need to have growing over time with the Father as we enter into prayer with Him. As we enter into prayer for ourselves and as we enter into prayer for each other, and that's the second part of the witness. We're not only to witness to how lovely God is, as revealed in Jesus Christ. But we are to witness to the world what real love for each other looks like. And that begins with your relationship with your Heavenly Father also. If you're a human being and you don't have a good, reconciled relationship with your Heavenly Father, there are some major symptoms that immediately show up, and one of them is a continual anxiety. to walk through this world and all of its uncertainty and difficulty and to also have a specific enemy against you and to have no real trust in your heavenly Father? How could you not help but to wring your hands over everything and to be worried about everything? But if you're connected to your Father by way of Jesus Christ and you have a real reliability in him, there is a joy that pervades even in the most difficult troubles. And that joy starts to be overspilled in your relationship with other human beings. Instead of being consumed with your troubles, Your mind gets clear and you're able to see other people and smile and enjoy them. You can see all of the different things that Jesus Christ intends that are good for you because he is God. And from him comes every perfect gift. And this, brothers and sisters, this prayer, this Lord's prayer is a gift to you It is meant not just to be read, but to be lived and practiced, to discover God and to share those discoveries with others. The Lord's Prayer Finally, is the means that he is giving you to those two ends to learn how to love him And to learn how to love others and to learn how to love those others that He hasn't brought to us yet, but He has destined that they will be brought. And that is our Lord's Prayer in two tables. May the Lord bre uh bless the preaching of his word here this morning. Let us pray.