We're turning now to Hebrews chapter 12, and I invite you to turn with me. We're going to be flipping through our Bibles quite a bit this morning. There's at least three Old Testament passages in Hebrews 12, verses 12 through 17. And so you'll need a Bible. Raise your hand if you'd like us to bring you one. And we can do that. I prefer you have a physical one, but that's really up to you. I can't bind your conscience. on that. Studies show though that that physical one burns itself into your mind in a way that the electronic one doesn't. I'll just encourage you in that way. So turning to Hebrews 12, verses 12 through 17, we'll continue to hear from God on the normal Christian life. This is not a fireside chat. This is not some guy sharing faults with you. I am seeking to show you what God Himself says. So I ask that you would take it with that seriousness. Verses 12 through 17. Therefore, strengthen the hands which hang down and the feeble knees, and make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed Pursue peace with all people, and holiness, without which no one will see the Lord. Looking carefully lest any one sh fall short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up cause trouble, and by this many become defiled. Lest there be any fornicator or profane person like Esau, who for one morsel of food sold his birthright. For you know that afterward, when he wanted to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place for repentance though he sought it diligently with tears. Let's pray. Father, these are your words inspired by our Spirit? And we ask that you would help us to understand them, really to gain them, that they would become a part of us in a way that is glorifying to you. Father, I pray that these words would move people out of their sin into further loyalty to you, especially the covenant children. In your name. Amen. We all appreciate forecasts. I mentioned the idea of forecasts in the last sermon. We appreciate forecasts in my neighborhood, particularly if the storm is going to have heavy rain. There are those little maple tree helicopters that can get in your gutter. And if you don't clean the gutter in time, then the rain hits the gutters and then it cascades over top of the gutter. It falls next to your foundation. And we have older homes in my, you know semi-older homes in my neighborhood and then the water will seep into the basement and it costs time and money to fix that. And so we all appreciate forecasts so that we can get out there, those of us who have been neglecting our gutters. and clean the gutter. And that is an analogy to help us understand what's happening here within this passage. The author of Hebrews is seeking first and foremost to this original audience to give them a forecast of the normal Christian life. But because these are timeless truths, because we deal with a timeless God who is timely, they are truths for us also as Christians. So we are in a Christian forecast of what you can expect in your normal Christian life. Now let me just review some of the things that we've learned together. And you can begin to flip in your Bible even now in chapter 11. Chapter 11, the very or sorry, the beginning of chapter 12, the very first thing that we learned was that the normal Christian life is a race, verse 1 and 2. And in verse, as you can see in 2 and 3, that we are to look to Jesus for aid and assistance while we're in that race. That's part one of the normal Christian life. The second part to the normal Christian life here is that the Christian life is one of adversity. As we can see in verse 3, he expects us even to go to the point of martyrdom if God calls us to that. And it is not only of adversity, but that adversity is put to good use in working in us perfection, working us into holiness. Which is verses 6 and following. That is to say, the normal Christian life is one of adversity and discipline, the chastening of the Lord. We are not to despise. This morning, the normal Christian life says no With an explanation point to worldliness. That's our next forecast, that as Christians, we're called to say no to worldliness. Now, I want to begin by showing you the connection of this upcoming passage, 12 through 17, with what we were learning in the normal Christian life sections all the way from the beginning of You'll notice that last week's sermon included verses twelve and thirteen. I actually gave that as a final application or exhortation, showing you you're not meant to be discouraged but encouraged. Well notice that those two verses are also in this sermon. And that's because they not only serve two purposes. Due to their encouragement as children 12, 7 through 13. Christians should strengthen their hands, lift them up as a strong boxer again. Don't let them hang And strengthen your knees because you can go on in the race now. Make straight paths for your feet. Verses 12 through 13. I mentioned that They're an exhortation to strengthen, but they also serve as a transition, just as all exhortations in Hebrews do. They're summarizing and giving you exhortation from what preceded, and they're also setting you up for what follows. And that's what we find here also. This is not only a connection in 12 and 13, it is key for understanding the preceding verses. And the key really is when it mentions paths for your feet, it is a reference to Proverbs chapter 4, verse 26. And really, I'm convinced that the author here has been reading Proverbs chapters 1 through 9, and he's rolling that around in his head, and he's writing these sections for sure, especially chapter 4. It's it's the the themes and the way that he maneuvers. So let's just take a look at that quickly so that you can you can um see some of the words with your very own eyes. Turn to Proverbs chapter four and we'll we'll just look at Verse 26. And actually, I'm going to show you just a couple other verses, but this because this is really key as we go on. And it ends up giving you more information about this whole race business with endurance and steadfastness. So in in um here you see the paths for their feet in 426 and 27. Let me just read that for you. Ponder the path of your feet and let all your ways be established. If you have the NIV, it says let it says be steadfast in all your ways. NASB is just a little bit different than that, but same thought. Do not turn to the right or to the left. Remove your foot from evil. So here you see in Proverbs 426, we're already starting to gain more information that's going to be unfolded in the rest of this passage. Number one, notice that there's a path here We have already been talking about a path. We were using a sports analogy, so we call it a track. But it's the same idea. You're supposed to be running on a path and enduring on the path. That's the whole idea. So, you know, John Bunyan really got it right i this whole idea of the pilgrim's progress and and working your way to the celestial city on a path, but it does more than reinforce the race that the normal Christian life is a race There's added information in 426 of Proverbs about being steadfast, and the NIV really got it right this time. In 426, ponder the path of your feet and let all your ways be steadfast Established or be steadfast in all your ways. And so here the added information for the normal Christian life as being a race is that before we were thinking steadfast meant what? Steadfast meant you need to be able to run long distance. But this doesn't say that exactly. Sure, it's included in the thought, but the thought that's that's included now is that not only would you be able to run long distance, but that you would stay on the right course. In other words, don't run off the track onto some other track thinking that you're still in the race. May maybe that's the way to put it. You have to stay on the path. And that's what he's seeking to get across. You can see that very clearly, no matter what translation you have in verse 27 of chapter 4 of Proverbs. Look, do not turn to the right or the left. It's obviously what's going on here. You are to stay steadfast in the course. Let all your ways be steadfast. Do not turn to the right or the left, which is moral. He's speaking about moral there. A spatial metaphor. Do not remove your foot from the right way. That is to say, remove it from evil. So this lets you know that being steadfast and enduring is not only about long distance, it's about staying on course. And there's one other thing I want to show you from this passage that helps you to see. You're going to see how all this links up in a minute. Is that furthermore, seeing that chapter 4 of Proverbs is quoted in the Hebrews passage by the author. He's mentioning to them for them to keep their foot on the path. But I want you to notice that he had to have this in his mind: that the rest of Proverbs 4 mentions a bunch of other body parts. Both interior and exterior, and all scholars recognize this. It's in fact a theme that runs through Proverbs. He doesn't want just your foot on the path, he wants your whole person. He wants every part of you. you as a part of the covenant. And I want to just point that out to you very quickly. Look at verse 4 of chapter 4 of Proverbs. I told you you needed your paper Bible to say. He also taught me and said to me, let your heart retain my words. This is the covenant father speaking to the covenant child. And then in verse 20, my son hear and receive my sayings, speaking about the ear here. And then in verse 21 is the eyes. You can glance and look at that for yourself. 24 is the mouth. And then by the time you get to 26, there's the foot. So he's saying both interior and exterior is to remain steadfast on this one path, neither to the right or to the left. And tell me that's not exactly what the author of Hebrews is seeking to do with his country. Congregation. There's all kinds of turns that they could be taking at this point, and he just wants them to remain steadfast for the long haul on the right path. It's exactly what's happening also in Proverbs chapter 1 through 9, but especially here in 4. Now here's the connection. You can go ahead back to Hebrews. Here's the connection. The rest of this passage, 12 through 17. The rest of the passage before you is reminding that original congregation and us simply to stay on the path. And some of the slippery places. That's all that he's going to do now. And so we could, we could really, now we can really begin to understand this passage. Staying on the path, I want you to notice verse 14. Staying on the path involves two main things. One is really just a summary. Verse 14 says: pursue peace with all people and holiness. Now the the pursuit of peace there is is speaking about harmony amongst the community, making sure that everyone is edified and lifted up. It's not just m talking about a peaceful, easy feelings. Who sang that? The Eagles? I don't know. But he's not talking about that. He's talking about being in harmony and building one another up in your congregation Staying on the path therefore involves helping the community. So anything that you hear about how to not slip off is not only for yourself but those around you. Staying on the path is another way of talking about holiness. Don't go to the right, don't go to the left, remain. Morally straight on the path. And that's why he mentions holiness there. Now, so that's the connection. That's what's happening. He's taking Proverbs 4, and he's using that illustration. And he's going to keep with the path theme, and he's now going to guide us as his thoughts are guided by Proverbs 4. So in summary, this is what he's saying. Stay on path. In mind, in heart, and body. And now he's going to show next the ways that they as a congregation could in fact fall off the path. He wants them to be careful. Now this is something I want you to notice also from the passage. He wants them to be especially careful to not fall off this path. And the way that he communicates that is, take a look at verses 14 and 15. I'm going to point out So in fourteen, pursue peace with all people and holiness, without which no one will see the Lord. Now and here's the careful part. Looking careful, and then the the less anyone is a theme that goes through the passage passage, lest this were to happen. Do you see that? He wants you to be careful about specific things. So notice the repetition of lest anyone. Looking carefully lest anyone Fall short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up cause trouble, and by this many become defiled, lest there be any fornicator or prof you see what I'm saying So those are the slipping points of the passage. And I'm going to pull all this together here for you. So he's showing next the ways that they, as the congregation, may fall off the path, which is indicated by the less any parts. He wants them to be careful lest any of the less ennies were to happen to them. He needs them to watch for slippery places. Now you can reduce everything that's coming up to this. Say no to worldliness and you'll stay on the path. Say no to worldliness and yes to what God has. Communicated to you in his word, and you and your children will stay on the path. That is that's what he's saying. And we would pray that God would allow us as Christians and our children and our and our church family to do such a thing in such a worldly day as this. Now to bring that across, this is where the passage becomes a little simpler for you. I hope you don't mind the gymnastics that's Morning. It's a good exercise. He's going to give you two simple examples of worldliness. The one is going to come from Deuteronomy chapter 29, and then he's going to talk about Esau. There are two examples of the church from the past that we can learn, that we can learn from. And you know that he likes to do that. So the first example is from the root of bitterness that he mentions, which is from Deuteronomy. 29. Let me just point that to you in the passage again. In Hebrews, looking carefully lest anyone should fall short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness. This is chapter 12. In Hebrews, stringing up cause you trouble. That's a reference to Deuteronomy 29. And then you also have Esau in the final verses in verse 16. sixteen, the profane person who sold his birthright, and Randy started mentioning him, he's from Genesis twenty five and twenty seven Alright, so let's take a look and learn to say no to worldliness by first considering Deuteronomy 29 and the root of bitterness. This is the way this specifically unfolds. Say no to worldliness by saying no to worldly religions. It's the first lesson that you need to hear this morning. This is applicable to everyone in this room. Say no to worldliness by saying no to worldly religions. Now let me show you how the passage is saying such a thing. He's doing so through this Deuteronomy passage, and we're going to flip there in a minute, looking carefully lest anyone fall short of the grace of God, speaking about the new covenant. Lest any root of bitterness springing up cause trouble, and by this many become defiled. Now take a look at Deuteronomy 29, verse 18. I'm actually going to begin in fourteen so that you can see the context. Very important. So verse 14. I make this covenant in 29 of Deuteronomy. I make this covenant in this oath, not with you alone, but with him who stands here with us today before the Lord our God. as well as with him who is not here with us today. Now look at this parenthetical remark in verse sixteen. For you know that we dwelt in the land of Egypt, and that we came through the nations which you passed by And you saw their abominations and their idols which were among them, wood and stone and silver and gold. Now isn't that interesting already? Can you see them trying to take a straight path but on the left and the right There's this idolatry that's happening, and he's trying to say, stay on the that's what all deuteronomy Deuteronomy is about. Stay on this path. So that there will not be among you man or woman or family or tribe whose heart And there it is the path language again, turns away today from the Lord our God to go and serve the gods of these nations, and that there may not be among you a root bearing bitterness or wormwood. And then he continued So you can see the context there of what's going on as they seek to enter into this promised land and the temptations, the slippery places are going to be the other world religions that surround them. if they they are to not turn their hearts off of the path, just as we saw again in Proverbs 4. It's all connected. They not only, the point though, is that they would not only harm themselves But they would become a root of bitterness to others. You can see that turning back to Hebrews, that that's what the author intends. Notice how he says that if you became a root of bitterness, well what in the world does that mean? He says, and defile many. Do you see? So whatever it is, it pollutes the whole thing. Well, we see that same thought elsewhere in Scripture, the idea that Company corrupt good character, idolatry spreads, or Galatians 5. 9 is a very well-known one known one. A little yeast works through the whole batch of dough That's the point that he's making there. Now, so you can very clearly see what he's trying to do for these first-century Christians. What may be surprising to you then is the application to the original house church. He's essentially saying to them, because their greatest temptation is to go back to Judaism, is that Judaism at this point is a worldly religion. Does that surprise you? Have you ever categorized Jews, those who say they believe in Elohim, as a worldly religion? He does. Now why would he say that and how and where would you get that information from the book of Hebrews? Why would he say and be concerned about them being tempted to Judaism as a worldly religion? It's everything that has been taught us in In this book about Judaism at this point, they did not want Jesus as their high priest. They already had one. throwing them outside of the covenant of God. Which means they now have become just a worldly religion. Very dangerous. This is very serious They didn't want Jesus' atoning sacrifice. You know, they already had one. They had to have a day of atonement. They didn't need to reinvent things. Of course, it wasn't a reinvention. Jesus was the Father. But again, that's what's going on here. They didn't want the grace of forgiveness or any other grace from Jesus because they had a system of grace already in place in the temple system And so that's why this author has to warn them to stay away from worldliness by staying away from worldly religions. And guess what? I'm going to say it to you. Judaism is a worldly religion, is what he had to say to them. That must have been very difficult and very stark, because I'm sure that they blurred the lines and they thought it was a grave matter. We all believe in God, don't we? I mean, it's just one of the lessons we learn in the comparative religion course. Aren't all religions the same? And that is obviously false here Now let me ask the same question of you as you're considering staying away from worldliness by staying away from worldly religions. If the author were here today speaking to you, if you were the original audience, I understand that Spirit is speaking to you to you by the word today. But if he were writing for your context, what worldly religion would he would he tell you is your slip for your slip point? What would he have to warn you about? I'm going to say this really quickly. There's actually another one that I want to mention, but I'm going to say this very quickly, and this may hurt some of your feelings. But in the same way that this first church here was really tolerant of Judaism, in the same way we in America within Protestant churches have become especially tolerant of Roman Catholicism. I'm not into making Pope jokes around the Christmas dinner table. I don't want to draw funny pictures of them. I don't want to to um make Catholic jokes at all. What do you what did the priest, the rabbi, and the whatever I don't want to do any But if you were to study Roman Catholicism seriously, I'm not talking about what just the person in the pew believes. I'm talking about the official documents Do some actual research. You will find an alternative system of grace that denies the very person of who Jesus is. Exactly what was happening within Judaism. And that's all I'm going to say about that. Don't take that lightly. You need to take it seriously. I think that's a slip point for us, and I want to mention that. But what would you have said? Would you have said, Buddhism? Would no, no. Would you have said Islamism? Would you have said Mormonism for some of us? What about New Ageism? What about atheism? Is that a split point for us? Is that worldliness? Well yeah it is, but that becomes a little confusing because atheism doesn't believe in a God, so how could it be a religion? But this is interesting. Do you know Buddhists don't believe in God either? And you consider that a religion. So I think it's healthy, at least I'm not a scientist, but I think it's healthy to begin to think of atheism as a religion also, although they lack the traditional robe and incense and little statues. However, if you were to think of the things that they orbit around, that they center in their life, atheists end up having to be very religious They end up worshiping money or themselves or pleasure or power. And if you were to translate that and had a representative God for each one of those and shift yourself back into this ancient time, you know what? You would have been a part of the cult of, for instance. Narcissist or Mammon or Dionysus or Aphrodite or Zeus. Socrates proved long before in Rome that there's no such thing as God. Not everybody walking the Roman streets actually believed in a literal God. They would have these gods that represented the values of their life. And that's the same thing that we could have today with the American dream or whatever it might be. Atheism is different, but it is still a religion. Atheists worship themselves, money, pleasure, or power And they certainly would have had their own specific cult if they were in Rome. And I would say, even going a step further, that if you were to look at slip points within our society among Christians that atheism it doesn't really go by that name any longer where the split point is. The split point is the child of atheism. And I just learned this term not too long ago. It's apatheism Have you heard of this? If you're in my small group, you heard of it. Apatheism. Apatheism is the belief that it doesn't make any difference. You can be apathetic towards it. In fact, just last year I asked the young man, if God were dead, what difference would it make? And he said, I have no idea. I can't see And that's what's happening in America. The secular worldview has taken taken or is trying to take the role to where God is seen as completely unnecessary Any longer. If you're having struggles, if you're a student especially, if you're a little younger than me, or if you're having struggles with your students and you don't know about apatheism, you better start studying it now It's the prevailing worldview amongst our youth. Go ahead and ask them, why does God make a difference? You're going to get some Sunday school answers and some hesitant. Or ask them how secularism doesn't provide everything that they already would like. What doesn't it provide for them? Those are the slipping points. And so we ourselves and our and for our children and for our church family, we need to say no to worldliness. This is what I'm saying to you. We need to say no to worldliness by saying no to worldly religions. What's the slippery worldly religion that surrounds you? Is it apatheism? Is it New Ageism? If you're in a city, is it Buddhism? What is it? Mormonism? Roman Catholicism? What are the slipping points for you? You need to say no to those things, no matter how exciting the smells and the bells are for you. No matter how beautiful the cathedral, whether your cross turned to gold or it stayed silver when you've visited Jerusalem, you need to say no to worldliness by saying no to worldly religions. That's his first point by bringing up Israel crossing through a land filled with other religions, very much our land. Now let's move on to the next point. The goal of the Deuteronomy passage and our modern application is the same goal of the author of Hebrews to stay on the path by saying no to worldliness. In this case, we are saying no to world religions. They lead to destruction for you and for the community. Here's the other example, which is Esau. This one It's very surprising, perhaps. Maybe you have never studied this section. This is my favorite example in this passage. Really speaks to us as a culture. Here's the point. Say no to worldliness. Here's your second lesson. Say no to worldliness by saying no to worldly gratifications. Randy already took the thunder. Yeah, thanks, Ray. No, it's okay. You can have the thunder, buddy. That's the point of Esau. Take a look at the author's depiction there in the scriptures. Did you notice that he was described that way? Lest there be any fornicator or profane person like Esau who for, and here's the emphasis, one morsel of food sold his birthright And then it talks about how, although he sought it with tears, he was still rejected. Esau is profane, is what it says. Now we don't know what that mean, that word means. This refers in this context to a life directed not by God. His life is not directed by God. When you look at the passage, and this really starts to bring it out, by what is his life directed? According to the author of Hebrews. What is he directed by? Because there's no such thing as not being governed. What governs him? It's the same as the direction and the governance of the world, it's immediate gratification. That's the whole emphasis. And if you were to turn, and I'm not going to ask you to do this again, but I'm going to read to you Genesis 25, 30, 33, starting really just to give you a little context. 29. Esau arrived home from the wilderness exhausted and hungry. He's got needs. Esau said to Jacob, I'm starved. Give me some of the red stew. All right, Jacob replied, but trade me your rights as the firstborn Son. Look, I'm dying of starvation here, said Esau. What good is my birthright to me now? But Jacob said, first you must swear that your birthright is mine. So Esau swore an oath, thereby selling all his rights as the firstborn to his brother Jacob. Then Jacob gave Esau some of the bread and lentil stew, Esau ate the meal, then got up and left, and he showed contempt for his rights as the firstborn. As Randy said, all for that stew. It's exactly what's going on there. Esau says this, if you missed it. I understand about the promises to the firstborn son. I've heard it all my whole life. You've listed the promises. I've had the promises Bible study. I get it. But what good is that going to do me now? I want relief and Satisfaction right now. I want everything now. I want it now. It's exactly what he was saying. It was under some kind of duress, but when you have strong desires and passions, this is his Esau as a teenager maybe, I don't know. When you've got passions, you need it fixed right there. And he was willing to give up the promises for that, and that was why this is so relevant. This had such relevance to this house church. Imagine the temptations and the satisfaction, the relief that they sought, maybe even willing to give up the future for it. to give up their birthright, their new birthright. I'm sure that they had complaints within the house church and that they they wanted And this is a good desire. They wanted relief from the confiscation of their property and the loss of citizenship. They wanted relief from that. But is it right to give up the birthright is the point You can see how difficult it would be to not turn to the left or to the right and to say no to worldly relief and satisfaction now. They could have just simply returned to Judaism Had their citizen rights re-established, their property returned, perhaps. And he's saying, don't give it up. Don't give up your new birthrights. Judaism, in other words, had cooked up a nice bowl of stew for this church And it was being offered to them. And the author here, by the grace of God and through the power of the Holy Spirit, pleaded with this church. Do not be like Esau. Say no to worldliness by saying no to worldly instant gratification. Hold on for the promise. And the same thing, Esau's example has such relevance to us as Christians. How many bowls of stew have been offered to you this week alone? For you to leave Christ. And I know I'm speaking to the students who are on college campuses. How many Christian leaders? Now this is a thought for you, Christian leader. And if you define yourself that way, then this is for you. Let me ask this question. How many Christian leaders have sold their birthright, so to speak? For one measly indulgence, one bowl of stew Can you think of somebody in your own life that was a Christian leader that sold it all for that one bowl of stew? I think we all can. We all have somebody in our mind. Leaders, therefore, you must be especially careful as you're seeking to walk down this path and to lead others. Others, that you don't slip on this spot. Maybe worldly religions aren't your thing, but maybe this is. Self-indulgence to cause a scandal in God's household for one meal. You can think of leaders who went off the path. Let me just mention a few. Christian leaders going off the path for the illegitimate uses of alcohol Christian leaders going off the path for illegitimate usage for over for prescription medication. Major, major issue. It starts with oxygen, then it moves to heroin. Christian leaders going off the path because conversation hasn't been going well with the wife for a couple months, and someone offers you physical intimacy. You know stories. You can think of the people inside your own head Now that's kind of a digression because that doesn't get to the whole point of what he's trying to point here. But I I do want to give that slippery point for leaders. You need to take this seriously and not be like Esau. You need to say no to worldliness by saying no to worldly gratifications. Now, here is an obvious application of Esau for us. Esau is relevant also to children who grew up in the church. Talk about a birthright. All the promises that you covenant children hear, Sunday after Sunday and during the week with all of your Bible studies and catechisms. You have had the promises proclaimed to you year after year, and yet here is the temptation for you. Here is what you may be saying inside your own mind one day versus another. What good are these things? What do they give me now? Look at all my friends who don't have to follow all this church stuff They get everything now. What are these promises to me about things in the future? How do they help me with my happiness and my satisfaction now? And here's the thing, covenant children, the world offers you a stew with a thousand different pleasures to draw you in. And you know what the truth is? You could have them all right now If you can get past your father. And you can't. You can have them all right now, and that's that's a that's a horrible, horrible temptation, and we need to be praying For our covenant children. Do you see how important prayer ministry would be for them? Kind of temptations that they're undergoing. The world offers you a stew with a thousand pleasures, and here's the dilemma If you start to say, well, I'll just eat a little bit of the stew, you can't have two masters. You either serve and choose the stew, or you serve Jesus. That's the way that it is. You remember you can't run a race when you're straddled on a fence? That's true in this case here. You can serve your pleasures or, and it's so that it's not contradictory, you can You can choose God and service to Him can become your pleasure. Christian life is full of pleasure. It's beautiful, but it's difficult. as we've detailed in the other parts of the normal life. Here is the question for you, Covenant Children. Will you sell your birthright as a covenant child for immediate gratification today? And here's the other surprise. If you think you've already sold your birthright, today is still called today. I'd ask you. You to return, please. I plead with you to return to Christ and hang in there for the promises. We'll help you as your family Return to him. Today is still called today by his grace. And you can return today. This is a community project. So if you if you're going to ask that question to a covenant child today, then be prepared to chip in, to mentor them, to invite them over, to have them over What contribution are you making to our covenant children? We all made a pledge when they were baptized. We made a vow. How can you commit to them today when when there's so much pressure to slip slide away on worldliness? By saying yes to worldly gratification. Here's two main things that I want to give you for helping our covenant children. I want you to notice That there's two pressures all the way through the book of Hebrews. You need to know about this if you're going to help anybody. There's two pressures to help people to stay away from worldliness. You need to realize there's two pressures. The word and the world. The world is going to take care of its own pressures. You don't need to help her. Or it. Whatever. But your traditions, your psychological remedies ultimately are not going to do the trick You need to know the Word of God to be able to offer that counterpressure. You need to know the Word of God as it is spoken in its original context and how it is timeless for them today so that you can use it responsibly. We need people that are good workmen with the Word of God, and you should be spending your time figuring out how to do that. There's a lot of lot of ways to grow in that. And you should be continually bringing the Word of God to our covenant children to push against the world. To allow them to hold on, to continue in the race. Just remember those two pressures. And I would encourage you, in fact, if you want to see someone do this, that's what the Father is doing in the first nine chapters of Proverbs. Read it. See how he handles all of the covenant children. Now here's the conclusion. That question that I asked for the covenant children, Are you willing to sell your birthright for immediate gratification? Is really a question for all of us. And there are little ways that you can do it, and there are apostate big ways that you can do it. There's partial apostasy and full apostasy. That's the question for you. Are you selling your birthright or your rebirthright? Will you sell your birthright? Notice the final verses, and I'm not going to exposit these. I think they're just right on the surface. If you do, we have already seen this in the book of Hebrews. He can darken your mind, and you may not return. You may not be able to see clearly to return. And when you do see clearly, when Jesus returns, you will be left in tears because the time is over. You will be left in tears. Now is the time. And thus the importance of this message this morning from God through His Word. Stay on the path by saying no to worldliness. And you can do that in two main ways. Say no to worldly religions and say no to worldly instant gratification. That is the normal Christian life. Let's pray Father, this is uh delightful but sobering. I feel as if discipline is setting in even now Father, we must be careful. We ask that you would help us to be a careful people that carefully walk according to your ordinances. And the structures and paths of your word. We pray, Lord, that we wouldn't be careless. We pray this as a congregation for each other. We pray this for our children. And we pray this for our children's children. We pray this for the other EP churches that you'd make us a careful, you'd make us careful congregations that are on your path according to your word by your spirit. We ask these things in your name. Amen.