Turn to Matthew chapter 13. Once again, I'm going to read the whole parable, but this Sunday we're only going to focus on verses 10. Through seventeen. Last week we focused on the soils. This week we'll focus on the seed. Starting Matthew chapter thirteen, starting in verse one. On the same day Jesus went out of the house and sat by the sea. And great multitudes were gathered together to him, so that he got into a boat and sat, and the whole multitude stood on the shore Then he spoke many things to them in parables, saying, Behold, the sower went out to sow, and as he sowed, some seed fell by the wayside, and the birds came and devoured them Some fell on stony places, where they did not have much earth, and they immediately sprang up because they had no depth of earth. But when the sun was up, they were scorched, and because they had no root, they withered away And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprang up and choked them, but others fell on good ground, and yielded a crop, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. He who has ears to hear, let him hear And the disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? He answered and said to them, Because it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. But to them it has not been given. For whoever has, to him more will be given, and he will have abundance. But whoever does not have, even what he has, will be taken away from him Therefore, I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. And in them the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled, which says, Hearing you will hear and shall not understand, and seeing you will see and not perceive For the hearts of this people have grown dull, their ears are hard of hearing, and their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, lest they should understand with their hearts, and turn, so that I should heal them. But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear, for assuredly I say to you, that many prophets and righteous men desired to see what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear. and did not hear it. Therefore hear the parable of the sower. When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, then the wicked one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is he who received seed by the wayside. But he who received the seed on stony places, this is he who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy. Yet he has no root in himself, but endures only for a while. For when tribulation or persecution arises because of the word, immediately he stumbles Now he who received seed among the thorns is he who hears the word, and the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful. But he who received seed on the good ground is he who hears the word and understands it, who indeed bears fruit and produces some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty. Please pray with me. Almighty God, we beg you this morning that your word would grow up in our lives to produce a harvest of a hundredfold, of sixty, of thirty. That we would see this harvest in our lifetime, watching you use us as light in this world, as salt on the earth, to call many to repentance and to gather your saints in. O Lord God, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. In Christ's name I pray. Amen. Please be seated. Have you ever needed to unscrew something that had a little teeny tiny screw I'm thinking of every single battery compartment on what seems like every single toy made nowadays. It's always an It'sy bitsy little tiny little screw. And invariably, when my kids bring that to me and those batteries need to be replaced, I just cannot find the right kind of screwdriver I either can't find one that's small enough, or it's a flathead and I only have a Phillips or it's a Phillips and I only have the flathead Well I wonder have you ever tried to unscrew a little tiny Phillips head screw with a not so tiny flathead screwdriver? You know what I'm talking about. You take the edge of the screwdriver and you jam it down in there, and you wedge it in nice and tight, and gently, you try to gently, you don't want to ruin the screw. It's frustrating, but it can work. But you definitely realize that tool is not designed for that function. Now have you ever tried to unscrew such a tiny Phillips head screw with say a hammer? I suppose you could just smash the thing to bits, then you don't need to change the blasted batteries It just doesn't work. It's not the right tool for the job. You need the right tool that's designed to perform the function. Last week we examined Matthew chapter 13, verses 1 through 9 and 18 through 23, the parable of the sower. We focused on the soils. And we learn that only the good soil will be a fitting home for the seed to grow and produce fruit. Only the heart blessed by God to believe his word will bear fruit for his kingdom. And from that fruit comes more seeds of the gospel that are then sown for his glory. And today we're going to focus on the seed itself. This seed, Jesus explained, is the word of the kingdom, or the word of God, as Luke records it for us. And we're going to find out that God has designed his word to perform a very spectacular function. It is the tool which God designed to reveal the kind of soil we are, to reveal what kind of heart we have. This morning we're going to focus on Matthew ten, uh, Matthew thirteen, verses ten through seventeen, from which I pray we will learn That only the Word of God has the power to gather his people unto him Only the Word of God has the power to gather his people unto Him. And we're going to look at this in three quick sections. We have the first section, which is verses 10 through 12, and that's God's Word reveals the hearts of men. The second section is verses 13 through 15. God's word reveals his judgment of the unbeliever. And then we'll look at verses 16 and 17 as God's word reveals his blessings of the believer. We start by seeing that God's word gathers his people to him by revealing the hearts of men. The word of God first reveals their need for divine wisdom. Look at verse 10. And the disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? Even those closest to Jesus needed his wisdom to understand what was really happening. They had heard him teach so many times before, but this time was different. They did what it often seems we are slow to do when we don't understand something. They went straight to the Lord with their problem. They asked him directly why he teaches in such an indirect way. Basically, they asked, why is the meaning of the word not self-evident to everyone? He answered and said to them, Because it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been given. Jesus' answer teaches us that the Word of God reveals those who are the good soil, those who have been given the heart which believes it Now this word mystery comes from the Greek word musterion. It's a fun word, musterion, and it means a hidden or a secret thing. It means something that is not obvious to the understanding. It is something which in order to be understood, it must be revealed. Jesus teaches plainly that those mysteries are not for everyone. No matter how hard we try, or how many resources we spend or how winsomely we speak. There are those who will not respond well to the Word of God. Because of this, the Word gathers those who hear it into two distinct groups. Did you see that? There are those who are given the gift of knowing the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, that's the good soil, the believer, and there are those who do not, those are the bad soils, or the unbeliever. The believer is made known by the reception of the seed, the word of God. They are given ears to hear and eyes to see. This is the blessing of God. The unbeliever, Mark's version of the parable, called them those who are outside. It shows that there is a clear division between the two groups. In Luke's account, he calls them the rest who are given the mysteries and parables. The true and hidden and revealed meaning is not there for them. These two separate groups have two separate futures. Do you see that in verse 12? Or I'm sorry, in verse um, yeah, right there in verse 12. For whoever has, to him more will be given, and he will have abundance. But whoever does not have, even what he has, will be taken away from him. The believer will not only understand the word, but wisdom and understanding will continually be added to him. That spirit of truth that reveals the truth is given to him. This is the one who hears and understands the word, the good soil in which the seed thrives. It grows into a healthy plant. It's not vulnerable to the enemy's attempts to snatch up the word. It's not shallow or an emotional response which is unable to withstand the onslaught of life. It's not choked out by worldly desires, nor is it deceived by the promise of earthly riches. It bears fruit And it reproduces the seed, which is the source of its own life. The unbeliever is the hardened And the shallow and the worldly heart. And not only does such a one not truly understand the Word of God when they hear it, but they can't really understand anything else at all. God's word is the key to understanding reality and the human condition. If one rejects it as false, they are willfully rejecting the only truth that we really have. If they do that, how can they hope to recognize truth? God's word reveals the hearts of men, thus dividing them into two categories: the good soil and all the rest. Well, now we see how God's Word gathers his people to Him by revealing His judgment of the unbeliever. Look at verses 13 through 15. The Word judges them guilty for their unbelief. Therefore, I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. The Lord Jesus Christ teaches here that His word, which accomplishes all that for which it was designed, can be heard by anyone. All mankind can be exposed to the truth of the gospel, but not all of them will believe it. Those who are pretending or spectating, those who are trying to keep their options open, or perhaps they just want to remain neutral. They lose more than understanding. They lose any claim to innocence for having not heard the Word of God. And this quote from Isaiah and Jesus telling us that it is fulfilled in those who don't believe shows us that this judgment This judgment by the word is according to God's sovereign design. And in them the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled, which says, Hearing you will hear and shall not understand, and seeing you will see and not perceive. For the hearts of this people have grown dull, their ears are hard of hearing, and their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, lest they should understand with their hearts, and turn, so that I should heal them. Isaiah was told to preach to the Jews, to put before them God's word, to give them his holy message, regardless of how they respond. And though they were the covenant people, the people through whom God delivered and preserved his word, the Lord knew they would not hear with their ears. He knew that they would not see with their eyes or understand with their hearts. and turn to him. Think about what is happening here as Jesus delivers this parable. The Jews, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Sanhedrin, the scribes, the priests and the high priests, every one of them. They all thought that they had the Word of God, didn't they? They all thought that they were building their lives upon God's Word Yet they do not understand Jesus' words here. They do not understand the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven The Lord, in this judgment, is taking the care of his word, the calling to spread his word and teach his word. He's taking it away from those who had it. He's taking it away from those who thought they had it, and he is going to give it to his church through his apostles. God, at this moment when the parable is given, is in the process of transferring the precious treasure of his kingdom from those who thought it was their birthright to those who could never have imagined being the recipients of something so majestic and so holy. Well, God's word also gathers his people to him by revealing his blessings of the believer. Look at verses 16 and 17. Believers are blessed to hear and to understand, to be exposed to and illuminated by God's holy word. But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear. The believer is blessed to be around those who live by God's Word, who trust in it. It is a blessing of the Almighty that we have His Word preserved for us throughout the ages. Believers are blessed to understand God's Word. Their mind is enlightened in the knowledge of Christ by the Holy Spirit. They are persuaded and enabled to embrace Him as the only solution to sin. They trust in this truth because that is the message of the whole Bible from beginning to end. We don't follow cunningly devised fables. We trust that holy men were called and inspired by the Holy Spirit. to record exactly that which the Lord God knew his people need. And it is what God's people need most. Then and now. Do you see the blessing of the believer? We are blessed with the teaching of the Messiah. The wisdom of the one who's wiser than Solomon, the majesty of him who is more royal than David, the holiness Of the one who's more holy, more godly, more pious than even Moses. For assuredly I say to you that many prophets and righteous men desired to see what you see and did not see it And to hear what you hear and did not hear it. The apostles were there with Jesus, eyewitnesses to his miracles and his teaching, and they have faithfully recorded his words and actions so that we Now, 2,000 years later, by the grace of God, are in the same position. We have the words of Jesus the Christ. Think about when Jesus had just taught a very difficult lesson to the people in John chapter 6. He had taught that he was the bread of life. His people needed to feast upon him in order to be saved. Do you remember what it says in John 6, verse 66? From that time many of his disciples went back and walked with him no more. But not the twelve. Jesus asks them, Do you also want to go away? And Simon Peter gives a response that echoes in the heart of every believer: Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. Also, we have come to believe and know that you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. This is what all believers are given. We are given the word, and we are given to believe that Jesus is the Christ Jesus knew that the proximity to the word, exposure to the word, witnessing the power of his word was not enough. He says, Did I not choose you, the twelve, and one of you is a devil? He knew that Judas Iscariot would betray him, even though he was blessed to see and to hear the Word of God directly, immediately, from the Son of God. This is what the prophets and the righteous men desired. Do you realize that? How they long to be in the presence of the Messiah. To hear his teaching, to watch God's mercy bestowed upon his people unfolding in all of human history, right before every single nation, right before all the people. If you look at the prophets, that's what they're all talking about. They wouldn't have only been envious of the apostles. Do you realize that? They would have been envious of you and me. Do you rem realize what an immense blessing we have in this book? The Holy Bible. You probably have one in your hands. If not, you have a million of them on your phone. We have the recorded words of the living God to show us how to understand all of this amazing cosmos which He's created. We have the recorded teaching of the Messiah Himself. Every believer from the dawn of time would trade places with us to live here, to live now, and have in their hands, at their fingertips, the entirety of God's Word. What a treasure! What a blessing. Brothers and sisters, is that how you see your Bible? Little ones, is that how you see your Bibles? Or is your Bible just another one of the things you have? Got a bunch of books. Harry Potter, the Bible. Just the same. God's Word is so much more than a thing. It's so much more than even just a book. It is that perfect tool which He has created and designed specifically to fulfill His will. This is what we call the doctrine of the infallibility of Scripture. The infallibility of Scripture. What that means is that it is infallible. God's word cannot fail. It will do what God has designed it to do. The seed reveals the soil. The Word of God reveals the human heart How we respond to His holy word shows whether or not we've been given the faith to believe, whether it has been given to us to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. This is why it's crucial, so important that we are careful not to ever sow any seed. other than the true seed, which is the gospel of Jesus Christ. For it alone has the power to gather his people unto him If we sow a different seed, we may see growth. We might even see fruit. But it won't be kingdom fruit. It won't be gospel fruit. It won't reproduce the seed of the gospel. It will be the fruit of whatever seed has been sown. I mentioned this last week. It's very important. That Christians don't ever try to sow the seed of God's word along with some other seed. I'm sure many of you can come up with plenty of your own examples. There are is there's no shortage of woke preacher clips on the internet. But let me throw you a curveball. We already know, and we most likely all agree, that you can't sow the gospel and wokeism, or you can't sow the gospel and liberalism. You can't sow the gospel and Marxism. But do you also realize that you can't sow the word and conservatism? You can't sow the word and republicanism or capitalism. All of these things are fickle and constantly changing into whatever the world wants them to be on whatever day they want it to change. For example, it can't be the word plus conservative political values, which we sow in people's hearts, because we know that conservative political values can grow in all kinds of soil, not just the good soil You know there are conservative atheists? They're very, very conservative, but they're hostile to the Word of God and what it teaches. Mormons and Muslims both tend to be politically conservative. Do you think that we're on the same side as they are? Both claim that the Bible's part of their holy writings. They bear conservative fruit. Does that mean we're the same kind of plant that they are? Logic and reasoning and our lived experience may lead us to conclude that some conservative values are in line with God's word, but that cannot be the seed. that Christians sow. Will you know that the soil is good if the conservative plant grows up and bears fruit? Are you ready for another tough one? We can't sow the Word of God and Reformed theology. Now, this church is reformed by definition. We are Protestant. We hold that the Westminster Confession and the Catechisms are faithful expositions of the system that is used to interpret and understand the Word of God. Our theology helps us understand what God has given us to believe. But the power to reveal the condition of a person's heart is not in Reformed theology. It's in the Word of God alone. And when we expose people to God's word, reform theology will help us answer questions. It helps us remain consistent across all the topics of our belief and our religion. But it is the word of God alone that is designed as the tool to gather God's people to him. Hebrews 4, verse 12, you probably all know it really well. I do not grow weary of repeating verses that you already know. For the word of God is living and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. It stands to reason that if we try to dull the sword so it doesn't hurt as much, we are then changing the sword. And we are making it useless for fulfilling its design purpose. The same thing happens if we try to candy coat the Word of God. It doesn't need to be softened or disguised. Do you get that? It's not a spoonful of sugar helps the gospel go down. The Word of God is not a pill you squish into a piece of cheese to trip the dog. We must not dilute God's word with anything, not with m modern philosophies, not with Elaborate scientific theories trying to explain away the difficult parts of the Bible. We don't need experts to tell us of the ancient Near Eastern roots Of the Bible that just so happened to coincide with the world's view of history and human development? It is God's holy word It is as true today as when it was first written. It has never changed. No matter what any academic or any expert or any Theologian might tell you the word of God has never changed to fit the times or the attitudes of the ever-changing world. And so we must never attempt to change it or to try to soften the hard parts of God's word and the often-jarring impact it has on those who hear it. It is going to have a heavy impact because the Word of God reveals judgment to the unbeliever and it reveals blessing to the believer First, do you think God will not judge us, the church, as he did the Jews of Jesus' day? Do we think we can sow a different gospel and God will continue to bless us? Look at all the apostate churches out there. All the various denominations which have completely rejected God's word. Look at the denomination from which the PCA was founded, from which the OPC broke away in the 30s. They are the reason that people are writing articles about the shrinking church. They are the reason that it looks like Christianity is failing. It's because the word is revealing that they were not good soil all along. What will it reveal about us? By revealing God's judgment to the unbeliever, his word gathers the world into those two different groups, those given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven and all the rest. And this is the history, the whole history of the human race. Do you realize this? From the beginning, it has been the seed of the woman versus the seed of the serpent. And the Word of God is the tool designed to separate the two. It is the sword which cleaves all of the human race and divides the seeds. Those who believe it, those who don't. It is one and the same to both groups. It does not change in content. It doesn't change in tone. And yet, to one, it's the aroma of life, and to the other, it's the stench of death. To one, it is the immeasurable blessing of God, and to the other, it is the constant reminder of the judgment which is coming because they hate God, they hate his word, and they don't believe it. Brothers and sisters, do you realize what this means? It's good news. The culture war is over. It's done The culture war has been won. And the only weapon which was needed is the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. In Revelation chapter 1, John's vision shows Jesus. And what is coming out of his mouth, it's that two-edged sword. It cuts to the heart of every human being and it reveals its quality. Is it good soil The Word of God is the only thing which has the power to do that cutting and dividing, the gathering of the flock of Jesus Christ. Why then would we put our hope or our efforts or our resources or our energy or our fill-in-the-blank? Why would we do anything with anything other than God's Word? Why would we try to reveal the hearts of men with anything other than the tool which God designed for that purpose? Well, last week we concluded with an application from the fruits of the Spirit in Galatians chapter 5. And I want to do the same thing this morning, but from a slightly different perspective. Brothers and sisters, we must be careful that we are not trying to sow the fruits instead of the seed which grows up into the plant that produces the fruit. You hear me? We must not try to sow the fruit, but we sow the seed that grows into the plant, which produces the fruit. What happens? Well let me remind you: the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such there is no law. So, what happens then if we focus and sow love? We do not sow the seed which grows and produces love, we just sow love. Well, if love is all you sow, what guides that love to be directed properly? If love is the most important thing, then we shouldn't put anything in the way of people and what they love, should we? But what if you love something wicked? What if what you love is not pleasing to God? Should that matter Is it tolerance and acceptance that we must build our lives around? Can we tolerate what God says we cannot? Can we accept what the Word deems unacceptable in God's sight? The same is true if we only sow joy. Isn't that what drug dealers do? Isn't that what some doctors try to do? Get you a pill? Makes you just feel happy about life? Does joy have any meaning if it isn't because of something God has done? Isn't the only source of joy the gospel? The fact that our brokenness and evil does not and cannot follow those who are saved by Christ into eternity? If joy is what we try to sow, Are we then purposefully sowing the seed only on shallow soil? Think about peace. And I think you might be following my pattern here. How is there peace without Jesus Christ, the Word incarnate, fulfilling all his Father's holy will on our behalf? How can anyone be at peace with themselves or with others if they are still at war with God? Think about long suffering. Can we sow just the seed of long suffering? Well, I ask you, why should anyone put up with abuse and mistreatment and harassment and hostile attacks and slander if they could make it all stop just by changing what they believe You realize we're watching this in real time in the world around us? Corporations and celebrities, famous people, all they have to do, they get caught thinking the wrong things, they just change their mind. They change what they believe and it all goes away. Christians, you can't do this. You can't You can't abandon the very word that is the cause of your persecution. If you do that, you cease to be a Christian. In fact, the word reveals that you were never one in the first place. Is it enough to sow the seeds of kindness? Can you ever be kind enough to make up for all of your unkind thoughts? Kindness without wisdom just makes a person naive and controllable. When they wise up and they realize that they've been taken advantage of, tell me this, do you think that they will still be kind? It's not enough to teach our children only to be kind, though I want you to be kind. It's not enough. It's not enough only to encourage ourselves to be kinder to others. True kindness is the fruit. It is the product of the Holy Spirit growing a person's life around God's word. Well, what can we say about goodness? Goodness is nonsense apart from the Bible. Without God's word, there is no such thing as goodness. He defines what is good. He defines what is evil. Our first parents may have eaten from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, but the human race has long forgotten what is good. And it has found that it's very, very talented at twisting everything into evil. If our life is not the product of the Word of God growing in us, it is incapable of doing anything good. Well, shall we only sow the seed of gentleness? Gentleness without strength is not noble. Gentleness without strength is just weakness. Gentleness implies a strength. A strength that is properly used, properly channeled so as not to damage what it interacts with. We can't call something gentle, which doesn't have any power to damage at all. God's word must grow in us to make us confident. To make us strong in the Lord, the power of his might, to make us gentle, so that we know how to properly use the strength that he gives us. This is a that's a hard one. Because most of the time when we have strength or we have power, the sin that still lives in our heart makes us wield it in a very blunt way. So all of us should be praying that the Lord would grow in us that fruit of gentleness. And lastly, the last fruit of the spirit, self-control. What good is self-control? To what end? Without the Word of God defining how a human being must behave, should behave, what they are designed to be, then what good is it to control yourself And not do anything. If there is no God, really, what reason is there to stop yourself from doing anything? Brothers and sisters, the Word of God must be at the center of our lives. It must be what dominates and defines us. It alone will reveal the quality and condition of our heart. It alone has the power to gather you to the Father in heaven. It alone has the power to gather everyone who belongs to Jesus Christ from the world. and into his holy family. Hallelujah. The war is over. It's been won There is a victor. It is our precious Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. He has crushed the head of the serpent. And even now Even at this very moment, he is using his holy word to gather from the world, from every tribe and every tongue and every nation. And every political affiliation and every foolish human ism out there, God is using his word to gather his people from it into the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. May this supper before us that we are about to celebrate, may this seal to you the truth of the victory of Jesus Christ. Please pray with me.