It's going to be chapter number five. Can you turn down the main mic or something? I don't know. Whatever's messing with me. Uh we are going to make the c main content of the class today is chapter five. I hope you are able to enjoy that. That is essentially just us walking through Matthew 12 and 11, but Matthew 12, 1 through 8, to understand what Jesus means when he says that he's the Lord of the Sabbath. And what is he doing when he is giving teaching about the Sabbath? Now before we look at uh that before we look at chapter five we'll just do a very quick review and actually he includes a nice summary on chapter 68 or chap uh page number sixty-eight just so you can know that we're following what he's doing. I'm not going to read that to you. I'm just going to list a few things. We've gone through the review enough times where I think I can list it and it should just you should just be able to remember. Uh so far we are we were looking at well what is the purpose Of the Sabbath. And we were gaining an understanding of the purpose of the Sabbath first from Isaiah 58. And I believe it's in verses thirteen and following in Isaiah fifty-eight. And we broke that into basically three main uh portions is that we are is it is that gonna be too small? Can I get a this is too small? Man, I tell you what. First first world people. Gotta love them I didn't I didn't I didn't ask anything about the marker. This is darker, but do you like the color? There's green in this? It was darker. Thank you, Pastor Jesse. It was a darker color. Thank you for that that uh concise rebuttal. Okay, so the purpose we had Isaiah fifty eight was uh one passage that we were benefiting from And that's a good passage to study, especially in context, as God is giving instruction to his people. We bullet pointed just a few that it is a day to delight in God. It is a day to grow in our by the power of the Holy Spirit to grow in our victory, not in sin, but over sin. And finally, we had here The idea of it is a excellent day in which we have free time to exercise compassion and neighborliness. The the the um I'm gonna go ahead and combine a couple of the chapters uh here. Uh but the one of the main things that we're seeing within the book is let's say it call this number one. Number two is we're really looking to answer the question is is it, meaning the Sabbath, a moral law? If you can determine the answer to that question, it makes a really big difference as to what you're doing or what you're not doing. And the argument from last week was that, yes, it is a moral law, and we gave our various evidences for that And it being the part of the Ten Commandments was a major part of that argument. The another thing that we've done here in the class is we have asked the question You know, when we look at the purpose and we look at accomplishing these things right here, especially with this here How is it that uh we are primarily accomplishing that and we have said that it's set aside for a holy convocation And the word convocation just means that we are called together specifically for the act of public worship. Right? So you can look in your catechism or in the Westminster Confession of Faith in the Catechism, and you'll see that the day is to be set aside. for a public and private worship all the day and for acts of necessity and mercy. That's basically what it says And you can see that the moral law is that God has set aside one day in seven in order for those purposes to be exercised and that day is the day of the resurrection of Christ since his resurrection and which is we observe today. Okay, so those are some of the topics that we've discussed. We've looked at scriptures and we've discussed evidence. Today we move into a different set of uh a different question and a different set of arguments. Everybody man, is everybody okay with me uh erasing this? This is all just stuff we've gone over. Okay. I just want to make sure we're still following what he's done. And I I packaged it a little bit differently on the whiteboard this time, but that's basically what we've covered. I'd say one other thing I didn't review was that You can divide up the uh exercises of the day into family, church, and then larger community. We talked about domestic duties That kind of a thing. And that as older brothers and sisters or as mothers and fathers, we have a responsibility to run our homes in a particular way. so that the fourth commandment is taken seriously. Okay, so now we move into chapter five. Man, all right. Chapter 5. So let's go ahead and go through this. I would say, let me just open it up real quick as a question. What would you, if you had to boil the whole chapter down It can be really helpful for your own thinking and just trying to figure things out is to boil things down to a question that somebody, what is the question that this person's asking? If you can boil it down to a question, it usually shows you've been listening. So what would you say is the main question being asked, if there is one? In chapter 5. You got any guesses on that? That could be a pretty tough thing to figure out, but I just thought I'd see what you thought. In chapter 5, what do you think is the main question or some of the main questions she's asking and then trying to answer? Any ideas? Yeah, Dwayne. One of the main questions that he's trying to get you to wrestle with or make sure you understand the answer to is the law. Um I I don't I've never called it a moral law. I always call it a creation ordinance. Yeah. Uh both you you defined it as the same. Yeah. Um but a lot of people You know, understand the moral law and well, they think they understand what the moral law means. Creation man mandate is easier to point them to where they've never seen it before. never heard of a creation mandate, wouldn't understand why that matters so much more. Oh I've just but I think that's one of the main points that he makes is to make sure that we understand that Yeah, so this is a so still there's um even in chapter number five There's something that there's a con there's uh something that per that persists through this whole book so far that is a major concern is just asking, is this Is the Sabbath a moral law or creation ordinance? And and whether it's the similarity between a moral law and a creation ordinance, the big point about that is that They obligate everyone for all time. So if the Sabbath does belong in that category of creation ordinance or moral law, then that means uh that that has some serious implications and some serious application there If it doesn't belong in that category, then that changes a l just a ton. So but you so you can see that persisting. So thanks Dwayne. Carol. Yeah, I I think because Jesus is this debate with the Pharisees, I would say he's asking the question, who has authority over the Sabbath? Yeah. That's what I think. Okay, great. So the major question being asked in chapter five is who has authority over the Sabbath? Who has the authority to tell us what it involves or what it doesn't involve? And that uh comes out in the discussion with the Pharisees. Yes, Cheryl. Sheryl. Um I can find exactly how we worded it, but asking the question Is this necessary for the purpose of the day to be fulfilled? Okay. I thought was wildly practical. Is what necessary? Um Oh, I see what you're saying. Yeah, yeah. Is this necessary for the purpose of engagement Yeah, so if we were to back up a little bit, if I'm understanding you correctly, you're saying a major question that we're asking in this chapter five is, what do we mean when we say that we should only be devoted to acts of necessity. And then how can we if we once we understand that, how can we use that to make better ethical decisions during the day? And the answer he gives, I think, is you ask, is this necessary to accomplish the purposes of the day? Yes. Okay, great. I found that to be really helpful decision making wise. I saw miss just kinda go away with the the ten thousand questions that come at me on this. Okay. Cool. All right, very good. Great. Gray area smaller. That's nice. That'd be a cool like Christian band name. The gray area. Gray area is smaller. All right. Alright, yeah that that hits it pretty good. We do know that the centerpiece is really the interaction between Jesus and the Pharisees I would say that the main, if I was asked the same question, I would say the main question of chapter 5 is trying to determine, is Jesus saying that the Sabbath law is no longer we are no longer obligated to it. That's old news and it w it will be thrown out soon, or is he just correcting a misuse of it? I think that that's probably the That's what I took away as the main question. Is is he correcting people who are u using the the law wrongly and binding people's consciences in ways they shouldn't? Or is he throwing is he saying this is no longer a part of uh God the life of God's people now that I've arrived So I do think you need to answer that question. I think that this chapter is in part going to will will help you to sort through some of the questions you have to ask to do that. Okay. So uh we know that the book is saying right off of the bat, the way that he frames it. The answer to the question that I just raised is Jesus is not throwing away the fourth commandment, that Jesus is correcting those who have misapplied it and have applied it harshly. and is actually taking away God's blessing of the fourth commandment. The way that the book puts that is Jesus says There was a time, or not Jesus, but Dr. Pipe is no, what am I saying? The book says, points out that Jesus is tearing down a fence. Can somebody help us understand what h what the book means when it says that Jesus is tearing down a fence. Could help someone help us understand the story he's trying to tell there. Any ideas? Yeah. Um that uh they were so afraid of actually breaking the actual like God's law that they put other laws in place to try to stop us from getting any close to breaking. Yeah. Do you remember the story he tells putting this like framing this in terms of the rebuilding of the park? And if you do, can you just remind us of that? Okay, does anybody remember this there's a story in the book about a park. Can someone tie this into the park? It'll help us kind of anchor our thoughts Yes. Uh well I had you both going at the same time. And you have been given preference. Marilyn Dorville, you're up. Well he he s starts by talking about the defenses of the Grand Canyon keeping you from plunging over the gorge. Uh-huh. Um Can you speak up too? Thanks. We could see if the it's necessary at the Grand Canyon, but in the park, um it's like you go into a park and there's keep off the grass lines everywhere Um the park is there and it's been planted with beautiful flowers and the grass is well kept and everything for the purpose of people enjoying the grass and having picnics and um enjoying the park. But what happens is you end up all you can do is walk on the gravel because the fences are keeping you out of the enjoyment of the whole park that they Yeah, was everybody able to hear that? The picture is of a park that has been restored, which is good. But now what has happened is it basically has been turned into a museum where you're not allowed to enjoy it All you can do is stay on the main walkways and out there's a bunch of signs that say keep off the grass. So you can't have picnics there. You can't play uh Ultimate frisbee, you can't go enjoy the flowers, whatever it is. And this is the way that the book frames what's happening in the rest of these chapters in chapter twelve of Matthew. So I'd ask if you would turn there in Matthew. We're going to pop around in a couple different verses there just to take a look and see what's going on. And I'll open up my Bible too. I found the arguments here quite convincing. His exegesis is very good. And So that's a good sign. Okay, Bible. All righty. Okay. So So that's the way that he frames it and now we're going to go into Um how we should be viewing this these passages. One of the first things that I wanted to point out, which I've already begun to do so is to say that this that the the argument here is saying Jesus is not throwing away the fourth commandment in the way that it has been given to us. But it remains an obligation for all people in all time. Instead, Jesus is correcting those who have misused that fourth, the fourth commandment. So let's look at some evidence for that being the case. When we go to Matthew chapter 12, One of the first things, this is a little bit out of order with the book, but I wanted to kind of accumulate the evidence a little bit differently. One of the first things that we we see is That Jesus uses language that is reminiscent of his earlier correction of the Pharisees in the Sermon on the Mount. Does anybody remember that portion of Matthew? And could you give us a brief summary of his correction of the scribes and the Pharisees? These are easy things to do. We just need to get them out of the way by you just giving us a summary. Thanks, Gary. The Pharisees and the Sunnah on the mouth were setting up their own laws and passing them off as the laws of God. Okay, very good. And so if you were to go back to uh I'm sure that You remember some of the language here earlier from Matthew chapter 5 and Matthew chapter 6, but we have a general statement where it says in chapter 5, verse 17 Do not think that I have come to destroy the law and the prophets. I didn't come to destroy them, but to fulfill them And then he goes on in verse number 20, and he says, For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. Well, what does that mean? That's a really general statement. So then if you continue in Matthew, what we're what he does then is he starts to show you the specific ways in which the laws have been contorted or twisted or are taken outside of their purposes. For example, he addresses murder. And that murder isn't just the physical act of an unlawful killing, but it involves so much more than that. Or adultery. He addresses that in Matthew chapter 5. Or divorce law. He addresses that. Or oaths or retaliation. And then he'll also go into what we're doing right now in the morning, which uh began with how is it that we're supposed to be uh giving as a Christian people That can be twisted too, and it was twisted, so Jesus corrects them there. How are we to be praying? That has been twisted. You're using prayer in a way that the hypocrites use prayer. And then today in the morning service we'll look at fasting How was that being used? It was being used hypocritically. It was used to gain social influence and really had nothing to do with God. But we'll wait for the sermon on that one. So the first argument is that that mode that we see Jesus in in chapter 5 and in chapter 6 of Matthew, Jesus is back in that mode. in chapter 12 of Matthew, and you can see that the book specifically points out in chapter 12, verse number 6, that the same language is used. Chapter 12, verse 6 says it has a the same kind of phrase that we saw there. It says, yet I say to you You see that? So there's these are the ways that things have been going around here, but I'm telling you this has been a distortion, yet I say to you Now we saw that in Matthew 5 and 6. They say it has been, you have heard that it was said, but I say to you. So that's one of the first pieces. I think that's a strong piece of evidence there for you to begin to understand. What is Jesus doing here? A second piece of evidence that I think is important and is besides just seeing that Jesus is in the mode of correcting the Pharisees, is to then be able to focus on the assertion of his authority. Now what is going on here with his authority? A really great observation from Dr. Pipa is that we really want to frame our understanding when he says he is the Lord of the Sabbath. And he has this whole discussion about Sabbath laws and the healing and eating the showbread and plucking grains of wheat and all of that kind of stuff. If you really want to understand what's going on there with Jesus and what he's doing, you need to understand first what he's saying in chapter 11, beginning in verse number 25. that that that whole paragraph frames what Jesus is doing. So let me read, beginning in chapter 11, verse 25 through 30, I'll read that And then I'll tell you what, again, I'll remind you why he thinks that's the frame or the lens through which we should look at the rest of the discussion. It says in verse 25, At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and prudent and have revealed them to babes. Even so, Father, for it seemed good in your sight. All things have been delivered to be by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father Nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and the one to whom the Son wills to reveal him. Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you. Now, if you were to do some study in the scriptures, you would know that a yoke is usually something that a king has, and that it's a way of talking about your relationship to the king. or someone who is in charge. You're under their yoke or under their specific authority. So he says, take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find Rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light. And that this is meant to be the lens by which we would then look at the rest of these paragraphs and we would ask the question, okay, well What is the difference between your yoke and the yoke of other people who are exercising their authority? And he shows you specifically the difference between his yoke and the pharisaical yoke with regard to the Sabbath laws. Now, do we see an explicit connection between this section in Chapter 11 and Chapter 12? He says yes. Verse 25 says in chapter 11, at that time Jesus answered and said, I thank you, Father. And then I went back and checked a bunch of different commentaries, and they so far they all say verse number twelve, verse one, at that time. The repetition of at that time and verse twenty-five and at that time and verse twelve is supposed to connect these passages together. It is a way in which the biblical writers show continuity. So although different parts of Matthew can seem like they're like isolated teachings that don't really connect. You're meant to see a connection here. And the connection that we're arguing for is that we're looking at, well, what's the difference between the yoke of Jesus and the yoke of the Pharisees? What does it look like to be under his authority, and what does it look like to be under an authority that has gotten things wrong? And specifically that comes out within the Sabbath laws. So, how are we to understand it when Jesus says that he's Lord of the Sabbath? First, that he has the authority to truly show you what the scriptures mean. And he's exercising his authority in such a way where he's bringing rest to his people, which has always been the purpose of the law, is to bring rest. You go back to the Ten Commandments, that word rest should really stick out to you, not only because it's connected specifically to the fourth command, which now he's just going to do nothing but talk about the Sabbath, so the word rest is super meaningful here But also just think of the overall rest that is being given to the people of God after they're delivered from Pharaoh in the Exodus, where they had no rest. Literally, they just work 724. And then when they brought up a request for rest in order for them to be able to worship, they were given less material and more demand. So that's all of those things should be uh echo echoing in your head when we're looking at these particular passages. So in addition, when we look at specifically now in chapter 12, when we get to at that time we have continuity, Jesus is going to show us what it really looks like to be under the real authority of God. In verse number two, it specifically points out, or Matthew specifically points out that Jesus Uh I'm sorry, not I thought it was verse number two, but where does he say that he is Lord of the Sabbath? That's not two. Yeah, eight. So for the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. Uh the uh Dr. Pipa points out rightly that when we look at this, we have a couple different things that are being brought up in our minds here. The first is that Jesus is is connecting himself to the Son of Man from Daniel 7. 13. I know that you've read this in the book, so I won't ask you to keep turning there. But it says in 713, I kept looking in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven, one like a son of man was coming. And he came up to the ancient of days and was presented before him. It says here that because of the Jewish misconceptions about the nature of the messianic king, Jesus adopted this title to describe himself as the Messiah. The title indicates his work of suffering as well as his exaltation as God's appointed Savior King. His uh and then he goes on to make the point that we already have made uh in verse number six, but I say to you, is reminiscent of his earlier claims in Matthew, where Jesus repudiates the man-made interpretations. of the scribes and Pharisees, he clearly states that he is not repudiating the law of God. Jesus asserts the beauty and integrity of God's law and its perpetual moral Morally binding character. Okay, so we have first that Jesus is showing himself to have the authority to bring tr the true purposes of the law to God's people We're understanding that because we have a connection now to the paragraph of 1125, he This helps us to understand what he means by Lord. He's declaring himself to be the Messiah, and he has the authority to understand, teach, and interpret God's law in its correct purposes. And then the other thing I wanted to point out to you, which I thought was a great piece of evidence too, for what is Jesus doing here? Is he throwing things away or is he correcting people? Is he does say he does quote Hosea um is it what is it what is it? Is that a Hosea? I thought it was Hosea 6. 6, but I might be wrong there. Sorry I didn't write that down. The Yeah, Hosea 6. 6. Yeah, I had it right. That's crazy. Okay, so in Matthew chapter 12, verse 7, he says, But if you had known what this means, I desire mercy and not sacrifice, you would not have condemned the guiltless. So again, he's pointing out, this is just another piece of evidence, that Jesus isn't trying to wipe away the fourth command. He's trying to show you guys are applying this law in the wrong way. And he quotes Hosea 6. 6. Now, does anybody know the lesson there from Hosea 6. 6? It's actually said quite a bit in Jesus' ministry. And in the Old Testament, I desire mercy, not sacrifice. What does that mean? On the f that sounds kind of paradoxical. But what is what does that mean? Oh I'm sorry. Seventy? I think. No. Is it It's a good question. I'm just kind of going off my memory here. Seventy one. Is was one part, but uh I don't actually I don't know where it is. Hosea 6. 6 was just another part of his argument that I remembered and I'm trying to step through all the evidence from memory. It's somewhere in the book though that he brings this next point up. Yes, Gary. Okay, yeah. So there's there's something that can happen within human beings. to where we can follow something, we can, it can seem like we're fulfilling the law, but we're actually violating it because we're missing the total heart of it. So the second part of that verse, you know, for I design mercy and not sacrifice and the knowledge of God. more than burnt offerings. Yeah. Right. Yeah, so there's something going on there of just making sure we're getting at the heart of things. A lot of times people will say it's not just the letter of the law, it's the spirit of the law. Now the they're not supposed to be se the spirit and the letter aren't separate. But you would uh the one way to put this that I think has been helpful is whatever the king intent whatever the king's intentions are for his law You should stick with those intentions. Why did he create it? What was he trying to accomplish? And Jesus' main point, I think, in this section is you all have really missed the heart of my father. That's not what he's trying to do here. And he gets at that when he says, the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. You've really got this backwards. You're supposed to be, and you go back to that, that's why I think it's so key, Matthew 11, 25 through 30 And read all of the rest of the section with Jesus is showing you that his yoke is light. You're not under a pharisaical of like Pharaoh any longer. Or and you you never should have been. Did Jesus has come to correct those things? Okay. So what we're doing here is in chapter number five, we're trying to determine, well, what is Jesus doing? Is he throwing things away or is he correcting? Now, I just kind of gave you a shotgun blast, so let's do a very quick review. We'll stick with what the main argument of the book right now. What is some of the evidence that's being presented that Jesus is correcting and not throwing away? He's not canceling the fourth command, but correcting a misuse of it. What's some of the evidence that he's correcting a misuse? From Matthew eleven, Matthew twelve, Hosea, and Hosea six. Yes. Thanks for your censor. This this sentence really um Jesus says in Mark 7, neglecting the commandment of God, he holds it the tradition of men. He says, in effect, man made laws to protect us from appropriate approaching sin deny the sufficiency of Scripture. Such laws strongly imply that God's word alone is not able to teach us how to Yeah. Yeah, it's really good. And he gives the example there when people ban all alcohol. Right. For example. Yeah. Okay, very good. And that's uh what what passes that mark what? Yeah, Mark. So one of the one of the things we could do here is we could say the Gospel of Mark, chapter 7, verse 8, defines what the problem is that Jesus is addressing. Jesus is addressing that the traditions of men have been have taken over instead of the law of God. All right. And do you see any evidence in Matthew eleven and twelve that Jesus is correcting that kind of problem? I went through it with you pretty fast, so I thought I'd stop and just see if you're registering with me here. Oh, hi Natalie. Thanks for that. That was great. I say to you. Okay, so verse number six has that verse uh let's do the whole chap chapter. Couldn't find it because it was so small. Okay. So we have twelve so we have Matthew twelve six has a um and yet I say and your point there it's a correction. Okay, yeah. It you you're interpreting it this way, yet I say to you Yeah, so there's a correction here and it also echoes From the earlier teaching of Matthew 5 and 6. Correct? Correct? When he says, You have heard that it was said, but I say to you, we know that whole section is correction. Darren, did you have another piece of evidence that two things he says? Have you not read what it says if you had known what But this means he keeps saying, he keeps referring back to things that they should have known that what the scriptures talk about David and about mercy and sacrifice. If you had only known So he's he's saying he's got something wrong with it. Yeah, and uh what passage is that specifically in Matthew? What verse? Well Matthew uh twelve three haven't read that they what David did and then Matthew Um twelve seven. Three and seven you could be preferring back to have some teaching issues though and Yeah, so he's reasoning from the total canon of Scripture to show them that the way in which they're applying the law at this particular time is in contradiction with the Scripture themselves. That David himself did these things, which is an analogy that you should be using to understand about plucking heads of grain. All right, very good. And then I'll just put another one down here. The other one is that the Hosea 6. 6 Uh has to do with not wiping anything away, but doing it in the right spirit and in the right way. Do you think that like for example even in that specific context, was Jesus saying cease all sacrifices? No, you definitely wasn't. He's saying you're supposed to be doing it in a particular spirit. Right? So the book points out, I thought rightly, well what spirit were they doing? Like what were they possessed by on the Sabbath that day? Trying to catch the case. Just trying to figure out a way to to catch the Messiah and doing and doing something wrong so they could murder him. If you go to the end of that passage, do they not start to plot his death or his murder? Is that correct? Verse number 14. Then the Pharisees went out and plotted against him how they might destroy him. I'm assuming that that's on the Sabbath. So now they're planning murder on the Sabbath. Man, things have really gone sideways. So Jesus is figuring out a way for people to have life. And the leaders who he has who the Father has put in charge are doing nothing but trying to figure out how to about death They're overly restricting people, which is exhausting them and bringing death, and now they want to bring death to the Messiah himself. Now that all of that is said in contrast to 11 verse 30, where Jesus' yoke is light. And he calls everyone to come to him. To be under his authority is a sweet thing. He rules in the original KJV it says In a psalm, I forget which psalm it is, but it says, he rules with gentle sway. Which is uh which is a nice thought. And I think that's in a few songs. Okay, so we have some evidence there as to, we're just trying to ask the question, what's Jesus doing here? And I think that the evidence has accumulated for that Jesus is in fact correcting people that have misapplied. uh the the laws. Okay, so let me see if there is something else. The other one was that there was a quotation from Daniel showing that Jesus is the Messiah and has the authority to interpret God's laws and let you know what they really mean, just like he did in Matthew chapter 5 and 6. They had gotten they misunderstood all that God intended for the law on murder or adultery or they they twisted divorce law and Jesus has the authority to tell you what's true. and what's real. And he's doing the same thing here specifically with the fourth command. So now if we accept this and we see that this is what Jesus is doing, you see the problem that Jesus is addressing. You see, we're going to go ahead and read through this passage to see how he addresses the problem specifically. Then you can see here specifically how he's using his authority in the same way that he was using it earlier within the letter or the gospel here. in chapter 5 and in chapter 6. And the other thing that happens now is Jesus and the New Testament do talk about the fourth command. They talk about it right here. There's a whole section devoted to understanding the fourth command. So I think that's an important point to remember also. Okay, let's just read through very quickly how he corrects the Pharisees. I think it's really helpful, and I find it refreshing to read. I'll go ahead and read that to you. So I'm going to begin just at chapter 12 in verse number 1. At that time Jesus went through the grain fields on the Sabbath. And his disciples were hungry, and began to pluck heads of grain and to eat. And when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, Look, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath. Now there is a comment in the book saying that this was a law from the Talmud, saying that one is not able to do this during the Sabbath because it's considered uh work and if you were to grind the grains between your fingers that's considered threshing. Now I didn't go and look up the section in the Talmud. But that's what the book says, that there was an actual law on the books, so to speak, of the traditions of men with regard to this. And so continuing now, so you see the charge that is given against the disciples, and that is that they're doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath. And the whole argument here for the rest of it is that Jesus says basically, you're wrong. This is lawful to do on the Sabbath. You've got the Sabbath all wrong. Let me show you a few ways. So then he says, But he said to them, Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him? How he entered the house of God and ate the showbread, which was not lawful for him to eat. nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests. Or have you not read the law that on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are blameless? Yet I say to you that in this place there is one greater than the temple. But if you had known what this means, I desire mercy and not sacrifice you would have not condemned the guiltless, for the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. So there's the first correction, and there's a great deal of stuff going on there. Does anybody remember the ethical principle given in the book in the evaluation of the case with David. Number one, it's an argument from the lesser to the greater, meaning if it's true here, how much more is it true over here? And then, does anybody remember the second part of that? The moral wall supersedes the positive. And we can talk about that another time, but that's an important ethical principle. Okay, and now moving into verse number nine. Here's another correction. Now when he had departed from there, he went into their synagogue, and behold, there was a man who had a withered hand, and they asked him, saying Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath that they might accuse him? That they might accuse him. Then he said to them, What man is there among you who has one sheep, and if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not lay hold of it and lift it out Of how much more value then is a man than a sheep? Therefore it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath. Then he said to the man, Stretch out your hand, and he stretched it out, and it was restored, as whole as the other. And this is where these two different examples are where we get the distinctions in our catechisms to say that we are to worship God publicly and privately all the day and to be involved in exercises of necessity and mercy. The necessity had to do with the eating, and the mercy has to do with the withered hand or the sheep that had fallen in the ditch. the compassion. And then the overarching principle is is it is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath? Alrighty. So uh that's how Jesus ends up correcting them. And so again, I think the most important part of what I'm saying to you. before you even get to how Jesus is correcting is that this is supposed to be connected and understood by chapter 11 verses 25 through 30. Jesus is showing you how his yoke is different. than the Pharisees. Jesus is not a Pharisee. His yoke is and his burden is light. And you can see specific examples of it. Under his yoke, people eat. And under his yoke people are healed. We see that he brings life. The whole thing ends with the book end in verse number 14 of Matthew chapter 12. Then the Pharisees went out and plotted against him, how they might destroy him. And you can see that there Jesus is is um contrasted with who the Pharisees are, with death. But let me keep reading so that you can see that this continuity of the yoke idea is meant to permeate all of this. But when Jesus knew it, he withdrew from there, and great multitudes followed him, and he healed them all. Yet he warned them not to make him known, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, Behold My servant whom I have chosen, my beloved in whom my soul is well pleased, I will put my spirit upon him, and he will declare justice to the Gentiles You see, it has everything to do with him correctly interpreting the law. He gives justice to Gentiles, he will not quarrel nor cry out, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break. And a smoking flax he will not quench, till he sends forth justice to victory, and in his name Gentiles will trust. All right. And that's uh the peoples will trust Okay, and then he he goes on to continue with his authority being called the the son of David. Alrighty, now let's go ahead and switch uh really quickly uh here into page number 73 in the book. And actually we already did all that. And here we have, in this chapter, he's going to, he unfolds the principle of necessity, and then in the next chapter, he unfolds the principle of mercy or compassion. So let's just take a look at the principle of necessity. Cheryl has already brought this up to us. But Cheryl on ver on page number 77 in the third paragraph is what you were saying. Furthermore, when we understand the principle of necessity, we are able to apply it to the circumstances of our own lives Everything we do should be measured by the question, does this promote the purposes of the day? That's what you were referring to, is that right? And that that was helpful ethically to you? Okay. I like what he says after that to give us an example of how we could the kind of s the kind of attitude we can have He says, often we approach the Sabbath like children who push the rules of their parents as far as possible. We are like the boy who, when told he could not wear a particular shirt to school put it in his gym bag and carried it to school, putting it on when he got there. That's a pretty good example. I'm going to decide to focus on the word to and miss the whole spirit of what my mother and my father were telling me. We can do the same thing when we get into the Sabbath. And so he ends up giving us this principle of necessity where I would encourage you to just write that down or have that ready in in your back pocket, so to speak. When you are faced with ethical decisions And we want to, by the power of the Spirit, grow more and more in keeping the whole law of God. That includes the fourth command. Well, one of the ways that we could do that is we could ask the question, does this promote, whatever we're considering, does it promote the purposes of the day? And that should be helpful. Now, he gives a specific example on 78 that I wonder if you found refreshing. And he's raising the ethical question, is it okay to take a nap on the Lord's Day? Is it okay to take a nap on the Lord's Day? Now what did he end up saying about that? Uh did anybody read the book and say and put the book down and say, Thank God. Anybody Do you remember what he what did he say about that in terms of approaching it as an ethical question? Any thoughts on that one? Is it okay to take a nap? Maybe. That's the that's the qu that's the answer. Maybe. Does it further the purposes of the day? Now to be fair, I think you should ask the question, you should any day of the week that you ask, is it okay for me to take a nap? You should answer, well it depends. It depends on what you know you gotta read the room. Read the room. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. If you're sitting at work and you're guarding our our like missile deployment program and you go, well ma is it okay for me to take a nap? While Russians are visiting the facility. Right. Or my w you know, my wife's been working hard all day long. Is it okay for me to take a nap? That kind of a thing. So then when we get to the fourth command, we want to ask that same kind of question and that And though I think he gives a great answer where he says, well, it really depends on is it furthering the purposes of the day? Sometimes you really need to hit that um that twenty the power nap or whatever in order to be ready for the evening worship. I'll even extend that. Some people really limit themselves and you some of you might disagree with me on this or throw things at me. as a sign of your disagreement, but some people will say, well I don't watch any television on the Lord's Day. And I don't do I I don't abide by that either. I'm careful as to what I have on the TV. But sometimes I'll use that as a way to disconnect for a minute instead of taking the nap. For example, if I think I'm going to take a nap and then be groggy for the rest of the day, it's not going to help with the purposes at all But if I could watch, for example, like um they have like a series on Pilgrim's Progress or whatever, which I would find refreshing or uh There's one um by a gentleman that actually knows my uncle. It's uh called it's like uh shows shows you a bunch of wildlife. Um and it exalts God's glory by way of him showing you how whales operate. What is that called? What's that? Yeah, the riot and the dance. Yeah, the riot and the dance and other things like that. I I've I think I'm staying within the purpose of the day. My mind is still reflecting on God's glory and his creation. I'm also able to just kind of check out for a minute and reboot before the evening worship starts. Um walks can be invigorating, whatever it is. But these are ethical decisions, so there could be tens of thousands of questions that could come along with this and all of us has to make have to make ethical judgments as to is this according to the purposes of the day. And you don't really want to get into a calculation. And having all of the answers listed out for every possible scenario, you really need to develop your wisdom as to, well, does this go according to the purposes of the day or not? Right. Okay. And so I thought that was helpful. He does, we can't get into this, but he does give two cautions, which perhaps we can talk about another time. He says we need to keep in mind two cautions. First We may not violate one of God's moral laws in order to keep another. So you want to think about that. That's a general principle we'll get to in the Sermon on the Mount, actually. a little bit later in the sermon series. And then the second sausage sausage. The second sausage. Man, Betty, how good's breakfast? Just I was late here today by two minutes because I was eating bacon. Man, terrible. The second caution to keep in mind is that a work must be truly necessary for us to perform the God-ordained purposes. of the Lord's day. So you can review those things on your own. In summary, Jesus Christ, the Lord of the Sabbath, tore down the fence of ma of man-made law. to free us to enjoy the purposes of the Sabbath. May God give each one of us the desire to seek and enjoy Him on this day And then in the next chapter, we're going to look at those works of mercy and the preservation that are permitted on the Lord's Day. Okay, so that brings us right to the end. Pretty pretty good timing. Pretty good timing. Let's go ahead and pray. Heavenly Father, it's just like you to have a law where we are commanded to rest. And to rest in you. Oh Lord, pray that you would bring us rest, that you'd bring us rest, especially in our contemplation of the rest we receive. And you sending your son Jesus Christ, whose yoke is light. Oh Lord, have us to run to him today. I ask these things in his name. Amen.