It is an honor and a privilege and a joy to share with you this morning the Word of God. Before we turn to the text for our study today, let me ask a quick question. If you were asked to make a list of the great men of the Bible, Who would be in your top five, top ten? In fact, if you have a pencil, just jot down the first names that come to your mind, Old Testament or New, the great men of the Bible. I'll give you a few moments to think about that. R. C. Sproull actually has a video series called Great Men and Women of the Bible. Maybe some of you have seen that. You can uh look that up online and see who his top ten were Take a few more moments and then turn with me for our meditation this morning to Isaiah chapter 45. I'll be reading verses 24 through 28 of the previous chapter and then the first seven verses of chapter 45. Will you please stand together with a reading of Scripture? Isaiah forty four, twenty four. Thus says Jehovah, your Redeemer, and the one who formed you from the womb. I, Jehovah, am the maker of all things. Stretching out the heavens by myself and spreading out the earth all alone, causing the omens of boasters to fail, making fools out of diviners. causing wise men to draw back and turning their knowledge into foolishness, confirming the word of his servant and performing the purpose of his messengers It is I who says of Jerusalem she shall be inhabited, and of the cities of Judah they shall be built, and I will raise up her ruins again. It is I who says to the depth of the sea, Be dried up, and I will make your rivers dry. It is I who says of Cyrus, He is my shepherd. And he will perform all my desire. And he declares of Jerusalem, she will be built, and of the temple, your foundation will be laid. Thus says Jehovah to Cyrus, his anointed, whom I have taken by the right hand to subdue nations before him. and to lose the loins of kings, to open doors before him so that gates will not be shut. I will go before you and make the rough places smooth I will shatter the doors of bronze and cut through their iron bars. I will give you the treasures of darkness and hidden wealth of secret places. so that you may know that it is I, Jehovah, the God of Israel. He calls you by your name For the sake of Jacob, my servant, and Israel, my chosen one, I also called you by your name. I have given you a title of honor, though you have not known me. I am Jehovah. And there is no other. Beside me, there is no God. I will gird you, though you have not known me. That men may know from the rising to the setting of the sun that there is no one besides me. I am Jehovah, and there is no other. The one forming light and creating darkness, causing well-being and creating calamity. I am Jehovah who does all these. Pray with me. Father, we bless you for your holy word. Your word is alive. We pray that you would revive our own souls this hour as we ponder it and hide it in our hearts. And obey it for your glory. In Jesus' name, always. Please be seated. Today we will be looking at the life of King Cyrus of Persia. Did any of you include Cyrus in your top ten? Maybe you'll reconsider after our study today. Did you know that Cyrus is mentioned by name in Scripture more often than most of Jesus' disciples? Twenty-three times. and all in four different books. And even more significant is what is said about Cyrus. The terms of honor given to him are used of only three men in all scripture. Notice in verse 28 of chapter 44, God calls Cyrus my shepherd. And in verse 1 of chapter 45, Cyrus is called the Lord's anointed. Only two other men in Scripture share those titles. The others Of course, we think of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is ultimately God's shepherd and the Lord's anointed supremely. The other man to share these two titles is King David. King Jesus, King David, King Cyrus. Three exceptional men And like Jesus and like David, King Cyrus played a very important role in the history of redemption. Now don't miss the fact that it's God Himself who calls Cyrus his shepherd and his anointed one. Thus says the Lord to Cyrus, his anointed. It is I who says of Cyrus He is my shepherd. This is not some man's view of Cyrus's importance. It's not human insight into Cyrus's place in history. This is what the Lord says about Cyrus. Well what do we know about Cyrus? We know he was born in 580 BC the son of King Cambyses of Persia, whose throne he inherited at age thirty In 540 BC, at age 40, Cyrus acquired the great Median Empire, which covered all of present-day Afghanistan and Pakistan and northern Iran. Soon after that, he expanded his empire to the northwest as far as Greece, to the southwest as far as Egypt, and to the south into Babylon. So by the year 530 BC, at age 50, Cyrus ruled most of the known world. Now those states raise an interesting question. How could Isaiah, writing in 720 BC, 740 BC, Know the name and describe the accomplishments of a king who would not even be born for another hundred and sixty years. That would be like Benjamin Franklin writing in his journal The Accomplishment of Ronald Reagan by name and accurately. Before the Jews even realized that Babylon was a threat, Before they knew there would be a captivity, God named the man the name of the man who would restore them. from captivity. Now, liberal theologians will tell you that's impossible. No one can foretell names and events two hundred years in the future, and so they confidently assert, despite all the evidence to the contrary, that Isaiah must not have written Isaiah. It must have been written after the reign of Cyrus. They say there's no way Isaiah could have known Cyrus's name. And of course it's true with men, such a thing is impossible, but not with God. God knows the future. God knew all about Cyrus two hundred years before him. And in fact, God made this prophecy specifically to demonstrate his deity. Look back for a moment at verse 6 of chapter 44. God is confronting those who worship idols, and he says to them in chapter 44, verse 6, Besides me there is no God. And then verse 8 he says, Is there any God besides me? I know of none. And then notice verse 7, the challenge he issues. Who is like me? Let him proclaim and declare it. Let them declare the things that are coming, the events that are going to take place. He's saying, whatever God you serve, what does your God have to say about the future? Give us some prophecy to validate your God's claim to deity. Tell us what's going to happen. Of course, the idols of the nations have nothing to say. They cannot tell the future because they are not God, but the true God, Jehovah. says, I will tell you what the future holds. I will even name the king who will restore my people from their captivity 200 years from now. And in doing so, I'll show that I alone am God. No one else could do this. I alone can name the names of future kings before they've been born. And the name that God singles out to mention is this one who would play a key role in God's master plan of history, King Cyrus of Persia. This morning we'll be looking at the life of Cyrus under three headings. First, the place of Cyrus in Isaiah's prophecy. Second, the place of Cyrus in the eyes of history. And third, the place of Cyrus in the eyes of the Lord. First, the place of Cyrus in the book of Isaiah. What Isaiah says about Cyrus really is amazing. Most amazing, as we've seen, is the title he gives him, The Lord's Anointed. Now, many men in Scripture have the title, the Lord's Anointed. But very few are are called the Lord's anointed. And when that term does appear, most of the time it refers to Jesus. We read, for instance In Psalm 2, the kings of the earth rise up and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. All through Old Testament history, the Jews understood that the Lord's anointed specifically had in view their coming Messiah. The great king that God had promised would come deliver his people. But here in Isaiah 45, God uses that term of Cyrus. Cyrus is called the Lord's anointed. There's only one true Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. But there were precursors, men like David and Cyrus. who were types of the Christ to come, and who were privileged to share that title, the Lord's anointing David is called God's anointed in 2 Samuel 23, verse 1, again in Psalm 89, verse 20. And David's reign of peace and justice and righteousness over God's people was a foretaste of Messiah's reign. And Cyrus's reign as well prefigured the work of Christ. In fact, Isaiah gives us several hints how Cyrus's Life would foreshow, or foreshadow the true Christ to come. In verse 28 of chapter 44, we're told that Cyrus would issue a decree to rebuild Jerusalem And lay the foundation of the temple. Cyrus was the one who restored the Jews their heritage, who delivered them from bondage when they were helpless. Far from home, Cyrus redeemed them and set them free. And he prepared for them a new temple. Where they might worship and serve the Lord without fear all their days. The parallels between Cyrus and the Lord Jesus are many and easy to see. This was part of God's message of comfort to his people through Isaiah. Think back to Isaiah. 40. Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, says your God. God promised there to send his shepherd to tend his flock To lead his l lambs gently, someone to bring prisoners from the dungeon and restore those in bondage to freedom. And the Jews took great hope. As they look forward to this coming servant, this shepherd, this anointed one from God, Cyrus. And for whom the Lord would make rough places smooth. You notice the language here in Isaiah 45 is very similar to that back in Isaiah 40, where God promised to go before his Messiah and make rough places smooth for him so that he could carry out God's gracious purposes. You see, God was giving to his exile's hope for the not too distant future. He he was pointing to a coming deliverer, a gentle king, a shepherd, an anointed one set apart by God himself who would restore. The Jews to their heritage. Cyrus. Cyrus stands in the book of Isaiah as the mirror Messiah, the shadow, the precursor. of the later Messiah who would be far greater. Cyrus would bring a partial restoration, a temporary restoration that God's true Messiah would bring a full and eternal redemption for God's people. And yet the language of the ones used interchangeably with the other by Isaiah and comes to a climax here. Where Cyrus is called the Lord's anointing. Secondly, let's consider briefly the place of Cyrus in the eyes of history. This is really fascinating. Notice in verses 1-3 the Lord announces he would lead Cyrus by the right hand to subdue nations and loose the loins of kings. To open doors before him so that gates will not be shut, to go before him and make rough places smooth, to shatter doors of bronze and cut through iron bars He gives Cyrus the treasures of darkness and hidden wealth of secret places. And it's fascinating to consider As we read in history books how all these prophecies were fulfilled, history tells us that Cyrus rose to power very swiftly. All of his enemies seemed to just cave in before him. After he inherited the kingdom of Persia from his father He soon united it, the kingdom of media, which had belonged to his grandfather. His father married the daughter of the king of media. that thus came into being the Medo-Persian Empire. And then when all the surrounding nations saw how rapidly Cyrus had risen to prominence, three of them made a treaty to fight against Cyrus. namely Sparta, Lydia, and Babylon. Sparta, of course, is present-day Greece. Lydia is present-day Asia Minor. The king of Lydia at that time was Croesus. Did anybody hear the name Croesus before? It's actually a proverb to this day, the wealth of Croesus. No king had ever amassed as much gold as Croesus, the really billions of dollars worth by today's standards. So when Cyrus captured Sardis The capital of Lydia, all that wealth flowed into his coffers, and Cyrus overnight became the richest of all the kings in the ancient world. Then after Cyrus had subdued Lydia and Sparta, it was evident that his next step was to march against Babylon. The people wondered, how could Cyrus, even with all his will, ever conquer Babylon? No one could possibly break down its walls And everyone knew that besieging the city would never work. Babylon was filled with gardens, orchards, with enough food to supply all its inhabitants continually. And it had plenty of water, for the river Euphrates flowed right through the sea. Osiris came to Babylon. But instead of raising a siege mound against the city as others had tried, he dug a trench halfway around the city. And the day the trench was completed, suddenly all the water from the Euphrates River was diverted, leaving the riverbed dry. And when the river stopped flowing, a handful of defectors inside the city quietly removed the iron bars that were implanted in the riverbed, so that there was now easy passage for Cyrus and his army. They marched into the unsuspecting city that night, just hours after King Balshazzar had held a feast and had seen the handwriting on the wall and had been told by Daniel that that very night His kingdom would be taken away from him. Exactly what happened. Cyrus's army marched in and took over in a bloodless coup. So when the Babylonians woke up the next morning, Cyrus was sitting on the throne, and his troops were in charge of the city. The Lord was obviously with Cyrus, and we see this entire prophecy fulfilled. Treasures of darkness, hidden wealth given to him, doors open, loins of kings loose, rivers made dry Iron bars removed. Amazing football. It's especially intriguing to consider that Daniel was there as these events unfolded. Daniel saw this prophecy of Isaiah fulfilled. Now, there are no recorded conversations between Daniel and Cyrus, but they almost certainly met. Daniel 6, 28 Tells us Daniel enjoyed success in the reign of Cyrus, indicating that he continued to serve the royal court during Cyrus's reign, and he knew Cyrus. And if he knew Cyrus, he no doubt spoke with him, and perhaps even showed him in Scripture what Isaiah had written about him 200 years earlier. In fact, the Jewish historian Josephus tells us Cyrus did indeed read about himself in Scripture after he captured Babylon, quoting from Josephus now. Cyrus knew these things since he read the book of Isaiah's Prophecy left behind 210 years earlier. Well, what did Cyrus do after he read about himself in Scripture? Turn to Ezra chapter 1. This really is fascinating. Ezra 1, the first four verses, give us keen insight into Cyrus' actions and thoughts. I'm reading Ezra 1-1. Now in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, in order to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah. The Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia, so that he sent a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and also put it in writing. Saying, Thus says Cyrus, king of Persia, the Lord the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has appointed me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whoever there is among you of all his people, may his God be with him. Let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and rebuild the house of the Lord, the God of Israel. He is the God who is in Jerusalem. Cyrus clearly was conscious of his divine calling to rebuild the temple in Jerusalem. He even put it in writing. And so it came to pass in 536 BC A caravan of 42,360 Jews began the 800-mile trek from Babylon to Jerusalem. Fulfilling the prophecies of Isaiah and Jeremiah, that God would one day restore the heritage of the sea. In the eyes of history, Cyrus was a remarkable king. He wasn't greedy like most kings. He didn't need the gold vessels that maybe Kidnesar had taken. from Jerusalem and so he sent them all back with the Jews. Nor was he cruel and vindictive like most other kings. And the evident reason is that that that God opened doors for him and smoothed his way. Cyrus was never involved in any long, gory battles or bitter campaigns. Kingdoms just fell into his lap. He had no reason to become jealous. He stands out as a gentle man, gentleman king in the eyes of history, who enjoyed tremendous success in the province of God. But especially this morning, I would like to have us consider from our text the place of Cyrus in God's eyes. And the first thing that stands out is that God cared for Cyrus. All the blessings That God poured out on Cyrus, opening doors, moving his way, going before him, removing iron bars, giving him moving well. God did all that to the end that Cyrus might come to know God. Notice that In verse 3, I will give you treasures of darkness, hidden wealth of secret places, in order that you may know that it is I, Jehovah, the God of Israel, who calls you by your name. God's kindnesses always had a redemptive purpose. God showered Cyrus with blessings so that he might know And acknowledge and serve the Lord. And you know what? God has done the same thing for you. Think for a moment about all the blessings that you enjoy. Health strength, a good mind, your abilities, your talents, your material abundance, your freedoms, your opportunities. What has made you different from so many others in this world who don't have those things? Why weren't you born with brain damage? Did you have anything to do with that? Why weren't you born in one of the many places in this world where people go to bed hungry every night? Well in a place where there's no opportunity for education or employment Why were you not born in Tibet or Bosnia or Burma? Did you have anything to do with that? Why were you not born as a slave in some culture where there's no hope for freedom, where all the common privileges that you enjoy in this country are unheard of? Why have so many blessings come to you? The only the only answer is because God gave them to you. And he gave them to you for the same reason he gave them to Cyrus, because he wants you to know him And acknowledge him and worship him as God. Remember how Paul put it in Romans 2. 4. Do you think lightly of the riches of God's kindness? Not knowing that the kindness of God is meant to lead you to repentance, to a personal knowledge of Him. God cared for Cyrus. And greatly blessed him so that he would know that Jehovah was God. And God has done the same thing to me. Then there's a second reason mentioned here why God bless Cyrus, namely for the good of God's people, after God lists all the things he would do for Cyrus. Go before him, smooth his way, give him wealth of secret places. He says in verse 4, For the sake of Jacob my servant, and Israel my chosen one. I have called you by name and given you a title of honor, though you've not known it. In the Lord's eyes. The place of Cyrus as ruler, even as an unbeliever. was to serve the people of God. Now here's the truth that really should encourage us. God raised up this great wealthy king to be a tool in his hands for the benefit of his people. And God does the same thing today. He raises up kings, presidents, governors, officials, men who don't even know him. And puts them in office for one purpose, for the good of his people, the church. In all of Cyrus's plans and efforts to subdue nations and conquer kings, God was the one. Directing his every move. Notice in verse 1, God says, Cyrus, I have taken you by the right hand. It wasn't Cyrus's power strategy that gave him success. He was just a little child, led by the hand of God, every step of the way. It was God that determined the ends that Cyrus served. You ever find yourself fretting over what's going on in our nation, in our government? You worry about the secret plots of those in power who hate Christians. Find yourself anxious this election year knowing what's at stake if you know who gets elected. How good it is to know that God's purposes are far higher than our purposes and that He is working His purposes out. Especially that he's working his purposes out for the good of his church. Notice that again in verse 4. God says, For the sake of Jacob, my servant, Israel, my chosen one, I have called you and given you a title of honor. God Put Cyrus in office and gave him all that wealth and all that success because he had a job for Cyrus to do that would serve the interests of his people. In a sense, all of Cyrus' early life, his inheritance, his conquest with Lydians, Arta, his brilliant coup in taking Babylon, his great success in all these areas. All that is merely to bring him to the place that God had purposed for him all along, the place of issuing a decree to restore the nation Israel to its heritage. Now, in the whole of Cyrus' life, that probably took five minutes. Some counselor would have come in and say, Sir, here's that document restoring the Hebrews to their homeland. And they talk about it for a few moments and then Cyrus would take his pen and sign the documents. Probably all there was to it. Great King Cyrus had hundreds of province provinces to think about He ruled most of the known world, all the nations were his slaves. No doubt to his mind, there were many things he did that were of far more importance. He had Many mighty accomplishments, buildings he erected, treasuries he filled, armies he moved, battles he won, laws he enacted, kingdoms he built, mighty Cyrus, king of the world. God says it's all window dressing Cyrus, I put you where you are for the sake of Jacob, my servant, and Israel, my chosen one. God raised up Cyrus. to serve the church. You know we find that truth all through scripture. The Lord is building his church and everything that happens in history really serves that end. All the wealthy, powerful rulers and politicians on earth. Are there for only one purpose, for the good of God's people? That's not their intention most of the time, but the sovereign God of the universe tells us he raised up Cyrus And he raises up rulers in every age for one purpose, for the sake of Jacob, my servant, and Israel, my chosen. We see this truth echoed in Proverbs. The wealth of the sinner is stored up for the righteous. The wicked is ransomed for the righteous. The evil will bow before the good. The righteous considers the house of the wicked, turning the wicked to ruin. All the wars that have ever been fought, all the wealth that has ever been acquired, all the political victories that have ever been won have all been directed by God for one purpose, the good of God's people. Now stop, do you realize That you exist for the god of good of God's people as well. You can forget that when we wake up Monday morning and think about all the things that we have to get done, our jobs, our homes, our cars, our computers So much to do, so many demands and our time. But the Lord has put each one of us on earth for one purpose, to serve his people. That was his purpose for Cyrus. It's his purpose for all rulers. But it's also his purpose for you and for me. We're all put here to serve the church. We need to think in those terms when we wake up every morning, what can I do today to serve the people of God? History books are interesting, but they desperately need to be rewritten. When we get to heaven and we get the view history all over again from the perspective of how God ordered everything for the good of his church. We can't always see that today We hear about what's going on in the Middle East, in Africa, and Asia. We hear of wars, earthquakes, tornadoes and distant places. And then we see all that's going on in our land. We wonder what's going to happen to us, our children, to our loved ones, what's next? God says, whatever's next, I'm managing it all for the good of my people. The Apostle Paul spells this truth out, especially in the book of Ephesians. We read earlier, Ephesians 1. Christ has been exalted to the right hand of the Father. Far above all rule and power, and all things are put in subjection under his feet. And he has been made head over all things for the church. King Jesus rules all things for the good of his church. It gives us a totally different perspective on history from what we read in the history books. History has much to say about the accomplishments of Cyrus, but from God's viewpoint, the most important thing Cyrus did in his whole lifetime is to take five seconds and sign a document restoring the Jews to their homeland. That is God's purpose all along. Sometimes the great service a person renders to God is a very momentary thing. Think of Esther, blessed by God, with great beauty, raised up by God to serve as queen for many years Yet one day her uncle Mordecai said to her, It may be that God put where put you where you are for just this moment. All of her upbringing, the whole history of her family, all that happened for generations leading up to that moment, she was in a position to deliver the people of God. And so it was with Cyrus. A whole complex of events brought him to be the great conqueror of Babylon. And the Lord tells us It was all for the sake of the church. God cared for Cyrus. God raised up Cyrus for the benefit of the church. And then a third reason why God raised up Cyrus is found in verses 5 and 6. God says, I am Jehovah. There is no other. Besides me, there is no God. I will gird you though you have not known me, that men may know from the rising of the sun to its setting. that there is no one beside me. Ultimately, Cyrus's presence on earth was meant to bring glory to God the whole world over. That's why God put him in power, that men everywhere may know I'm the Lord. Cyrus was king of the nations, and so he was in a peculiar position to do that. As ruler of the nations, Cyrus stood as a special picture or type of the Lord Jesus Christ. In Psalm 46, written hundreds of years before Cyrus was born, God said, I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. And though the ultimate fulfillment of those words is still being carried out today by the preaching of the gospel. King Cyrus was God's special instrument to advance that purpose enthusiast. The story of Cyrus really is remarkable. But when you think about it, in God's eyes, Cyrus was no more important than The mule driver who made the trip back to Jerusalem as a result of Cyrus's decree. Who cared about a lowly mule driver, captive on his way back to his ancestors' homeland? But when he got there, he would help rebuild a temple and re-establish a nation from which in time would come God's truth. In a sense, all of history was revolving around that mule driver and the other captives with him. Not the way the world saw it. Even the captives themselves may not have realized it at the time, but as they humbly worshiped the Lord, he was ordering all of history for their good. Christian, as you humbly worship the Lord today, He is ordering all of history for your good. It might not seem that way, even if all your personal hopes and dreams come to nothing, you can still find great joy and peace, knowing God is building for himself that house. And you and I and every politician in DC, whether he realizes it or not, are helping to build that house. Cyrus did come to realize that. After becoming king, he acknowledged, the Lord God of heaven has appointed me to build him a house in Jerusalem. And in an even greater sense, the God of heaven appointed the Lord Jesus, his true anointed one, to build him a house. Whose house the New Testament says we are. A house not made of bricks, but of living stones The temple of God, built on the rock, which is Christ. Psalm 67 reminds us, God blesses us that all the ends of the earth might fear him. So Christian, take heart this morning. The God who long ago raised up Cyrus for the good of the church has now raised up the Lord Jesus, his true anointed one. In Acts 5, Peter said, God raised up Jesus and exalted him to his right hand as Prince and Savior to grant repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. Cyrus, save God's people from the tyranny of a foreign government. Jesus, save God's people from the tyranny of sin and Satan. As Paul wrote in Ephesians 1, God raised Jesus from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavens, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion. And every name that is named, and he put all things in subjection under his feet, and gape him his head over all things with the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who feels all in all. The church is what history is all about. And it's the church that you and I are privileged to serve that we do. So what God said to Cyrus, he says to you today, for the sake of Jacob my servant in Israel, much as I have called you by your name, that men may know from the rising of the sun to its setting, there is no one beside you. Praise God, the blessed privilege of knowing him and making him know. That's praise.