And I'll also pray for a prayer of illumination. It's Acts 8, 26 through 40. Actually, I'm gonna Yeah, eight twenty six through forty. Acts eight twenty-six through forty. Now Now an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Arise and go toward the south along the road which goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is desert. So he arose and went, and behold Behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace, the Queen of the Ethiopians, who had charge of all her treasury, and had come to Jerusalem to worship, was returning. Sitting in his chariot, he was reading Isaiah the prophet. Then the Spirit said to Philip, Go near and overtake this chariot. So Philip ran to him and heard him reading the prophet Isaiah and said And who will declare his generation? So the eunuch answered Philip and said, I ask you, of whom does the prophet say this? Of himself or some other man? Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning at this scripture Preached Jesus to him. Now as they went down the road, they came to some water, and the eunuch said, See, here is water. What hinders me from being baptized? Then Philip said, If you believe with all your heart, you may. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. So he commanded the chariot to stand still. Now when they came up out of the water the spear of the Lord caught Philip away, so that the eunuch saw him no more And he went on his way rejoicing. But Philip was found at Azatos, and passing through he preached in all the cities till he came to Caesarea. Heavenly Father, we ask that Just as this eunuch, you would illuminate our heart and mind to be able to understand your word and to understand the role, the magnificence, and the incomparable existence. excellency and rights of Jesus Christ in our lives for the sake of witness. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. We've been going through this series on witness. We'll go all the way through May, and then we'll have a summer series which will be different Uh so we have about four more sermons uh to go on witness. And uh we have really structured this entire thing on a the most robust Theological foundation known in the scriptures, that is to say, the Trinity. We began by phrasing it this way. That Jesus Christ, who has ascended in heaven, is both God and man, and he has a heart for sinners on earth. He has a heart for them. He loves them. That provides us with the motivation that we need and the understanding to understand that the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity, is one of the foundation stones for us as people who are to witness. The second foundation stone that we have seen is that Jesus shows his heart to us in being his witnesses and to those to whom he would witness by sending his spirit. His spirit arrives and fills people with the ability to be able to talk about Jesus, what Jesus has accomplished. And the significance of Jesus. That's the second foundation stone, the third person of the Trinity. Now the third foundation stone shows up uh he he's they are always present. And all of them are. But we saw him specifically when we saw the the first century church go to prayer. They prayed to the Father, the one who had sent the Son, who gave the S Spirit to the Son, that the Son could send the Spirit to us. And so you have these three foundation stones of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit all buttressing us as a church. in order to be able to witness, empowering us, illuminating us. Last week we saw that this is so true of a foundation to us, it's actually the very the very core or essence of who we are as a community. That we, in seeing in the passage last week, have become the new temple of God replacing the old. We are are the true Israel, if you will, as a church, as well as other true branches of the church that's that are are scattered across the face of the globe. are his new dwelling, not the old temple. We are the colony of heaven that has arrived in part before the second coming of Jesus Christ and the ushering in of all of the new heavens. and the new earth. Now this, like a foundation, is exactly what you need. If you do not have a foundation, these are the this is the place from which you must work out all of the implications for If you don't have the foundation, then the house falls. Agreed? But no one likes to eat dinner in the cross. Do you see what I'm saying? In other words, although this is the foundation, we have got to get into where the rubber meets the road. We have to start talking about the How to witness in the now and and and our place and in our society. And we're going to be doing that for the rest of the sermons. Now that we have this foundation, we can build the house upon it. living spaces as to where you really walk and where you really eat. And the very first thing that we're going to be exploring today and hearing about from this passage is There's a profound truth that really changes everything for us. It's that Jesus Christ is exercising his right to gather unexpected communities into his church. Now that sounds like we're down a Jesus Christ is exercising his right to gather unexpected communities into his church. That's the truth that this passage teaches. And now let's step through it. The first thing I want you to see is that Jesus is gathering unexpected communities. This is really important. Jesus is gathering unexpected Take a look at verse 26 with me. Please follow along. Now an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Arise and go toward the south along the road which goes down From Jerusalem to Gaza. This is desert. So he arose and went, and behold a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace, the queen of the Egyptians, etc. was returning. Notice that the text immediately picks up with an angel sending Philip to do great evangelistic or witness work. So you have To see that this is a continued narrative from what we've been seeing from the beginning of X. Angel simply means messenger. Whose messenger is the angel? It's Jesus. So once again, on these pages of scripture, we see just like them, it is so too for us, that Jesus is the center of his church. Jesus is the one that sends the angel in order to be able to tell Philip what he is to be doing, where he is to be going. Jesus is ruling on high. As the God man. The angel and the spirit are sending s are sending Philip to continue Jesus' work. You remember from the Gospel of John that Jesus said It's the same thing that was said to the apostles, it's the same thing that's said to us. You should, without picturing, you should should non-picture imaginations. I that's a I know that's a oxymoron, but the idea is that you should realize that Christ is reigning on high as the God man, still in control Still sending out his church just as he sent here. Now I want you to notice though that the sending, notice the geography of the sending. This would have been revolutionary for you if you were during that Time. Up to this point, and you'll remember the sermon from last week, the locus of the dwelling of God, the place where God's people dwelled, were in Jerusalem. But here we see that it is moving out from Jerusalem and that churches are cropping up under apostolic authority past geographies that they ever expected. So for example It says here that he went from Jerusalem to Gaza. Now, this is what you need to realize. Jerusalem's here, Samaria's here, Gaza's here, right along along the Mediterranean coast, moving down toward a road that would go into Africa. Now going down as far as Samaria would have been bad enough for people during that time. If you were a Samaritan, you were considered you remember some of the names that the Jewish people had for Samaritans? Like dog. Uh they even one even one of the women recognized that So the fact that the church could be located in Samaria would of itself been very upsetting for the Jews. Persecuting the church, the church goes forward, Jesus in his providence using that. And Jesus is extending his word and his witness as far down as Samaria. You remember there was a magician there, but yet there were many people that end up ended up uh coming to faith there, and this if you don't weren't aware of this is one of the predictions as to what Jesus the Messiah would do. Back in in the um before the birth of Jesus Christ, there was a division between the northern and the southern kingdom of Israel. They were divided still And the southern kingdom was known for its idolatry, namely those of Samaria. They tried to erect their own temple. They tried to desecrate the one in Jerusalem by putting human bones in there, and there was a constant war and racism between one and the others. But one of the prophetic signs of the true Messiah is that the northern and the southern kingdom would be reunited in the true Messiah. And that's what you see See here, but that's not really the whole point of what's going on in the passage. But what I want you to see is that as if this weren't enough, he went down to Samaria, fulfilled the Davidic dynasty But he went even further to a eunuch, someone who is sexually modified and who is black from Africa. I mean, it was bad enough for Peter to have to go But here we see that which would have never been heard of. The Gentile of all Gentiles here is the eunuch Paul goes to Europe, Philip is going to minister to someone who will take the gospel to Africa. Samaria was one kind of exclusion, and when they They entered, it was exceptionally unexpected for them, but for the eunuch it was way beyond anything that they had ever expected. There was complete exclusion in the people of God for the eunuch. The eunuch was not allowed to enter in to the temple of God when it was located in Jerusalem, but here we see amongst the New Testament people of God that he is welcomed with open arms. Who is it that is personally in heaven having a heart for the sexually modified man? It is Jesus Christ himself. Jesus is sending his angel, he is sending his spirit, he is sending Philip to preach to him. The eunuch had complete exclusion, but not in the New Testament church. He was not allowed in the temple, but he's allowed in the new temple, and now he is being brought near. Math equation where now in this theology we can allow eunuchs. This is a personal heart that Jesus Christ has for this particular individual. I think Before our day, it would have been surprising for the middle class white church to hear that Jesus had a heart for Africans. I don't think that's a surprise. Surprising to us any longer. But one of the things that the church will have to face is that the cultures to which Jesus reaches and has a heart for can be quite unexpected communities to you For instance, there are those within our culture that are sexually modified. They have become transgender. What is going to happen when Jesus says I choose you and you will convert and join me. We as a church will have to face situations like that because Jesus Christ is so hard. So his heart is so big and he gathers from such unexpected places, we better start making sure that our heart is as big as Jesus Christ's heart. particular culture here. We can see it throughout the global church. I want you in your mind's eye, since this is a witnessing series, I want I want you to imagine witnessing to someone. If you need to close your eyes because that's what you need to do, I want you to imagine witnessing to someone. And then I want to know what color were they? What culture are they from? Most likely you chose someone from your own culture, which is reasonable because that's where you are. You're in your own culture. But you have to understand that when Jesus Christ imagines who he will call, then he imagines all cultures. All tongues, all tribes, all nations, and those within those nations that have had horrific and tragic religious practices such as castrations with eunuchs He ends up having a heart for them and calling them. Just to get us outside of our uh our our mindset a little bit because we be can we can be so narrow in just existing in one place. When I went to GH General Assembly two years ago, which is the gathering of all of the Presbyterian churches in America, uh their representatives, there was a a speaker that came to address us from another country, Mexico. And it was very surprising to me. Larry Trotter, who's over at Grace Point, uh did all the translation for him. And this um I believe he was the moderator of Tim, do you remember was he the moderator for General Assembly in Mexico? Yeah, the Presbyterian Church in Mexico, he was the moderator and he was addressing us. And he gave us great greetings. Now in the Presbyterian Church in America, we have three hundred and And in the Presbyterian Church in Mexico, which also submits to the Westminster Confession of Faith, they are above four million. Jesus Christ is bringing in communities you did not even know about. And this is what this man said. He said we would still be growing faster and faster as a church in Mexico, but a lot of So is there any way that we can begin working with you and your congregations to keep gathering our people? I sure hope that there is. plants being entirely Latino. That would be excellent. And when we closed our eyes and we thought about witness, we would think about Mexico. Or maybe we would think about uh another country. You know we had an ES Or or wherever it might be show up to learn English as a second language. But we had, if I'm correct, Robin, almost entirely those from Nepal. It was the Nepalese. Okay, Central South America, but also Nepalese, and the Nepalese owned a Mexican restaurant in Crofton. That's right. Yes, very good. Very good. Yeah. So you can begin to see just within this place when you close your eyes, did you picture someone from the Paul? In this area. But those are the communities that are in our midst. And we, as a community, have to follow the heart of Jesus and recognize that Jesus is bringing in unexpected communities He's bringing un unexpected communities, including those who may be transgender or sexually modified. Now the second thing that I want you to see is that Jesus has the right to gather these people into his community. Jesus has the right to do this. No matter how you feel about some of those people. I can go to back to the Eastern Shore into Queen Anne's County and I can still find racism everywhere. So no matter how you feel, Jesus doesn't feel that way about these communities. communities and he has the right to call whoever he wishes or whoever he desires. I want you to see that here in um right after um Philip began ends going over to the eunuch, the eunuch in this love don't you wish this would happen to you at Starbucks? Uh they say, can you please explain Isaiah fifty three to me? Man, that would make I wouldn't even have to give a series on witness. Uh and he said, How can I unless someone guides me? And he asked Philip to come up and sit with him and then there's this place in scripture from the suffering servant and he was led as a sheep generation for his life is taken from the earth. Here you've got to see that this is placed within the context, just within the language of the same stuff that I talked about in the sermon last week. And that is the drama of approach. The unfortunate thing about this is that we as a culture are so unaware of the book of Leviticus that we missed all of the references that are going on here And so I'll remind you again that in Exodus chapter forty, actually I will be preaching on the book of Leviticus in the future, so hopefully that'll end. In Exodus chapter forty, Moses builds the tabernacle. You know the And so then the book of Leviticus enters. And the book of Leviticus from the first eight chapters is just trying to figure out how can Can anybody on the face of this earth approach the holy God? And it's only Moses and Aaron that can do so, but the sons of Aaron rush forward, seeking uh thinking they can just rush into The Holy of Holies. But they're they're consumed in their own fire, showing that earth can't exist with heaven unless heaven determines the terms in order to exist on earth. But here we see within this passage that Jesus Christ is earning the right, and has earned the right to bring heaven to earth and to bring those whom he wishes into his community. Jesus, appealing to these same kind of images from Leviticus, is choosing to call himself the sheep to the slaughter, that's Levitical language, the lamb before its sheer. This is all referring to that sacrificial system that he ends up fulfilling. In fact, in Hebrews chapter 10, it says that Jesus has made a new and a living way. Think of Aaron's sons. I can't enter in. There's no intimacy between me and God. But then when Jesus is crucified, the temple veil rips. Now the presence of God is open for all nations to be able to walk into His presence and have intimacy with Him. Is it because we all are special as a particular culture or more intelligent? or got our virtues right in the West, it is because Jesus earned the right for certain people to be able to enter into that place that Aaron's sons died in trying to enter Jesus has made a new and living way, according to Hebrews ten. The veil which is his flesh was torn, and he offers himself to God as an atoning. The reason why Jesus stays on the cross when he could have gotten down or called legions of angels to come and rescue him is because he went through with the obedience Now that's part of an agreement that was made. The Father sends the Son. The Son is supposed to complete a particular task, and if he does He earns certain rights. And the right here that we see him earning is the right to be able to gather in whomever he chooses. That's the conclusion of the gospel. It's that we have a strong captain who is our representative and nothing can get in his way. Who will keep you from the love of Jesus Christ? Would death Or persecution or famine, nothing can keep us. It's because our strong of our strong cath. And you could think kids, students here, covenant children I'm calming down. You can think of the David and Goliath story. If David wins against Goliath, all of Israel benefits. If David loses Loses against Goliath, all of Israel fails, and they move into slavery. The first Adam failed. The whole human race went into slavery of sin. But the second Adam, who is Jesus Christ Has conquered sin and death and the devil. And he drags us with him. He is our great captain. He is our great true David. And he has earned the right. In order for us to be able to enter into the presence of the Holy One. Not only you, but all those who are even more despised than you upon the face of the earth. You're despised enough because of your behavior, but even amongst us there's the worst of us. And even those are being brought in. Has anyone heard of Harvey Kahn? Maybe you've heard this example. before of Jesus having the right to gather people. But Harvey Kahn was an Orthodox Pres Orthodox Presbyterian missionary in Korea and then went on to be a seminary professor at uh Westminster Theological Seminary in Philadelphia. He went to Korea and there were no uh inroads really for him. And so he was just trying to figure out a way to bring witness. And what he noticed was that there were a lot of Korean prostitutes. And so he decided to go to the brothel and hold a Bible study. And he would difficult because of the war they were unable to make ends meet and so they would go to the city in order to try to get a job. And when they got there there would be men waiting at the train station offering them a place to stay. Once they went into those places they would be gang raped. And then they would spe and then it would be said that they are not allowed to uh leave because they have not paid uh their rent And in order to be able to pay the rent, they must work for them, and they became pimps, and they would be sold from one house to another house. These are the women to whom he was ministering. Now you can imagine the loss of humanity that these women had. They did not feel even this high off of the earth about themselves. They were existing corpses. And so he would say to them, Jesus loves you. And he wants you to come to him. and to be a part of his family. And they would say, he would never want somebody like me. I'm too dirty. I'm too and this is what their culture would and press upon them. I'm too dirty for this. I'm not good enough to go to Jesus. And so you know what the missionary did was he started preaching the doctrine of election. Some of you that might not be good news to you. But he did. And the Holy Spirit used that. He preached the doctrine of election and he said, this is what you need to realize. And who are you, being as lowly as you are, to refuse that? say, oh, okay, well wait a second, I better start listening to this because they understood the idea of authority. And they would say, Well yeah, if he is the king, then I would have to submit to them and they would ask the question that you would ask Ask, but how do I know he's calling me? And then he would say, Well, if I'm giving this message to you and you are beginning to yearn for Jesus Christ and you are attracted to this message, it is his spirit that is working within you to bring you alive to embrace him as the king and he is showing you that he's using his full rights as the Son of God to gather you into his people and there would be Conversion upon conversion upon conversion. He would get beat up by the pimps, but they would end up leaving that house and starting a totally new community. What a perfect image of what Jesus Christ is doing. Don't you ever stand in the way of Jesus Christ calling the lowliest of races or the lowliest of people because Jesus Christ has a heart in heaven for people that may be unexpected to you, and he has every right to call them into our midst. You know, one of the things that happens amongst churches When they plant and we're in the middle of a replant, I actually I'll ask Arch about it again, but I think it happens without fail. If we were to send out a planting group of fifty people right now History shows that that 50 people will not be the people that occupy that church. Because Jesus Christ has something totally different in mind. It will be a different group or a different culture. And there will be church division and arguing about what Jesus is doing and who he's bringing to the church. Do not allow that to happen to us. Don't allow that to happen to us. The second is that from his Levitical Word Jesus Christ is exercising his right to gather. Unexpected community into his church. That's the truth here. Now, I want to bring out a couple things. I promised that we would move into the living room. Now these are implications already, and we've already moved in kind of to the living room, because now we're dealing with specific cultures within our own time. But the very first thing is from this first truth. Is that we need to find out who the expected community is. In other words, Severn Run is having great difficulty figuring out how to witness. There's seen and I mean no offense to this, I actually think it is a gift. But a lot of the times what we end up seeing in the evangelical Presbyterian churches from the days of old being planned From an apple CP is EPers moving from one congregation to the next congregation with no new converts. And we have got to figure out The Apostle Paul could go to a synagogue in any place around the Mediterranean Sea and preach and and that would be his place of preaching or the Areopagus. They had a place where they just sat around listening to new ideas. We don't really have a place like that. We've got a figure out what that is. And so if you're interested in figuring out, this is the very first application, if you're interested in figuring out how we can witness to this surrounding area, whether it's the Nepalese or or whatever it might be, then please talk to me afterward, because I'd like to start a kind of subcommittee from the missions committee under Mark and figuring out how we're gonna move figure how we're gonna move forward. With missions and witness here at this congregation. The second thing I want you to see is that Jesus is doing a great supernatural work here and he has a right. But notice that he is working through human beings, and he's doing for so through very ordinary means. This is what I mean. You are gonna have to To explain Jesus to people. That's exactly what Philip had to do here. go, what in the world is this talking about? Is it talking about himself or is he talking about another? May not even be a question that would arise Because they'd be so confused about the context of Isaiah 53. Notice that Philip does not say, well, you know, man, it's just like whatever inspires you in this passage He does not do that. He has a very specific authorial content that is a part of the past And he unfolds that starting with Isaiah and moving all the way through, and everything that was taught to them for 40 days when Jesus before his ascension he taught that all to them, unfolding it. Some of you find reading your scriptures boring, and you don't find significance in that any longer. And then you ask yourself this question after devotion. What in the world does that mean? And how would I explain it to somebody that's never read the Bible before? Someone that's never been to church before, because that's That's the kind of culture we're living in. How would I explain that to somebody? And then try it on a friend. Try it on your children. If they just kind of look at you like a confused puppy dog, then try again. And try again. And remember that you can break these kind of stories down if you're at a loss, you find yourself being called to witness to someone right on that spot and you need to explain Jesus to others Then you can remember your holidays as I had mentioned before. Christmas, the incarnation of the second person of the Trinity, Good Friday, his crucifixion in obedience to the Father. Easter, resurrection for our justification, because he was justified, ascension, moving to the right hand of God, and Pentecost sending out the Spirit to gather all nations. Just think of those different holidays, go through them, try it at Panera Bread or Starbucks and talk to people about these things. And then lastly, I think this may be the The most important thing in terms of practical applications for witness. You not only have we need to figure out who we're going to witness to, two, you need to be able to explain Jesus. to people, use the holidays, and three, no altar calls or premature decision making When I first came to this church, I went out on a deacon call. I shared the gospel with the person, and they said, That sounds great. Yes. I did not know what to do. So I, you know what immediately popped up in my head? We should pray the sinner's prayer. Now, where in the world Do you know that the sinner's prayer is a very specific history and community of Christianity, which I don't tend to like? And yet that was the thing that I thought we needed to do. In order for them to get into heaven They better pray this sinner's prayer and write their name on the back of the track. But here what we end up seeing, look at this, look at what Philip ends up saying to this, to him. What hinders me from being baptized? What if somebody said that to you? You say, Well, I'll call the pastor immediately and we're going to set something up. But Philip doesn't say that. He says, wait a second. He put a stop on the whole thing. There was no anxious seat. There was no all If you rush people in the decision and do not allow them to count the costs of what it means to truly follow Jesus Christ in the intelligently, then you are basically Shanghaiing them. Do you know what it means to Shanghai someone? It means you know, back in the day basically someone would be drugged or m or given too much alcohol or they just drank it too much themselves and they'd wake up the next morning on a fishing vessel uh pushed into forced labor. And what you can have if you push people away along too fast, don't allow them to intelligently commit themselves to Jesus Christ and to count the costs, they will have buyers remorse. They will say, What in the world did I I get on. What is happening here? Allow them to ease into it. You know there's a saying at uh one of my friends says he says if you haven't invited a person, a non Christian over for dinner, then Don't invite them to church. And what he's trying to get at there is there needs to be this ease into the community. I mean these are not absolute rules. If they want to bring up bring them to church, then bring them to church. But the idea is that there is There's going to need to be lives shared with one another. There's not going to be this instantaneous evangelistic experience in most most situations. There's going to need It took me personally from the time that I heard about Christ to the time that I entered into church membership seven years. Someone walked along alongside of me along the way, bringing me out of the drug culture. And it's the exact same thing that we're going to be dealing with today. And what that ends up meaning for us is that if we want to truly be a witnessing church is that we need a platform platform for witness not just a place to go but also a place for people to stay and keep conversing. If you think of Francis Schaefer's Labris Institute for instance where people could go there There and learn about Jesus Christ by staying there. The question to you is: do you have time in your life to share with people to teach them about Jesus Christ? Because you can't just send them an email or give them a track. You have to invite them into your homes. You have to go out to coffee with them. You have to share your life and little by little reveal Jesus Christ So now I'm getting to the where the rubber meets the road here, where we have you're to go to the unexpected, you're to to realize that You have to explain Jesus and you can't Shanghai people. And now it feels like I'm meddling. But this is what we asked for. We asked for the Word of God to teach us what to What does it mean to be a witness in church? You can see all of the different things that could come out of this foundation. And I have only mentioned a few. What I want us to do now is I want us to go back to the foundation in the Lord's Supper. And I want us to see the right that Jesus Christ has claimed as we ponder how we're going to move out into Witna.