Please pray with me. Almighty God, your word is wondrous to us In your infinite wisdom, you have preserved it for us, that we would be able to grow from it. And so we beg you now that you would use this your word You would use it by your Holy Spirit to transform us, to make us new, make us different, Lord, change us in a way that pleases you. And Lord, I pray, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I don't know if you have realized, but I am a man, I just am a nerd for history. I just love it. I love history. And as I was thinking about this passage, there was a figure from history that would not stop thrusting himself into my mind. I don't know if you guys are familiar with him. His name is Patrick Hamilton. Anybody here ever heard of Patrick Hamilton? He has a distinction. He was the first Scottish martyr of the Reformation. The first. Scottish martyr of the Protestant Reformation. He was born to a noble family. He was a gifted scholar, and he was, by all accounts, a very pious young man. And early in his life and his teens, he was exposed to the chief teachings of John Wycliffe. I bet you've heard that name, right? John Wycliffe He was a very famous reformer. In fact, he was before the Reformation. They call him the morning star of the Reformation because even a hundred years before Luther Wycliffe was teaching some of those key doctrines that came out of the Protestant Reformation. Wickless students were known as the Lollards. And if you haven't heard much about the Lollards, I'm happy to talk with you about them. It's a very fascinating movement in church history. But they were the students of Wycliffe, and for a hundred years after Wycliffe's death, they were spreading These pre-Reformation doctrines, doctrines that we would agree with, things like the supremacy of God's word or the sovereignty of God in saving sinners through Jesus Christ alone. The idea that there is no work that one can perform to earn the salvation of God. These are doctrines that Wycliffe made popular through his students, the Lollards, and these doctrines came to Patrick Hamilton. Patrick and these other students, they were persecuted in Scotland and they fled. Patrick Hamilton himself went to Germany and he even studied Lutheran theology for a time. He could have stayed there. And if you know anything about Germany, it was a pretty troublesome place. But if you were a Protestant, there were places you could find in Germany where you could be safe. And so he could have stayed there. He could have been safe. He could have kept studying. But do you know what Patrick Hamilton did? He did not stay in Germany. He returned to Scotland. He loved Scotland and he loved his family there. And there were people in Scotland that he knew needed what was the most important thing in all the universe. They needed to know Jesus Christ. And to receive the true grace of God through him. And so he returned to Scotland. He returned to his fatherland in 1527, and he began to preach the true gospel. He taught whomever would listen to him, nobles, peasants, even Roman priests. That was in 1527, and less than a year later, in 1528. He was executed, burned at the stake as a heretic by the Roman Catholic authorities. Well, I would ask you Does Patrick Hamilton's life sound like a life of victory to you? If you were to ask Patrick Hamilton today, was his life a victorious life, do you know what he would say? He would say absolutely yes. And this is why Mark has included this particular account for us. As I've been saying all along, Mark's gospel is kind of like a photo album. There's these snapshots, these photographs. Of Jesus' life and ministry, proving to us that He is the Christ, that He is the Son of the living God. And so the Holy Spirit has had mark Include these photos for us. And several weeks ago we were looking at verses 7 through 13 in which Mark recounts for us Jesus is sending out the twelve apostles, those disciples that he set apart to himself back in chapter 3. They were called and empowered by God to participate in Jesus' heavenly mission. And though it is somewhat different, it's this same mission that you and I are called to as Christians. The mission of spreading the good news of Jesus Christ. Mark includes this account of John the baptizer to show us something that is of utmost importance for us. as we live for Jesus. Because in our passage tonight, we learn that those following Christ in his mission are victorious, no matter how it may appear. Brothers and sisters, if you are following Christ in his mission, you will be victorious, no matter what it may seem like, even if to you it seems like failure And so we're going to look at this in two sections tonight. We'll first look at verses 14 to 16, in which we see the victory of the mission. And then in verses 17 to 29, we look at this parenthetical account that Mark gives us that tells us all about John the Baptist. And we'll look at this section, which is the appearance of failure. And so let's look together at this first section, the victory of the mission, starting in verse 14. And the first place that we see that victory is right there at the beginning. Jesus' name had become well known. Do you see that there in your scriptures? The six groups of two apostles each had gone out in obedience to Christ's ascending, and they had done what he told them to do If you look, just look up one verse right up there to verses twelve and thirteen. They went out, they preached that people should repent. They cast out demons, they anointed with oil, they healed many sick. They did the ministry of Jesus. No, it's interesting, fascinating to me that this was Jesus' name that had become well known. Not the names of the apostles themselves. I couldn't help but imagine that Herod might have been in his palace. And some of his servants would come and say, Hey, we're getting reports of some pretty amazing things going on in Galilee. And he might have asked them, Hey, um, okay, who are these men doing these things? Nobody knows their names We only know the name of the one in whom they claim to minister. It's Jesus of Nazareth. Herod recognized these amazing reports, and he recognized, if you look there at the rest of verse fourteen But these are reports had something to do with the Almighty God, the God whom John the Baptist had served. Do you notice that Herod explains this as resurrection power? Do you see that there? That is, it is John who is risen from the dead. And because John had been risen from the dead Herod thought that gave him this extra power that was making these things. Because if you remember, John's ministry was a very, well, it'd say. materialist ministry. He was baptizing with water in the Jordan River. He wasn't healing people. He wasn't casting out demons. There were other explanations for the power of these reports, there in verse fifteen, but all of it was clear God Almighty was doing something special, like he did through Elijah, like he had done in the history of Israel through the prophets. In verse 16, Herod's experience with John had made such an impact on him that he could not escape the terrifying thought. That this man, this man that he admits beheading, was back. And he was even more powerful than he had been before, working for the Almighty God. Although Jesus told the apostles that some would receive them and others would not, it is clear, isn't it, that there was victory in their mission. Their ministry in Jesus' name had exalted that name before the people, even before Herod, who thought himself the most powerful man in all of Galilee. But I ask you, can we consider John's ministry a victory? Let's look at what Mark records for us in the rest of this passage to see an answer to that. This account of the end of John's life, we have to admit, it has the appearance of failure, doesn't it? It looks like John failed. Well, first we need to understand some background information in order to fully grasp what's going on here. This Herod, you mind stopping that, Judah? Thanks, buddy. That's you. Yeah. This Herod is Herod Antipas This is a son of Herod the Great. Are you guys familiar with Herod the Great? Boy, he really thought something of himself. He thought he was so great that he added to the temple of the Almighty God. He took what was the Temple Mount and he expanded it to be this monstrous and quote-unquote marvelous sight. If you go back, if if you look online and find some pictures, you'll see the temple, the second temple that was built by those who were restored from captivity. Not that large, not that magnificent. But then Herod expanded it all, even added a fortress to it. Well, Herod the Great You think he was really that great? This is the one who commanded all of those male babies under the age of two to be slaughtered because he was so afraid of the prophecies about the Messiah. Herod the not so great, maybe. When he died, the Roman powers gave his lands and his authority to his three sons and his sister. And Herod Antipas was one of those four. He's known as a Tetrarch. He's one of the four rulers. And his area was that area over Galilee. We come back to Herod when Jesus is being put on trial later in Mark. Well, back to our passage. Verses 17 through 20. If you take a look there, look at what it says. For Herod himself had sent and laid hold of John and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias. His brother Philip's wife, for he had married her. Now it's interesting there that he doesn't say his wife. He says his brother Philip's wife. And this is probably the crux of the issue here. John knew that Herod Antiphus was in this unholy, sinful relationship. He had stolen his brother's wife Now it it would have been okay to marry his brother's wife if his brother had died. Right? If we went to Leviticus, we could see that that's the leverage marriage. But his brother hadn't died. His brother was exiled because he wasn't doing what the Romans wanted him to do. And it's if you look and and trust what Josephus the historian had said This relationship with Herodias had begun even before that point. So there was a lot of sin involved in this relationship. that Herod had tried to legitimize by taking as his wife this woman Herodias. Now I could get into a lot more details about Herodias, but I won't, because we've got a limited amount of time. We can talk about that at dinner if you'd like. But God sent John. And John had a mission. And that mission was to be the forerunner for the Messiah. And we know that John came, he was lowly, he was humble, he wore camel's hair, he ate locusts and honey, he lived in the desert, and he was an extreme ascetic. And yet he had something even more extreme than his asceticism. He had courage, an extreme courage from the Spirit of God, to confront this man Herod with his sin. And that made Herodias mad. Oh. She got angry at John. And we're told here then that Herod, in order to protect John from Herodias. He had him imprisoned. Herod would not repent. He would not end the sinful relationship that John called out. But He thought he might do something good and protect John from his wife. Mark tells us that Herod recognized John was a just and a holy man, even telling us that he would listen to John's preaching and that he did that gladly. It says he did many things. Some other translations say he was greatly perplexed. It's a kind of a strange sentence here in the Greek, but what it really boils down to is that Something in Herod was intrigued by what John said. John's mission, John's ministry, tugged at Herod's conscience. It was working on his conscience, so much so that when he hears of the amazing ministry of Christ, his conscience explodes. And he feels guilty for what he had done. This is the man I had beheaded. And he's been given more power and brought back from the dead. Maybe you could even add there: to torture me. Reminiscent of Shakespeare, isn't it? Of a ghost working on someone's conscience. I wonder where Shakespeare got all those wonderful notions and ideas, huh? But Herod ignores his conscience. Or from one perspective, it would appear as if John failed. Right? Perhaps it looks like John failed to convince and persuade Herod to repent and change his ways. Herod definitely did not change. If we continue on here, we see that Herod throws a magnificent party for himself, for his birthday. And he invites all of his friends, the bigwigs of Galilee, the socially powerful and the elite. I just got to point out, this is not a kid-friendly birthday party. If you notice in verse 24, it's not even a female-friendly birthday party. His own wife, Herodias, is not even there. As part of the celebration. This is every bit as wicked, every bit as perverse and lecherous and debaucherous as any frat party you'd see on a Hollywood movie. Or a bachelor party you might see in some some of those films that I I hope you don't see, because I hope you don't watch them. Don't watch those movies. It tells us that Herodias' daughter. Now, this wasn't a relative of Herod. This is actually a daughter of even a previous marriage to Herod's brother. But she comes in and she it says that she dances for him and for his for his friends, for his his pals. Don't be mistaken. She wasn't dancing the Macarena. Right? This wasn't that did that a date myself? Yeah sure. What is uh the electric slide? No? It wasn't it wasn't the chicken dance, I can guarantee that. Historically, it's known as the Dance of the Seven Bales. It was a very, very lustful dance, and it inflamed Herod's lust. It inflamed him. And not only had he ignored his conscience, but by ignoring his conscience, he was led into deeper, darker sins. He carelessly makes an oath. Look at verse 23. He makes an oath. He swears. And he does this carelessly. And Heredius takes advantage of this. He promised to give something he could never pay. He promised to give up to half of his kingdom. Well, if you know historically, he didn't have any kingdom. He was not actually a king. He had petitioned Caesar Augustus to be called king. Caesar Augustus said, nope. But he calls himself king. And I wonder if God had Mark call himself call refer to Herod as king here in almost a a mocking way. He's not the king. He didn't have a kingdom to give half of to this person, but he was so inflamed by his lust and by his sin that he offered it anyway. And what is sh what does Herodias do here? She seizes the opportunity. The opportunity to get what she had wanted. And she has her daughter ask him for one thing, the one thing that Herod, maybe he hadn't thought someone would ask for, and that was the head of John the Baptist. Look at verse 26. You see there? And the king was exceedingly sorry. Yet because of the oath. And because of those who sat with him, he did not want to refuse her. He ignores his conscience again. He was exceedingly sorry. But to save face, he couldn't admit that he didn't want to do this in front of these people that he had invited. So what does he do? He has John murdered. And notice, it's not a public execution. As though someone who was a criminal, who was being justly executed by a righteous authority. No, this was done in private, in prison. And even after all that, there's further humiliation to John, his head's brought in on a platter. As though he were one of those animals slaughtered for their feast. Herodias finally got what she wanted. And Herod's last attempt to ease his conscience is implied. It's implied here. Because look at what he does. Look at the very last thing he does. He allows the disciples of John to come, take his corpse, take his body, and treat it with the reverence and respect, the honor befitting a servant of God. Does that look like victory to you? Do you think anyone in Herod's magnificent palace, attending that party, turned to their neighbor and said Can you believe John 1? It's not likely. Maybe they would have done that if Herod had right then and there declared that he would divorce Herodias so that she could return. to his brother, to her her true husband. But that didn't happen. So how can we see this as a victory? Well, brothers and sisters, John was following God. He was following God's way, following his commands. He was following God's mission, the very same mission that the Father had given to his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. It doesn't matter what it looks like. John's death was a victory because it prepared Herod's conscience. To recognize the power of God in the ministry of Jesus Christ. John accomplished his mission. He foretold the coming of the Messiah, right? He made that straight path in the wilderness. Even though he was executed shamefully, he did not fail. And from this passage, I want to leave us with just two applications for us. One application is a warning, and that's a warning from Herod's life, and from what we see here, and then an encouragement. From the details in the account concerning Herod Antipas, we have a warning. And that warning, maybe you've heard me say it already. Brothers and sisters, do not ignore your conscience. Your conscience is a gift from God. Even to unbelievers, God has given them the gift of a conscience. It informs us when we are on the path to destruction. Those who sin willfully are plagued by their conscience, even those who don't believe in a God. They are always wondering, always trying to flee from the effects of the terrible things they've done or the terrible things they've thought. They know that their desires are unholy. But like Herod, all of us are good at ignoring our conscience. Herod told himself he was doing something good. Did you notice that? He put John in prison to protect him, right? That's a good thing. He wasn't going to let him be killed If you know anything about the history of this time, prison was not fun. It was torturous. It was uncomfortable. We don't know how long John was imprisoned. But any amount of time being forced in those kind of conditions to live in your own filth, boy, that was just awful for John. Could Herod really let himself off the hook, ease his conscience? Oh yeah, I I put him in prison, so at least he's not dead. That doesn't make sense. And then we find out that he did something else that was even more humiliating than just being in prison. He would bring John out of prison every now and again? Do you think he gave him a bath so he wouldn't offend the court? And he had John come, preach, preach, John, like some kind of court jester. A prophet of God being used for entertainment. Oh, but Herod listened to God, right? He heard him gladly. Honestly, it seems more like Herod was trying to get something from John. You know, back then the being called John the Baptist It wouldn't have made people think that John was somebody who performed a religious ritual called baptism. Being the Baptist to them at that time would have been more like being called John the cleanser or John the Purifier. And so we can see how Herod kept John around hoping that somehow, some way, the cleanser would cleanse him, cleanse the evil effects of his sin and his evil life. He was using John. And yet he might have made himself feel in his conscience, trying to ease his conscience that he was doing something good. May we, you and I, be so aware of ourselves and our sin that we don't do what Herod did. We don't ignore our conscience and let ourselves feel Like we're doing something good, even our sense of having done evil. If you sin against someone, don't let yourself think that you're making up for it by doing something nice for them. Does that make sense? Of course it's a good thing to do nice things for people you love, but brothers, you You can't buy a bouquet of flowers for your wife and think that makes up for raging at her. You can't break your brother's toy in anger and think you've made up for it by giving him first dibs on the Xbox. You can't soothe your own conscience with these half measures. As Herod tried to do it, we have to deal with our sin. And how are we told to deal with our sin? To confess it. Who is it that we've sinned against primarily? God. So we must confess it to Him, but we've also sinned against another. And so we must confess our sin to each other. And we must, as the Bible says, after confession comes what? Repentance. Repenting means to literally turn away. Don't keep doing that sin like Herod did He kept John imprisoned. He kept John humiliated. He ended up murdering John. He could not deal with his sin. He did not turn away from his sin. And so if you are plagued by a guilty conscience, you must confess your sin. You must seek forgiveness from the one against whom you sinned, from God and your neighbor. Don't be like Herod ignoring the problem by telling yourself that you've done enough. Do not ignore your conscience For God is using it to prepare you, using it to move you in the direction of acting as you should. It is always profitable to fight against sin, to heed the Lord's prompting of your conscience. And this, brothers and sisters, is the encouragement. It's the strength. That we need and that we see in this passage the strength which can be yours through Christ Jesus. Follow Jesus. Follow his mission. Strive after him. The apostles, in Christ's name, they ministered, and so Christ Himself was exalted. Whether they realized it or not, could you imagine? Remember, he said, there's going to be people who receive you and those who reject you, and when they do, shake the dust off the bottom of your feet. Maybe in one of those shaking moments You think they might have done like we do and said, I failed. I failed this town. I failed this person. And yet, through their ministry, their faithful following of the mission, Christ was exalted. John. John was faithful to his God, wasn't he? Faithful to his mission Willing to confront sin, even sin which others didn't think was that big of a deal. Obviously, people didn't care very much that Herod had taken his brother's wife. And yet he was willing to call it out for what it was. It was sin. John persevered in the truth. He didn't change his tune, like so many times we are tempted to do When someone we love is telling us, how can you how can you be loving me if you reject me and my lifestyle And John did not change his tune. He could have easily done that, couldn't he? Couldn't he have come out and said, You know, I thought about it, Herod? And Herodias left. I've had plenty of years in my own filth to really meditate on this. Love is love. How can I stand in the way of you loving the person you want to love? That's not what John did, was it? Herod and Herodias, if he had done that, they may have been touched, they may have freed him, or maybe even better yet, they would have hired him as their personal chaplain. Boy, that would have seemed like victory, huh? Nice stipend? Luxurious lifestyle But no. John persevered in the truth. He kept telling them about their sin. He did not change. Because of the opinions of men. And though John died in what seems to be an embarrassing and shameful death, do you pick up on how honored he is? He's included in one of these. This is one of the longest accounts. One of the longest, largest, most detailed snapshots Mark gives us. And it's all about him. And John, did you notice this? This account of John happens right after Mark has told us In verses 7 through 13, that the Almighty God will be working his saving power through ordinary men. Right after that, he gives us this account of John's execution. And so for you and I, brothers and sisters, we must learn that God will work through our faithfulness. He will work through your faithfulness and through your obedience. No matter who the people you hang around with, no matter what they may try to tell you, do not stop holding true to God's word. Do not be afraid to call out sin when you see it. Of course, we must be loving as we do this, but don't be afraid of it. For even if those friends that you make reject you wholly Think of it this way. Even go, it may seem like they are going to cut your head off and put it on a plate. And you won't be cool, and you won't be part of the group or part of the crew. You won't be invited to the parties, and you won't be invited to the happenings or whatever. Even though That may happen. Stay true to your God. Follow his mission. He can work through you. As he's worked through other ordinary men. So don't give up. Don't be tempted to change your beliefs so that people will accept you. Don't be tempted to compromise and call what God calls sin something good God bless you. Lastly, never stop fighting to follow Christ in his mission. Keep going until you have nothing left to give. Don't be burdened. By Satan, because you know what the enemy is trying to do to you. He's trying to convince you that you can't be used by God because of all your heinous sins from your past, maybe from your present. Keep going. Keep going to the bitter end until you have nothing left to give. Keep going. The victory is not through you. The victory of Christ will not be based on the perfect words you've said to someone in counseling. The victory of Christ, that is the victory of God. It is through Jesus and through his power. He who saves you. God knows that you can't save yourself, and so He knows you can't save anyone else. So never give up. Even those who tell you to stop. Beating them over the head with Christ. Never stop. Even though they may seem to reject you, you know they're not rejecting you, they are rejecting Christ. By God's matchless grace and his infinite mercy that you have experienced, that he has shown to you. He will use you for his glory. No matter what it might seem like, no matter how hopeless a failure you may think yourself to be, or even appear to be. If you are following Christ and serving his mission, he will work even through your failure for his victory. Patrick Hamilton preached in Scotland for less than one year before he was executed. Do you know how old Patrick Hamilton was? He was 24 years old. He had less than one year of service. And yet, after his death, the Reformation took off like wildfire in Scotland so much so. That a very well-known archbishop in the Roman Papist religion said something that was very amazing. He said That everywhere in Scotland the smoke of Patrick's body touched. And everywhere that that smoke touched. The gospel caught a flame. He didn't call it the gospel, did he? He called it a heresy. And yet, through the death of this young man Scotland became one of the most reformed countries. And I won't go into the history of how far they've fallen now. But God can use you, even you, even though it may appear like a failure. Strive after him, follow the mission. May our great and gracious Lord give us all the strength to follow him in his mission, never stopping our fight against sin and knowing That he will work all things together for good for those who love him and are called according to his purpose. Please pray with me