But if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would bless your word read and your word preached. I pray, Lord, that you would make yourself known to your people. And that they would long to be like you, especially in your mercy. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Has anyone here have any experience or has whether hiring or maybe you had this as an occupation for a while, but uh of a boat surveyor? Anyone familiar with boat surveyors? They are usually hired by folks who are getting ready to buy a yacht. Anyone? Anyone? Yeah Actually, they're hired for all kinds of reasons, but a boat surveyor is someone that is hired to survey a boat that you might be thinking about buying. And their job is to tell you if it's worth the price that you're going to pay. Now, why do you think you would need to have people like that in the world? The reason is that with boats you can make them look shiny on the outside. You can wax and polish them and they can look beautiful. They can They can look like your dream has finally come true and you only need to pay a couple thousand dollars to have it come true. But then when the boat surveyor comes around, they have something called a moisture meter And they have a tapping test. And a lot of the times they end up telling you, though it looks good on the outside, the inside is full of rot. And it is about to fall apart. Well, I tell you that story because what we have here in front of us and what we've had for us here be for some time with the Sermon on the Mount is that Jesus Christ is a kind of boat surveyor Or a kind of surveyor like that, and he does not want his people to only be a certain way on the outside, but be full of rot on the inside. He doesn't want you to be counterfeit. He wants you to be the real thing. He doesn't want you to just be a facade or to just have a persona. Or for you, really, the word that we see throughout this whole section is Jesus doesn't want his followers to be hypocrites. Where they say and present themselves as one thing, but if you tapped for a moment Or if you were had a certain kind of meter, you'd see that they're soggy and dead inside. And so we've been going through these different teachings where Jesus has been proclaiming what his disciples are supposed to look like. And it's not hypocrites. We've seen all different kinds of teachings, and the latest has been with the Lord's Prayer. What we have been summarizing the Lord's Prayer with is just saying Jesus brings out in the Lord's Prayer that if you have a prayer problem, then you have a relationship problem. He started the whole thing out by teaching you to pray, Our Father. And it went on from there. All of it was about our relationship with him, helping us to understand who he is, that his kingdom is worth it. That it is his kingdom that should be coming to earth as it is in heaven, and not yours. And we can see also in this prayer what we're like. The kind of struggles that we have. Uh we need our daily bread from our Heavenly Father. We deal with temptations all the time and we need to be delivered from them. And we need to remember that it's That it's his kingdom and it's his glory. Those are different things that we learn about ourselves in the prayer. And you put those two things together, and you see that a prayer problem ends up being a relationship problem. And so as we grow as disciples in prayer, we grow in our relationship with our heaven. Now, did you notice that I jumped over one of the petitions in the Lord's Prayer in that summary? I said, we need our daily bread. We need to be delivered from temptation. I jumped over one. In verse number 12, which is that we need to be forgiven our trespasses as we forgive others. Well, I did that on purpose because today verse 12 is being expounded and commented upon in our passage. in 14 and 15. Matthew has recorded and the Holy Spirit has determined that you thought you were done with verse 12. But we, based on who we are and who God is and what he's accomplishing in his kingdom, we need to still focus on it for a little while longer. And so that's what we're doing. We're looking at Matthew 6, 14, and following for today's verses 14 through 16, 15, 14, and 15. And I'd like to do so by just first looking at a misunderstanding that we sometimes people teach this verse the wrong way. Sometimes we can take it the wrong way, so I'd like to look at a misunderstanding. And then I would just like to look at a a few steps that we would want to take in order to be able to have a right understanding. So misunderstanding, right understanding. That's really all we're looking at here today. So let's start with the misunderstanding. Now I bet you, if I needed to, If uh I collapsed, my back went out and I couldn't get off the floor, and I just said, don't mind me, someone come up here and teach, and I'll just stay here. I bet you one of you could could point out what the problem is that we struggle with with these verses. If you look at them again, just read them. For if you forgive men their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. It's the conditional nature of it that gives us a real struggle. It makes it sound like in the big picture of things that the only way that we're ever going to be able to be reconciled with God is if we're able to meet this condition that we have to If you want to be able to receive this particular reward of a good relationship with your Heavenly Father, if you want to be justified, well, there's something that you need to be able to check off of the list, and it's this that you would forgive them as he has forgiven you. And the thing that's difficult about that is that it denies everything else that we believe. It takes away from us the idea that salvation is by grace through faith. And that's where that struggles because we want to honor the plain reading of what's going on here. But at the same time, we want to honor the plain reading of a hundred or a thousand other verses. For example, let me just give you a couple other verses that bump against this one, seemingly. For example, take Ephesians 2, 8 through 9. Boy, has this been a bomb and medicine for our hearts to understand That God does not treat us like we treat Him. It says, For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, it's not of works. Lest anyone should boast. Now, just with that one verse, if we read this as a condition in our passage today, I'd be able to boast that I forgave, and therefore God forgave me. I would have something to hold up that was my own, that I had earned. And according to Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, God sets up this whole idea of redemption to where you have nothing to boast of Only thing that we can boast of is his grace to us. A second verse, just to keep in mind, is this one. It says, But God demonstrates his own love towards us, and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Nothing there of conditionality. Another one, Romans 5, 8 through 10. For if when we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, much more having been reconciled we shall be saved by His life. You were reconciled to God while an enemy. And boy, does that bump up against the idea of like taking this and thinking that it's just meant to say If you want to be good with God and be justified by Him in the ultimate sense, then what you really just need to do is forgive people and then everything is good to go. All of those verses bump up against that reading, so I don't think that's the reading. I think that's a that could be a misunderstanding of our relationship to God. Let me put it this way, and I'll put it in in kind of a nutshell. I don't think here in this prayer, Jesus is talking or primarily concerned, though everything is connected. I don't think he's primarily concerned with your ultimate justification before God. I don't think that's what's happening here. I think he's already talking to those who are disciples, and he has other purposes for saying something like this. He's not trying to get you to question your salvation. He's not trying to get you to think, well, maybe God isn't as gracious as I thought he was. I guess I do have to add to these kinds of things in order for him to accept me. Maybe I do need to add to the work of Jesus Christ. He's not saying that. He's not even on that topic. I'll just point out, as one last thing to say here, is that your experience? Is that your experience? Is it your experience that God would only have something to do with you if you forgave people like He forgives them? In the ultimate sense. Is that how you entered into His kingdom? You, out of the might and the good of your compassion, someone sinned against you, and then you forgave them like God forgives people, and then all of a sudden there was a light from the sky saying, You've done it. You may now enter in and be justified. That's not the picture that we have here. That's a misunderstanding. Now, what is the picture? Let me let's just unfold this in a couple different steps. Number one, this is not a picture of ultimate justification. That's not the primary concern here. The primary concern here is your daily relationship with God. your daily relationship with God. This isn't so much focused on your justification to put it in theological terms. We're talking about your sanctification. And he has a focus here with his disciples and focusing on the daily relationship that he has with his disciples and that his disciples have have with the Father. Let me put it this way. Take a look at verse number 12 again from the prayer. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Do you notice what the first word is? And. So that tells us that there was something that came before this. And it's give us this day our daily bread. You see, what's going on here is this is a prayer that you don't just say once. This is a model that you don't just say once in your life and then it's over. This is something you're supposed to be repeating. Not uh um the exact words, but the spirit of this. These kinds of things are supposed to be the daily experiences of Christians and that daily experience at least caught here is you should be going to your Father knowing that you're dependent upon him. And number two, that although you have been saved once for all by the precious blood of Jesus Christ, There is a daily relationship that you have with the Father where you would continually ask for forgiveness if you sin against him. And that's the point. The point here is that verse 12 has an end in the beginning, and it's continuing the daily necessity of how we want to relate to him. Prayer for forgiveness is meant to be daily. This is the first thing I need you to observe to understand what's going on here. There is a forgiveness that is once for all. We call that justification. You know, there could be an analogy here. Whenever we have uh whenever I have done a wedding, one of the things that the state requires is that I have to sign a set of papers that are then sent off to where the the couple would have a marriage license. And I don't sign the papers until I hear them both say I do. And they both stick around after they say that. After we're done the ceremony, usually we'll walk right back into the office or we'll find a side room at the reception and we'll sign the papers. And I have said to people before, because sometimes it just blows my mind because I've seen them grow up since they were little, one minute you weren't married, and the next minute, there you are, you're married. You're in a totally different state. A totally different state, really, of your whole life happen just within those seconds. And that could be similar, that's an analogy to how when we enter by way of Christ justifying us, we move into a different state with God. We went from enemies to those who are at peace with him, those who weren't reconciled to those who were reconciled. That's one way to talk about how we relate to God as a once-for-all act that He has made with regard to us. But you know he lives with us daily after the act. Can you imagine going back to the analogy that let's just say I took you let's just imagine that I just married you And we go back to my office and we sign those papers to show that you're in a different state, a different uh state And you as the husband or as the wife, you look at the other and you say, you know what, no matter what you do, in all of your life, I forgive you. And now we don't ever need to ask for forgiveness again. So don't bring it up. Do you have any idea how well that would go? Those of you who are have been married for a little while, can I please get an amen? Yeah. And that's what we're talking about here this morning. We're talking about that daily relationship, not just focused on that once for all. We're focused on what does it look like to walk daily with God. And since we are in relationship with God, our everyday experience should be when we sin against our Heavenly Father We would say something to him about it. We would confess it and we would ask for forgiveness. And do you know what that ends up doing for us? Because he's always looking to benefit us. You know what that does? Every single day you will need to remember the ple precious blood of Jesus Christ Every day, every day by the Holy Spirit, you get to apply His work to your life and remember that's why you are free. That's why you have liberty. That's why you are forgiven. It's not something you just said 12 years ago that you have to keep drumming up to remember. It's something you remember every day. How you're able to be forgiven. And that it was Jesus Christ that made this possible. So that really escalates it, doesn't it? Can you imagine That you don't can you imagine a life maybe you can because I I can imagine this sometimes too because I get in these ruts. Imagine a life where you don't ever remember that Now you said that you were sorry back in the day at BBS. I don't need to bring it up again. But imagine the difference it would make if you did bring it up every every day. And you didn't stay there, you didn't stay there in your sin. You remembered, my Father forgives me through Jesus Christ. Even this one. Jesus Christ's blood even covers this one. And now we get to live humbly before our God. We get to experience His grace and His mercy and His compassion every single day, and we get to see how Jesus Christ is at the center of it all. This is the first step. And if we can have that first step, you can begin to see the thing that starts to change within the human's heart. That if they're constantly being fed compassion and mercy, How the Holy Spirit will use that to where they will become merciful. And you already start to see the connection here. Whereas you are forgiven, so too do you forgive. From that verse number 12. Now that's that first part. That's the I wanted you to see that connection where we see this is the daily, we're not talking about in the ultimate justification once for all sense here. Jesus is focused on daily things like our daily bread and daily forgiveness and daily temptations. That's what he's focused on. Now let me continue and say this as the second point. That's the first point. This is a daily thing Second is that now when we come to him in prayer for forgiveness every day, if we come to him in prayer, but we ourselves don't forgive others, then those prayers are hindered. That's also what's going on here. I'm just I'm gonna take another step after this to help you help us understand that But if you proceed to be forgiven like that, but then you don't offer forgiveness, your prayers are hindered. Even the prayer of asking for forgiveness. God as our Father, what is behind this is that God as our Father uses this. I think the main purpose, by the way, of this whole passage in the fourteen and fifteen is Jesus point pointing out that God has invested in us and He is willing to correct us. He's willing to give us warnings so that we don't stray down a certain path and end up with a terrible heart. Misrepresenting who he is. God as our Father corrects us. If you notice in verse 14 and 15, just take a look at our verses again. Notice the continuity. It says, for if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. Do you notice that either way we're dealing with a father? He's the Father all the way through it. So how is it that he would set up these kind of conditions in this daily sense? Well, he would do it because he's a good father who corrects us. He doesn't just pretend nothing happened. If you notice in other scriptures, God does correct. It says in Hebrews 12, 5 through 6, and have you forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as to sons? My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord. Nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him, for the Lord loves those whom he chastens, and he scourges every son that he receives It says in Revelation 3, verse 19, As many as I love, I rebuke and I chasten, therefore be zealous and repent. And now here's the question for you. Does he accomplish this kind of correction and rebuke in prayer? The answer is yes. Listen to this from James 4. 3. You ask, meaning you pray. And you don't receive an answer to your prayers. Why? Because you ask amiss that you may spend it only on your own pleasures. Already right there, there's a correction happening in our prayer life. It goes on in 1 Peter 3:7. Here's another one. Husband, likewise, dw dwell with your wives with understanding, giving honor to your wife as to the weaker vessel vessel, and as being heirs together of the grace of life. Why? What's a motivation? That your prayers would not be hindered. That's what it says. First Peter 3 7. This goes all the way back even into Isaiah, chapter 1, verse 15, and it's actually in many places in Isaiah it says When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Even though you make many prayers, I will not hear. Why? Because your hands are full of blood. And it then goes on in that passage to talk about the terrible way that they have been treating each other. In this domain of prayer, whether it's a prayer of thanksgiving or it's a prayer asking for forgiveness. God can correct us and say, no, no, no, no, no. Our relationship is not okay, even though you're asking more for forgiveness You want to know why? Because I have forgiven you through Jesus Christ all these things, and look at how you have put your hands around the necks of people that owe you debts. Now does that mean you're not justified? No. What it means not necessarily. What it means though is that he's not willing for you to stay there and just pretend that it's okay. Something needs to happen here. Do you not realize what I have done for you? And then you're going to turn around and not be forgiving to others? Now that should cause you to skip a little heartbeat, to take a step back, and to say, Lord, you're right. It also could have you take a step back and for you to realize, you know what, if I am being very unforgiving towards other people, I wonder if I just don't really understand how much I've been forgiven. And maybe I don't understand how much I've been forgiven because I asked for forgiveness when I was twelve and I haven't done so since. So I have no regular experience of the compassion of God. In fact, I just resent him That would be a normal human thought too. So you can see all of these various spiritual conditions that Jesus is addressing just by these two verses. God will choose to correct us and rebuke us, and he doesn't pretend That everything is okay, and that there is a daily forgiveness and reconciliation when you yourself having been forgiven, when you don't forgive others. He'll strike your conscience. He'll correct you through his word. He'll rebuke you through circumstances and the words of other people to get you to realize what's happening. Now I want to go on and I want to say that not only are we receiving some explanation by realizing Hey, if we really want to understand these verses, we're not talking about the ultimate sense necessarily. We're just talking about the daily way in which we're supposed to relate to God and to each other. And as our Father, He offers us correction even in our prayer lives to make sure that we don't To make sure that we're not miserly in our forgiveness, to where we can keep checking our hearts, to make sure that we understand the compassion we've received and the compassion that we are called to give. Now there's one other thing that I think is going on here too. And that is God doesn't want you to be a hypocrite. How is it that you would be a hypocrite in this particular situation? Well, it would be this. You would be a hypocrite in this situation if you call yourself a child of the forgiving God. Who has made himself known in history as loving, full of compassion, faithful, and merciful, you call yourself his child, but you demonstrate no forgiveness yourself. Remember that we're not talking about DNA primarily here. We're talking about the principle of like father, like son. Like mother, like daughter, the way in which God makes himself known is to be seen within his children. A family resemblance I told you a s a story about, unfortunately, and this has been one of the ways that God has sanctified me, is I have a a family resemblance to my grandfather in that we both have big ears. So we could never become too proud of our looks. It really helps us to remain humble. I told you the story that my mother tried to pin my ears back, maybe the cartilage would grow in a certain way and So that's a family resemblance. Here the family resemblance doesn't have to do with ears. The family resemblance would be they would know that you're a child of the living God because of your mercy. They'd say things like, you know what, you remind me of somebody. You remind me of Yahweh because of your mercy. So the ultimate act of hypocrisy then is I would claim to be a child of God, but then not be a forgiving person. It would be to say one thing with my words and to have a very different thing as a part of my life. That is what hypocrisy is. And Jesus does not want us to be hypocrites. The great act of hypocrisy would be to call ourselves, not even just as individuals, but as a group of people. The great act of hypocrisy would be to call ourselves the people of God, who are meant to give witness of who God is, but we fail to show who he is in his mercy and in his compassion even towards each other by giving each other forgiveness. That would be an individual and a corporate hypocrisy. Let us not forget that we are building in chapter 6 on Matthew chapter 5. Especially in Matthew 5, verse 16. And it says this: Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. So what is the light meant to be? What are the good works meant to be? And how would that glorify our Father in heaven? Well, at the very least, our good works and our light is meant to be mercy. It's meant to be compassion. Ultimately, what Jesus is saying here is it's meant to be forgiveness. That we would show the world, the gospel, really. That God is a forgiving God, that He's ready to forgive. That is what we would display as his people and as the world would see us in our mercy and our compassion and we would tell them, well You know, the only reason why we're like this is because we have the Holy Spirit and really we're just if there's any way in which we're showing you mercy or compassion by way of our forgiveness, we're really just showing you our God. This is what our God is like. And they would say, well then praise be to God that he's that merciful. That is what was seen in Jesus Christ. You see the mercy of God in Jesus, especially. And we and the world is meant to see the mercy of God in us. And so you can see that Jesus has an invested interest in making sure that we're not hypocrites, where we would say one thing, uh we're the church. But then no compassion, no mercy, no forgiveness for each other, just backstabbing and brittle arguments And tell me that's not what the New Testament is full of. Paul working with congregations to make sure that they actually are forgiving each other as Christ forgave, as God forgave them in Christ. It's in all of the New Testament writings. What we end up seeing here in summary is uh we want to step away from that misunderstanding, and we can do so by realizing this prayer here is not just a once-for-all act of justification focus, it's more of a daily thing. We can clarify, therefore, that fully by his grace God has forgiven us. And yet if we claim to be forgiven but don't forgive, then something is deeply wrong in our relationship with him And he's willing to correct you for it. God, in other words, is the boat surveyor. And by his spirit, he taps And he sees, and here, with that kind of sight, he writes down that we must be very concerned. If we are not forgiving people, something is deeply wrong in our relationship with God. And it needs to change. Let me just ask you, do you know don't let this slide off of you, please. Over on the side, there's like a little bank of snow that's now covered with ice and all the little kids, I don't know if you're here today, kids, you were sliding down it like it was a giant snow hill. You were using your imagination. What I'm getting ready to say, please don't let these words just slide off of you like that. Do you know how much you have been forgiven? Do you know how much compassion God has on you? How much patience and kindness and mercy? You know those things that you don't want anybody to know about? But you've brought them to the Father and He's forgiven you for those things. He doesn't bring them up with you. God has forgiven you, Christian. All of those things. The things that sometimes even you forget, and then you'll remember, and you can't believe Then you realize you're forgiven of that too. The question here is, or the statement that we could make is, you know, I th I think there's a connection here that Jesus gives us in his wisdom is that In order to answer that question, do you know how much you've been forgiven? Try to evaluate that question this way. Do you know how much you have been forgiven? You know by how much you forgive other people. You know, I think how much you have been forgiven by how you forgive other people. There's a story with Jesus. Who was correcting his disciples and the religious leaders of the time where they didn't give him hospitality in entering their home, but there was a woman who wiped his feet with tears and her hair And the lesson was that those who have been forgiven much love much. Those who have been forgiven little, they love little. I think the same principle can carry over here. You forgive a little, you don't know how much you've been forgiven. So I think that would be a good practical start is to move into this daily practice that I'm talking about of going to him with your sins and understanding. Start to experience his compassion and his mercy through Jesus Christ. Who and then as you experience his compassion and the grace of his compassion, I raise this question as just another practical application. Who do you need to forgive today? And it's hard work. With whom do you need to be reconciled? Another question based on uh some of our habits is uh sometimes we we have these experiences with people and they sin against us and we say that we have forgiven them and that it's buried. But then every couple months we go ahead and exume the corpse and we share all of the bones with them again of what was going on. Now let me just ask you, what bones need to just stay in the ground, brothers and sisters? Stop bringing it up with each other. As far as the east is from the west. And the ultimate question, especially with this being a discipleship series, is how can we show mercy in order for the world to know that God is full of compassion and mercy? When I was younger, all the way up into my twenties, I did not belong with the church. I didn't belong with Christians who conducted themselves in a particular way and thought of their lives in a certain way. It was not my community. I would have never visited a church. But you know what happened? Despite who I was, all of the evil things that I had done. Jesus Christ sent someone from the church to me and talked to me about his mercy and his compassion and his forgiveness. Do you think that God sent that person to me because I had just forgiven somebody? No, that's not the story. Do you know how I know God the most? What attribute I know him by the most? Who he is to me the most. He's mercy. If it were not for his mercy, I would not live. It is his mercy. And that in the Sermon on the Mount, and we are going to make disciples, God must The world must know that God is full of compassion and is full of mercy. And we as his body are to witness to that. In the way that we treat each other, the way that we forgive each other, the way that we don't exume the bones of past grievances, the way that we are ready to forgive. May we be a community which shows what God is like to the world. And may we shine with His mercy and with His forgiveness. Let us pray.