Second Timothy chapter two. Our reading this morning is verses twenty-three through twenty-six. But avoid foolish and ignorant disputes, knowing that they generate strife. And a servant of the Lord must not quarrel, but be gentle to all, able to teach Patience in humility, correcting those who are in opposition, if God perhaps will grant grant them repentance so that they may know the truth, and that they may come to their senses and escape the snare of the devil, having been taken captive by him to do his will. Amen. Let us pray. O Christ, we pray that you'd be our teacher through the preached word today. Illuminate our hearts and our minds. We pray that we would be transformed on the spot by your Holy Spirit, that your kingdom would come. And that your will would be done on earth as it is in heaven. In Christ's name, Amen. You may be seated. Let's all turn our cell phones off today, please. When or i if you're in school or if you were in school, which I think covers all of us I imagine that at some point in time you had an art class. Is that right? I saw some say no. I'm sorry. Well, it I wonder those of you who have taken an art class, I wonder if you remember a an exercise that you had to do in the art class where they would place some kind of a still life in front of you. And then you were not allowed to look at the paper, but the teacher would make you put the pencil or the pen on the paper, look at the still life, and then you had to move your arm to be the same contours of what you see there on the landscape. Does everybody remember that exercise? Do you remember how terrible it looked when you were done? Yeah, well actually it's kinda interesting looking. It's not really terrible. But it's it's pretty interesting looking. Now do you remember why your art teacher had you to do that? And w one of the reasons, at least I'm not an art teacher, so I don't know all the reasons But one of the reasons that they told me was that we often tips have an idea in our head that we allow to influence our drawing when what is most important is for us to pay attention to the standard that has actually in front of us To where especially with uh a still life you're trying to draw that still life. Now, you may stylize it because you're an impressionist at heart or whatever But there's still that lesson of we're trying to draw what is out there and objective and not just what you have inside of your head. Do you remember learning lessons like that? Well, we're learning a similar lesson here from the Apostle Paul. He's trying to teach us about making sure we pay attention to objective standards also. Do you remember the standard that he gave us last week? He said that there are standards within a house. And those utensils or items, or we used cups, the cups in a house that Are golden are are set as a standard that are going to be used by the master of the house for honorable purposes But then there's clay and wooden cups, just going with his illustration, that are used for dishonorable purposes. And we were learning that Paul was encouraging Timothy and the Holy Spirit was encouraging all of us as a congregation to be the honorable cup. That we would be useful in the Master's house, that we would seek to live up to that standard that God has set. for golden cups. Well there's another standard that's set before us today in you in our reading, and it is the standard of what it looks like to be the servant of the Lord. That's what this whole passage is about. It's about being the servant of the Lord. It's yet another image that Paul is giving to you in this line of images. So let's make a few observations about this passage and then see some some relevance and some applications for us this morning. The first thing that I want you to notice is what I've already said, and that is that Paul's main purpose is stated in verse 24. A servant of the Lord must not, and then he goes on. Even the sentence before that, it's still talking about what it looks like to be a servant of the Lord. Before we move into the specific characteristics of this servant, which we could do, we could go back and say, you're not supposed to quarrel. You're supposed to be gentle. You need to in humility correct. We're aware of all these different things that are a part of this passage. They're themes that have been running through the worship service and the songs and what Mark just said But before we get into any of that, I want to orient us so that we could understand what these words mean. It's very important to not get these words wrong. And so in order to do so, I want you to look at one word that is here. And that is the word humility in verse number 25, in humility, correcting those, and then it goes on. This word I'm pointing out is important here because it is a word that is used in a famous passage about Moses. This is an uh there's a different forms of this word used for the scripture. Sometimes it's an adjective, sometimes it's a noun, but this is the same word that is used for Moses In the Greek New Test in the Greek Old Testament. And I wonder if you're familiar with this line from Numbers chapter 12 When there was a rebellion carried out by Miriam and Aaron against Moses as the Lord's servant. Of the the rebels raising their voice, seeking to subvert his authority? Has he not spoken through us also And the Lord heard it, and then there is an editorial comment in brackets. Now the man Moses was very humble. There's the humility. More than all men who were on the face of the earth. Have you ever heard that? Sometimes it's used used the word meek. The man Moses was the most meek. Sometimes people say that, but here it's the same word, meek or humble, just different translations. And I start with this example because it is yet another example of Moses here in 2 Timothy. Now that's really important for orienting us to be able to understand the words that are in front of us. It is yet another example of Moses in leadership, given first to Timothy by Paul, and then to us. Timothy is seeking to take over leadership. By all reasons, we can see that Paul is then setting before Timothy an ultimate example. Of leadership in Moses, and the Holy Spirit wants the same example to be for you as you seek to understand these words. Now, where else have we seen Moses in the passage? Not just in this particular paragraph, but in other paragraphs, we've seen other examples of Moses in leadership, for example, in the Korah Rebellion in verse 19. Same situation with Moses and someone seeking to subvert his authorities or same kind of situation If you were to read on in chapter 3, verse 8 of this same letter to in 2 Timothy, Paul brings Moses again up. And these words that you might not be familiar with, these names, Janice and Jambries. Anyone heard of this before? You see that there in 3. 8. This is uh apocryphal known as the magicians That were Pharaoh's magicians during the Exodus. So here we have yet another example of the ministry of Moses before Pharaoh. And so then you have, we now have the choral rebellion, we have the Pharaoh and his rebellion by way of the magicians, and right here in between the two of them, we have yet another rebellion against Moses with Miriam and Aaron. That's three different examples that we have of Moses' leadership. Now this starts to get even more interesting once we get the scent and we're on that trail, because in Hebrews chapter 3, verse 5, when it speaks about Moses, says that the Mr. This about whom it says that he is considered to be a faithful servant over the house of the Lord. Now tell me that's not exactly what we're dealing with here in our passage and the passage that we heard from last week. We heard about a house that had different utensils, and this week we're hearing about a servant who is in the house, who is exemplary from the past for other servants who are seeking to order the house as a steward. That's what we have here. It says it says in Hebrews 3:5, and Moses indeed was faithful in all his house, meaning God's house, as a servant. And then if you were to go back to that passage in Numbers chapter twelve, verse seven, it even says this: Not so with my servant Moses. He is faithful in all my house. So we now have an entire constellation. Of Mosaic references specifically related to what Paul is seeking to teach Timothy, which is how to be a servant of the Lord in the house of God. So what do you think Paul is doing? Does he have Moses on his mind? These aren't coincidences. And so I give this to you, this for you to be able to see this thread. You could think of it in fact as a necklace, and I just put a bunch of pearls on it for you. And we can see, therefore, that Paul is placarding before Timothy, a great leader from the past, one who also had rule over God's household, and it was Moses. Now that is going to orient us to be able to go on and to make further observations. Certainly, Paul is not limiting himself to Moses, but Moses is on his mind. And so here's your second observation. So Moses, as a servant of the Lord, in the Lord's house, is our standard. He is our yardstick. He is our model. He is our pattern wherein he is commended In being able to understand the other parts of this passage. And so when you look at the list that is here in the paragraph that we read today, which includes these different terms, when it says, look at it with me in verse number 23 of our passage now in 2 Timothy 2. But avoid foolish and ignorant disputes. There's a command, knowing that they generate strife, and a servant of the Lord must not quarrel, but be gentle to all, able to teach. They must be patient and in humility. They must correct others, and then it goes on to talk about how God acts in all of this, and we'll get to that a little bit later in in the sermon All of those words, I don't want you to look them up in the modern Merriam-Webster's dictionary. I don't want you to look on Wikipedia to try to figure out what gentleness is. You'll be led to the opposite of it. What he's saying to you here. Is that the standard for you to be able to understand these words are the examples that are given to us in the Holy Scriptures, particularly Moses. That's the connection that I want you to see. And then here's the third observation. Paul writes, tying to Timothy, applying the rebellion of Miriam. Korah, and other like stories to Timothy's pastoral ministry, ensuring that part of the hardships will be rebellions that will happen in his own ministry. Like Moses, Timothy, and all pastors and really all Christian congregations, we will need, this is the second part of the lesson here in this 2 Timothy passage, we are going to need, in the face of such subversion, In the face of such coercion, in the face of such rebellion, we will need nothing less than the hand of God to deliver us. Now I would love you to just do a survey among let's just start with some pastors. And you start the survey and you just ask them: Does God always give you situations in the church that you can just handle on your own? And they're going to say, Well, I haven't met one of those yet. I haven't met a situation that I can handle on my own. God needs to show up and he needs to act. And it's the same thing that we could do a survey with you. When we really look at your life and what's actually going on, we would find That God needs to act in each one of your circumstances, even that you're facing right now. Even that you are facing right now, God must act And that's part of the lesson here to Timothy as well. You could see where young Timothy would near the need to hear these things. And then he would go on to experience them. And so our doctrine this morning is quite simple. It should be simple enough to just go ahead and write down, children. Christians are called to be servants of the Lord. Christians are called to be servants of the Lord. And I want to look at that under two parts. The standard of a servant and the humility of a servant. The standard of a servant and the humility of a servant Christians are called to be servants of the Lord. They have a standard, and you also need humility, you can put it that way. Just two things I want to draw out. Let's begin with the standard of a servant. In my opinion, this is an extremely important point for you all to hear this morning. So if you're feeling a little sleepy or whatever, please resist. And let's just make it through here. You can sleep at the meet and greet. And this first point, like I mentioned, is extremely important. I think it's something that we have been wrestling with for a while, not just us, but the church at large. And that is the standard of a servant. Now, to get at what I'm trying to communicate to you, I want you to imagine with me That you and I made maps. What's the fancy word for that? Are we called topography cartographers? Okay, we're called cart, we're cart what we make maps. We make maps And we're so excited about making maps that you and I, we enter into a competition wherein you're gonna make your map of New York City And I'm going to make my map of New York City, and then we're going to figure out who wins the competition. You know from the example that I've already given in the beginning of this sermon that the person who is going to win that competition is who? The person who will win that competition will be the one who makes a map that is truest to New York City. That is to say when we look at your map or versus my map, that my map, because I'm gonna win, my map looks more like New York City than your map. And it's the same example that I gave in the beginning that there is a standard to which we're seeking to draw in accordance to Now that's just one example of a standard. There are standards everywhere for us because human beings are meant and made meant and they're made to accord to particular standards. Sometimes we talk about this in terms of our our imitative nature. Imitation implies that there would be a standard that we would imitate We are creatures, and we have a creator that we imitate. For example, it is very typical to see throughout the scriptures notions like Ephesians 5. 1 Therefore, be imitators of God as his dear children. That means that the little boy would look up to his father and he would say, I want to be like my dad, or the little girl would look at the mom, I want to be like my mom, or how however that ends up working, because there's great characteristics in both parents. But the main idea here is the imitation, and the imitation becomes that standard. Here the standard is God the Father. And of course the main argument that we see here in Second Timothy for this particular passage is that Moses is raised to a standard where he is exemplary of what it looks like to be a good servant over God's house, and that example is then given to Timothy. that he would know what it looks like in yet another way among the seven now, the seventh way, of what it looks like to be over God's house. Now, this point about standards is important as a foundation for us as Christians. For example, when we look at a passage like this in 2 Timothy, and we see these words about do not quarrel You must be gentle. You need to be able to teach. You need to be patient. And you need to be in humility correcting those who are in opposition. You need to have a standard to know what do those words mean. Now if you want, we could go back imaginatively again and we could Instead of being in a mapped competition, we could be on a gu in a godliness competition. And we could say Entering into the same event, we both have to act towards the event, and we can ask the question with a judging panel, who was gentle and who was not gentle? Who in humility corrected and who in humility did not correct. And you could go on with the rest of the list. And you could see who met the standard and who didn't meet the standard. Now, if you stop and you think about this, Paul has been placing standards before us all along. What is the standard that we are to expect in the Christian life when we face hardship? Soldier, athlete, farmer intersecting with the examples of Jesus Christ Himself and Paul. There's the standard. That is the standard for us to understand what it means to be a part of the Christian life. And now, what is the standard for us in knowing what it means to be a servant of God? He places before you Moses. So the first thing is important in terms of you need to recognize, just acknowledge, that we need a standard And God, through his revelation, provides us with those standards, sometimes in human examples, sometimes in the example of the God man, ultimately. It's one of the things that you need as an imitative being. That Ephesians 5. 1 really summarizes that well. Now here's another reason why you need a standard. It is important for you to remember that you live in a culture who also puts before you a standard, but it is counterfeit and false. And that is true for all of the words that are in our passage this morning. And more. America and most of the world have become a part for you know a long time now a part of a religion which I'll just go ahead and label as humanism. I mentioned this uh last week I believe so. Humanism, if you haven't heard of it, if you were around in the 70s and the 80s and the 90s and you were a part of the church, you've probably heard this language before It's the same diagnosis. It has not gone away in our culture. It's just being applied consistently and thoroughly. Humanism is a religion which seeks to live life without any need for God. In fact, their motto is Good without God. That's their motto on their official website. Good without God. It is the same religion and aligns with what we heard from the book of Judges, wherein at the end it says, and they all did what was right in their own eyes. They figured out a fluctuating standard that was the flavor of the day or the flavor of the era, and then they sought to, as long as many people still believe that, who had power They sought to conform to that particular standard until a new group of people with power set up a different standard and then they would go for that Same thing that you see in Judges is the same thing that has its grip on our culture today, and it's called humanism. This religion wrote a creed in nineteen thirty-three. Remember, a creed is Latin for I believe They wrote a creed in 1933 and then 1937 as Humanist Manifesto No. 1 and Humanist Manifesto No. 2. There's now a supplement called Humanist Manifesto 3 That you can you can look at all of these things. They're on the web. If you want to understand our nation, I'd encourage you to read Humanist Manifesto number one and number two. It'll show you the foundation of what's going on or where everything flows out of. Now here's my main point though, is not to talk about humanism. I think that would be boring to do today. I'm just pointing out to you that this is the reason why it's so important for us to have the clear standard that Paul has given to Timothy and the Holy Spirit has given to you as the church. Because the tricky thing is Is that although their motto is good without God, they lift their language from Christianity and from the Bible and then reuse the language And since language is referential, it's still pointing to something, but it's not pointing to the same thing that Jesus Christ would be pointing to, for example, in using the word. I think we're all very familiar with this. They lift the language of Christianity from the Bible and then they use it in their religion to mean counterfeit things. Let me give you an example. They use words like good. If you get a chance to just think about that today. How how good without God. How do we determine what is good? I'd I'd be really interested to s to see your face. As it dawns on you that they have no basis for using the word. So they're using it a way we don't use it. And that's my whole point to you. Or true or beautiful. Or faithful, or even human. Thinks if they're consistent, of course, if they're consistent, if a humanist, what they consistently would think about a human being is not what you and I think about as human beings. Very different. Very different. The words that basic. And it would even go into the words of 2 Timothy. Gentle. Yeah, they will use that word with you. Humble. They would encourage you all day long, Christian, to be humble. They want you to teach, and they would encourage you to teach all day long. They want you to be patient, and these are all words that have been given to us by God But they're taking these God words and they're repackaging them and giving them different definitions. And we as a Christian community can sometimes not be aware of that, and we can end up Swallowing the whole drink down and having our life conform actually to a religion that is a false religion instead of continuing to walk with God Now, how is it that you avoid this? What I'm saying to you is the same thing that Paul is doing for Timothy here is that you would have a clear standard for what these words mean. And and what they can mean. So who is the standard that he's given to us? It's at least Moses. We could talk about the servant of the Lord who is Jesus Christ also. And then there's all these commendable people within sc within uh the scriptures that give us a sense on a case by case basis, what do it look like to be gentle and to be humble and to teach and to have patience and in humility to correct? And if you don't use that standard, you will end up on the wrong boat. Let me give you, let me try to become even more practical here. We all know this from yard signs. Um this example is just way overused, but it's just an obvious example. On the la la the lawn sign that says, Love is love. The Bible uses the word love. When they say love is love, do they have the same standard of love that we have when we say love? We read that and we know that that is not what God meant, but it ends up being an example of what we're talking about here. You meditate on that for a moment. What is the standard by which humanists in America at this moment place before you so that you would know what love is love looks like? Who are their role models? What does it look like? What is the standard for you to know what love is love on that sign? Who are their poster children? Is it the same poster children that we have Do would we have a different role model in the ex in exemplifying what love is love looks like I would say that if they could have their way, I'm just speaking about the Humanist Manifesto I and the Humanist Manifesto II as an official teaching. I'm not talking about individuals. Individuals are mostly inconsistent We would love people according to this sign by supporting them in their absolute autonomy and freedom to create themselves in whatever way that they think they should create themselves, as long as it aligns with those who are in charge and have the power at this moment. That is a description of humanism working out in the culture, and you know you all see that every single day. And so that's why I raise here in this first point that you, as a servant of the Lord, must have the standards You must know what Christ communicates to you. You must also be aware that Satan takes those words and he counterfeits meanings, takes those words from Christ and he gives them, he infuses them with different meaning and feeds them back to you. By way of the culture, and it's a way of leading you astray. So right now, ask yourself: when you see the teaching here in this passage about being a servant to God. Do you have God's standard before you, or do you have the world's humanistic counterfeits? Let me just ask you, for example, this is a real hot topic right now What do you imagine when Paul says that you are called to be gentle? What do you imagine there? Who is it that you see? What is placed before your imagination as to what true gentleness looks like? Does he wear a cardigan? Is his name Mr. Rogers? I would love to do a survey and see if Mr. Rogers crossed your mind during that. I don't know that he did, but is that the example that we're supposed to have? Or what about Gandhi? Is Gandhi the image that we're supposed to have with gentleness? What is the standard? What's it supposed to look like? And what does it look like in different situations and cases Is the standard here that you are to be gentle no matter what is happening in front of you? If someone is being sexually assaulted in front of you and you're supposed to be gentle there, say, hey, if you feel like it, you could stop. Or do you remove people physically? I would say if we went and started to look at the standard of what gentleness is, gentleness, if you look at the meaning throughout history, if you look at how it is used of our king. gentle and lowly, how he rules with gentle sway it talks about in the Psalms. It is one who knows how to rule in the moment that is most fitting for the peace and the flourishing of their people and the glory of God. It's not an over-reactionary. It's not an under-reactionary. It is the right action for that thing at that time. I think that's the fullest exposition of gentle. It has come to mean don't blow your lid. It's basically what it means in our culture, but there's a much more robust meaning of this, especially when you see it used in C. S. Lewis and others. Paul says, Imitate me as I imitate Christ. Now, what do the humanists say? They say, imitate me as I imitate who? Greta Thornburg? Is she the image that we're supposed to have for what it looks like to be ecological stewards of this great creation that God has placed under our dominion? Are we supposed to define our standards by what she says about our carbon footprint? Is she the picture of ecological stewardship and dominion? Those are the kinds of questions that we have to begin asking ourselves. And I would argue that the media, as I mentioned last week, is a major arm for the horn in getting before you particular standards So that when you are you think you're being gentle and you think you're being humble and you think you're being a steward, you're actually working for the devil because you don't even know what those words mean anymore You could be thinking that you're good because you've accepted the standard of the world and actually be doing bad. That's how crazy it can get. But we're not stuck in that situation because God is not silent. He has revealed to us what these things mean. He shows us through his son, even through his word, what good and true and beautiful truly is. And as we, as his people, who are filled with the Holy Spirit, receive his word, we, through his word and by way of his providence and experience, we come to truly have wisdom and to know what is good. and what is righteous and what his will is. I think it begins by recognizing that God loves standards. Now, the second point I want to mention, this I'll go by really fast. The second point in this passage, if you take a look again at the scriptures, it says in humility, beginning in verse 25 In humility, correcting those who are in opposition, if God perhaps will grant them repentance, so that you may know the truth so that they may know the truth. and that they may come to their senses and escape the snare of the devil, having been taken captive by him to do his will. I just want to focus on this one virtue That is a standard for us in dealing with specific situations. And I want to ask the question: what is Paul's intention? What is the standard for this particular word of humility? Is it Gandhi? As argued, it is connected to Moses. And as I've already showed you in Numbers, Moses was the meek or the most humble, as Numbers says. And if you were to go on to study this, humility is the mo is uh most often used in the Psalms, actually. It is used, catch this. It is used for those who have their hearts set on pleasing God, number one. The meek and the humble have their hearts set on pleasing God. This is what we find as a standard And number two, they find that they're not able to accomplish their endeavors for God unless God acts. And so they wait on God and do not rush forward without him. They do not forge ahead. They love what God loves and they wait on God for the victory. That is how a a humble person is brought forward in the Psalms and in the rest of the canon of the scriptures, and that is exactly the case with what we see with Moses in each of the cases that have been listed for us in Second Timothy. Whether it's Korah or it's Miriam. Moses is still has the same resolution in being a faithful steward over the household of God, but there are these rebellions that rise up And what you end up noting about Moses is that he does not get into quarrels with these people. He does not become more of the problem He goes to the Lord, he brings his case before him, and the Lord hears the case, and then he rises and he acts on the behalf of his servants. Do you remember how he acts swallowing up in the earth the core of rebellion? Giving leprosy to Miriam that she would know exactly what she's doing? Clarifying with budding stabs and uh the censors that were symbols within the tabernacle This is all God acting, and it is why Moses is considered humble, because by the power of the Spirit he endeavors after the will of God. But he does not forge ahead of God, but waits upon God for God to act in his specific ways. Paul records the same things if you look through his letters. As Paul sought to fulfill his mission, he acted in humility, submitting to God's will and anticipation of God acting on his behalf. He mentions I would be thrown to the lions, but God has delivered me from every evil thing. He says that here at the end of 2 Timothy. And it ends up being a model for your life as well. And it actually ends up being a model to where it's the antidote of you becoming enculturated by humanism. Paul instructs Timothy and he instructs you. The case in our passage is if someone who has been bl is of someone who has been blinded and taken captive by the devil himself. He doesn't mince any words there. The person who has set the trap and the person who is snaring people is the devil. That's the opponent. And Timothy can offer correction. He has an active role in this. You can see that. In humility, he is to correct and all the other things. He has certain things that God has given, empowered him to do. But he must still, in the midst of such a situation, be patient, and he must in humility wait upon the Lord, praying that God would grant repentance. Now I can think of no better antidote to our humanistic tendencies than to practice this particular standard of humility. What you have been taught is that everything is in your hands, you're in control, you just need to work harder or have more resources. Which is a humanistic undergirding. I had lunch with someone the other day, someone very dear to me, someone whose counsel I take very seriously. And I I uh believe it or not, I have struggles. I have all different kinds of struggles, struggles with myself, struggles with other people, just like you. And I told uh this person about my struggles, and they know me so well. And so they they listened and then um They said may I have to say a few words and then they said uh are you going to fret this is a paraphrase, this is how I took it. Are you going to fret and anxiously try to fix this forging ahead of God and totally mess this up? Or are you going to wait for him? And I thought, man, that is a lesson that the Lord continually needs to teach me, is to have to wait for him. And before when I had to wait for him, it would become further evidence that he doesn't really care. That he's not really there for me But the Holy Spirit is teaching me something different now, that just because he doesn't act, exactly when I say that he should act, doesn't mean that he doesn't care. It just means that he has a wisdom that I can't comprehend. And it's my job to trust him. I am seeing many of you who are 50 and older nodding, like, yeah, this is the lesson. This is the lesson that we learn being under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. And so I took the advice and I actively waited. That's why I call it active waiting, because it feels active. I'm sweating when I'm waiting You have that feeling? You're supposed to just you're not it's not like you're sitting in a rocking chair at Cracker Barrel just enjoying a biscuit. You're sweating while you're waiting. It's so active. I actively waited by his grace, and the situation unfolded in a way that I never could have anticipated. It did so many different things that I never thought about doing that were good. And that's our God, and that's how he wants us to relate to him. Not as humanists To where if we say, I need you to do this, and then he doesn't act within the first day, then you have further evidence that he's maybe there is some uncaused cause in the universe that cranked this whole thing up as a giant machine, but it has nothing really to do with me, so I don't spend any time in prayer, and I don't go to the prayer meetings. And I really just try to take things, everything into my own hands, which is why I have all these different degrees. Nothing wrong with degrees, but they can be a sign Sometimes it can be a sign that we're acting on a humanist foundation. Humanism has been Way more influential in my own soul. I wonder if it has been way more influential in your own soul than you realize. It is the air that we breathe. I imagine that many of you here live your life very much like a humanist, not really relying on God for anything. Not really relying. Like if he goes a day without giving you exactly what you asked for, you just move on. That's my problem. A share in the problem. You, by the power of your own will, you'll accomplish it. You have the resources. And at the very least, just take a loan. And you know what that ends up being? That ends up playing out what we see on the website. Among the people of God, we see the motto, we are a people. With good without God. And that's devastating. That is a hook that can get into us But others of you, as you consider, as you continue under the discipleship of Christ, you know, and I've heard stories from you, actually from all of you, really, that Christ little by little Is enforcing your dependence on him in the way that he unfolds your life He paints you or lets you paint yourself into a corner and then you have to turn to prayer and he delivers you and grants you salvation. That is the human experience. Moving away from the humanistic base and instead Living in humility as a servant of God. Now, what standard do you have for humility? I wonder what you've been using before you've heard me up here today. What standard have you had for humility? I'd encourage you to read Philippians chapter 2, 8-9, and being found in appearance as a man, Jesus Christ humbled himself. And he became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. There's his endeavor and resolution after God's will. Now, who is it that delivers the Christ? Is it not the one to whom he prayed, Deliver me? Even after death, on the third day he's raised again, and so Philippians 2, 8 through 9 continues and says Therefore, God also has highly exalted Jesus Christ and given Jesus Christ the name which is above every single name There it is, right there. It's always the same with true humility. It is an endeavor after the will of God and a reliance and waiting upon God to act in salvation. You can see the two parts striving after God's will and relying on God to exalt. And that's the big question with this point. Can you move off of that humanistic foundation and actually rely on God? Can you do it? You know what you'll need to do if you do. You are going to have to exercise faith. It might be a little tiny muscle for you, but you've got to start working that thing to where it would get bigger and bigger and bigger. And you know who gives you faith? It's Jesus Christ by way of the Holy Spirit. And so there we are. Do you rely on God exercising your faith as a Christian community, or are you finding out today? that you are more of a humanist than you are an actual Christian. Well, if you answer yes to that second question, it's not it's not over. You can turn away from really the foundationless system of humanism, of thinking that you can accomplish everything yourself, and you can turn to God in Christ Who doesn't leave your abilities and your will to the side, but he illuminates your mind and your heart that you would have true dominion as a human being, that you could act as a creature again underneath of your creator And with Christ you can rule the world. We answer these questions. Do you rely on God? Are you more of a humanist than a Christian? We answer these questions by having a standard. God is there. He is not silent. He has spoken to us, showing us many things. And our lesson this morning is that he has especially spoken, showing us what it looks like. to be his servant, just like Moses, just like Christ, just like Paul, just like the athlete and the farmer and the soldier. To be servants in his house and to serve him faithfully. Let us pray