Holy people. Now when he rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons. She went and told those who had been with him, as they mourned and wept. But when they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they would not believe it. After these things he appeared in another form to two of them as they were walking into the country. And they went back and told the rest. But they did not believe them. Afterward he appeared to the leaven themselves as they were reclining at table, and he rebuked them for their unbelief and hardness of heart Because they had not believed those who saw him after he had risen. And he said to them, Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation. Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved. But whoever does not believe will be condemned. And these signs will accompany those who believe. In my name, they will cast out demons They will speak in new tongues. They will pick up serpents with their hands. And if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them. They will lay their hands on the sick, and they will recover. So then the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God. And they went out and preached everywhere, while the Lord worked with them and confirmed the message by accompanying signs. Please pray with me. Most holy and gracious God, we need your spirit to fill us To guide us into the truth, to help us to understand your word. We pray, Lord, that you will bless us with not only understanding. But with a great love for your word, a great love for all the testimony about yourself that you have given to your people. Father, I pray that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock, my strength, my redeemer. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I'd encourage you to keep your Bibles open to Mark chapter 16. We have a lot that we'll be looking at. Alright, so why am I preaching from not the New King James Version? I'm using the ESV, the English Standard Version, which many of you maybe use, used to using. The reason I'm using ESV is because I really don't want anyone to think that I'm somehow prejudiced against any translation but the New King James. And if you do have an ESV version, you probably have a note in your Bible that says, right before verse 9 in chapter 16. Mine says some of the earliest manuscripts do not include 16, 9 through 20. And so I just have to warn you all, I'm preaching on what might be the most controversial passage in all of Scripture. But what I hope to do for you is to show you that even though there may be a difference of opinion in modern textual critical scholarship about whether or not Verses 9 through 20 should be included in your Bibles. I hope to show you that it's already included in your Bibles. What it says here is not new. It's found in other parts of Scripture. And hopefully I'll be able to convince you what has convinced me that this should be regarded as God's holy word, inspired and inerrant. I want to ask you, can we trust the Bible? We can. We surely can. We have to trust the Bible. It is the only testimony that we have about God. It's the only way we can know about our Father and our Creator. It's the only way we can know with any certainty. What his plan is for us and how we can be saved. Testimony, bearing witness, it's very important to God, isn't it? It's important enough to him that he would give us a a commandment, the ninth commandment, that we would not be false witnesses or bear false testimony. And we understand this, don't we? This is just a part of life. There are things in life that we have to take on someone else's testimony. When you get married, you've got to trust their testimony that they will abide by their vows. Your spouse When you are planning to mow your lawn, you have to take on the testimony of the weatherman whether it's going to rain or not. Because we're not all meteorologists. We can't look at the sky and know what's going to happen. Kids, you have to take on testimony most things that you know. You have to trust your parents I said to my kids this week, there's two ways to learn a lesson. Do you guys know these two ways? There's the easy way, and there's the hard way. If you tell your child, don't touch that hot stove, they need to take your testimony, they need to believe it, so that they learn the lesson. Don't touch hot stoves. If they don't trust your testimony, what happens? They get burned. This is exactly what will happen to us, brothers and sisters. Now, briefly, I just want to jump into the exhilarating topic of text criticism, and my challenge will be not to be more excited about text criticism than I am about That passage that we're actually looking at today. But textual criticism is how we have received the Word of God throughout the ages. It's the science, it's the study of where do these documents come from. And I don't want to go into too much detail. I just want to explain to you why some of your Bibles have this note. And the reason I'm using the ESV is because though it has this note and puts this passage into brackets saying that it may or may not be God's holy word. I'm using ESV because it's a reliable translation Whether or not you agree with what I'm going to lay out, the Bible, the ESB Bible, is a reliable translation. You can get a lot of value from using it. So I'm not a King James-onlyist or a New King James-only-ist I'm just going to try to go through some of the evidence that causes the translators of this Bible to put that note there. So it says that some of the earliest manuscripts are missing this passage. It's only two. There's only two of the earliest manuscripts that are actually missing this passage. Because we don't really have a whole lot of early manuscripts for the Bible. Most of what we have that's before the third century are fragments. But there's two very important codices. There's the Codex Sinaivicus and the Codex Vaticanus. These are very important, complete copies of the New Testament in Greek. But they don't include this passage. And that's caused scholars throughout the ages, not just in the last hundred years, but actually uh since since the fourth century to wonder should this really be the ending of the gospel of mark Another reason that people question if these verses should be the end of Mark is because there's actually six endings in all the manuscript evidence that we have. Very different from each other. But there is one thing that is certain. It's very strange for Mark to end where he does in verse 8. Look at verse 8 if you have your Bibles open Chapter 16, verse 8. That is what some are supposing would be the end of this gospel. And yet it says, And they went out and fled from the tomb, for trembling and astonishment had seized them, and they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid. I don't believe any of us would be here today if none of the apostles said anything. If none of the apostles got over that fear and went out and shared the gospel as is commanded, in this the other great commission. Interestingly enough, in the Codex Vaticanus, if you were to look at the actual manuscript, the scribe that was copying it left space. Only time in the entire manuscript that he leaves space. And scholars have measured the space that he was using for the letters and found that in the space he left It perfectly fits verses 9 through 20, showing that he knew that there was a possibility that that ending should be included in his manuscript. Now they text critics they give uh a lot of weight to these early complete documents because that's I don't know, that's their prerogative. They have their reasons, and I won't get too far into that because I want you all to stay awake for the sermon. But there are problems with these documents that they hold in high regard Codex Tonightness is missing lots of verses. Uncontested verses. It's not just omitting this section. Which is a variant. It also includes things that we wouldn't include in the scriptures, like the Book of Tobit and all of the apocryphal books, the Deuterod canonical books as they're called. These documents, while some hold them in very high regard and give them great significance when wondering or trying to discover what God's Word says It's really just their opinion. I'm what we call a majority text guy. That means I believe that God has preserved his word for us throughout the ages. And that the vast majority of the manuscript evidence which we have is clear. And it all agrees. Over 90% of the manuscript evidence includes Mark 16, verses 9 through 20. And we have that from the second century all the way up until today. But one final issue that I have with these documents, which we don't talk about a lot, when Codex Sinaiticus was discovered in 1844 Do you know where it was found? It was found in a monastery. On the Sinai Peninsula. That's why it's called Sinitacus. But in that monastery, there was a guy named Konstantin von Tieschendorf. He's like Indiana Jones for Bible manuscripts. And he was there and he was a manuscript hunter. He was looking for manuscripts. And he went rummaging through their garbage heap. And at the bottom of the garbage heap, in the trash, he finds this copy of the scriptures. And somehow this copy, this manuscript that was relegated to garbage became the most important document that tells us what should or should not be included in the Bible. I disagree fundamentally with that kind of significance being given to that document, especially with all the the troubles that it has. But there's plenty of evidence that we should believe this long ending of Mark as being part of the scriptures. Not only what I've just laid out, but we have the early church fathers Who attest to this being the true ending of the Gospel of Mark. Irenaeus, Tatian, Augustine, Justin Martyr, they make reference to it. Justin Martyr himself quotes the very final verse, verse 20. Jerome acknowledges, Jerome is the guy who translated the Bible into Latin, into the Latin Vulgate. He acknowledges in his copy that there is some question about this But then he also says it's pretty clear that most of the manuscripts do have it. And so he's included the long ending of Mark in the Latin Vulgate. Alright. Everybody still with me? Yes? We can explain why some of these documents are missing, especially when you know church history about the third century. There was a lot of persecution happening to Christians in those first three centuries. And part of the persecution was to take the documents, the holy documents, and to destroy them. And so we wouldn't have a lot of early documents containing this. But as I said before, the vast majority of everything we have. Shows that this is God's word. This is inspired by Him. And we should take it to heart as God's word. And it's very important. Very important that we understand what is being said here. Because its overall message is of vital importance. It was very important to the apostles when they They would have had it in the early church as they were receiving it. But it's very important for us as well. Because in this portion Of the other Great Commission, we find that faith is the only right response to gospel testimony. Faith, believing, is the only right response to gospel testimony. And we're going to look at this under two headings this morning. First we'll examine the gospel testimony in verses 9 through 13. And then we'll look at the right response that we see from our Lord Jesus in verse 14. Jumping right into it, verse 9. We see here in verses 9 to 11 Mary Magdalene's gospel testimony. Now some would try to say that Mark This section doesn't really read like Mark, but it's pretty true to all the rest of the gospel. It's summary. He just gives a quick snapshot, photograph, a picture of what is happening, where other gospel writers are going to give a little bit more detail. He says, Now when he rose early on the first day of the week, that's Jesus, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons. And she went and told those who had been with him, as they mourned and wept. But when they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they would not believe it. Luke 8, 2 confirms what Jesus had done for Mary Magdalene. It confirms that he had cast out seven demons. John chapter 20 and Luke chapter 24, they both confirm that Mary was among the first, if not the first, to see the risen Christ. And it also confirms that she went and she told others. Her testimony, her gospel testimony is that Jesus Christ is risen from the dead. But they don't believe. Luke 24, 11 confirms what Mark tells us here, that they didn't believe. It says that they it seemed to them like idle tales. And they did not believe it. In John chapter 20, if you wanted to turn there, you could. I'm gonna read for you real quick. John chapter twenty and verse seventeen John records what Jesus said to Mary and what we can presume would have been what she shared. As being spoken to her by Jesus. Verse 17 of John 20. Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me For I have not yet ascended to the Father. But go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God. Sounds a lot like what comes later in this ending of Mark. And it's very important. We have the covenant formula there, that God is our God, and we are his people. This would have been a very encouraging gospel message from the Lord Jesus Christ. And yet they did not believe. Why do you think they didn't believe her? Why do you think they didn't believe Mary Magdalene? Was it her social status? That she was a woman? At that time in that culture, a woman couldn't even stand trial. She couldn't she couldn't even be a witness for herself. So perhaps they were looking at her and saying, no, we can't trust this. Perhaps they knew about her past, her storied history. I imagine there would be quite a few stories in that neighborhood about Mary. From the time when she was possessed. Stay away from Mary. Don't listen to a word Mary says. She's not in her right mind. Yet they don't believe when they should believe because the message she gives is what Jesus had already told them Mark chapter 8, verse 31, chapter 9, verses 30 to 32, Jesus teaches specifically that he must suffer, he must die. And he must rise again from the dead. He told them specifically what would happen. He prophesied about himself. And when someone comes and says the prophecy of God has been fulfilled, what kind of person is it who says, hmm, no, it can't be true. It doesn't make sense to me. Well we find out what kind of person. It's an unbelieving person. Now it's hard for us. Sometimes we can be in a similar situation as the disciples. As I've been preaching through Mark in the evening service, I've really come to be convicted that I thought about the disciples in a very uncharitable and unchristian way. I look at them and I just think, boy, you guys are s really dumb and you don't know anything. And if I were there, I'd have I'd have been a much better disciple than you. Instead now I have this great sympathy and compassion for them. It says that they were mourning and weeping. Golly goodness. When you're in that frame of mind, in that kind of grief, sobbing, it's really hard when somebody comes in. I wonder if some of them said, hey Mary, read the room. She comes in, oh God, Jesus has risen from the dead. And they're weeping and crying. Mary, you don't know what you're talking about. Sometimes when we're there, when we're in that frame of mind, when our as we like to say in my house, when we're all up in our feelings We don't even want to be cheered up, do we? We don't want to hear a good report about Christ or a good report about our God. We don't want to be reminded that those who trust in him will never be ashamed. Sometimes we just want to be in our pity party until we get hungry enough to get junk food and then go back into our pity party It's understandable. It's understandable. They may have been prejudiced to marry. They may have been just all in their feelings. It's understandable But we're gonna find out that it's not excusable. The next gospel testimony that we see here is in verses twelve to thirteen. Again, Mark gives a summary, a snapshot, which later in other parts of the Bible we get much more detailed. It's confirmed for us in Luke chapter 24, verses 13 to 35. It's great detail given us there. This is that Emmaus Road experience that two disciples had. We know that they weren't of the twelve disciples. Luke tells us that one of them was named Cleopas, and there were no none of the twelve were named Cleopathus. So we can assume these are just two who had been following Jesus. And with him throughout his ministry. And what do they say? After these things he appeared in another form to two of them as they were walking into the country, and they went back and told the rest, but they did not believe them. Luke twenty-four, verse forty-one confirms that they did not believe. Even though it was shared. Even though they said, didn't our hearts burn inside us as he spoke to us on the road? So why didn't they believe this gospel testimony? I wondered if this was a similar situation to Mark chapter 9, verse 38. Which is when John tries to stop a man from casting out demons in Jesus' name. And do you recall? Do you remember what the reason he gave was? He says, because he does not follow us. He was not of their number. Sometimes can get in the way of our belief. I imagine If I were of those disciples, one of the things I would have said is, You mean to tell me that Jesus appeared to you before you appeared to us? We were with him the whole time. We were there when he calmed the storm on the boat, when we all thought we were going to die. We were there when he cast out a legion of demons. You think he would appear to someone else before us? I'll share with you an experience I've had. I've visited people in the hospital. And I thought what was going to happen in that visitation is I was going to bring encouraging words from God to them. I was going to share gospel testimony about God's goodness and encourage them, exhort them to not give up, keep their eye on Christ. No sooner did I get there and sit down Then a nurse comes in. And the person who's there, who's been in the hospital, who's hooked up to all the machines and the drips and the things, joy comes across their face, and they get to share the gospel to this hospital worker. And I just sit there. Just sit and watch and listen. And be surprised. Because though I thought I was being used by God to come and help them, what I got to witness and see of their gospel testimony actually ministered to me We should not allow pride to cause us to disbelieve true gospel testimony, no matter who comes from. No matter where it comes from. When a brother or sister comes alongside you when you're in a particular trial And they try to share with you what they learned. Perhaps they learned it the hard way. And they're trying to share An encouraging word. God is still with you, though things are falling apart. God still loves you, though that is no longer your future. God still loves you. Though perhaps everything in your household is collapsing around you. When they come and they share that testimony, I ask you, do you believe? Do you believe them? Do you believe that even though you might be in the darkest period of your life, there is hope in Christ? You may be more depressed than you've ever been in your whole life. There is joy in Christ. Do you believe? Do you believe when they tell you how he flipped their marriage around? Do you believe when they tell you how he killed a sin that they thought could never be killed in their life. Do you rejoice with Habakkuk and say, No matter what, no matter what I'm going through, I will trust in Jehovah. Or are you like me, in which you just can't get out of yourself and stop thinking that somehow my situation is unique. somehow what I'm going through, it's not exactly like what you're encouraging me will be fine. So I'm just gonna justify myself still being unbelieving, still doubting the goodness of God. God will send testimony of his goodness and his love to his people. The word apostle, do you know what it means? It literally means sent ones, sent by God. Our whole faith, all of Christianity, is reliant upon the testimony of the apostles. It's reliant on the testimony of others who saw it themselves and have faithfully recorded what they have learned and seen. All we know about redemptive history comes through testimony The prophets and Moses in the Old Testament. And so, how must we respond to that testimony? How should we respond to every word that has been preserved for us? We must believe. We must believe that God saves the sinners. We must believe that God is merciful, and though no one in this room can earn salvation or even deserve it, He gives it. You must believe that he takes those who are not his people and he transforms them by his grace into his beloved household. And so when we hear gospel testimony from the Word of God itself or from someone else, what should be our response? What should you do when you hear gospel testimony? Well, we learn this. From verse 14, and how Jesus deals with the doubting disciples. So now let's look at the right response, how you should respond to gospel testimony. And we see in verse 14 That Jesus rebukes their response. He says, It says, afterward he appeared to the eleven themselves as they were reclining at table, and he rebuked them for their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they had not believed those who saw him after he had risen. Another argument against those who say that this shouldn't be included because it seems like it wasn't written by Mark, this is an extraordinarily Markin verse. He uses a word for hard-hearted that is only used three times in the whole of the New Testament. Mark uses it twice. Here And he uses it in chapter ten, verse five, when he's talking about the hardness of heart that caused Moses to give to the people a certificate of divorce. And then in m Matthew, which is a parallel passage to that divorced section. It's only used three times, twice by Mark, and it shows up here, and yet people would say, oh it it doesn't seem very Markish Doesn't make sense? An interesting thing is going on here too. This the ESV translates it afterward. I believe the New King James says later, at the very first word of verse 14. But it really the usage of this word has a sense of culmination to it, more like at last. Not that it's just another thing in a sequence of events, but all of those events were leading up to this. And it shows us That Jesus really wants us to pay attention to what's happening in verse 14. This hardness of heart, the unbelief. It is the wrong response. Jesus does not rebuke things that are good for us. Jesus does not rebuke things that He wants us to do. He rebukes what is bad for us. He corrects us out of what is not something that his people should do. So if we are to if we are not to not believe, what is it that we're supposed to do? Believe. Trust. Trust the gospel testimony. That is what we are commanded to do. We are commanded to have faith. Like the confession of Christ's passage. What does he say to Thomas? Don't be unbelieving. Be believing. It reminded me of Mark chapter 5 when on the way to heal Jairus' daughter, the the messengers come and they say, Don't bother the teacher, she's already dead. Do you remember what he says to Jairus? No fear. Just believe. No fearing, only believing This is God we're talking about, the Almighty Creator of all the cosmos. He can do whatever he wants. He does what pleases him. Do you not believe that he would be pleased? To show you the blessing that He's promised in His Word to His people. And so I encourage you, brothers and sisters, believe Trust. Trust the word. All of it. Trust the word that tells us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You don't have to fix yourself. You don't have to make yourself perfect to then receive the blessing of Christ. He transforms you. Believe the gospel testimony of Romans chapter 10, verse 9. If you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. If you believe What they did not believe, that Christ is risen from the dead, you will be saved. God bless you Psalm 22, verse 5. Those who trust in God will not be ashamed. Do you believe that? Do you believe it? Or whenever the world comes at you with new scientific information, world's not thirteen point eight billion So the universe is not thirteen point eight billion years old. Now we gotta we gotta keep spreading that out. We're now at what fifteen point two? We'll make another telescope and it'll be twenty-five point eight and then eventually we'll say billions Or trillions? Go back to the old Greek thing. Oh, there is no beginning or end to the universe. No. We can't trust Our own eyes, we must trust what God has said to us and tells us about His creation. Do you believe what is told us in 1 Thessalonians 5? For God did not appoint us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us. Do you believe that Christ died for you? That's what the Bible tells you. That whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with Him. Do you trust the gospel testimony about where you're headed? To live with God, be where He is. Forever and ever. If you go all the way back to the gospel testimony in Genesis, all the way back to Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, do you believe what he says will happen? That the Messiah will crush the head of the enemy. There will be victory. That is what God's word tells us. That is the gospel testimony that He provides. And what is our duty as human beings under the authority of God? Our duty is to believe. And so I'd encourage you now, brothers and sisters, there is a gospel testimony before us this morning. That is miraculous. It's this table. It's the testimony that God so loves the world that He gave His one and only Son. That whosoever is believing in him will what? Not perish. And not just will you not perish, but do you believe what he says you will have? Everlasting life. Because if you trust God's word, if you trust his gospel testimony, the very next verse, John 3. 17, says, God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world. But that the world might be saved through him. Trust. Trust God's word. Trust gospel testimony. Trust this sacrament. Set before us. Trust what you have been told, that his body was broken, not just because people are mean, but it was broken to pay the penalty of your sin. Trust that his blood was shed, not just because it makes for a really interesting story around Easter time, but because by his blood you are cleansed. Sprinkled with pure water. As we saw in the assurance of pardon, by Christ's sacrifice. The Lord God Almighty can give you a heart of flesh and remove the heart of stone. Keep this in mind as we go to the Lord's Supper. The gospel testimony from your God about what he has done for you. Please pray with me