We're looking at John chapter 12 in the last Sunday of Lent before we enter into the Holy Week proper. And so let me open with a word of prayer of illumination. Heavenly Father, we know that it is only by your Spirit that we may have our hearts and our minds illuminated. And so we call uh We call for your grace. We call that we would be able to see and behold Jesus Christ. There are so many that have stood right in front of him and felt the warmth of his breath. and did not recognize him. Do not allow that to happen to us. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. This is John chapter twelve. We'll read the first Then six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, who had been dead, whom he had raised from the dead. There they made him a supper, and Martha served. But Lazarus was one of those who sat at the table with him. Then Mary took a pound of very costly oil of Spike nard. Anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the fragrance of the oil. Why was this fragrant oil not sold for three hundred deneri and given to the poor? This he said, not that he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief, and had the money box. And he used to take what was put in it. But Jesus said, Let her alone. She has kept this for the day of my burial. For the poor you will always have you you have with you always, but me you do not have always Now a great many of the Jews knew that he was there, and they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might also see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. But the chief priests plotted to put Lazarus to death also, because on account of him many of the Jews went away and believed in Jesus. Amen. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. for doctrine, for proof, correction, and instruction in righteousness, so that we may be equipped for every good work. Amen. Please be seated. Today is a day of self-examination. There's a Netflix original documentary entitled Making a Murderer. And it is based off of a book, I believe, entitled Making a Murderer. And it is about Stephen Avery. Is anyone familiar with this? Anyone familiar with the document? It's a very interesting documentary, a bit disturbing. Stephen Avery originally was arrested and placed in jail for eighteen years. Eighteen years And then with new technology with DNA studies they found that he didn't do it. He was then released over uh after those eighteen years and within uh several months to a year, they were convinced that Now the difficulty here is once Stephen Avery had been found innocent and it was just uh uh because of a DNA problem, they began to, as you could imagine, to suspect suspect the police, the technology, and did he really do it this time or is this another mistake? And um there's this long and lengthy murder trial they brought forth Stephen Avery's nephew to testify against him. They found human bones near his fire pit, and there was blood in his house of the woman that they claimed he murdered. Now it was not just Stephen Avery that was on trial at this time. The trial blew up because of the nature of it and them being wrong before. The trial blew up in Wisconsin. To be a trial of whether or not we can trust the police, whether or not there is corruption in our government, whether or not there is such a thing as justice in the land. And the nature of racism, the nature of favoritism, the nature of stereotypes. All of these things became a part of the trial. It wasn't just about Stephen Avers. Have you ever been a part of a trial? Other people's trials. Actually, all of us are a part of a trial. It's not exactly like Stephen Avery's, but we are placed in a cosmic trial according to this passage really according to this entire book where there is a court and it will render a decision related to disputed matters here on earth Everyone here is a part of a cosmic lawsuit according to the Gospel of John. That is what he is presenting here actually. looked through this entire gospel, he's presenting a lawsuit. John first brings forth in the in the beginning chapters, John the Baptist. John the Baptist comes to the stand and he testifies that Jesus Christ is the long-awaited Messiah. And after this, Jesus himself begins to give testimony of himself. And then Jesus' miracles take the stand. And and uh the Old Testament scriptures witness to him takes the stand. And the Samaritan woman takes the stand. And Lazarus, as we just saw in this reading, and as we saw in the responsive reading earlier, he takes the This entire gospel is a lawsuit, and you have become a part of it. In fact, this passage that is setting before you here this morning is inviting you to consider three universal responses to the words of Jesus Christ, the witness of Jesus Christ, and all of the other witnesses that we We see your response in this lawsuit will form a judgment as to your condition and your state. Jesus is on trial, but actually you are. When Jesus steps before you and he says anything, your response determines where you are in the trial. And he's giving us these three examples, Martha, Mary, and Judas, to see three responses to the Lord Jesus Christ. And you are to consider this morning. Which are you? This is a time of self-reflection, as I said, and you are invited to consider three universal human responses as a way to decide where you stand in the cosmic s cosmic trial concerning Jesus Christ. Now there's three parts here. There's Mary's Supper, there's Martha's Supper, there's Mary's Spike Nard And there's Judas's sense of proportion. Mary's supper, Mary's Martha's Supper, Mary's Spike Nard, and Judas's sense of proportion. Take a look at verses one and two with me as we begin this. Self-examination. Then, six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, who had been dead, whom he had raised from the dead. There they made him a supper, and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of those who sat at the table with him. And then if you keep going in the passage, his name keeps coming up. What do you think they want us to recognize? That Lazarus is there, that he is the one that has been raised from the dead. And they want you to connect that to the supper. John wants you to see that Martha is making a celebratory supper for For the main guest of honor who is Jesus Christ, but also her brother who is alive again. You know, this really, this whole section here is a response to the revelation of Jesus Christ in chapter 11, which we read in beholding uh the glory of God in Christ earlier in the service. If you were to go back in chapter 11, let me just take you briefly through this journey. Martha begins in a very different place than as a woman who's serving the Lord Jesus Christ as a guest of honor. She uh her brother becomes sick. The family is dear to Jesus Christ, and so she sends word to Jesus and And strangely, Jesus decides to wait for several days, basically ensuring that Lazarus will not just be sick, but he will die, and he will be dead long enough for him to smell. This is Jesus' plan. And so when he finally meets the sisters, Martha comes to Jesus in verse 21 of chapter 11: Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask of God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. And Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day. She was missing the point. And Jesus said to her, I'm the resurrection and the life. You don't get it, woman. I'm the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he may die, he shall live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are Christ, the Son of God, who has come into the world. Martha, the sister of him who was dead, said to him, Lord, by this time, as they walked over to the grave, there is a stench, for he has been dead four days. No idea what Jesus Christ is getting ready to do. Jesus said to her, Did I not say to you that if you would believe, you would see the glory of God? And then next thing we know, Jesus is saying, Lazarus, come forth! And he comes out in his grave clothes and stands before them. And what she chooses to do here in chapter 12 has everything to do with what you just see, saw Jesus doing there in chapter 11. She does what she knows how to do She does what she does best, and she throws him a celebratory supper. And he is the guest of honor reclining at the head couch there in Do you see the significance of the act of what's going on here? If you've read through this gospel, you'll see many different themes that are coming together here. God in the beginning of this gospel has descended in the incarnation of Jesus Christ. Heaven has come down, and he takes on a human nature as an act of hospitality. He condescends. Soon after chapter one he will give them wine and water and bread and life, all acts of God being hospitable to humanity. And what does humanity do to God? Are they hospitable back? We find so many times when there are those who receive his bread and receive his wine and yet spit in his face. He came to his own, but his own did not receive him, is what John says. In chapter 6 and 7, the Pharisees say that he's a false prophet. In chapter 5 and 9, they say that he's a violator of the law and a lawbreaker. And in chapter 11, which we had just taken a look at, they claim that he is an enemy of the Jewish nation. This is what he gets for his hospitality, but not with Martha. Martha made him the guest of honor and served him in the way she knew how, and thus she proved herself to be a very particular kind of person in the trial of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ raised a man from the dead, and some people then therefore plotted his death because they now saw him as unpatriotic. That is how they viewed him after that. But Martha, Martha becomes a friend of Jesus Christ and offers him a dinner. For as those who believe in his name, as many as receive him, who show hospitality to him, like Martha has shown, To them he gives the right to become children of God. To those who believe in his name who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. John puts it. That's how John is portraying the character of Martha here. Jesus is the resurrection and the life. There is a man dead. And Jesus can just say with his words, come forth, and then he is alive. There will come a time that you must realize this. And some of you already have. I don't mean just with the idea of the general resurrection. Sure, get your head around that for a moment. Your parents that have died, this man, Jesus Christ, will raise. This man. Your children that have died, this man, Jesus Christ, will raise. He is the resurrection in the life. And not only later, that was what Martha had easily clung on to. You will resurrect I understand, but he's saying, No, you don't understand. I'm bringing heaven to earth now. People are being resurrected now. The fact that you're going to hold a dinner for me shows that the Spirit has regenerated and resurrected you. And made you a part of heaven. If she had a hymn to sing that would have been one of ours that we'd have sung last Sunday morning, she would have sang, Heaven came down and glory filled my soul. Now the question for you, is Jesus the guest of honor in your home? The trial continues. It's not just with Mary and Martha. The same man, the same declarations that Jesus is the resurrection and the life. You're hearing it right now, and now is your opportunity to read. respond, whether you're here as a Christian or as a non-Christian. Jesus is the resurrection and the life. Do you believe this? Is he Is he honored in your home? Are you serving him in celebration? Are you Martha or are you a Pharisee? The gavel is raised and judgment is on his lips. And I ask you, what is the verse? The next character that we see within this story that we are to relate to is Mary and her Spike Nard. So we not only see Martha serving dinner or supper, but we also see Mary and her Sweichnard. You can see this beginning in verse 3. Take a look with me. Then Mary took a pound of very costly oil of spark spikenard, anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the fragrance of the oil. This is an embarrassing level of devotion that she has demonstrated. For a woman in the East to allow her hair to fall down like that would be equivalent to you women at a funeral wearing a nice dress and hiking it up to your waist to run. It would be totally inappropriate. It would ruin the occasion. But here her devotion is so intense she does not think about the mores and the stereotypes that are Around her, although I'm sure it made everyone uncomfortable in that room. I'm sure that's where it began with Judas trying to end the awkwardness. But she did not care She needed to respond to Jesus Christ. This is not the first time that Mary has fallen at the feet of Jesus. We see in chapter 11 that she falls again. When Mary came where Jesus was and saw him. She fell down at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Where were you? But here in this picture, we see that she has moved from doubt to a devotion of great profundity that many people could not see, and perhaps you don't even see it yet. Look at what's really going on here. She anoints with Spike nard, which is about equivalent to a year's wages. And Jesus interprets this in verse 7, if you take a look there. Jesus says, let her alone. She has kept this for the day of my burial. There's something going on here that no one else gets. It's a question whether Mary is conscious of it or just being carried along by the Holy Spirit. But she is anointing him Robustly with this oil for the day of his burial. That I can think of that we can relate to. For instance, in Columbia, South Carolina, Dr. Henley Thornwell, one of my favorite theologians, his oldest daughter became ill, and she died on the eve of her wedding. She knew she was going to die. And so prior to her death, she said, Daddy, will you please bury me in my wedding dress? And he did. And on her tombstone, Dr. Thornwell had inscribed, She is prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And in the same way here, this oil is anointing or preparing for burial. It is like this in other cultures as well, with the picking out of a dress. And somehow she knew or was carried along by the Holy Spirit to have great insight that really what was going on is that Jesus was moving. Seeing this phrase from Jesus in verse 7, you now look back in hindsight in chapter 11. And you can see that it's present, that this is what was meant all along. This is part of the reason why Jesus waited for Lazarus to die so that he could die also. In verse 5 of eleven, now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus, so when he had heard that he was sick, he stayed two more days in the place where he was. Then after this he said to his disciples, Let's go to Judea. And his disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews have been seeking to stone you there, and you think you're going to go back to Judea? Jesus was well aware that when he moved to Judea, it was the beginning of the movement towards his passion. It was the beginning of the movement to Holy Week. Jesus went to Judea not only to raise Lazarus, but to begin the walk of death in Jerusalem. And Mary sees this and responds in complete devotion. There is a proclamation that goes forth, and that is that Jesus the Messiah must be buried. And to this proclamation She responds. And if she could have a hymn, it wouldn't be Glory came down and heaven filled my soul. It would be, were the whole realm of nature mind, that were a present far too small. Love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, and my all. And you are still in the trial also You have a choice this morning. You do not have a choice not to bury Jesus Christ. This morning you must take part in the burial. There are two kinds of burials that can take place for you this morning. You can murder him because you hate him and he is your enemy and you think that he's a false prophet. Or you can bury him because you recognize it is the only way for you to be reconciled to God the Father because of your sin. Once upon a time there was a man, there was a young man, teenager on the football team. It's not me, this is not a story about me, who raided his father's liquor cabinet. Still not a story about me I pr I really it's not, I promise. And then he decided he lived on a farm and he decided to get behind a little Jeep Cherokee Cher Jeep Cherokee and drive around on the farm trails And being drunk, he didn't notice that the dogs were out, and he ran over his golden retriever. His father, furious with this, made him bury the dog. And the same thing is before you. You have to bury Jesus Christ if you are his enemy and you murder him as the non-Christian. or if as a Christian you must recognize that this is what your sin deserves. And right now I hand you the shovel. You have to take the shovel. You have to recognize that you must put the spade into the earth and toss the dirt on the body of Jesus Christ if you recognize how sinful you are. There's two proclamations that are going through forth here. Your sin is worthy of death, and Jesus Christ can take your sin from you, but you must understand what it costs. It will cost his burial and his death. And I ask you, where are you in the trial? Some of you will see how sad and how tragic this is, but you will see that it is the only way. And the same hymn will become your hymn. Were the whole realm of nature mine, that were a present far too small. Love so amazing, so divine, it demands you Your life, your soul, and your all. The last person, I've saved the shortest for last. Is Judas and his lovely sense of proportion. A truly moderate man. And we see this in verses four through seven But one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, who would betray him, said, Why was this fragrant oil not sold for 300 denarii and given to the poor? This he said not that he cared for the poor poor, but because he was a thief and had the money box and he used that he used to take what was put in it. He's not arguing about the oil here. Those of you who have Ever taken rhetoric from me? I want you to recognize where we are in stasis. He's not arguing whether or not we should put oil on Jesus. He is arguing about the sense of proportion that we would put oil on Jesus. Maybe we should choose a less costly oil. Maybe we should only do a little dab, but to break the jar of Spikenard and to spend all that we have on him is ridiculous and absurd. He tries to put a halo over his motives through a concern for the poor, but John instantly straightens this out in the text. Judas is obviously wrongly motivated. We know him as the betrayer. John says it every time Judas is. Name comes up in this gospel. But more than that, Judas cannot see. Do you see the trial taking place right here? And the response. Jesus sits there before him, the same person that the other two see. And Judas was with the disciples when Jesus resurrected Lazarus also. And yet Judas cannot see it. He cannot see the kingdom of God before him. He sees no burial. He sees no glory. He cannot see that he is the Messiah. He's hiding under the virtue of moderation. And he says that Mary has given too much to Jesus Christ, which reminds us of growing up in semi-religious households in America. And you become a Christian, and then all of a sudden your parents are very glad that you've become religious. But then all of a sudden you want to give everything to Jesus, and they say, Well, wait a second, religion's nice. It's a good crutch, but you want to give everything to Jesus? Some of our wives and our husbands say those same things to us. You want to give everything to Jesus? Why not just a little bit? Oh, that is what Judas is saying here. The fragrance to everyone else in the room was refreshing. But to Judas, it was a waste. It was a stench. It was not like And here is the response of those who stay with Christians. He himself called a disciple here. Those who dwell with Christians in the Christian house, but who are betrayed by their moderate and lukewarm devotion. Is that you? Picture your life as the oil. How much of it are you willing to pour out in devotion to Jesus Christ? If your whole life were a jar of oil, how much are you pouring out in devotion to Jesus Christ? And why are you holding back so much of the oil? Is he not worth it? He's called in other parts of the gospel the great pearl of great price that when discovered you would sell everything Not that you would sell 30% of your belongings so that you can get a decent investment, that you would sell everything. The bottom line is that you stand here with Jesus Christ presented before your face right now, and I'm asking you the question: is he worth it or is he not worth it? The trial has begun. This is actually what we're going to do through all of Holy Week. Lucky you. We're just going to keep going through the trial. Jesus is going to keep presenting himself. He's going to keep declaring things. And you're going to have to put yourself in different shoes of different characters throughout the gospel and make up your mind this week what you think about Jesus Christ. The trial has begun. Jesus Christ has revealed Himself, the glory of God incarnate And it is to this truth that you will respond like a Martha, like a Mary, like a Judas, like a Pharisee. And today is your day to decide. Is Jesus the one that holds the power to resurrect you to eternal life? Consider it. Is Jesus the one Who holds the power to resurrect you to eternal life? If he is, then be hospitable to him. Allow him to be the guest of honor in your home. Believe in him. Is Jesus' death your only way to get rid of the sin and the guilt? Then pour out the oil of your life. Let the room of your life be filled with the fragrance of the oil of your devotion. Or is Jesus a waste of your time? Then prepare to be ashamed and to be destroyed. Today is your day to decide, and I hope that you would come and talk to me if you're struggling with any of those and share your story with me. Let's talk Today is your day to decide. You're sitting here. Jesus Christ is presented to you and you must make a decision Today is your day, but tomorrow is somebody else's. Here's an assignment for everyone here. I would really like it if when you run into people in the grocery store Grocery store. They all need Jesus Christ. When you run into your co-workers, they need Jesus Christ. And your friends and your family or someone who's the mailman, there's something wrong with your mailbox, so he brings your mail To the front door. Would you please invite them to our Holy Week services? Allow us as a community and me as the pastor to present Jesus Christ to them. Give them an opportunity Opportunity to respond. Allow them to become a Martha. Allow them to become a Mary or to be exposed as a Judas. That we could talk to them about that. Um the the one gentleman that preached for uh my ordination was Pastor Glenn Parkinson, very dear to me. And Brad, can I have a pen real quick? Uh Glenn is an ex-physicist. And so he comes up with all these really complicated diagrams in order to get people to understand things. And um as you're going forth telling people about our Holy Week services and getting them here so they They can become a part of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He has come up with this pretty complicated diagram in order for you to be able to finally understand this truth because Evangelism we all know is so difficult. I'm going to draw it real quick for you here. You have to go tell them about the Holy Week service. Does everybody see that? Is the the assignment's pretty clear? That's that's that's my evangelism class, you pat. You have to go tell them about the Holy Week service. And let's begin with Palm Sunday declaring Jesus Christ as the triumphant King. And then let's allow them to see Jesus Christ on Monday, Thursday with the Lord's Supper and Good Friday and then allow them to see the resurrected one on Easter. Heavenly Father, We thank you for presenting your Son Jesus Christ to us this morning. There are, I am sure, different responses here in this room. I pray, Lord, that those responses would come out and that we would be able to begin conversations, exploring I pray that you would allow us to see ourselves within this story, and that we would have some sense of alarm or urgency if we find ourselves as the wrong character. I pray that this would come to the notice of our congregation, our elders, and our deacons. But most importantly, Lord We praise you. We praise you for being the resurrection and the life, and we praise you for being willing to be buried for our sins. We so look forward and walking through this very difficult passion now in the upcoming weeks, but Easter is not far away. And that is your resurrection and therefore our resurrection. And therefore we praise your holy living name. Amen.