Chapter 3 verses 14 and 15. Please turn to that so you can follow along and be a good Berean this evening This is 1 John chapter 3, verses 14 and 15. We know that we have passed from death to life because we love the brethren. He who does not love his brother abides in death. Whoever hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. Please pray with me. Heavenly Father, we long and need your light in this darkness, and this light is life to us, and it is your written word here preserved that we might continue on our pilgrim's progress. We ask that You would illuminate our minds and our hearts this evening in the name of Christ. Amen. Please be seated. The other day I was sent to Food Lion. on a journey to get some avocados for salad. So I went to the little avocado stand and uh picked them all up, pressing my thumb on them, and all of them were hard. This was uh everyone who likes avocados or has had to test them knows that this is a sign that the avocado is not ready. Uh there are other fruits and vegetables that people have different theories about. They say that the cantaloupe should smell a certain way. I haven't figured out how to tell if a a ear of corn is ripe yet while it's still in the husk. People have different uh theories on the watermelon and how to determine if it is ripe. I was sure about the avocado and I'm pretty sure about the cantaloupe or the honeydew melon and how it smells that they would be ready. Likewise, we're looking here in 1 John at signs, tests of being able to see and know certain things. With the avocado as if it's ripe. With the cantaloupe, it's if it's ripe. Here we're looking at three main tests that I said last week were like lights in the darkness. They're like lighthouses helping to us to navigate our lives, to know what it means to be a Christian. The first test that we've seen is what I call doctrinal, and although that's a bit dry, what I mean is that Jesus is the Son of God, incarnate. That he took on flesh and he died for our sins. He was the propitiation for our sins. That's a truth that you must embrace and that you must hold on to if you're a true Christian. It's a test. If you deny that truth, then it shows you not to be a true Christian. Another test that John has shown us here in these chapters is the moral test. It's that we are to be in the image of Jesus Christ. And one aspect of that moral test is that we not only are to be loving God, but that we are to love one another. And so last week we saw that loving one another was based upon the apostolic doctrine. That the apostles from the beginning have always taught this, recording what Jesus has said, that to be his disciple is to love one another, and that will be known by that. That was the first point, and then we saw that there's both an internal and an external obstacle that can be in our way. We still have lying remnant within us the nature of Cain. And then when we finally do, by God's grace, act righteously, we have external opposition from the world. And we need to take these things to heart as we seek to love one another. as a family of God. This week we're continuing with the social test or loving one another in verses 14 and 15. And what the Spirit teaches us here this evening is that we know that we have passed from death to life. Because we love the brethren. This is another sign and it's another test for us that we move, that we know that we have passed from death to life because we love the brethren. So we're first going to look at life. And then we're going to look at the signs of life. Life and then the signs of life. That's the way to break down these two things that he wants to teach us. We know that we've passed from death to life because we love the brethren. This is different from last week, and that we have moved out into, have you ever seen those photos of the earth from outer space? That's the real big picture to see everything that's going on, entire uh hurricane system swirling. Or whatever it might be. And that's what he's doing here. He's not, in verse 14, take a look with me. When he says, we know that we have passed from death to life. He's not remaining at the same zoomed-in level that he was earlier in 11, 12, and 13. He's not just repeating himself saying that we're the children of God. It's true that if you've passed from death to life that you're a child of God. But he's zoomed out, and he's trying to show you a big picture here that there is a realm or kingdom of death, and there is a realm or kingdom of life, and we have moved from one and to the other if we are children of God. This is pronounced throughout the scriptures in my Bible. You don't even have to flip the page. It's 2 Peter is just at the top. And 1 John begins here in the middle. I'm not sure where 2 Peter is for you. But in 2 Peter chapter 3, uh ending in verse 13, I'll start a little bit before that. Listen to what Peter says as we think about the big picture of of being brought from death to life. God is doing a work of bringing all of creation from death into life. And we're a small part of that. Therefore, since all these things will be dissolved, speaking of creation, what manner of persons ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness? looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be dissolved, being on fire, and the elements will melt with fervent heat. Nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. Now you know that my um my pet peeve of people always saying that we're going to heaven. And I understand there's different ways that we can mean that Here, whether you believe this is going to be an entirely new earth, or it's just this one that's going to be purified, no matter what, there's going to be an earth And we're going to dwell there where righteousness dwells. This is a picture from outer space of us seeing the big picture of what God is doing, and He is renewing everything. He will burn up and purify with fire all unrighteousness, and all that will be left will be righteousness, and we will dwell in his presence, and he will dwell with us for eternity. That's the big picture. And we have already begun to see this in that Jesus Christ has resurrected from the dead. What does it mean when we when we read in the scriptures that Jesus is the firstborn from the dead? Or, what does it mean when we read in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 23? But each one in his own order, Christ the first fruits, and after those who are Christ's at his coming. What does it mean for him to be the firstborn and the first fruits? It means the same thing You can't think that Jesus is the firstborn in the first being resurrected from the dead because Lazarus had him beat. He's the firstborn and he's the first fruits in the sense that he is the first part of the new creation that God is bringing. He's the first part He's the first that we fully see in glorified resurrected body going from death to life. If you saw Jesus when you were standing there, you would see the first glimpse of the new creation that God would create at Jesus' second coming. Now we know that we have not experienced this yet because our bodies are not resurrected. We don't have new bodies yet. The earth hasn't been redone. But But uh we have seen some signs that the last days have begun. You know, the last days of moving from death to life has been a theme for some time. I would encourage you to take a look at Micah chapter 4 and then compare that to Acts chapter 2, right when Peter begins his sermon, and look how the last days that Micah talks about are fulfilled In uh by Peter says that they are fulfilled within his sermon, that God is bringing finally this world out of death. And he's bringing it into life. And the sign of that is that he is pouring out his Holy Spirit on his people, and they are being transformed to where a new creation is dwelling within them. Although their bodies have not been glorified yet and have not been resurrected to eternal, incorruptible bodies, within them the kingdom of God is dwelling. There is a new creation so pervasive within our minds and our hearts and our wills and our emotions, that the Apostle Paul says that we are new creations, that we have been fundamentally and essentially changed from death to life. And that is what John is speaking to these people here. He's saying that you have been given the Holy Spirit who has brought you from death to life as a foreshadowing, as a first fruit, and as a down payment. of the new creation that will finally be established when Jesus Christ returns. Down payments Can be glorious. Don't think of your mortgage. Think of a Christmas present. A couple Christmases back, I gave Holly a little sheet of paper that said that we had hotel reservations in New York City to be able to go up there together. That was a down payment. It was a down payment that said the room has already been bought. We've already spent the money, so we've got to go. And it didn't just speak about a hotel that we would stay in. What it told her was that I was going to give her, this is of course too much, but I was going to give her a whole city for Christmas. We you know when you have a hotel in New York, you know that when it's down the street from Bobby Slate's restaurant that you're gonna go to eat there. And you know that that's not too far from Broadway. And then there's the subway system to be able to go to Soho. We had New York City. for Christmas. And she recognized it and she had her heart filled with joy, just as I had my heart filled with joy, just at seeing the down payment. of what was to come. And the Holy Spirit working within you, bringing you from death to life, is the down payment of what will come in the future. And we saw a picture of it from outer space in a sense, the big picture we saw in Peter. And we see and gain assurance of it because of what has already happened to Jesus Christ. And we also gain assurance of it because we hear in the book of Revelation that there are saints already in God's presence singing to him with no sin. This is death to life. And this is what John tells us, the Apostle John, that we can know that we've had that we've been we've passed from death to life. This is what he's talking about, the down payment that has been given to us. The spirit who has mortified sin within us and is changing our minds, our wills and our emotion and is a down payment for so much more. Did you catch the word that I just said? I said mortification. Have you heard that word before? Mortification? I think in these circles it's pretty regular, but have you had have you heard the more positive word, vivification? Mortification is the taking away of something out of a person's life. Vivification is bringing life where there used to be a desert, allowing there to be streams. Allowing there to be grass and flowers and life budding and gentle breezes. That's vivification across a landscape. Vivification is when the Spirit breathes into us and He doesn't just take away things, He gives us things. And that brings us here to What John is saying in the second point, that there are signs that when you have moved from death to life and you have the Holy Spirit who's transformed you, there's signs. There's a vivification that has happened within you. And what is the sign that he says? It says it right here. In 14, what does it say? We know that we have passed from death to life. We have become a new creation. How? Because we love the brethren. We have been vivified. God breathed into your nostrils, and there was something new present. It was love for one another as a family. That's what he's saying. Galatians 5, 22. What is the very first fruit of the Spirit? Love Love especially for the household of God This is a distinguishing characteristic and sign. Just as one can press on an avocado or smell a cantaloupe to know if they're ripe, one when one sees love for the brethren within a person, one knows that they have past from death to life, because it is only the Holy Spirit that can bore such fruit, is what John is teaching us here in this test. Now this is somewhat of a barbaric example, but just to keep to drive this home with you, if you remember in the book of Judges when uh Jehoshaphat became not Jehoshaphat um What? Jerob, no. Jephthah. Am I correct on that? Jephthah. It was a judge of Israel. He was a Yes, the one that sacrifices his daughter. If you remember there was a moment when they uh had destroyed a neighboring tribe and the neighboring tribe after they ha after uh the Israelites had seized the fords of Jordan This neighboring tribe was trying to flee back over the Jordan into safety. And one of the ways that they would determine if this person should be able to go or if they were their enemies, they would say say shibbaleth. And if the person could say shibboleth, then they would be set free. But if they said sibeleth, Because their accent wouldn't let them say shibbileth. If they said civileth, then they would have they would immediately be executed And so they were set free into life just by having the right accent. And we have an accent about our life as God's people, and it's loving one another. It's what shows that we have been set free, that we have passed from death to life. That's the main point that he's trying to show us here. But he also gives us a negative example. There's not just that we've been transformed from death to life and that we know that by the sign of loving one another. He also gives a negative example saying That murderers do not have eternal life. It's the opposite. You know that you have not passed from death to life if you're a murderer, if you hate the brethren. One of the things that we have to deal with when we bring this up is you have to, when you're reading the scriptures, you have to ask the question: does this teach that murderers will not obtain eternal life? And if you have ever been in a prison ministry, this is not a question to joke about. I was listening to a pastor not too long ago who is a part of a of prison ministry and he said that they went through this passage together with those who were in the jail and he received a letter from one of the inmates saying I think my cause is lost because I have murdered somebody, literally. I have killed someone. And it says here in the scriptures that murderers shall not inherit eternal life. And the pastor had to explain to this person that that's not what this means here In fact, when Jesus was being crucified by his murderers, he prayed for them that the Father would not hold it against them. And then when Peter gave his sermon, he said, You have crucified the Lord of glory. Repent and be baptized, and thousands were added to them. The Apostle Paul himself had the clothes laid of Stephen at his feet, and he considered himself the chief of sinners for the rest of his days because he thought of himself as an ex-murderer. There are enough examples to show that murderers, in fact, do obtain eternal life. So, what is being spoken of here is you have to remember the prototypical murderer and what he's talking about here. He's talking about Cain. Those who are a part of the family of Cain still, those who have the continuous, contumacious, and unrepentant, murderous heart still within them. Unwilling to submit to their God. Sin crouches at the door for them and they give into it every single time because they love it. They pick up sin and they pet it and it becomes their precious The murderous thoughts and the hate. It is the unrepentant murder that is being spoken of here, not one who has just committed murder But it's the contumacious and the unrepentant murderer that has not passed from death to life and that must repent And then being given the gift of the Holy Spirit will begin no longer to hate, no longer to murder, but to love, because it's the first fruit of the Spirit. And so we have the passing of from uh from uh death to life And this life is seen by certain signs, signs of love for one another, and signs of moving away from murder and moving away from hate. That's verses 14 and 15, that we know that we've passed from death to life because we love the brethren. This is not just a moral exercise or a teaching of etiquette. This has to do with the recreation of the entire world, and you've been sucked up into it by the grace of Jesus Christ. And the signs of loving one another and of praying the prayer that you've just prayed moments ago that you love the brethren and you want to see everyone loving the brethren more is a sign that the Spirit dwells upon you as a family. dwells upon us as a family. The only thing to deal with still, and I'll conclude with this, is a final application, but there needs to be a little bit of clarification. You'll notice in verse 15, it says something quite strange to our ears. Whoever hates his brother is a murderer. We know we're already talking about a particular family and a particular way of doing things. the the the the uh the family of Cain and the unrepentant murderer, but can you really say that hate is murder? We know that Jesus says it. But do you think that if a person was hating another person in their mind that Jesus would think that they need to be excommunicated from the church? Or what if they murdered? You can see immediately that in the day-to-day decisions across the New Testament that they made different decisions because they considered hate as a different degree of sin than murder. Murder, capital punishment during Jesus' time. He would have not said capital punishment for those who were murdering people inside of their minds by hating them So does that mean then that he was just being hyperbolic and and trying to give emphasis in order to create emotions within his audience in some sense, yes. But does that then mean that we don't need to think about whether or not we're hating one another? That we can justify ourselves. Do you see that what I just did there is what we do in our minds all the time. We know that we belong to life. We've passed from death to life. There's this new creation happening within us. And that a sign of that is love for one another. But we allow ourselves to hate one another. We allow ourselves to hate one another inside of our minds and secretly and behind each others backs and with our tongues and with our body language Even if it's just for a moment or five minutes, we'll let it happen. How does the justification take place? It's because you say that murder is far more grievous than hate. But I think that's the whole di it's a whole wrong way to look at it. Let me tie in this morning's sermon to this final application. I was looking online about leprosy. Do you know there's two different kinds of leprosy possibus Possa bacilliary. Those of you who are nurses and had to memorize this stuff for tests and stuff, please forgive the butchering of these names. Pausa billary and multibacillary. Are two different types of leprosy. The first one is far less worse than the second one. But who, in their right mind, wants leprosy? Whether it's of the first kind or if it's of the second kind. Anything that belongs in the family of leprosy, I would like to run away from. I want nothing to do with having my skin eaten off of me. And in the same way, anything that is a cousin or a close cousin or even a distant cousin from murder, and that's hate. We are to flee from. It is in the family of perversity and corruption, and it is not to be justified or tolerated within our lives towards one another. We have the Holy Spirit ministering within us to love one another by giving up our own interest for the interests of other people, not hating and not murdering. Let me pray for you Heavenly Father, we ask that you would whack away any toleration that we have for hate. Seeing it now in the family of murder and knowing that we are a part of a new creation help us to act in line with the identity which has been partially revealed, but that in the future we will fully know. Lord, as you teach us in your word that whoever has been born of God does not sin because your scene remains in us, and we cannot sin because we have been born of God. Or Lord, that everyone who has this hope in you purifies himself just as he is pure, thinking about the great day of the Lord. We ask, Lord, that you would rid us of hate, that it would be mortified, and that you would vivify us with love for the brethren. It is in your name that we pray. Amen.