Whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report. If there is any virtue, and if there is anything praiseworthy, meditate on these things. The things which you learned and received and heard and saw in me, these do. And the God of peace will be with you. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Father, we thank you that you have preserved your word for us in this generation. And I pray that you would now make the preaching of your word effective for the benefit of your people. That this would be a time where you're still building them up and restoring them in knowledge and righteousness in your image. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. A few sermons ago we had a stark image that was presented for us. It would have been stark for the Philippians also. Each of us are aware of the idea of being a citizen of a particular country. The Philippians would have largely, especially with so many veterans present within their city. thought of themselves primarily as citizens of Rome. Paul ends up saying something quite vibrant and flashy, something that would catch their eye and grip their attention. And saying, actually, if you want to talk about where your true home is, or your true capital city, or your true citizenship, it's not going to be found in Rome. With Caesar. Instead, it will be the heavenly Jerusalem with King Jesus. There is a way in which we still give honor to the king here, of course. But ultimately, Christ is our King and we are citizens of heaven. So we've been asking the question, because Paul raised the question, well, what does it look like to be a citizen of heaven? We've received a lot of answers A couple weeks ago, we received an answer by way of a case study through two women who were members of the Philippian church, Eodia and Syntaci. And we saw that through them and their personal differences, that part of what it looks like to be a citizen of heaven is to sacrificially love each other through or in the time of or through the time of personal disagreements. And sometimes you need a third person to come in and give you a hand in order to maintain that unity. Well, we went on from love a few weeks ago and then into other we could call them kingdom virtues, if you will. We saw rejoicing or joy, we saw gentleness. W instead of cruelty, we saw peace instead of anxiety. And the real focus, besides looking at a list of characteristics, features, marks, or virtues of heavenly citizens was asking the question, well what's the what's the secret? None of those things, love, joy, gentleness, peace, none of those things come easy to the human race. So how is it that we even stand a chance of having any of those things mark our lives? And the answer was given to us last week, which is the Lord is near you. The Lord is at hand. You are the Lord's creation. What he has begun in you he will complete. And so we ended up quoting precious promises that have always been a part of the scriptures. And I didn't even quote a fraction of the promises. But we did look at Psalm 145, the Lord is near you. Or we looked at Matthew 28 and I will be with you to the end of the age. Or we look at the book of Hebrews where it says that I will never leave you, I won't forsake you. And if the Lord is with you, what could man do to you? as just another series of promises, and maybe even experientially realizing how important it is to recognize that you are the covenant people of God. And how practical that is. Being the covenant of people of God and having Jesus Christ's presence with us by way of his spirit will bring forth a degree of love of rejoicing, of gentleness, and of peace instead of anxiety. Well, we continue this week in really the same question is what does it look like to be a heavenly citizen? And the answers that you're going to receive this morning aren't exactly new. But it does give us the opportunity to reflect a little bit more deeply. The answers that are given to us are in the passage eight and nine And you could really summarize it under two S's. We have two S's of our passage here, or the two S's of heavenly citizenship. And it's and it's this, that we would set out or set our minds. On godly goals, and that we would submit to apostolic authority Set our minds on heavenly goals, that's a mark of a heavenly citizen, and we submit to apostolic authority really because we submit to King Jesus and we submit to those whom he authorizes. So I just want to look at those two things this morning here as we continue to discover our citizenship. The first is that we're setting out after the right goal. And you can see that in verse 8, where we grow as citizens of heaven by setting out after the right goal. There's that long list. Take a look at it with me. Says finally, brethren, we've heard a finally before, but we're coming to a kind of summary here. You can see our letters getting ready to end And then he gives us this list. Whatever things are true, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report, if If there is any virtue and if there is anything praiseworthy, dash Meditate on these things. Now, this is not the first time that we have heard the word the word within the group of the idea of focusing on our thinking as Christians. We've spent several weeks, always tying back into chapter 2, saying, have the mind of Jesus Christ. And here we see another thinking word here. It doesn't have to say meditate on these things. It could be think on these things. And I'm saying within context, it'd be, I want to say, put your mind on these things. That's what's going on here. But Paul, when he's at the end of that list, when he says, meditate on these things, he's not interested or trying to paint a picture or give you an imperative or a command. to where you would sit around and meditate on a group of facts sitting on your hands. If you look at the list of the kinds of things that he's calling you to, he's not interested in just a thought project. or the accumulation of information in a cute little binder like you were in homeschool. Paul is not telling you to just gather information. Paul is If you look at the list in verse number 8, he's getting you to focus your mind on the right things in which you should be a part of as a part of your citizenship in heaven. In other words, you could ask the question, what endeavors should you be considering in order to act out your calling that Jesus Christ has given to you? And Paul's answer in verse 8 is, well, whatever things are true. Whatever things are noble, you see how the words themselves are endeavors? Let's establish the truth in the world. Let's do things that are noble Let's establish justice. Let's make sure that things are pure and that they're lovely and that the things that we do result in a good report to the world. Do you see what he's doing there? He's not interested in just giving you information. Paul wants you to set your mind on specific aspirations, purposes, or endeavors, or goals. Now he could mean this and and and I think he means this in a couple different ways. If you were Uodian Syntachi and you read that, You would say, and if you were that third person helping them, you could appeal to this passage. You can you could say, listen, ladies, whatever's going on in your relationship. Let's make sure that we're working towards whatever is lovely, whatever is noble, whatever is just. Whatever is true, whatever is of good report, whatever is praiseworthy, and let's set aside the ways in which we might be operating in envy, jealousy. Bitterness, grudges, anxiety, unbelief, because you don't really believe that God is with you. And so you're desperate That's one way that we we could apply this, and that I s I certainly hope they would apply it in the original church there between those two ladies, but we can take this in a much larger scale. We can scale this out and we can say Surely this passage, and verse number eight is all we're dealing with right now, surely this passage is applicable beyond conflict. For us at Severn Run, whether you are in conflict or you're in any other area or moment in your life, we set our minds as heavenly citizens on godly goals, endeavors, and aspirations. That's what we do. Whatever things are true, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just or pure, those are the things. You can continue with the list on your own time. Those are the things that we spend our time endeavoring toward. We set our minds on it. Those are our goals. Those are our visions Now, let me illustrate this or give a further explanation in just showing you another place where Paul brings up this same topic and encourages his congregations. towards the same thing. This is another popular verse, Romans chapter 12. I wonder if some of you Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2, I wonder if it's some of your favorite verses in the Bible. Oftentimes it is for people. But in Romans chapter twelve, beginning in verse two, it says this, and do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Have you heard this before? Yes, you have. By the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is the good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Now I want you to notice the parts there. A lot of the time because of different ministries, for example, through the ministry of R. C. Sproul, which has been an excellent ministry, and I think it was originally called Renewing Your Mind with R. C. Sproul. Many of us are familiar with him We've only focused on that first part of verse number two. But number two continues on. So I want you to notice those parts. Number one, it says that we are to be transformed. Go ahead and ask the question, how? And you could even say, be transformed as to become more and more like heavenly citizens. How are we supposed to do so? Well the answer, renew your mind. Okay, well what does that look like? What would it look like for a person to have their mind renewed? Only thing I've been arguing with you towards you at this point from our passage in Philippians is renewing your mind that you would be transformed is not only an accumulation of facts. It is much more than that. And this passage in Romans chapter 12, verse 2, says that if you were to answer the question, okay, well, what does it look like to have a mind that is renewed? Or what end am I after? And then there's the rest of the verse. Whatever a renewed mind looks like, it looks like a mind that is able to know the good and acceptable and the perfect will of God. That is to say, if you are transformed by the renewing of your mind, you know what God, God's desires are. Now let me ask you another question. What are God's desires? What is God's will? Philippians chapter four, verse eight, right? Whatever is true. Whatever is noble. Whatever is praiseworthy. Whatever is lovely. Oh, that's the mind of God. The whole list. So I really think Paul and instructing, whether he's instructing the church at Rome or he's instructing the church at Philippi, he's got the same thing on his mind here. In our minds, being set not on the accumulation of facts, but on endeavors, aspirations, and goals. And that is in part what it means to be a heavenly citizen. Now we need to be careful. When we go back to Philippians chapter 4 and we look at verse number 8, we see a list there. And let me ask you a question. Just imagine yourself in a toga for a moment. You're in a Greek city, and you're sitting there. You were born and raised as a citizen of Philippi. You know all of the customs. You you've breathed it a as your air, just as a fish is in water. And if I gave you the list in verse number eight, take a look at the list in verse number eight again. If I said to you as a Philippian, well, do whatever is true and noble and just and pure and lovely and of good report and virtue. Would you would all of those words be new to you? None of those words would be new to you. You would have already heard them from Greek philosophers. From Greek philosophy that had moved down into the arts, and the arts had moved down into the general population. And this is where you need to be careful. Even though Paul is using those words, please do not make the mistake of defining all of them by way of Caesar's empire. Instead, remember, this is a a lovely, another wonderful time for you to remember that these terms, this way of life, these goals, these aspirations, these endeavors must be defined by way of reference to your king who is Jesus Christ, not Augustus Caesar. So you have to ask the question, well what is the truth that God gives to us? And how do we think of truth under his training? What is lovely according to Christ? What is of good report to our Savior? What does He consider to be noble and virtuous? And ask you to be careful that in reading this passage you don't become Greek, but that instead you'd grow as a Christian. Well, that's the first point, is just the the great teaching that Paul gives us here in seeing what it means to be a heavenly citizen. That it has everything to do with setting the right goals. And we see that list of goals there. But there's another S for us here this morning. Which is that we are called to submit to apostolic authority. We grow as citizens of heaven by submitting to the apostles. You can see this now in verse number 9, our second verse. Paul gives first a chain of ideas. Take a look at it with me. He says, the things which you learned and received and heard, you see the different links in the chain? The things which you learned and received and heard and saw in me, these do, and the God of peace will be with you. What we see here is through these words, notice how focused Paul is on the authority that has been given to him as an apostle. And of course it would extend to any others who had been given the same authority by Jesus Christ. Jesus had set Paul and the other apostles aside as authoritative teacher. As authoritative teachers, they would have taught these different congregations and continue to teach us today by way of the unscripturated word who God is, what is God accomplishing, especially in his creation, and what does he require of us? How are we to relate to him? And so picking up Paul's chain here, what we have learned from the apostles as students, what we have received. As his disciples, even the way in which we have seen the apostles do things, their specific example, provide a pattern or an imitation For our own lives. Now we've heard that theme before. And so I'll just remind you again that Paul does not locate himself as the ultimate pattern, and neither do the rest of the apostles. There is a further principle which is brought out in his writing to the Corinthian church, as I imitate Christ, Paul says, imitate me. And the Christian life, those who have their capital city as the heavenly Jerusalem, they locate themselves with reference. To the authoritative teachers that Jesus Christ has given to them. Not only what they have taught, but even how they have conducted themselves. in their lives. Not only precept, but also example. This is seen throughout the halls of the Christian Church. This is not the first time a sermon has said such things. I wonder if any of you have read a Puritan by the name of Thomas Brooks. If I'm not mistaken, he wrote a book entitled The Precious Remedy Against Satan's Devices. Perhaps some of you have read that, or perhaps some of you need to. But he says this in picking up this theme of imitation, and I could give you fifteen other quotes from Puritans picking this up. He says A Christian's whole life should be nothing but a visible representation of Jesus Christ. He's picking up this same theme where Paul says, you imitate me and the rest of the apostles as we imitate Christ. And so Thomas Brooks picks that up and goes to the ultimate, the anti-type, and he says, a Christian's whole life should be nothing but a visible representation of Christ. He says. That in different nations that don't know Christ, one of the greatest ways that they honor their gods is to be like their gods It's a similar thought to where i if a young uh boy came up to his father and said, I want to be just like you, oh man. I d of course my first thought is I hope you're better. I really do. It won't take much though. Or if a young girl going up to their mother and saying, I wish I was just like you It's the greatest honor. And Thomas Brooks picks up on that and he says, I'm sure that the highest way of honoring Christ is to be just like him. And then he quotes John, 1 John 2, verse 6. He says, He that says he abides in him ought himself also to walk, even as he has walked. And he continues on and he says, Oh, that this blessed Scripture might always lie warm upon our hearts. Christ is the sun. I want you to think of a sundial for a moment. Christ is the sun. S-U-N. And all the watches of our lives Should be set by the dial of his motion. Christ is the Son, and all the watches of our lives should be set by the dial of his motion. And what we see on the pages of the scriptures, we see oftentimes the Apostle Paul setting his watch by Christ. And we see Peter over time learning to set his watch by Christ. And John setting his watch by Christ. And one of the lessons here that is given to us is not only in what we learn, but what we see within these apostles, are pointing us to Christ that we might set our watches by Christ. The command to be holy as I am holy can have new force for us, says Thomas Brooks. The Jewish man Jesus Christ can be imitated because he was like us in every way, except for sin. Amen. We grow as citizens of heaven by setting out after the right goal, having the right endeavors. the right aspirations. And the second S by submitting to at least apostolic authority. Whatever we have learned from them. Whatever we've heard from them, whatever we've received from them, whatever we see in them, insofar as they imitate Christ, we imitate them. These are the glorious instructions that have been given to us from the Apostle Paul towards the end of this letter, and I I can't help but to wonder If you wonder, how am I supposed to do all that And I won't spend much time on this. I'll just point out to you that we see a repetition of last week's sermon with the final comma in verse number nine. Brothers and sisters, please don't forget that the God of peace is with you. This whole idea of you setting your watch By Christ. That's not your idea. God is the one that has come up with this whole plan of redemption. And what he has begun in you, he will complete. So let us take hope. Let's not hear all of this these words and this list of whatever is just, whatever is noble, whatever is true. Let's not receive these as weights on our back. that that drive us into the dirt because we could never fulfill those things. God is aware of that. He understands that we're work in progress And we need to understand that he hasn't just given us work and left us as orphans in the world. He is the one that is making us the kind of people who long for these endeavors and will to some degree see them through. And so I just ask you, just keeping that in mind, That this is meant to be an inspiring passage. What endeavors shall you set your mind upon? What noble causes do you want your children to be a part of? Some of you who have gone through almost every stage and age. And you're at the final one. What praiseworthy aspirations do you have for the rest of your life? Those are the kind of questions that we need to ask. I remember last year, almost about this time, I guess high school usually graduates in May, is that right? So I guess we're almost there. And last year with one of my children graduating high school, we were given the opportunity to be able to put something in the yearbook. That's meant to be what the parents, I think, hope for their child. At least that's how I understood it. So Holly and I thought through it, and then we came upon this verse from Job chapter 29, verses 15 through 17. And we ended up putting it in the yearbook because we have set our minds that if our daughter could even contribute these things a little bit to the world Then we will have set and she will have set her mind on good things. Would you like to hear that verse? Job 29, 15 through 17. I was eyes to the blind, and I was feet to the lame. I was a father to the poor. And I searched out the case that I did not know. And this one always gets me, because I'm just so manly. I broke the fangs of the wicked and plucked the victim from his teeth. As the saints of God who have been born from above, what good things grip your attention? What difference would you like to make? What things or what truth would you like to establish in your spheres of influence? What things that are noble? What just things? What pure things? What loveliness would you like to bring into the lives of those around you? What good report, what virtue, what praiseworthiness, what ways of the apostles In what way would you like Christ to be present to other people in the way that you have chosen to walk in your life? Whatever these are, we have that final promise at the end and throughout the rest of these these this passage, and so I can say to you, not appealing to a moralism that isn't grounded in Christ, but I can say to you These in the power of Christ, those just things, brothers and sisters, mothers and fathers and grandfathers and aunts and uncles. Do those things. Do those things that we might be citizens of heaven. Amen. Let us pray.