Mark chapter two, verses one through twelve, God's Holy Word for God's holy people. And again, he entered Capernaum after some days, and it was heard that he was in the house. Immediately many gathered together so that there was no longer room to receive them, not even near the door, and he preached the word to them. Then they came to him, bringing a paralytic who was carried by four men. And when they could not come near him because of the crowd, they uncovered the roof where he was. So when they had broken through, they let down the bed on which the paralytic was lying. When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Son, your sins are forgiven you. And some of the scribes were sitting there and reasoning in their hearts, why does this man speak blasphemies like this? Who can forgive sins but God alone? But immediately, when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they reasoned thus within themselves, he said to them, Why do you reason about these things in your hearts? Which is easier? To say to the paralytic, Your sins are forgiven you, or to say, Arise, take up your bed and walk. But that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins, he said to the paralytic, I say to you, Arise, take up your bed, and go to your house. Immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went out in the presence of them all So that all were amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw anything like this. Please pray with me. Almighty God, help us to see your Son clearly in this passage tonight. Help us to focus on what is most important. Help us to be fed. And to be transformed by your Holy Spirit, who uses this to make us more like Jesus. And Father, I pray, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord. My strength and my Redeemer. In Christ's name I pray. Amen. Please be seated There is a famous quote that many of you may recognize. It comes from a very famous theologian named Jonathan Edwards. And it perfectly sums up the power we have to save ourselves. The quote is this, you contribute nothing to your salvation except the sin that made it necessary. No one has the ability to remove their sin from themselves. No one guilty of the curse of death and hell can do anything to stop it. Every human being needs salvation to come from outside of us, outside of our own power. Well in God's grace and mercy, He has sent exactly that power for exactly that reason Now, this book, The Gospel According to Mark, is the good news of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I will not grow weary of repeating that every time I preach from Mark. I want to remind you, that's what he starts with, and that's what it is. And Mark has already shown us that the Messiah was foretold by the prophets, and that Jesus was identified as that foretold Messiah at his baptism. He was proven to be the perfect Son of Man, the new Adam. When he was tempted by Satan, yet he did not succumb to sin. He's shown to be so much more than just a man. He calls men to follow him, and they do. He heals the afflicted to serve him, and they do. He commands unclean spirits to leave their tortured victims, and they do. He heals multitudes and even cleanses a leper, something that no one but God can do. And yet his miraculous healing is not the most stupendous thing about Jesus. Mark tells us that Jesus came to preach. He came to preach the good news of his Father, what we call the gospel. And he preached that the time for salvation is here. The kingdom of God is at hand. It is now the time to repent. To turn away from sin and to believe in the gracious covenant promises of God Almighty. God is saving his people from sin. His teaching astonished all who heard it, and yet many still flocked to him, only looking for the miracles that they hoped he would perform. And so we've come together in just nine short sermons into the second chapter of Mark's Gospel. And as I mentioned before, this begins a new cycle. There's going to be five events related to us of Jesus' ministry. And in this first event, Mark is going to show us that the response to the gospel Is not always positive. Not everyone who hears will understand. And not everyone who hears the gospel preached even by the Redeemer Himself will embrace Jesus as the Redeemer of God's elect. And so this first event of this new cycle, the cycle of five, is our passage tonight Jesus has returned from a preaching tour throughout Galilee where he has been healing and he has been giving the wisdom of God, and once again he's staying in a house, most likely Peter and Andrew's house where he was before. And what happens there is recorded for us, and it shows us that a person's response to the gospel reveals what they truly believe about Jesus. Christian, your response to the gospel reveals what you truly believe about Jesus And we're going to look at this passage broken down into two main parts tonight. We're first going to look at verses 1 through 7, which shows us response to the gospel. And then we're going to look together at verses 8 through 12, in which we look at belief in Jesus Christ. So let's look together at this first section, verses 1 through 7, in which we see different people's responses to the gospel. We first see the response of the crowd. Look at verses 1 and 2 with me. And again he entered Capernaum after some days, and it was heard that he was in the house. Immediately many gathered together, so that there was no longer room to receive them, not even near the door. And he preached the word to them Another massive group of people have gathered at Peter's house, but this time there's something different about the crowd. They're not all seeking healing or the casting out of demons. They are there to hear Jesus preach. They're there to hear him speak the very words of God. This is what he had been doing throughout Galilee, that's what we're told. And right now at uh we're in round two of Capernaum. And so the people that are now gathering around Jesus are those who want that special revelation from God the Father. They want to hear the wisdom and the teaching of this man who is obviously someone who's been sent by God. Mark then tells us about the responses of the five guys, as I like to call them. Five men, one paralytic, and four men carrying him. We see there in verse 3 and 4. Then they came to him, bringing a paralytic who was carried by four men. And when they could not come near him because of the crowd, they uncovered the roof where he was. So when they had broken through, they let down the bed on which the paralytic was lying. They heard the good news about this man, Jesus. How he can heal as no one has ever healed before. And look at how they respond. They respond with tremendous faith. They believe that he is the only one who can help their poor friend. And their friend is paralyzed. He can't move himself at all. He can't, under his own strength and power, get himself to Jesus. But the five of them undertake this extraordinary journey, a journey to get that one man into the presence of the Messiah. Was it worth it? Well, Mark gives us verse 5 that shows us it was more than worth it. When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Son, your sins are forgiven you. They responded to what they'd heard about Jesus, or perhaps they had been witnesses, his first time in Capernaum. And they responded to the gospel with true belief. Their actions revealed what was in their hearts, real faith that Jesus is anointed by the only triune God to restore his people. It likely was not what they thought would happen. I imagine they were hoping for their friend to be healed. But Jesus did something far more amazing and far more significant. He did what only God can do. He forgives the man's sins. And so Mark then tells us the response of one other group. And this is the scribes, and we see this in verses six and seven. And some of the scribes were sitting there and reasoning in their hearts: why does this man speak blasphemies like this? Who can forgive sins but God alone? We've got to remind ourselves they had been there in the house listening to Jesus preach the word Perhaps they even believed that he really was a man of God, a prophet sent to the people, like Elijah or Isaiah. If they did, they would have believed that a prophet can do amazing things. But they were too self-assured in what they thought they knew about God It seems like they might have been sitting there the whole time with just a skeptical spirit. They are quick to accuse him of blasphemy in their hearts. Now it's likely that they had heard of Jesus' previous miracles. Scribes is a technical term. A very particular kind of person. And they were not generally located in Capernaum, so we have to understand that some scribes came from other places to Capernaum to hear Jesus speak And so they had heard about him and heard what he had done. But now they are there with their own eyes watching the faith of these five men, watching the extreme measures that they took. To get one at the feet of Jesus. And then they hear Jesus' declaration. Wouldn't you imagine that being in their position you might at least want to entertain w what is going on here? May maybe it's just confusion. Maybe they were confused. Maybe they were concerned, but instead we're told they jump immediately to blasphemy Did they even think it was possible that any man could reveal something to them about God which they didn't already know? It's almost like they were trying to catch him in a mistake, trying to find a way to discredit him. And if you've already read through the rest of Mark or any of the other Gospels, you know that's exactly what's going to happen. We'll encounter that later on. These different groups, the crowd, the five, and the scribes, reveal what they believe about Jesus in their response to the gospel. How they respond to the wondrous good news that God is saving his people from their sins shows what's truly in their heart regarding Jesus. What Jesus does next proves what we should believe about him. He proves that he is the Christ, the Son of the living God. All those present and us here tonight reading this account preserved for us by the Holy Spirit are given a clear picture. Of what it means to believe that Jesus is the Christ. So let's look now at verses 8 through 12 and examine belief in Jesus the Christ. How Jesus responds to the scribes' silent skepticism reveals that Jesus really is God. Look at verse 8. Jesus shows that he knows our hearts. But immediately, when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they reasoned thus within themselves, he said to them, Why do you reason about these things in your hearts? The scribes didn't say a word. They didn't jump up and make a scene. They didn't throw their chairs at him. They disputed in their own minds, and yet Jesus knew exactly what was troubling them. And he confronts them directly, asking them: in effect, why do you doubt who I am? Jesus knows your thoughts. He knows your reasoning and your inner arguments. He knows your doubts and your fears. And he confronts you also right now with this passage. Do you have any reason to doubt him? Do you have any reason to doubt that Jesus is the Son of God? Do you have any reason to doubt his power to save you? Well what he says next shows that not only does the Messiah know our hearts, but he knows our minds. Look at verses nine in the first part of ten. He says, Which is easier to say to the paralytic, Your sins are forgiven you, or to say, Arise, take up your bed and walk, but that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins. Then he's gonna keep going. But we see here that Jesus knows exactly how we think. He knows that we need things to make sense. He knows That we have a reasonable, logical mind. How does he know this? He's the one that made it. He gave us this mind And the logic he uses here is perfect. He knows how every single person will answer his question. Of course it's easier to say to someone, your sins are forgiven. How could we verify it? There's no way to prove it. There's no way to disprove it. We can't see another's sin. We can't run a test for it. So he does something else. Something which shows that he truly is the Son of God. He shows that he knows our deepest need. He said to the paralytic, I say to you, arise, take up your bed, and go to your house. What astounding grace and mercy. He didn't have to do this. He didn't have to do this for the paralyzed man. He didn't have to do this for the crowd that was there. He didn't have to do this For you and me Yet he knows that we need this kind of validation. We need this miraculous sign to overcome our doubtful hearts. If the paralyzed man needed to be carried home from Peter's house that day, he was still the recipient of the most astonishing miracle. His sins were forgiven. What he most needed had been supplied even if he had remained a paralytic from that point on. But for us For the crowd there, for those doubting scribes, that we would know that Jesus is the Son of Man, the Promised One, the Messiah. So that we would know that he truly does have power, or the the Greek word there is authority. He truly has authority on earth to forgive sins. He restores perfect order to that man's body. It's as if he's given a brand new body. There's no waiting period. There's no recovery time. Look what he says. Immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went out in the presence of them all. His paralysis is gone. His weakness is gone. There's no atrophied muscles He doesn't need to go to months and months of physical therapy to finally have this joyful movement. God speaks it. And it is it is as though he's just been made anew. He's been given a new life by the power and the mercy of Jesus the Christ. And all the people there who witness this, who watch it, have the same response that should be produced in you and I. Look what he says. All were amazed and glorified God, saying, we never saw anything like this. Are you amazed? Are you astonished? I know you've probably heard this passage Countless times. You probably heard dozens of sermons on it. It's a very famous passage. And so I have to ask you, in hearing this again tonight, does it astonish you? That Jesus can forgive sins, that Jesus does forgive sins The Greek word here for astonished or amazed is actually a little bit stronger It's more like they were out of their minds. They're beside themselves. They have no frame of reference for what has happened. They do not know how to understand what has just happened. But they don't need to understand it. Just like you and I don't need to fully understand everything. We need to believe it. And so they glorified God. They glorified him. I think it's important to point out that the scribes are not excluded from that. Though they may have had doubt in their heart while they were hearing Jesus, when they saw him do what only God can do, they were astonished, and they glorified their Father in heaven. Brothers and sisters, how you respond to the gospel shows what you believe about Jesus. Do you believe that he is the Christ? Do you believe that he is God? Do you believe that he has the power of God, the power to forgive you of your sins? Thank the Lord with me that He never gives up on us. Because no matter how strong our faith, there will be moments of doubt. And yet he promises that he will never lose one of his elect. He will never lose one for whom he gave his only begotten son. And we need to be sure that we are not like the crowd alone. It's good for us in the beginning of our conversion to be like the crowd who wants to be around Jesus. We just gotta be there. Sure, it's uncomfortable. Sure, it may be difficult to get ourselves in the presence of Christ. But that's what we want. We want to be there and we want to hear the gospel. But we must make sure, brothers and sisters, that we don't just stay there. Think about that crowd. That crowd was immovable. Did none of them notice that four guys were trying to carry a guy on his bed? Nobody got out of the way? Nobody got out of the doorway? Nobody said, I've been here for hours, let's give this other person a turn. They had to resort to dismantling the roof. In the Greek, it's literally they unroofed the roof. They had to take it apart. Why did they have to do that? Why were there only four carrying this man? Why didn't, as soon as they showed up to the crowd, why wasn't there a hundred trying to get him into the presence of Christ? So let us be careful, brothers and sisters, that we are not simply spectators sitting around Jesus, being near him. Maybe we should try harder to be like the five guys. Or well let's let's start with the four. Let's try harder to be like the four guys. Carrying others to the feet of Jesus, bringing them to his presence. Do you notice what they've done? They went to extreme measures. I don't know about you guys, but I started to think I started to think about well, I started to put myself in Peter's place. Okay? Roofs are expensive. I don't know about you guys, but if somebody ripped apart my roof, it would be a real hardship for us to to get that thing fixed. And yet they did it. They were willing to do that. They were willing to rip apart another man's house to get their friend to Jesus. I want you to think about something else. I don't know about you guys, but there are times There are times when the words providentially hindered come into my mind. And when I think that about myself, uh it's like a blank check. Oh, I was providentially hindered. Oh, I didn't make it to the phone in time when Brian called. Providentially hindered. I can't call him back. Do you think these guys were providentially hindered? When they showed up to the house where they knew Jesus was, and they saw what could have been thousands of people crowding around, would you have faulted them if they said, it must not be God's will? Jacob. Today's not your day, Jacob. We're gonna have to come back later. How often do we do that? How often do we look at our life circumstances and we say, obviously, obviously God doesn't want us to work on that right now, or obviously God doesn't have the time made for us in our lives. To devote towards this. And yet, brothers and sisters, I want to exhort you, as strongly as I can, when you know that there is something good that God wants for you. Giving up because you think you're providentially hindered is not what he wants. He wants you to expend as much energy as you can to run towards that thing that you know he wants. You know that someone needs to be at Christ's feet. There should never be a day that goes by that you don't pray for them Never a day. Don't let it happen. You can't be providentially hindered from that. You know that that is a priority God wants you to have So devote yourself like these four men. Find what you know God wants and pursue it with every ounce of energy that you can, even though it may look like it would be for naught. Even though it may look like you have to dismantle something to get it to happen, keep going. Keep striving. And then lastly, brothers and sisters, I don't I don't know if I need to go very deep into how we're like the paralyzed man, do I? That's all of us. That's every single one of us. We cannot bring ourselves to Christ's feet. Someone else did it for us. Most likely our parents, who prayed nonstop for their little rebellious children. For our little rebel hearts. Maybe they weren't so little. I wasn't such a little kid. I was a college turd. My parents never stopped praying for me. Never once. I love it when my mom reminds me every birthday party. Perhaps you're aware of a very famous theologian named Augustine. You ever heard of him? Maybe you know of him as Saint Augustine. There's towns in Florida named after him. You know who he credits his salvation to? His mother. His mama. She never stopped praying for him. Not one second did she stop. Even when he was If you look into the life of Augustine, he had some very wicked times. And yet she never gave up praying for him. And God honored her prayers. God saved Augustine, and now he is one of the foundational theologians for all of the church, Roman Catholic and Protestant. We all claim Augustine. Brothers and sisters, may our great God strengthen you and your faith in Jesus May he give you the ability to trust that he is the Christ, the Son of God, to not let anything get in the way of our coming to him for what we most desperately need or bringing others to him For what they most desperately need. Christ alone can save us. And he alone is worthy of our zeal and our devotion. Please pray with me.